Open your Bibles, if you would, please, to Acts chapter 2. Acts 2. We're going to begin reading in verse 42, which you may recall actually overlaps the end of last week's sermon by one verse. Uh and this is okay because I think it's a transitional verse that ties these two parts together in Luke's mind as he writes this history. We're going to read in a relatively long section this morning going through from Acts 2. 42 all the way through 4. So please follow along as I read this lengthy text and recognize that I may stop along the way and make the occasional comment to help us understand what's happening. Actually, I'm going to start out with a comment and remind us that what has happened previously, the Holy Spirit descended with signs and wonders, and it caused people to ask questions. And they ask, what does this mean? And Peter had addressed their questions. He preached his famous evangelical evangelistic sermon there in Acts 2. And we were told right at the end there in verse 41 that there were 3,000, about 3,000 souls came to Christ that day as a result of that sermon. And we pick up now with how they lived in light of their conversion and repentance. And then we see more of the ministry of the apostles. So join me now starting in Acts 2. Verse 42. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship to the breaking of bread and the prayers And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. And day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being Now, Peter and John were going up to the temple at the at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour, that would be three in the afternoon. And a man lame from birth was being carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple that is called the beautiful gate, to ask alms of those entering the temple. Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive alms, and Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John, and said, Look at us. And I want to stop for just a moment right there. And let the tension of that moment hang over us for a bit. I'm going to guess you've all experienced Someone who, as you were going along your way, was begging from you, was asking for something from you. Perhaps you stopped at a stoplight and they were going to try to sell you some flowers or wash your window. Perhaps you have been walking along the road and asked you were asked for something. When we lived in Detroit, we would go down to the occasional Tigers game and There was a man who was known throughout the Metropolitan Detroit area as the Here We Go Tigers man. He would sit at the same corner before and after every single Tigers home game. And he would sing over and over again the chant, here we go, tigers, here we go. Here we go, tigers, here we go. And he would have his cup and try to collect money and people gave pretty generously to him. He became a fixture for decades on that corner outside of the Tigers' home games He has since passed on, but he's still remembered. Now, as a general rule, when you walk past someone like that, what do you do? Really, there's one of two things. Either you plan to give, or you make sure not to make eye contact. You either are going to give them something, or you make sure that your eyes do not meet. And it's stunning what Peter does here. He stops and looks right at the beggar. And we're told that John does the same. The two are making eye contact. And then he says to the beggar: don't avert your gaze, look at us. They appear to have been looking so intently that it caused him to look away. And Peter says, no, no, no, look at us. Now, if you are this lame man who has been begging alms at the temple gate, one of the many gates of the temple, what do you expect to have happen next? You're going to get some handout. You're going to get some of the alms you've been asking for. And the fact that this man is making such a big production of it, there's a good chance here you're going to get quite the whole today And we read on and we pick up now what happens. Peter says to him, I have no money. I'm sure that was not the next line that this man expected to hear. Look at me, look, look, look, let's make eye contact. Look at me. I've got no money. I have neither silver nor gold, but what I do have, I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And I want to point out, and we will talk more about this later in the main body of the sermon, but I want to point out how how almost mean that must have seemed Almost a cruel. This is what mean-spirited people do. They mock those who can't do what they want to do. And Peter has said, look at me, look, look here. I don't have any money. Ha ha. Fooled you. Now get up and walk. Well, duh, if I could get up and walk, I'd get up and walk. I can't get up and walk. That's why I'm here begging. This is an astounding scene. It is loaded with tension. It almost feels as if the apostles are being mean and mocking. And then something amazing happens. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he, Peter, took him by the right hand and raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong. And leaping up he stood and began to walk, and entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising. God. When Jesus began his ministry, the disciples of John went to him, at John's request, went to Jesus and said, Are you the one? Are you the promised one? Are you the Messiah? And Jesus referred to Isaiah 35, our Old Testament reading this morning. And he said, report back to John. Report back to him the things that are happening. The blind can see, the deaf can hear, the mute can talk, and the lame leap for joy, just as Isaiah had prophesied would occur in the day of the Lord. And we see here the apostles, the disciples of Jesus, continuing that sign that the fulfillment of Isaiah has happened, that the day of the Lord has begun. That the Lord has come, his Messiah has come, and that now the effects of the curse are beginning to be reversed. And this man fulfills Isaiah 35 as he gets up and leaps for joy. And all the people saw him, I'm picking up in verse 9, and all the people saw him walking and praising God, and recognized him as the one who sat at the beautiful gate of the temple. asking for alms, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. While he clung to Peter and John, all the people, utterly astonished, ran to uh together to them in the portico called Solomon's And when Peter saw it, he addressed the people. Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this? Or why do you stare at us? As though by our own power or piety we made him walk. It's an amazing thing. A miracle's just been done, and Peter says, you really shouldn't be that surprised. You really shouldn't be that astounded. First of all, let's clear the air. We didn't do it. It's not our power, it's not our piety. And you say, well wait a second, what's that got to do with anything? Isn't that exactly how miracles are sold today? If you just had enough faith. If you were pious enough, if you believed enough, you could work miracles. Peter says, no, our personal piety has nothing to do with it. Jesus did this. And why are you guys shocked? Now, people today, if me, if that miracle happened, I understand why people today might be a little surprised, but Peter says, back then they should not have been surprised. They had been seeing Jesus do miracles for the last three years. His mere absence from the earth doesn't change anything, as though his power is somehow located in his location. Peter says, You should not be surprised at all. Thinking up from verse 13. It is the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers. He glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over. and denied in the presence of Pilate when he had decided to release him. You denied the Holy and Righteous One and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, and you killed the author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses. And his name, by faith in his name, has made this man strong, whom you see and know. And the faith that is through Jesus has given the man perfect health in the presence of you all. And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers. But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. Repent, therefore, and turn back, that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that He may send the Christ appointed for you. Jesus, whom heaven must receive until the time of the restoring of all things which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago Moses said, The Lord will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you. And it shall be that every soul who does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people. And all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who came after him also proclaim these days Notice in our New Testament reading, what did Jesus do? He went through all the scriptures and pointed out to those on the road to Emmaus those things that taught about him. That throughout the scriptures, from every portion of the scriptures, there are texts that make plain who Jesus would be and turned out to be. And here we see Peter, like Jesus on the road to Emmaus on our New Testament reading, we see Peter doing the same thing. Going through all the scriptures and saying, Jesus of Nazareth That's the one you've been looking for. Look how he fulfills all of these texts. You are the sons, verse 25, you are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be. Blessed. God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness. And as they, Peter and John, were speaking to the people, the priest and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them, greatly annoyed, because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead. And they arrested them, and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to about five thousand. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray and ask His guidance to understand it. Where we do ask just that. That you would work through me this morning to convict us of sin, to move us to repentance. And to see in Jesus, the one to whom we should turn. As we consider the miracles of this text and the message of this text, let them together point us to the Messiah of this text. That we would be a people all about Him. In every way, shape, and form, and everything that we do, and every ministry that we uh uh a lead in every uh bible study, in every fellowship activity, in every workday, that it would be done because of and to the glory of Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Our sermon titled this morning is Three Simple Words. It is Miracle Message Messiah. Miracle Message Messiah. Connected by some arrows The idea that the miracle ought to flow into the message. And the message ought to flow in to the Messiah. The miracle ought to point us to the message, and the message ought to point us to the Messiah. That we should see that what's going on in the book of Acts is not miracle for miracle's sake. It is not uh uh uh signs and wonders just so that people would be in awe. That it's not uh uh amazing things as though you might go to a uh uh uh a road show or a carnival to see something strange and weird But rather, it's to point to the message. This is now the second time In as many chapters, that we have seen a miracle performed among the people, followed immediately by a sermon. You know, it's interesting when I see these advertisements for uh uh for healing nights, for For healing events, uh miracle night. Come f Friday, 7 p. m. to our tent event, we're gonna have a miracle night. I never see it advertised. And by the way, afterwards there's gonna be a long sermon It's never advertised that way. But we're going to see that this is a routine pattern throughout the book of Acts. That when there is a miraculous event, it is almost always followed by a sermon. It's almost always followed by the message. Because the miracle's not the point. But then we're going to see that the message is not the point. Each of these messages is going to take that miracle as a starting place, launch from it into a message that is going to drive toward and conclude in the Messiah. That you ought not come to hear a particular pastor. You ought not to be here this morning because you like Scott Shaw or that you think he's a gifted speaker. I don't know that I've ever heard anybody say they're coming for that reason, but just in case you are You shouldn't be. You ought to be here because you hope in that message to meet the Messiah. To hear him, to get to know him better, to be reminded of him, to be shored up in your faith about him. so that you will be emboldened to proclaim him. The miracle should lead to the message, and the message should lead to the Messiah. And I want us to see in this long text three different ways that that plays out in the early church. There's an outline on page 12 of the bulletin if you want to use it to follow along But I want us to see first of all that we have the miracle, the message of the Messiah in the everyday life of the early church. The miracle, the message of the Messiah in the everyday life of the e Then we see the miracle of the message in the Messiah in the ministry of the early church. And finally, we're going to see the miracle, the message, and the messiah in the evangelism of the early church That whether it be in within the walls of the church, within church life, whether it be as they reach out to do ministry or as they reach out to do evangelism, the model's the same Let the sign point to something. The sign by itself is not significant. It must point to something. Let that something be a message that proclaims the Messiah Let's look at the everyday life aspect. In chapter 2, verses 42 to 47, those last six verses of chapter 2, what do we see there? We see that miracles were being done, many wonders and signs, it says, were being done by the apostles. I don't know that we should lose sight of that. That seems somewhat significant. Luke has made sure that we understand that miracles were not just running rampant in the early church. They were being done by the apostles. I don't think that is insignificant. And they were being done for the purpose of producing awe in every soul. Every soul is in awe. Why? Because there were many wonders and signs being done. And we read the verses 43 and 44. And so we see that the miracle leads to this message. Now what the the the message, what do we see happening there among those people? What is the message of their everyday life? The way they live their life, what does it communicate to other people Well, we see first of all they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and the prayers. A few weeks ago in Sunday school, I realize some of you couldn't be there, a few weeks in Sunday ago in Sunday school we addressed the fact that basically this is kind of a summary of Christian worship. The apostles teaching. That's what we're doing right now That we have an apostle, Peter, and we are teaching rooted in what he did on this day The apostles' teaching. And the fellowship. So we do every Sunday after service. We gather for a wonderful time of fellowship. So what we're going to do is special events like Friday night with the youth, two weeks from today as we gather for the harvest party. We Fellowship. For the breaking of bread, this is what we do the first Sunday of every month. We break bread together. And to the prayers. We make prayer a prominent part of every one of our worship services and every one of our gatherings. This was the early church. They devoted themselves to these things. And then we see in verse 44, they were together. A repeat of that. Then in verse 46, they were attending the temple together. Then in verse 46 also they were breaking bread in their homes. There's some debate of whether or not that was in-home worship services or whether that was with meals together in the homes. Doesn't seem to matter to the main point, that they spent a lot of time together. That they were with and amongst one another. The pursuit of their everyday lives was not a pursuit of Pentecost-like experience. It was not a pursuit of further miracles and more wonders, but rather in response to that, it was a pursuit of the body of Christ. And the message they communicated spoke through their everyday lives to other people And we see the passage conclude, and the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. It's easy to read Acts 2 and say, I can't preach like Peter. I cannot convert 3,000 souls in a single sermon. And therefore I cannot add to the number of the church. But imagine if we devoted ourselves to each other the way they did. If we were absolutely committed to being at church every opportunity we had, it would cause our co-workers to scratch their heads. Really? You're gonna come home from vacation on Saturday rather than staying through Sunday just so you can go to church? What an opportunity. What an amazing opportunity to testify to our co workers. To our neighbors. What? It rained all day Saturday. You weren't able to get anything done in your yard, and now it's going to be gorgeous on Sunday, and you're doing what You're going to church? And Luke says that's exactly what began to continue the expansion of the church. That as they devoted themselves to each other and to the church, the Lord added to their number. And you say, well Scott, but it's such a small thing. But the proverb says, where wealth is acquired hastily, it quickly dwindles. But the one who gathers little by little has much. It is in the faithful, consistent application, tending to the little things. What's the small thing I can do? to bless my church. The small thing I can do to show devotion to it. The thing that I might not even realize will get noticed by my coworker, my neighbor, my family member. But all of a sudden it comes back around and turns out to be an opportunity to tell them about the gospel. And in my the way I live my life in response to the miracle of the faith that I have been given. And thank you for this wonderful discussion in Sunday school last week. And somebody pointed out there is an everyday miracle, it's called conversion I appreciate that. In response to the miracle that I have been given by coming to faith, by proclaiming a message with my life that says, hey, look at how important a Messiah is. Look how he matters to me. The text goes on and focuses now on ministry. As Peter and John come upon this lame one, and we stopped and talked a little bit about the drama of that scene in verses 1 through 10 of chapter 3. They come and the the miracle they they're looking at the opportunity to do miracle and uh uh uh we see the Lucas told us that there were many wonders and signs being done by the apostles, and now he says, let me give you an illustration, let me give you an example. I've told you in broad generic strokes that there were a lot of signs and wonders going on, but I'd like to share with you one particular example. So on someday, and Luke gives us no sense of the passage of time, we really don't have any good idea of how far after Pentecost this takes place. But most think it's not that long afterward. Okay? So Luke says, here's an example of what I'm talking about. Here's when I say miracles and wonders and signs were taking place, here's what I'm talking about. He tells the story of Peter and John going up and healing this man. And of his fulfillment of Isaiah 35 in the uh what we read as our Old Testament. And that and notice how Peter makes it plain that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, we talked about it last week, a specific historical person Who really lived in a real place, in a real time. Peter says, be healed. And the ministry is explicit and it's clear and it's intentional. I'm ministering to you. I'm going to heal you. Not merely so that you will be healed, but so that you will know about Jesus. Let this miracle be the message that points you to the Messiah. You've got to recognize this is about Jesus. And this model for ministry that is done in the name of Jesus for the purpose of telling people about Jesus ought to be a guiding uh uh a factor in our ministry. Now I realize this is not always easy to parse out, and I get that. And I'm not suggesting for one moment that we create the ministry police here and we begin to double check and triple check all of your ministry, make sure they're Fulfilling this exactly. That's not what we're about. But be aware of the slow erosion of almost every ministry out there. Over time, in the name of ministering to more, they give up the name of Jesus. The examples are countless. And at some point, you've got to wrestle with this reality. If all you're offering is a cure for this life, what's the point? I don't know that physically healthy people are gonna have a better time in hell for all of eternity The ministry has to be the miracle, the wonder you do, the work you do, the medicine you offer, the the constructions, the things that you build, it's got to Point people to the Messiah. The work, whether or not it's miraculous, must have a message that points to the Messiah. And it's not, brothers and sisters, I get it. There are many wonderful service opportunities that it the it it's difficult always to parse out how faithful each ministry is. I'm just, I'm going to suggest to you that you be the voice of constantly pulling that ministry back to a messiah-focused message. You be the one who says, yes, let's go do these wonderful things, but let's be sure it contains the message about the Messiah. You be the one that says, I'm not willing to do that just for the sake of doing that But rather people need to know. You notice the apostles don't just run around the countryside just healing everybody. If the point was the healing And there are some who will say, well, come on, Pastor, so you're saying you don't care about people's physical well-being unless there's some spiritual component? I'm not saying that. I'm saying there are plenty of opportunities to do that on a personal level I'm saying when it becomes a formal ministry of the church, when it becomes something that is done under the name of the church. The apostles did their things in the name of the church, in the name of Jesus Christ. And when it's done for those purposes, under the auspices of the church, it I don't know if I pronounce that correctly, but we'll move on. Under the auspices uh the side of the church, uh uh it's got to be for the purpose of proclaiming the Messiah. How can the Christ's wife How can the the wife, the bride of Jesus, and the children of Jesus do anything else? We must be about this. In our everyday lives, we must go from the miraculous to the message of how we live in light of it. Which points to the importance of the Messiah. In our ministries, we must take the miraculous gift of repentance and have it be a message about the Messiah. And in our evangelism, we must work from miracle to message to Messiah. Look at what happens in verse 11 and following. The crowd gathers and they come around and they see this man. They recognize him. He's been there. He's like that here we go tigers guy. He's been there long enough that everybody in Jerusalem knows him. Now he's up, jumping around, and everybody is aghast. And then Peter says Hey, listen, I can tell you how to do this in your own ministry. I can give you the gift of miracles. If you'll come Friday night to my tent meeting, I can empower you to go do no Nor does he even say, by the way, if you've got other miracles you need done, why don't you come see us? On a certain No Peter, very conscientiously, very purposely, the whole reason he takes such an intentional uh uh look at this man And tells this man to look at him, said Peter knows full well where this is headed. Whether because he's simply seen it a couple of times now With Jesus doing miracles and crowds forming, or whether because the Spirit revealed to him that this was going to happen, I don't know. But Peter clearly knows where this is headed. This miracle was done with intentionality. and purpose for the point of delivering the message that Peter delivers. And he begins to preach. And he begins to tell them about Jesus. And we looked last week at the content of the sermon. The content is very similar here both the historic uh uh the historical and the historic and the transcendent aspects of his sermon. And we won't review all of that that we looked at more closely. last week. But there is one thing I do want to point out. That the miracle that the Spirit worked, that Jesus worked according to Peter, the miracle that Jesus worked in this man, was not only intentional to get their uh attention, but it was intentional to be an illustration I made a point of commenting on the almost absurd nature of how Peter interacts with this man. Lame from birth. Peter says to him, Get up and walk. That's almost cruel. And then Peter reaches out his hand, helps the man get up. The man has some amount of faith that he's even willing to try. And he gets up and he walks. And after taking that first step, he discovers that he's been granted the power to do the very thing he could not do. That in and of himself he was it was impossible he's now able to do You say, well, Scott, you said that miracle was somehow an illustration. Do you see the sermon that Peter gives? What does he say to the people? Repent! Turn away from your sin. The very thing we cannot do on our own The very thing many of us wish we could. Many unbelievers wish they could get rid of the bad things they do in their life. Many of us who are believing are still wrestling with the bad things we do. And Peter says, do the very thing you cannot do. And the call of the gospel is a mockery of our own human ability. Run to the Lord. I can't. I've been lame since birth. Repent. Give away. Turn away from your life of sin. I can't. I have tried over and over and over again But the gospel offers its hand and says, there is a power that makes it possible. Now the gospel does not always work as immediately as this worked. Luke makes a point of telling us this was immediate. There was no passage of time. The man did not heal slowly over time. But for the purpose of the illustration, that was the best way to go about it. But what we are going to see as we march through the book of Acts is a progression of the people of God. Slowly, gradually, collectively turning away from sin It's not as quick as many of us would like it to be. And sadly it will not be completed in this lifetime. Sadly for me. Obviously God's got a plan for that. I'm not sure I fully understand why sanctification can't occur in this lifetime. But we keep walking. We keep hanging on to the hand of the gospel and taking one more step in faith. Away from our life of sin. Not because we won't stumble or occasionally fall down, but because we believe that we have the ability to do the very thing we've been commanded to do. Augustine once said, and it led to quite an uproar in theology, but we'll leave that for another time. Augustine once offered up this prayer. Lord, command what you will, and then please give what you command. That's what we see here. That the man is given the very thing he's commanded to do. We, in our evangelism, need to be able to begin to point to these same things. Dear neighbor, I I know you're going through a painful divorce. You're third in the twenty-two years I've been living behind you. And I know it hurts. But let me tell you about the one who offers healing. Ah, you've never been divorced. You don't understand. You're right. By God's grace I have not been divorced, but that's the whole point. That's the miracle in my life. I have those same sinful tendencies. I have the same desire to pursue that which is wrong And yet, by God's grace, it has been held at bay in my life. And I want to tell you about that miracle. And I want you to see the Messiah who has worked it in me and can begin to work it in you. We have an obligation to tell people about the miracle of our conversion. Whether it's an unremembered childhood conversion, as I have experienced, or a later in life very memorable conversion, as many of you have shared with me. It doesn't matter. Either way, we're on a path we would not have otherwise been on. Either way, we have been protected from the destruction we would have wrought in our own lives. Even you're going, well, Pastor, you don't understand. I have destroyed my life. Probably not as bad as you would have otherwise And we see here this idea that the work that happens leads to the message which points to the Messiah. And that's what we need to be about. In the way we live our everyday lives, in the way we conduct our ministries as a church, and in the way we evangelize, both collectively and individually. Let me tell you about the wonders of our God. Let me tell you about the wonders of his Christ. And let me step out of the way so you can see that Messiah Miracle, message, messiah. That's the pattern we see over and over again in the book of Acts. And it needs to be the model for how we conduct the business of Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church. Let's pray. Lord, teach us to believe Teach us to recognize that the power is not in how we present things, it's not in our sophisticated arguments, that the power of conversion rests with you the Holy Spirit of God, and that your mechanism for accomplishing this is that we simply tell people. Now we point them to the miracles that Christ has worked, we point them to the miracle in our own life, the conversion that we have experienced, and we tell them, we carry a message. And that message points to the Messiah. And though we may fumble through that, and though we may do it with uh uh uh uh uh Some careless words and some disconnected thoughts and some imprecise descriptions, nevertheless, let us believe And know with confidence that your spirit has the power to make it effective, nevertheless. Let us reach the people in our lives. With this good news. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.