We continue this morning in Romans chapter seven, Romans seven, picking up in verse thirteen. Paul has just declared at the end of the last section, Paul has just declared that the law was holy and righteous and good, but he also in that section connected the law to the reality of death. And so now, in verse 13, as has been his practice throughout Romans, he anticipates a question and answers it. You see, the logic goes like this. If the law is holy and righteous and good, verse 13, did that which is good then bring death to me By no means. It was sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become utterly sinful. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh sold under sin. For I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want. But I do the very thing I hate. Now, if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, then it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh, for I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want. But the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now, if I do what I do not want, It is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God in my inner being, but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind, and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. This is the Word of God, and it is the only infallible rule for faith and for life. If you want to understand your life and to live it well, if you want to understand the struggles you have in your life, then you must know this book. Let's ask for God's help with that. Lord, reveal to us the meaning of Romans 7. Reveal to us, let us understand what Paul is saying, what he was talking about with regard to his own life, so that in understanding it, we might understand our lives. Let us turn away from all of the attempts that have been made throughout the centuries to redirect this text, to paint it over. And to make it go away. Instead, let us see what's really here. So that we might really understand all the frustrations of this life Illuminus, that we might see clearly, and that we might properly give Jesus Christ the full measure. of glory he deserves. We pray this in his name. Amen. There are certain sports bloopers that are funny just by the fact That such a gifted athlete can trip and fall over nothing. The running back who just stumbles on the shadow. The base runner who rounds second and he just face plants for no apparent reason Those bloopers always make me laugh. But there are certain miscues in sport that are not funny. They are infuriating. The hitter who only gets a single because he was celebrating what he thought was a home run and oops he didn't quite clear the fence. Might have been a double or a triple if he had been hustling. The wide receiver, who is streaking down the field and in his hurry to celebrate, drops the ball a half yard short of the goal line Those are infuriating. That desire for glory, that inability to just wait another moment to celebrate, cost him and his team. It's easy to do with this text right here. It's easy for us as Christians to want to celebrate early and drop the ball before we cross the goal line. Want the glory that we think should be ours before we actually get to glory How we understand this text in front of us this morning is going to be incredibly crucial to the gospel itself. Understanding this passage and rightly sorting through the many misinterpretations that are out there Are going to be key to understanding all that is to follow in the book of Romans, but also all that's to follow in your own life. From this day forward. So why is it every passage in Romans, from every verse literally in Romans has a controversial misinterpretation? But I haven't spent time pointing those out. This morning we're going to spend a lot of time looking at the misinterpretations of Romans 7. Now, why would we do that? Well, first of all. This passage is steeped in a debate to a degree that no other passage in Romans is. Now many of you here this morning might be scratching your head at that, going, I thought Romans 9 was the highly controversial text. And it is. But Romans 9 largely divides along two party lines, the Calvinists versus the Arminians. This passage divides Arminian against Arminian and Calvinist against Calvinist. This passage divides not along two lines, but at least four. And this passage is actually more hotly debated today among leading thinkers, Christian thinkers, and theologians than is Romans 9. And this passage is what scholars would call a crux interpretum. It is a central text To interpreting the scriptures. It is the crossroads of interpretation. It is that critical to our understanding not only of Romans, but of the gospel itself. And so it's important for us not only to understand what we believe about this passage, but also to inoculate ourselves against false teachings, to look at them And realize why they are false. Because frankly, there's nothing less than the gospel itself at stake this morning in this text. You see, the misinterpretation of this passive is like that wide receiver running down the field. It's the desire for glory before glory should be bestowed. And we drop the ball and never reach the goal line. Now many of you are probably already thinking to yourself, this passage seems easy. Isn't it obvious what Paul's talking about? Isn't it crystal clear that Paul is just setting forth an autobiographical description of his own struggle with sin? Paul is simply saying, I don't do what I want to do, and then you have doing what I don't want to do, and he's just saying, hey, I have an ongoing struggle with sin. Would it surprise you to find out At the avant-garde, the leading edge of Bible scholarship today, many of them would say one man actually worded it this way. that such an understanding of this passage belongs in a museum of exegetical history. How about that? But the leading thinkers think that's just an absurd interpretation of this text That it couldn't be possible that Paul is just describing his own struggles with sin. So how is it that many who have contemplated this passage have decided that Paul is not talking about present-day Paul. He's not describing to you what's going on with him. Well, one of the more influential views that have been put forward about this came about 200 years ago. A man named William Board Boardman. William Boardman. He argued that Paul was not writing as himself at all. He was writing as a hypothetical, immature Christian. Paul was writing as a hypothetical, stagnant Christian, a Christian who had stalled out in their spiritual development. You may have heard this phrase. He's writing as a carnal Christian. One living by the flesh. That was the term he would use. You see, Paul was representing those who needed to move on in the Christian life. who needed to move to, and you may have heard this term, they needed to move on to the higher life. You may have heard of that. That 200 years later, Bordman's ideas of the higher Christian life Are still among us. And how do you get there? How do you reach that higher Christian life? Again, these are going to be some familiar phrases. You have to learn to let go and let God. That's William Bordman. That's the higher Christian life. That was a desire to say that you could achieve sinlessness in this life. Bordman would have argued that you needed a second blessing of the Holy Spirit. That the Holy Spirit doesn't come upon every believer, but only some believers get that second blessing of the Holy Spirit. We haven't got time to get into that false understanding of uh of spirit doctrines But you've probably heard of the idea of a second blessing. And the holiness movement, which still uh is common among some of our Pentecostal brothers and sisters, some of the charismatic churches, the higher life movement still says at a passage like this, it can't possibly be talking about the mature believer Paul, because we know that mature believers live the victorious life. the higher life. They live a holy life. They go on and achieve sinlessness in this life. I actually had a co-worker many years ago who told me that she went for months and months and months at a time without sinning. Now what do we say to that? Well, I was young enough, I didn't think what I should have said to it, but I probably should have said something along these lines. You know, 1 John 1 John tells his readers, if we claim we have not sinned, past sense, then we do not know him. Anyone who says they've then sinned has never met God. But present tense, John says, if we claim to be without sin, present tense, then we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. There is no place for a higher life view of this text. But there's a simpler way to undo this. Some will say that, well, you're twisting 1 John to fit your argument here in Romans 7. But I will point out this. Let's just look at Romans 7. And what do we see right here? Don't we see first-person pronoun after first-person pronoun? And what would those mean? The eyes and the knees and the mice. What would those have meant to the original reader? Way back in Rome in 55 A. D. or whenever about 58 A. D. , whenever this was written. What would they have said, read? They would have understood Paul to be talking about whom? Paul! Are there literary genres in which the narrator speaks on behalf of someone else? Absolutely. But this isn't one of those. This is a letter. This is a personal address from one person to a group of people. That view that Paul is speaking on behalf of the hypothetical immature Christian hails the most basic of tests. Aside from a seminary classroom, aside from a graduate seminar, nobody would read it that way. Which is exactly why you didn't read it that way. Because you are wise enough not to go to seminary. I didn't mean it that way. But these are the things we do in seminary. We talk ourselves out of obvious interpretations sometimes. Paul clearly is speaking in the first person. And so we find ourselves setting this aside, saying it can't possibly be that Paul's talking on behalf of somebody else, but that doesn't get us out of the interpretive woods. You see, it's possible for Paul to be speaking as Paul But not as believing Paul. It's possible that Paul was speaking of his time as an unbeliever. Now this carries a great deal more weight. For starters, look at where it comes in the text The first half of chapter 7 was Paul reflecting on his time as an unbeliever. It was reflecting back on his time. when as a as an unbelieving Pharisee he wrestled with the law and the impact with the law, the impact the law had on him and how he thought about the law. It was that then. So it is at least conceivable that this would continue. to be Paul talking about that time when he was an unbeliever, his pre-Christian life, as it were. And there is much to commend this idea There is a weight to this. And good men have held this view. You may be familiar with the 20th-century British London preacher Martin Lloyd Jones. Dr. Jones was a gifted preacher and a gifted expositor, a man who was a towering evangelical Calvinist during the middle of the 20th century. He held this view. Now Paul was speaking of himself as an unbeliever. But I'm going to argue that we're going to reject that. But I don't want to reject it without at least giving it some consideration because again, it actually has some weight to it. Most notably Those who hold this view, they wrestle with the realities of the contradictions. That this chapter has with chapter 6. Do you remember chapter 6? Do you remember what Paul said there? That Paul argued the one who has died with Christ has died to sin. Chapter 6, verse 7. In chapter 6, verse 14, he continued by saying that sin is no longer the master of the Christian. He gives the illustration of a transfer of a slave from one owner to another. If you're a Christian, you're no longer a slave to sin, is his point. But he turns right around in chapter 7 and talks about being sold as a slave to sin. And those who hold this position, they say that how can it be? You can't be free from your slavery to sin in chapter six and then still be a slave to sin in chapter seven. He must be talking about himself before he was a Christian And again, we have to admit there is some force to that argument. There is some weight to that Paul, I'm about to argue that Paul is speaking not only as a Christian, but as a mature Christian. Not just as any mature Christian, but as an apostle. But we have to admit that there is at least some apparent contradiction here That Paul arguably stands second only to Jesus himself in the history of Christianity. And yet he seems to be talking about himself as a slave sold to sin. How can that possibly be the case? You know, I'm going to argue that these contradictions are only apparent contradictions. And it has been cleverly said, not by myself, but it has been cleverly pointed out, that a paradox Is truth standing on its head in order to get some attention? A paradox is truth standing on its head in order to get some attention. That's why we have these apparent contradictions between six and seven. So that we will sit up and pay attention. So despite the strength of this idea that how could a Christian like Paul possibly say that he's sold to sin? Against men like Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones, who was a wonderful Christian preacher, stands the tradition of Augustine and Luther. Calvin and the English Puritans, the Bible teachers that many of you grew up loving, MacArthur and Boyce and Keller and Sprohl, they all rejected this view and they held to the traditional view that you probably came with. This next generation of amazing Bible preachers and teachers, DeYoung and Chalice and Justin Taylor, and some names I'm sure I've missed, they all reject that view. All of these have held to the idea that Paul is not only speaking as a Christian, he's speaking as a mature Christian. But if we're going to make that argument, we've got some work to do. So let's do it. Let's take a look at the arguments for that position and then why they matter. So the first argument that Paul is speaking as himself is going to be made this way That he says things an unbeliever could never say So right out of the gate, we have said that those who hold a different view, they look at the text and they see things that a believer could never say. We're going to look at the text and say, no, no, there are things that an unbeliever could never say. We must be clear about this. We are saying exactly the opposite of what they're saying Now, in one sense, this is probably the weakest of our five arguments this morning. I don't think it's truly a weak argument. It's just the weakest. Of the five arguments, but there is another sense in which it is probably the most important of our arguments. For this reason. Besides the few good, good men who have held that Paul could not be speaking as a mature believer. There have been an important number of very dangerous men who have come down on that same side. Pelagius, Pelagius held the view that Paul could not possibly have been speaking of himself as a mature believer here, that he must have been referencing himself as an unbeliever. Who was the opponent of Pelagius? Augustine of Hippo. There's a reason that one of them is Saint Augustine. And the other is not Saint Pelagius. For the church came down on the side of Augustine against Pelagius. A thousand years later, Erasmus looked at this text and said that it must be talking about an unbeliever, that Paul must be reflecting on his time before he was a Christian, who was the opponent of Erasmus. A guy by the name of Martin Luther, the father of the Protestant Reformation, who did what? Except stand in the shadow of Augustine. Why did men like Pelagius and Erasmus and some others, why is it That they so desperately wanted this passage to be about an unbeliever. It is that desire, I think. For glory out of place. For glory before you cross the finish line. For glory coming too soon. And for that they dropped the ball. You see, in the case of these men, their desire was the glory of man Each espoused a view of man, which said that we are much better off than we technically think we are. That there was the possibility that even a sinner could want the good things That if Paul is writing here as a as a as an unbeliever, if he's writing of his time before his conversion, then when he says, I agree that the law is good. I know nothing good lives in me. In my inner being, I delight in God's law. If Paul said all things as an unbeliever Then we see in unregenerate man a basic desire for God, a basic goodness, a basic striving toward Goodness and holiness. They rejected the biblical view that man is an inveterate enemy of God, saved only by his grace. Rather, they saw man as striving and trying and clawing toward Goodness. Now, guys like Pelagius and Erasmus and some of the others who followed in their footsteps, they didn't outright reject Jesus. But Jesus becomes something of an assistant, an aid. He gives you a foothold now and then. He gives you a hand up. He pushes aside the occasional obstacle on your behalf, but you're doing most of the effort on your way to heaven. And it's the reason that people who follow that thinking almost always end up in universalism By the way, the founder of the Universalist held this view of Romans 7. Can't remember his name right now. All of these people End up believing that all roads lead to Rome. That if you're a sincere Muslim who simply does all the good things things that Islam requires of you, that you are striving, you are making a genuine effort, you are putting forth the work, and God will clear whatever obstacles out of the way and you will be saved. The same is true for whatever other religion, filling the blanks, not just picking on the Muslims But this is not the Bible's picture of man. If we step back and we look with a wider angle lens at all of the scriptures, this is not what we see. And in fact, it's not what we see in Paul himself. Here in Romans, back in chapter 3, did not Paul argue there is no one good, no one seeks God. All have gone astray, and their mouths are open graves. If they're having a hard time with the contradictions between 6 and 7, they've completely ignored the contradictions between their interpretation and Romans 3. And he said in Romans 3, all have fallen short of the glory of God. But they make it sound like we've just barely fallen short. And we need to try just a little bit to get there. And Paul will say in the next few sentences, right at the beginning of chapter 8, which we'll see next week, he's going to say The mind that is set on flesh is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot For all of the concerns about the contradictions between six and seven, they've ignored the contradictions between their interpretation and chapter eight. You see, the Bible does not portray us as really close, basically good, kind of wanting it, and making every effort to get there. In fact, how does Paul describe the human condition to the Ephesians? Dead. You were dead in sins and trespasses. In which you formerly lived when you follow the ways of this world. Just to be clear that he means dead spiritually, he goes right on to say, in which you formerly lived. You were alive physically and dead spiritually. Now there is no greater picture than that. For what can a dead person do to help themselves? What clawing, what striving, what effort does a dead person make? And we must not forget that Jesus himself said, No one comes to me unless my Father drags him. You see, the principal reason for seeing this passage as belonging to Paul's pre-Christian life is the desire to preserve in mankind some glory, some goodness, some godliness. The Bible allows none of that It consistently sees us as the enemies of God. It is Paul himself who said that Christ died for us while we were yet enemies. Does Paul say in this passage things that are hard to understand coming out of the mouth of a Christian? Absolutely, he does. But he says things in this passage that cannot come from the mouth of an unbeliever. He is not speaking of his former self. But of his current self. Number two, it is the consistent testimony of the scriptures that a struggle with sin is the normal state of all believers. That a struggle with sin is the normal state of all believers. You know, a close study of any of the great saints of the Bible would reveal this But I think it's probably easiest and fastest to get there with King David. King David gives us the quickest glimpse into this reality. And he's one of the most forefront, most important men in the Bible aside from Jesus. So let's look briefly at David's life. It is, interestingly enough, portrayed as a life of brokenness, of fallenness, of sinfulness. It is a profound thing that the books of the kings begin with a portrayal of David as feeble and feckless That he's worn down by a life of sin. He is impotent in every sense of that word. He is unable to confront the threats that are arising He has appointed Solomon as his dynastic successor, and yet there are all kinds of threats coming against Solomon, and David can do nothing about it. It's Nathan and Bathsheba that protect Solomon. Well David does nothing. The Bible does not portray David as this mythical hero of the faith. It portrays him as a broken, beaten-down, worn-out old man. But that's just the end of his life. All along his life was beset with sin. All along life's way, he had no less than ten wives and concubines. He slept with Bathsheba famously. And the wording of that text He sent for her. It does not suggest a casual meeting over coffee Which led to a conversation, which led to a mutual attraction, which led to mutual consent of an affair No, the wording actually suggests the power and the prerogative of the king Certainly Nathan's revelatory fable suggests as much, does it not? Bathsheba may not have physically resisted the king's advances, but she may have done that out of resignation. Accepting the fate about which she had no choice. To cover that hideous act, he murders her husband. We forget about the census that David ordered, a census that God explicitly told him not to do. And 70,000 men died. Because of David's sin. David was a sinfully inept father. That is certainly the point of all of the detailed, disgusting things. That his children did. David's life was an absolute sinful mess. Isn't it interesting? Those aren't the stories we remember of David from our childhood Sunday school classes, are they? All the stories you remember of David from Childhood Sunday School class, his slingshot against Goliath, and his his acts of faith, and his defeating the lion and the bear with his bare hands, and his strumming his guitar out in the woods, you know, singing psalms, all of those. Come from a time before he was king. All that I have described come not only after he was king, but after he had received the promise of the covenant of God. And he falls time after time after time. Now, if we're going to say that Paul couldn't possibly be describing the life of sin of a mature believer, are we then going to say that David was not a believer? But if we're going to say that David was not a believer, then we have an awful lot of Psalms written by an unbeliever. David was a broken, sinful man. We have, we know well Psalm 51, the famous confession of his sin, but we just use Psalm 38 as our confession of sin. He confesses sins many times over in the Psalms, as do the other psalmists, as do the prophets, as do the other great men and women of faith in the Bible. Yes, it's true in chapter 6 that Paul argued that a Christian is no longer a slave to sin, and here in chapter 7 he describes himself as sold to sin. But you see, the Bible never paints any other picture of the mature believer. The Bible never portrays the Christian life in any other way. I said nothing of Judah's lifelong battle with sin, or of Isaac's, or of Jacob's. What about Abraham's? You see, there are confessions throughout the Bible. Because there are sinners throughout the Bible And Jesus himself taught his followers that it was their calling in life to be poor in spirit. In other words, to be continually humbled, to be continually aware of their spiritual poverty, to be continually aware of their spiritual unworthiness. Or to flip this around and say it the other way, where in the Bible is the illustration of the victorious Christian life? Certainly, we are more than conquerors, but that's not to say that the victory is already realized. We are in the foxhole. Muddied and cold and damp And we are in the fight of our lives, engaged in hand-to-hand combat with sin. Yes, we will win that fight by the power of Christ. Yes, there will come a day when every tear is wiped away and there is no more pain or suffering or dying and sin is removed. But if we imagine it comes this side of glory, we are going to drop the ball and not cross the finish line. We can actually be a little more specific in two ways. Our New Testament reading from Galatians is certainly a parallel passage to Romans 7, and it is certainly A passage spoken to believers. The Galatians were believers. And what is it doing? It's talking to them, it's chastising them, it's encouraging them to about their need to walk by the Spirit and to struggle against sin. And it's interesting, the word he uses there is the Greek word sarx, the word flesh. Now, Sarx is used throughout the New Testament of the sinful aspects of man, in particular the sinful aspects of unregenerate man. But there in Galatians 6 it's used of believers that they cannot walk according to sparks, according to the flesh, according to the aspects of their sinfulness. And it's used that way in Romans 7 as well. Galatians 6 is clearly talking to and about Christians. As is Romans 7 as well. And finally, we realize that in the next passage, Paul is going to reiterate this point In chapter 8, and he's going to speak of the pain of childbirth, of our inward groaning as we await the redemption of our bodies. Now what is this pain? What is this source of groaning for a Christian if it is not sin? It is almost certainly that certainly true that Paul is, in this discussion about sin, is reflecting on the very psalm with which we opened, which talked about David groaning because of his own sin. Paul was steeped in the Old Testament. He used the language of the Old Testament. He talked and thought like the Old Testament And when in Romans 8 he talks about our groaning as we await the birth, he's talking about this ongoing battle with sin, as was the psalmist. He's talking about waiting for our salvation. And what is that, except first and foremost, salvation from sin? It is the Bible's consistent picture of the Christian life As one which is a struggle against sin, not a victory over it in this lifetime. Victory is ours in the next life. This is a time of walking by faith and not by sight. We don't get to see the final truth, this side of glory. Our third point, and they do pick up the pace from here on out. Our third point is that the consistent testimony of believers throughout history Is that this passage expresses their own experience? If you're going to say that Romans 7 cannot be the words of a mature believer, And you have before you a profound task, because you have to not only deal with all those Bible characters we've already discussed. But you've got to look throughout church's history. Some of the greatest, most spiritual, most profound sons and daughters of the church. Have pointed to Romans 7 and said, that's my life. That's my experience with sin. That's what I go through all the time. And if you're going to point your finger at the text and say that's not a Christian, then you've got to point your finger in those people's faces and say they weren't Christians. Are you prepared to do that, to go through history and to look at all of the men and women who were exceedingly Spiritual. And tell 'em they had a wrong understanding of their own life? William Beveridge, he lived in the second half of the seventeenth century in England, and he was called by some of his peers, by many of his peers, the great reviver and restorer of piety. The great reviver and restorer of piety. Yeah, don't earn a nickname like that by walking around being blatantly sinful all the time. The great reviver and restorer of piety. And here's what he wrote about himself. I cannot pray, but I sin. I cannot hear or preach a sermon, but I sin. I cannot give alms or receive the sacrament, but I sin Nay, I cannot so much as confess my sins, but my confessions are still aggravations of them My repentance needs to be repented of. My tears want washing, and the very washing of my tears needs still to be washed over again with the blood of my Redeemer. Now, I suppose you could argue that he was extolling some sort of false modesty. He was calling out sin where there really wasn't any. But wouldn't that be sin? Wouldn't that be lying? Wouldn't that be misleading his flock? Wouldn't it be sin if that weren't true? I guess you could argue that maybe he was this really vile person, and that's why it was true of him. But then he wouldn't have been called the reviver of piety. What you see here in Bishop Beveridge is a student of sin. A student of human life. A student, a man who has come to understand how deeply sin is woven into the fabric of our being. Sin has become for William, sin became for William Beveridge utterly sinful as it did for Paul. You see, the Bible portrays the law of Hebrews as constant struggles against sin, but ever since the Bible was written, history has been doing the same. That the very best of our brothers and sisters, the most profound believers who have gone before us, they have all argued that this was their life. This is what they experienced. The three arguments we've put before us, so far as they go, we haven't looked at them exhaustively, they probably are adequate to make our case, and yet in one sense they're not the most objective of arguments These last two much more objective. Let's consider them each briefly. The fourth reason for taking this text as a description of Paul's inner struggle with sin is quite simply the grammar. Look at the grammar. This doesn't require any kind of advanced degree. If you've gotten through seventh grade English, you're good to go on this one. And I barely got through seventh grade English. It is objectively true that in the first half of seven, Paul speaks in the past tense Of his time before he was a Christian. And yet in verse 13, that goes away, and he speaks exclusively in the present tense. From verse 13 onward, everything he says is present tense. Now As I'm writing this letter to you in Rome, as I'm explaining the doctrine of salvation to you, as I'm encouraging you to be united in the faith, this is what's going on inside of me right now. Everything in the second half of seven is present tense. Now there are some who will point out that this is a common uh literary technique. That people will use the present tense to dramatize, to make the past more real. And no doubt this happens You might hear a history teacher say, and you know, and Booth shoots Lincoln and he jumps onto the stage and he yells, Six Separates Tyrannis! But the teacher will immediately revert to past tense as they continue to tell the story. The present tense is used in the telling to make it dramatic. But it's not sustained ever. This is sustained in the present tense. And if we're going to say it's not speaking of him as he wrote, Then the burden of proof is on the one who would say that. For aside from any literary clues to take this in any other way, then we are duty-bound to take it in the present tense. Paul was describing his real life. Our fifth and final reason Is Paul's closing summary is out of order if he was speaking of his pre-Christian life? Look at it. As a mature and developed Christian, in the closing sentences, look particularly at the order of them. As Paul is speaking in the present tense of his past pre-Christian life, then the closing order is all wrong. The transition back into his present-tense life as a believer would have occurred with the recognition of Jesus as Lord who freed him from the mess. Think about it. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. That would have been where it ended. You see, if he was talking about as an unbeliever, the moment he comes to Christ, that's the end of this struggle with sin. But it's not the end as he's written it here. Rather, he goes on to say this: so then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh, my sort, I serve the law of sin. If this isn't talking about Paul's present condition, then what is that sentence doing there? He was a man steeped in turmoil, a man of contrast and of contradictions, as are all of us. This was the experience of the apostle. The apostle. It is therefore necessarily a description of each one of us. That we will never defeat sin in this lifetime. Let me say this to any of you here who maybe aren't believers, aren't sure where you stand with Christ Learn something today about Christians. We actually don't think we're better than you In fact, it's the other way around. We have the light of the world and walk as though we are in darkness. We've seen the price paid by us by our freedom and we treat it as though it was nothing. We know what Christ suffered for us, and we heap more suffering on him with our continuing sin. Being a Christian is not being better than other people. In fact, it's a tremendous struggle. But to the Christian here, to those of you who have bought in to Jesus by faith, to those of you who are looking for comfort, take comfort in this passage. It is one of the most comforting texts in all of Scripture. Where does the comfort lie? Let me ask you this: very simply. Do you doubt Paul's salvation Look what he went through. Stop doubting your own. Do you hold to the same Jesus that Paul held to Then stop wondering if Jesus is enough and realize what Paul realized that he is Do you imagine yourself to be useless to God because of your sin? Do you regard Paul as useless? So, dear church, hear this. Know what David knew, what David confessed, what Paul knew. Hear the hope that we have A broken and contrite heart, our God will never despise