Turn your Bibles please to Hebrews chapter thirteen. Hebrews chapter thirteen verse It's from page 1198 if you're using that red pew Bible in front of you. Hebrews 13, 17. Our sermon text this morning is the Word of God, and it is, therefore, infallible. It is our guide for how we must think and how we must live. So I invite you now to hear the word of Almighty God and to be contrite before it. Hebrews 13, beginning in verse 17. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things. I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you the Sun. Sooner. Let's pray. Lord, teach us obedience and submission. Teach us to obey our leader. Show us that in doing so we obey you. Where it is needed, break our wills, bend our stiff necks, let us hear your word. And live by it. We pray this for the sake of the glory of Christ's name. Amen. Our son Caleb was just 18 years old when he joined the army, and he hadn't been in for very long when he and I were having a conversation, and one of the things that he said kind of caught my ear and always stuck with me Caleb made a comment about how uh unlike high school, when he got to the Army, it was the first time in his life he felt like he actually fit. and belonged. And I was a little bewildered by that. And I asked him why. Could you explain that? And he said basically, Dad, in high school, it ain't cool to do what you're told. But in the Army it's rewarded. It's celebrated. You get promotions and advancements. You get special opportunities in the Army if you will do what you're told. You see, Caleb had gone through high school being taught by his parents, encouraged by his church, to obey, to submit, to follow. But our culture does not exalt that. We do not consider that a virtue. And in fact, we find just the opposite to be true in much of American society We extol, we exalt, we honor those who are defiant, who disobey, who will not do what they're told. Being good follower is not an American value, but it must be a Christian value. It must be a church value. It must be something to which we hold even if those around us do not. I'm stunned when Becky tells me that she has five and six-year-olds in kindergarten who have never even heard the word obey. They don't know what it means when she uses it with them. We cannot be like that. For we are to be a people in obedience, under authority, who adhere To God's word over us through His servants. So I want to take a look briefly here at kind of a history of that idea That there really is, there really have been always leaders and followers in God's economy. That he has always organized his people in that sense After we do that, we'll look a little bit about at those leaders and who they are and what they do, and we'll look a little bit at the followers and who they are and what they ought to do. There is an outline in your bulletin if that would be of use to you. God has always prized obedience. And in fact, from day one, we saw that for God, obedience was the path to life. If you eat of the tree, you will die. But if you obey me and do not, you will live. From the get-go, God placed a premium upon obedience, upon doing what we're told. That's why the tree was there. That's why the test was there. It was a concrete visual reminder to Adam. That despite the dominion he had been given, despite the mandates he had been given, he was ultimately to be under God's authority. A follower of God. Fast forward when God was organizing his people in the aftermath of the Exodus as they left Egypt He met them at Mount Sinai. Remember, that's why they were to be set free. Let my people go that they may worship me. And the people gather at Mount Sinai and they worship God and He comes and descends to them at Sinai and gives them the Ten Commandments, the structure, the outline of how they were to organize themselves as His people. I have set you free from Egypt. You are now going to be a distinct people to me, a holy people set apart, and this is how you ought to live. And he would come back around later in the books of Leviticus and Deuteronomy and flesh that out with more detail. But at Sinai, he said, here are the basic principles. And most scholars recognize that the that most scholars, most everybody recognizes that they came in two broad parts. How did Jesus reflect on the law when he was asked? He summarized it in two halves: Love God, love your neighbor. The first four commandments are about loving God. You shall have no other gods to begin with You shall not make of me an image of uh that is not in keeping with who I am. You shall not be casual about me in my name, and you shall set aside time for me The first four commandments. The last six commandments dealt with how we should love our neighbors, how to live together in the community that God was establishing. How to live in the ancient and nascent church. because that's what they were. You know, most scholars have recognized that within that there is something of a priority That it is more serious to steal, Commandment No. 8, than it is to lie in Commandment No. 9. And adultery, commandment seven, is more serious than stealing. And murder, commandment number six, is more serious yet. But we forget that the chief commandment for how to live with each other, for how to live in brotherly love, as Hebrews 13 has been commanding us, How to live in the community of God, top of that list was the fifth commandment. You shall honor your father and mother. Submission to obedience, submission to authority, and obedience to those over you. Was the single most important thing for the community of God to live at peace with one another. so that it will go well with you in the land that I am giving you. You must submit to authority. And just as God, just as Jesus revealed to us, a proper understanding of the commandments was to broaden them, not narrow them. You've heard it said, do not commit murder. But I tell you, if you hate your brother, you have murdered him in your heart. You've heard it said, do not commit adultery. But I tell you, if you lust, you have already committed adultery. And following that principle, following that guide of interpretation, Westminster divines when they wrote the Constitution of our Church They looked at that fifth commandment and said, it can't possibly mean merely our biological parent. And they rightly set forth the idea that it really was a principle that begins in childhood. It begins with your biological parents. But you must honor them, you must obey them, you must adhere to what they say But that this principle goes beyond just the nuclear family. And it is to be a guiding principle for living as true Christians. And so elders were set up within the people of God. In Exodus 18, we see Moses establishing elders within the people of God. And those elders have never vanished from the people of God. In the books of Joshua and Judges, we see elders mentioned over 14 times as ruling alongside of Joshua and the judges. Under the term times of the kings in the books of Samuel and Kings and Chronicles, we see elders referenced dozens and dozens of times. The king did not do away with the elders, rather, he was a servant of and an administrator of God's justice among a nation ruled by elders. When the kings vanished in the aftermath of the exile, there were still elders. And when Paul and Barnabas have a debate in the New Testament church. What do they do in Acts chapter 15? Paul and Barnabas went to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders concerning this question. It was the first Presbytery meeting ever recorded. The elders were to rule over and make a judgment call and make a decision about how to handle this thony question of circumcision. And what does Luke tell us in Acts 20? When Paul went back and revisited the churches he had established earlier, what did he do among them? He appointed elders. Why? For their strengthening, Luke says. And when Paul writes to the young pastors, Timothy and Titus, What is a dominant thing in each of those letters? How to choose the elder From the day that God's people were established as a unique entity, as the church in ancient Israel, as they came out of Egypt, God ordained elders over them. And that never ceased to be the case. The history of the people of God, as recorded in the Bible, is a history of those people being under the elder. That God ordains. Obey your leaders and submit to them is what our author says to us here. Who are those leaders? Who was he talking about? And by the way, lest we think he's talking about civil governance, he says, for they are keeping watch over your souls. The civil government may keep watch over your safety, over your physical well-being, your health. They may keep watch over, well they for sure want to keep watch over your checking account. But they do not watch over your soul. This is clearly not a passage about civil governance. This is about church governance. You know, I heard an interesting story this week as I was researching this sermon. It's about a minister who took a group from his church. They went to Salt Lake City, Utah, and they were doing street evangelism there to the Mormons, trying to get them to understand the truth of the scripture. And he and his group encountered another group of evangelical Christians doing street evangelism in Salt Lake City, but this second group. We're doing things, and I won't get into the details, they were doing things that were an embarrassment to the name of Jesus, a disgrace. to Christ in his church. And so this preacher, this minister, he approached one of them and said, Could I please speak with your leaders? Who uh who is your leader in this group? And the guy kind of looked at him a little quizzical. What do you mean who's our leader? And the minister said, Who's in charge? Who's running this group? Who's overseeing all of you? And the guy kind of just scoffed at the minister and said, Our leader is Jesus. Well, that sounds really righteous, doesn't it? But this passage isn't talking about Jesus. That's self-evident, is it not? The author would have clearly said that. The author has used the name of Jesus over and over and over again. If he were talking about Jesus, he would have said so. And in fact, in the prayer in verse 18, he says, pray for us. He includes himself among those leaders as he's a plurality. This is not about obedience to Jesus. This is about obedience to the leaders of the church. When someone says, we have no leader but Jesus, they don't even have Jesus as their leader. Jesus put in place authority and leaders in his church He appointed the 12, the 12 in turn established elders, and the church has continued to have that model of leadership ever since. We are to obey the leaders that God has put in his church among his people, and he has always had elders in his church. From the day they left Egypt to today. There are elders who rule over us. And that is a brief history of the leaders of God's church. Now, concerning those leaders, and some things to think about them I think every child, when they're growing up, I think every child longs to be an adult. For a lot of reasons, but one of them is they imagine that as an adult, they won't be told what to do. Right? Wasn't that your memory of childhood? I want to grow up so nobody's telling me what to do all the time. I don't know how you reflect on it, dear adults, but I have never been freer than when I was a child In my adulthood, I answer to more bosses than I ever imagined possible. That childhood quip on the playground, you're not the boss of me, I feel like I want to say it every day. Because I have bosses everywhere. When I took over as the when I moved from the classroom, being a classroom teacher to being a school administrator to being a principal. I kind of foolishly thought I would go from having one boss to maybe none. I'd never had more bosses. Every teacher had needs. Every teacher had supplies they didn't have. Every teacher I had to answer to all of the teachers to keep them equipped with what they needed to do their jobs. There was a board of directors I had to answer to. There was an oversight accreditation board that I had to answer to And we were a private school, the parents were paying tuitions, and they ran the school association. I had to answer to every parent. I had never had more bosses than the day I became the boss. We all understand this idea that leaders have leaders. Bosses have bosses. Those in charge are still accountable. And our author gets right at that point. Notice what he says. Obey your leaders and submit to them. Why? Because they will have to give an account. How did James say it in the book that comes right before this in the canon? Those who teach will be judged more strictly. You see, when one takes on the mantle of leadership in God's church, it bears the weight of judgment, of accountability. I was a young ruling elder in a church, and I was working on a committee with a young assistant pastor many years ago, and he explained the weight of leadership, of eldership, this way. He said, Scott, as elders, we are the church's bosses. In turn, our boss is a consuming fire. To my fellow elders, do you pray for this congregation as one accountable to a consuming fire? Do you serve this congregation as one accountable to a consuming fire? To the Sunday school teachers. And the Bible study leader, do you prepare your lessons as one who must give an account someday of a consuming fire? Do the deacons, do you oversee this facility and steward its resources as one who must give an account to a God who is a consuming fire? I think most of us in the 21st century American church, when we hear a pastor say something like that We expect him to immediately tag on. But it's okay because the consuming fire is a gracious fire. But the truth is, the passages that warn leaders, the passages that charge us to take seriously our responsibility and our accountability, offer no such escape clause. We are accountable. We must give an answer to God for the way that we led those whom He put under us. When Paul warns about our God who is a consuming fire, who will burn up our works, who will test them by fire. He doesn't say, but it's okay. That fire isn't serious. No. His point is build with gold and s and silver and precious stones Stop building with wood, hay, and stubble. That's his point. You see your leaders Have to give an account for the way they oversee your souls Never anywhere in Scripture is the grace of Jesus Christ ever a reason to be slack. To be sloppy, to be careless. And in fact, the grace of Christ is always just the opposite. It is supposed to be a motivation to us. To extend ourselves further, to make a greater effort, to do everything in our power, To treat his bride with great care. If you have any amount of leadership in this church Teacher, deacon, elder, anybody I've forgotten, do you exercise that as one who must give out And by the way, something I don't want to leave behind. When we think about accountability, when we think about uh who is answerable to whom. The membership vows of our church hold the members to one accountability. In the fifth vow you take, you promise, you vow yourself before God and the witnesses of this church to submit yourselves to the governance and oversight of this church. Did you pay attention when your leaders were ordained, when they were installed, when they took their vows? They are bound to more than just that Your deacons, your elders, your pastors, the officers of this congregation are bound to the Westminster standards. They're bound to the Book of Church order. We can't just do whatever we want in the governance of this church. And we are still bound to each other. We have all taken a vow to submit ourselves to our brethren in the Lord Leaders are not freer than followers. They are bound in so many ways. And I will tell you as a first-hand witness that your leaders desire to take those vows seriously. It is a key reason I took the call to come to this congregation in the first place. And it continues to be a source of great joy for me That these men understand that when that decision is made, oh, you can have all the debates in the world beforehand, but there must be no division afterwards. The will of the session has to be the will of Scott Shaw, not because I wag the session. But because I took a vow to submit myself to them. And when they make a decision, I have to obey. Your leaders must give an account. They are answerable for the way they lead this congregation. And they must realize that, and you need to recognize and honor God has always had elders, rulers over his people from the day they were formed to today. And those men are always answerable to each other. And to God. Now, concerning followers, when we get down to continuing in verse 17, God commands us to obey your leaders and to submit to them. And I want to look briefly at the distinction between those two things. First, obedience. Any and every time the subject of obeying leaders is addressed, there is always someone who will quickly want to point out that there are exceptions. Oh yeah, I understand Pat you have f y not here I don't imagine, but teaching a Sunday school class. Teaching a men's Bible study, something like that If the leader says we must obey our leaders, somebody will go, yeah, yeah, we have to obey our leaders. But not if they tell us to do this, that, or the other thing, right? I mean, there's an out here. We don't have to obey them absolutely, right? I don't see that in this passage. I don't see it out. It doesn't say obey your leaders unless you don't like what they decide. Why is it that we immediately go to the exception? Why is it that we run there first? And by the way, I don't think I've ever had a discussion about leadership in the church where we didn't get to that almost immediately It's because we're still struggling with Adam's issue. You're not the boss of me. We are still so steeped in our pride that we want the escape clause. If there's an exception, if there's an out, then I don't actually have to obey. But that's not what our author says He says to obey. Period. Why? He goes on Pray for us, verse eighteen. Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act nobly in all things. In other words, he says, I'm among your leaders, he includes himself among them, as part of the us And he says, we're doing it right. We've examined our leadership. We're not saying it's flawless. We're not saying we didn't make any mistakes at all. But our conscience is clear before the Lord And therefore you need to obey. He basically is saying That because we are answerable to God, and because we have taken that seriously, you need to take seriously the command to obey. And that's where someone will argue, okay, Pastor, I get it, okay, so maybe, but that guy was inspired by God. I mean, he's he's a writer of the New Testament. Sure, he had a clear conscience before the Lord, but come on. My leaders are just ordinary people. Do I really have to accept everything they tell me? And again I go back to why are you pushing that issue? What does that reveal about your pride and about your stubbornness and about your stiff-necked attitude? Why is it you so desperately want to get out from underneath the idea that there might be an authority in your life? I would really strongly suggest to you, brothers and sisters, that when you read this passage, if your very first thought, if your very first response Is what are the exceptions? You are first of all making you're you're jumping to something that isn't in the text. It's not exegetically valid. But secondly, you're revealing a heart already opposed to the message of wisdom I've shared this quip before, but it's worth sharing again. I found that when my children were young, they obeyed best if I told them to do what they wanted to do. That's the problem we're struggling with, isn't it? Happy to obey if you just tell me to do what I want to do. If you just tell me to do the things that I get along with. I've also shared the illustration of my college buddy Steve who used to hang out the window of my car as we were driving through town, and he would scream at people and tell them to do what they were already doing. So if there was a kid riding his bike, Steve would yell out the window, Hey you, ride your bike. And to the person sitting on the front porch reading their paper, Steve would yell, hey you, sit on your porch and read your paper. And he would get the most quizzical looks. He would get the most bizarre responses. And tongue-in-cheek, Steve would get back in the car and turn to the rest of us and say, look how powerful I am. They are all obeying me. It's not obedience. Thank you. It's not obedience at all, is it? They were doing what they wanted to do. It just happened to align with what Steve said You see, the whole problem with this question of obedience is that it comes precisely at the point where we don't want to do it. Where we don't agree with the decision, where we do not think that it's right, where the judges God has put over us, the elders in the session, the deacons on the board, whatever they might be That these people are in our judgment getting it wrong. And therefore I shouldn't possibly have to obey them. Go back to the street evangelist we mentioned earlier that was confronted on that street. Imagine for a moment that the elders at uh his church Let's imagine you are the street evangelist, and the elves at your church, they found out about your behavior on those streets, and they agreed with the other minister, and they told you what you were doing wrong, and you need to stop doing that street evangelism What's going to happen? In our hearts we're going to say things like this, aren't we? We're going to justify immediately. Well, evangelism is commanded in the Bible. And if the elders are telling me I can't do evangelism, well then they're defying God's word, they're defying the Bible, and I don't have to listen to them. Where do you get that from? Well, Jesus tells us to go into all the nations and make disciples. Jesus tells who? Well, us. Right, not you individually? How about that? He commands the church to do it. Not you individually There is no passage that says, Scott Shaw, you shall go behave badly on the streets doing evangelism. You see, that's our problem. We miss these things. Now Christ's commands were given to the church, not to me. So, as long as the church is doing some measure of evangelism, it's obedient I don't have to be doing it to be obeyed. And if I go do it in defiance of the elders over me, I am dis-OB. I have rejected those whom God has put in my life. Watch over my soul. One quick note before we move on. This is one of the reasons why the Bible frames up church leaders the way it does. Exodus chapter 18, we read these words. Jethro tells his son-in-law Moses to choose from among them able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy, and hate a bribe. When Paul teaches on eldership in the New Testament, he says, therefore an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. You see, both in the Old Testament and the New, what do we have set forth? A list of outward behaviors, how these men behave, how they conduct their life. That's what we're supposed to target. Not how well can they articulate every nuance of the West Anders? Not how well can they preach on God's sovereignty? Because in the end, it comes down to some really simple things. If Ken Goon or Conrad Judy or Matt Bear comes to me and says, brother, don't think we should be doing it that way at Shore Harvest. Am I really going to say I don't want to be like you? Am I going to look at one of these men and go, your life isn't worth imitating? You don't appear to be godly in any way, shape, or form. We chose them from among ourselves precisely because of the godliness of their lives. And it constrains me. It begs the question, Scott, do you desire to be a godly man? And if so, why would you go at odds with these men? Why would you go crosswise with them? How can you not submit yourself to them? The reason we are to pick godly leaders, not those who are good at business, not those whom the world sees as gifted leaders, we are to pick godly leaders. So that we will be constrained by their lives to obey them. Maybe they know something Look how their life is turning out! Why would I not at least listen to them and submit myself to them? We are to obey our leaders. We are to do as they instruct us. We are to follow their lives because of the way they are living them out amongst us. Our preacher does add a nuance. He says to obey our leaders and submit to them. And there is a little difference between these two things, and we need to consider it. Worldwide worship was disrupted back in March of 2020 by the uncertainties that surrounded the early days of the COVID pandemic. And in Maryland, in our state, public worship was completely shut down, but not all states responded that same way. And a pastor friend of mine shared this story from those early days of COVID. something that unfolded in his church. His state did not shut down public worship, though it had some precautions and guidelines, some rules about it, but it didn't shut it down. And so they continued to worship public worship. In the midst of that, the paid musicians did not come. And after I think it was four months of the paid musicians not coming to worship, The elders made the decision that they were going to suspend the pay of the musician. They weren't fired, they didn't lose their place as music director, as pianist, as organist, as other musicians. But at this large church, they were financially struggling, as were churches everywhere, and they decided that to be paying out these resources for services not rendered. They needed to take action. They were having to hire other musicians to support their worship. They were having to buy other equipment to help support their worship. And so they reallocated those resources for a time. The musicians were told that they would have their positions back as soon as they were comfortable rejoining public worship. All three of them left the church. Why do I share this illustration? Because I think it's one where we can sympathize with both sides. I think we can all sympathize with the musicians. It's no fun having your paycheck taken away. I will add on, none of them were in a household situation that depended on that paycheck. But we can also understand the sessions decision, can we not? That there was a need to reallocate those resources and to use them differently. Why do I bring up this illustration? Because there's no obedience involved. The musicians weren't told to do anything They weren't directed to do or not do anything. They weren't told that they had to come in and perform against their will and against their own fear about the issues of COVID. But they were not able to submit to the decision of the elders. They were not able to accept that decision They judged it to be wrong. They decided that they were being wronged, and therefore they would go somewhere else. You know, Paul writes to the church in Corinth, and he tells them When it comes to these sorts of questions, these sorts of matters, these sorts of issues of am I being wronged? Have they done wrong by me? He tells them it would be better to suffer the wrong than to disgrace the Church of Christ by making a controversy that it would be better to submit and accept The decision of the elders with which you strongly disagree, so that peace would be maintained. You see, the real issue is this. Well, such hearts and such attitudes are they going to submit to the leaders of the next church they go to? Probably not. Not unless the Spirit of God intervenes in some miraculous change of their hearts These are people who will ride their bikes when Steve is yelling at them to ride their bikes so long as they want to. But the moment they don't want to do what they're told. They're gonna move on. That's not submission. That's not obedience to Hebrews 13 seven. That is not putting yourself under the authority which God has ordained. By the way, it also doesn't serve the person particularly well. Our author says that. It is of no benefit to you. Why not? Think about what happens when you decide to defy the elders that have been put over you I wish I hadn't framed that up that way. None of you seem to be in any hypothetical defiance right now, so I don't want to say it that way. Imagine somebody defying the elders that God has put over them. I used to coach junior high girls' sports. And one of the things I would try to teach my girls was to do what you're told when you're told. And if you execute the play I call, if you do what I say to do, and it doesn't work. If the play fails, if the strategy backfires, if we lose the game, I'm on the hook. I'm the one who made the decision. It ain't gonna come back to haunt you. I'm the one answerable for that decision. When we step outside of the oversight of our elders, and we defy them and refuse to submit to them, They are no longer accountable to God for the watching of our soul. Rather, we have just stepped into the path of that consuming fire for ourselves. For your own sake, for the sake of your day of judgment Stay under the protective umbrella that God has provided. Even if you're not sure you see why or understand it If the decision's wrong, the heat's going to come down on the elders. Not on you. There's a lot more we could say about elders and about uh leaders and about followers, about obedience and about submission. But I want to wrap up looking at the end of verse 17. Let them do this, that is to say, let them lead you with joy and not with groaning. Let them lead with joy. One of the great blessings of my life is a wife who understands that concept. And who has generally allowed me to lead with joy. I know that this will be a shock to many of you. But Becky and I do not have the perfect marriage. It's a pretty good one. But it's not perfect. There have been times that we squabble over ridiculous little things, but there have been a handful of times where we could not come to agreement, we could not come to unity on big things Things that matter, things that are of eternal significance. We have occasional, and raising children comes to kind of filter the top of that list And while we have been able to talk through and work through and come to some agreement on most of those, there have been a couple of times where Becky finally just said. God gave you the spiritual headship of this home. You're the one on the hook. I'm gonna get choked up thinking about it. You're the one who has to stand before him and give an account for the spiritual welfare of this home. I will defer to your call. I will acquiesce to your decision. Because she understood what is being said. If the leader has to give an account, then let the leader lead. Why should they have to face God for your stubbornness? Why should they have to come before that consuming fire for your unwillingness to let them do what they were called to do? My boss at my previous church, he liked to use the little catchphrase: the one who cooks gets to pick the recipe. If you're going to be judged for what's served, if your reputation is on the line for the food, then you get to decide how it's cooked. And it was his point was that in ministry, in our that larger church, where there might be some disagreement, the the children's ministry director may want to do it this way and and and maybe our boss, the senior pastor, wanted to thought it maybe it should be done that way. But when push came to shove, he understood You're the one who's got to live with the consequences. The one who cooks gets to pick the recipe. And our author is saying to those of us who are followers, who are under authority, and that is every single one of us, he is saying, let those who do lead with joy. Don't make their job miserable. What benefit is that to you? What good how are you better off for having grumpy elders in your church? By the way, on this issue of what good is it to you, I think most of us know That in a system with no discipline, where there are no boundaries, where no is never said to you, where you never have to do what you don't want to do, that doesn't lead to true happiness. The mother who gives in in the store aisle because the kid is throwing a tantrum does so out of the hope that the child will be happy and the tantrum will end. The father who never enforces his rules with his teenagers does so out of the hope that the teenagers will be happy and there will be peace in the home. But almost all of us will attest to the fact That children who always get what they want are almost never happy Because they always want more. Because they've never been made to be content with what they have. They don't know how to be happy. And the same goes for us. We think we want to throw off the leadership over us because then we can be happy. That is not the recipe for happiness. That is not a recipe for contentedness. And it is going to be precisely when we end up having to obey and submit to a decision we don't like, we disagree with, we're quite convinced they've gotten it wrong But in that moment, we obey our leaders and submit to them. Learn to accept that God ordained them as authorities over us in our lives. That we will begin on a path toward true contentedness, toward true happiness, toward true blessing. For if we have leaders who cannot lead with joy, our author says, What good is that to you? God has always had leaders over his people. Obedience was from day one a the central issue. with God. It has not changed. If we are if we claim to belong to Him, if we want to live in the community of the church and the people of God with peace and harmony, if we want to have the brotherly love that He 13. 1 tells us we need to have. And we have to obey our leaders. And submit to them. And let them conduct their business with Jesus. For that will be the blessing of God in our lives. Let's pray. Lord, this is a difficult teaching. We are every bit as defiant as Adam was. We are inclined to stand there and look at that tree and say, you're not the boss of Take and Eat. Help us. Send your spirit in our hearts individually and in our midst collectively. That we would be a people who humble themselves and accept that you have placed over us. Authority figures, elders. Those to whom we are accountable, but who in turn are accountable to you Help us to see in this a grace, a measure of your kindness to us. That we will not be on the hook for every little thing and every little decision That we can rest in the umbrella of protection you have given us in the structure of your church And Lord be with those who are leaders, whether they be Sunday school teachers, Bible study leaders, deacons, elders, whatever I'm missing. Lord, give them just remind them of the weight that they carry in that place of leadership That they would strive to do so with excellence. In the midst of all of this, remind us. That perfect obedience was in Jesus Christ. That we can make these efforts, we can strive in these ways, we can take the risk of obedience and of obeying. Because in the end, you see him when you look at us. We thank you for that confidence, that assurance. We thank you for the table before us that reminds us of that. Ask now your blessing, Hannah. We pray this in Christ's name.