We continue this week in Hebrews chapter 10, and I would invite you to open your Bibles there. Hebrews 10, we'll begin in verse 19 in just a few moments. I say we're continuing this week. I had mentioned that we were looking at five sermons in Hebrews 10, and now it is six I just could not squeeze this and what came after into one sermon. Maybe a more gifted preacher might be able to pull that off, but there was just so much here. And so I want us to look this week What we see in this portion of Hebrews 10 and verses 19, really through the end of the chapter, is kind of a mix of the things we saw in our opening psalm, a mix of hope and fear. hope in the Lord and fearing the Lord. And this week we look particularly at that first part of that of our hoping in the Lord. Hebrews 10 really does kind of reach a it's kind of the doctrinal pinnacle, the doctrinal zenith of the book of Hebrews. He's going to have much to say to us about illustrations of faith in Hebrews 11, of how to live out the Christian life in 12 and 13 But right now he's kind of bringing it all together in our understanding of what it means to be a Christian, of having relied fully on Christ. And so let's pick up in Hebrews 10, verse 19. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is faithful, and let us consider how to stir one another to love and good works Not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. Let us draw near now in prayer. Lord, reveal to us what it means to be a Christian, how that plays out in our lives in practical ways. Show us the message that your servant has for us here in the book of Hebrews. That we might be faithful to you in proclaiming what you have said, that we might be faithful to you in living it out as a church and as individuals. We ask this help from you in the name of our risen Savior. Amen. So my parents had an interesting way of phrasing things that if on paper, out of context You might not get the real meaning of their message. So for example, my mother might say something like, Why don't you turn off the TV and go outside to play? Now technically, that's a question. Why don't you? So technically, grammatically, I could have replied, well, I'm not doing that because I'd rather watch this rerun of Gilligan's Island. I assure you that no such reply would have been appropriate or accepted. That though it was technically phrased as a question, it was not a question. My mother was employing a rhetorical method, one in which the imperative, the command, is given softly, gently. It's hidden inside the question. It's not unlike burying your dog's medication inside of a meatball. Just so it goes down more easily and more readily. Mom would bury her command in the question, making it easier to swallow, but it would have been a tremendous error on my part to miss that fact and to take that grammar simply at face value. The preacher of Hebrews does something very similar. And it would be an equally serious mistake, a fatal mistake, if we were to misread what he is telling us I have argued that chapter 10 is the pinnacle of our preacher's doctrine. And here, in this section that we have read, particularly in verses 22, 23, and 24 He reaches the high point within chapter 10. It's the high point of high points. He really is summarizing what it means to be a Christian. And he phrases it in an interesting manner. He gives us three statements. Look down briefly with me at verses 22, 23, and 24 in Hebrews 10, 22. Let us draw near. In 1023, let us hold fast the confession of our hope. And in 1024, let us stir one another to love and good works. M John, can we go without this for a moment here? I'm hitting it with my beard and sorry about that. Is this one going to be enough? Thank you. I'm sorry about that. I put it too high and I'm hitting it every time I look down and it was driving me nuts. Um thank you. 22, let us draw near. 23, let us hold fast. 24, let us stir up. Let us really is the best English way to capture the mood of the Greek verb here. That mood is something called a subjunctive. We don't want to spend a lot of time on that. But subjunctive verbs can communicate desire. Wishful thinking. A subjunctive verb can communicate a mere hope for something. So for example, a speaker might say, let us work toward zero carbon emissions. Maybe we'll get there, maybe we won't. It's something I think is worth making an effort toward. That is one way to use the subjunctive. It is the wrong way to understand this passage. And this brings us back around to the illustration of the way my mother phrased things. Our author is using a rhetorical flourish very similar to mom's. Rather than bluntly giving us a command, draw near to God, He's making it a little easier to swallow by including himself as one of us. Let us draw near to God. Let us Hold fast the confession of our hope. Let us stir one another up to love and good works. But if we were to make the mistake, That the gentleness of his tone was somehow not a serious command, we would misread this passage. Yes, he's being pastoral in the way he says it, but what he says Is absolutely an imperative. It is a command. It is a direction. Imagine for a moment there are 30 seconds on the clock, and your team is down four points and 72 yards to go to the end zone. How does the star quarterback break the huddle? Let's go. Let us go. Now, he's not saying wishful things. He's giving a command to the team. We're going to get out there and do this. Right now, go do it. But if he says it that way, it comes off as condescending. It comes off as dictatorial. He says, let's go. Because he's putting himself in with them and saying, all of us together, this is where we're headed. That's really the sense of our preacher here. These are the sum and substance of being a Christian. It all boils down to this. Let's go. I know that contractions are considered inappropriate in formal writing But given that this was originally a sermon that was preached, I don't know that that's out of place. And it may actually better capture the sense of what's going on here. Let's draw near to God. Let's uh hold fast to the hope of our confession. Let's stir one another up. Let's take a look at each of these in turn. First, I want to back up to verse 19 and kind of lay the foundation. Faith foundation verse 1920 and 21. Faith foundation. Therefore, brothers Since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us and then he goes on Because we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus. You've heard me say repeatedly that the The technique of our preacher, the technique of the author of the book of Hebrews, has been to show the superiority of Christianity over Judaism. He is trying to discourage Hebrew believers from falling back into a Christless Judaism. Now, the high point, the greatest experience in the Jewish religion, was the day when the high priest entered into the presence of God in the Holy of Holies. To be in God's very presence was the pinnacle of that religion. But it was something reserved for one man once a year And even that wasn't necessarily approached with great joy, but there was a great measure of trepidation, even of fear of entering into his presence. But our author has pointed out that Christ entered heaven not on the basis of sacrifices of animals, but on the basis of his perfect life and his own sacrifice. And he did not merely enter the Holy of Holies on earth. He entered the very fullness of the presence of God in God's own throne room. And we are reminded that Jesus said to his disciples and to us through them, where I go, there I will take you with me. He will usher us into the holy places of heaven and God's presence. How can that be? How can it be that we sinners would be able to go into the presence of God? Well, the word therefore in verse 19 connects us back. It reminds us, back up in verse 14, he has told us, he has made perfect for all time those who are being sanctified. We can enter the presence of God because we are perfect in Christ Jesus. Those who trust in Christ are perfected in Christ By the blood of the human nature of Christ. And so they have not just the privilege of entering God's presence, they have the right to do so. We don't tend to think that way. We don't tend to think about the transition from privileges to rights. But we are made sons of God. Those who have the legal inheritance, those who have a legal uh right to execute control over the estate All of us, whether male or female, are legally sons by faith in Christ. And rights come with that. You ever bothered by the way some of the Old Testament saints seem to like demand of God? They seem to like direct God to do things? They were living in the fullness of the understanding of the covenant, that they had that right to go to God and call him to keep his word, call him to do what he had promised. to do. This is why our author can speak in the way he speaks, of confidence and full assurance Because the doctrine is not something he wants left on the shelf. He wants it pulled down into our lives, into the way that we think about who we are and what we do. That's faith's foundation. What Christ has accomplished, the perfecting of us once for all time, it's a done deal, even as we live out all of our imperfections. And on that basis, on that foundation, come the imperatives in verses 22, 23, and 24. So let's look at those. Faith's foundation is the work of Christ and his perfecting of us. So on that ground, on that basis, what do we do? Verse 22: Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us draw near. How does that happen? How does that play out? How do you actually accomplish that? Well, in the centuries after, centuries of the church after the book of Hebrews was written. This concept would be something that would become known as the ordinary means of grace. The ordinary means of grace. It's really a term that's worth knowing. It's ordinary in the sense that it's A, it's not miraculous, and B, that it's Ought to be commonplace. It ought to be familiar. It ought to be something that we are steeped in on a regular basis. What are those means of grace? Well, the Protestant Church has, over the centuries, consistently recognized three means of God's grace to us. They are prayer, preaching, and the sacraments Prayer preaching in the sacraments. They are the means by which we draw near. They are the way that we come close. Let's consider marriage as an illustration, as a metaphor. It's the most common illustration or metaphor in the scriptures, so we're on safe ground here. How does one draw near to one's spouse? How is closeness and real emotional intimacy built? Well, notice the wording he says there, with a true heart. That is by speaking honestly to your spouse, by telling your spouse with truth and sincerity what's really going on inside of you. Your Mary will grow closer as your heart gets truer, as you're more willing to bear yourself to them. Well, what is the spiritual equivalent of this? It is prayer. Yes, God is omniscient. Yes, God knows all things. Yes, God is aware of what's in you before you say it. And by the way, he's aware of it more accurately, more fully than you are. But nevertheless, part of our sanctification, part of our growing in grace, part of our understanding of who we are and what God has done for us. Is prayer. It's expressing to God how we think about things, how we feel about things, what's going on inside of us. This is why we see in the Psalms So much of the prayers of lamentation, God, I am sad, I am brokenhearted over this Prayers of retribution. God, I am angry at that person. Would you please rain down coals on their head? By the way, David pens most of those psalms that make us a little uneasy, cause us to squirm a little bit, cause us we don't, you know, we're Christians, it's all about the love, we can't really be praying those prayers. But you notice David never actually took those things into his own hand? He had a chance twice to kill Saul and did not do it. Those prayers were an expression of faith in God. This is how I feel about it in the moment, Lord, but I'm not going to take it into my own hands. I'm going to leave it with you. With a true heart, we draw near to God. And the sacraments, how to how do they factor in? If the means of grace are prayer and preaching in the sacraments, how do the sacraments factor in. Well continuing the the marriage analogy, they're a wedding ring. There's something concrete that you can see. It's tangible, though symbolic. It ushers you back to that day And it's a symbol, not as sadly much of modern television would tell you, it's not a symbol of bondage, but of binding. Of being bound up with another person, of being covenantally connected to them. And by the way, when you look at that wedding ring. Be reminded of how it was placed on your hand. It was not placed on your hand as you made a commitment. The other placed it on your hand as they made a commitment to you This is not a sign of my commitment to Becky, but of Becky's commitment to me. So is this table. So is our baptism. Too many of us look at baptism as though, you know, as well, it's so meaningless. I mean, I was an infant, I can't even remember it. You know, uh uh uh Martin Luther, baptized as an infant, frequently relied on his baptism as an encouragement in his faith. When he would be in the midst of doubt, when he was wondering about whether or not he really had a relationship with God, he would say to himself, I am a baptized man. What did he mean by that? Luther did not understand baptism as being salvific. He didn't believe that he was saved because he was baptized, but rather he saw in it the symbol When I was an infant, unable to do anything for myself, God intervened and marked me as His. And so it is the life of faith. I was dead in sin, unable to do anything for myself, but God intervened and made me alive. Make no mistake. There are many who will look at look at infant baptism and say, well it doesn't have any of the you know the the Baptists, they get it m so much better. You get to make a profession and then you get to Be a part of that baptism because you've done something and it's meaningful to you. No. Your baptism should encourage you, just as the stable encourages you. It's a sign not of anything you've done, but of God's commitment to you. That's how we can draw near with great confidence and full assurance of faith. You know, as important as it is to pray As important it is to come with a true heart, as important it is to pour out your heart heart to your spouse, there is another side of the marriage, right? You do occasionally have to keep your mouth shut and listen You do occasionally have to say what you have to say is important, and it matters to me, and I want to hear it. That's where the preaching comes in. That's why preaching is at the very heart of the Protestant worship service. Because in it, too many people can look at this and go, well, we're not doing anything. This isn't active. I'm amazed at how many modern churches, how many churches today, will you listen to your friend to go to other churches, they will say things like, you know, during the worship we sang these songs, and then the sermon came We've modified worship to be that which we actively do. Well, we ought to be actively listening. I'm sure none of your marriages have this issue. But every once in a while, it's rare. But every once in a while, Becky would say, I told you that. You know that commercial where they have the replay in life? I don't want that. Because I'm gonna guess she told me. And I wasn't actively listening. That doesn't count as growing, drawing near. That doesn't count as growing closer We need to sit quietly and actively listen to God and to say what you have to say is important. Because I love you. Because you saved me. Because you have covenanted yourself to me. I will listen. I will draw near in full assurance, reminded in the sermon of what you have done for me, reminded in your word what you gave up for me. And I will draw near. Let us draw near through prayer, through preaching, through the sacraments, through God's ordinary means of grace. Stop wishing for a miracle to fix your spiritual life. And avail yourselves of the very things that God has provided. By the way, before we move on, you notice our author, he doesn't give an object. Drawing near assumes some object. Somebody tells you I'm near, you're sitting there going to what? Near to what or to whom? And our author doesn't actually spell it out, and there is some discussion within the commentaries about what it is that we're drawing near to. Is it possible that he means to draw near to the holy places mentioned in verse 19? It really is. It's quite possible. It may well be that Some have said that maybe it's talking about drawing near to the Father, and it's certainly hard to imagine that that wouldn't be part of what he is telling us. But I suspect there is an answer that subsumes all the others into it. I remember watching an interview some years ago with a famous Hollywood actor, a leading man that uh you would all know. And I can remember in the interview he made a comment about how in the early days, before he'd become a household name, in the early days when he had when he had a bit part in some movie, that he would stand as close to the lead actor or actress as he possibly could Because it made it hard for the editors to cut him out of the scene later. I thought that was funny. But I think it's a good metaphor. If you stand as close as possible to Jesus Then you're going to end up in the presence of the Father. And you're going to end up in the holy places. And you're going to end up anywhere else you might think to want to go. You're never going to be cut out of the scene. If you draw as near as possible to Jesus, I had a seminary professor who used to comment: the reason we have four accounts of the life of Jesus, the reason we have four gospels, Is because God wants us to know that four times more than the book of Acts, four times more than the book of Romans, four times more than the book of Timothy. There's something to be said for that view That one out of every, you know, that four times more than anything else, we ought to be steeped in the life of Jesus and draw near to him in his word. We are reminded, by the way, the top of the book of Hebrews. How did our author open things way back in chapter 1, verse 1? Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Want to draw near to God? Draw near to Jesus You want to draw near to the holy places where the presence of God is found? Draw near to Jesus. When we stand next to him, we will never be cut out of any of the spiritual scenes. Oh my, I can't read that. Um let us draw near is the first imperative in verse 22. In verse 23, we have this: let us hold fast. The confession of our hope. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope. Without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. What is hope? As I thought about that question as I was preparing the sermon, my first response to it, the first thought in my head was: it is certainly not a mere feeling. a mere emotion. But I really couldn't come up with a great definition of it. I was struggling a little bit. So I got online and I looked up dictionary. com and I looked up hope And the definition it gave was the feeling that what is wanted can be had. And I went, okay, I don't think that's a good definition, but okay. And I was like, well, that's dictionary. com. I mean come on, you can't trust anything online. So I went to the Oxford English Dictionary. First definition there? A feeling of expectation and desire for a certain thing to happen. And then I was reminded, dictionaries don't define words. They report usage They report how we use the words. We collectively, as the English-speaking world, have changed hope into a mere feeling. We have made hope something that doesn't really reflect what the Bible teaches about hope. Hope is not a mere feeling. It's something more. It's something deeper. It was interesting in both of those dictionaries If you scroll down, I think one of them had seven definitions for hope, one of the other one had eight. If you scroll down through the definitions for each of them, the very bottom definition was first of all labeled archaic. And then it said this trust or confidence placed in something or someone Now you're saying, well, Pastor, that's not any more than just a feeling or an emotion. Yes, it is. Trust and confidence go beyond mere feelings. Trust and confidence are actions. They require us to carry out something based on that fact. Again, if you think about a sports analogy, when the star young receiver A guy who doesn't have a ton of confidence yet. The young receiver drops the pass he should have caught. What does the mature, smart quarterback do? Throws in the ball at the next of opportunity to do so. I trust you Not a mere feeling I express in the huddle. I'm going to take an action to prove that I trust you. You drop the ball. I'm going to give you the next pass I possibly can and give you a chance to catch it. When we talk about a bank and trust, Chesapeake Bank and Trust, what do we mean by that? We mean to say that this is an institution that has a track record That engenders in you a willingness to act on it. Not just say, I trust you, but to actually, I'm going to give you my wealth And trust you, hope in you. I'm putting my entire future, financially speaking, in your hand. That's not a mere feeling, that's a concrete action. This archaic definition of hope really is the biblical definition of hope That you would act on past events with confidence in the future. It's really interesting, even how the author puts it forward here. Our author says, let us hold fast the confession. Of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. He points to the past. God has been faithful in the past. He promised the Messiah, he brought forth the Messiah. He promised that Messiah would clear you of sin. He raised him from the dead to prove that he can clear you from sin. He has taken concrete steps in the past that give us every confidence. Going forward. For he who promised is faithful. Our hope is not a mere feeling. It is confidence. It is trust based on God's past actions. And that's why he says, let us hold fast the confession of our hope. You see, sometimes we can get this idea that hope is a feeling. And when our feelings turn south, then our hope goes south. I've sinned a lot lately. Maybe I'm really not a Christian. The resurrection is a little bit hard to believe. Maybe I'm not a Christian. And then we recite the facts of redemptive history I believe in God the Father, Maker Almighty, Maker of Heaven and Earth. We believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven and Earth. I'll get it right. That's why we printed the bulletin, because he can't rely on my memory. You see, we are going to get in a few moments, we are going to stand up together and we are going to read and recite the apostles' read. To stave off those emotions, to make a confession, this is what I believe And here lies my hope. I am throwing all of my future on these set of facts. I trust in them. We are to draw near, and we are to hold fast to the confession of our hope. Finally, let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good works. The Christian faith which our author is describing really is a three-dimensional faith. It has that dimension, that direction, which is pointed toward God. Let us draw near. It has a dimension which looks to the future. Let us hold fast our hope. But it has a dimension which is pointed toward one another, toward other people. Let us consider how to stir one another up. You know, there is no place in the Bible, none, zero, which give any suggestion Any hint which leaves open even the sliver of the possibility of a go-it-alone Christian. Now I know that has been the traditional American ethic, rugged individualism. We're going to lift ourselves up by our bootstraps. We're going to pioneer and settle the West and either we're going to make it or we're going to die trying. There is an individualistic approach to life that permeates our American culture. But that's nowhere in the Bible. That had better never be a part of our spiritual life in Christ. Think about the examples. Moses could not govern the people by himself. David could not govern in people by himself. If you read the text of both of those men carefully, you see lots and lots of references to all the elders who helped them. Elijah thought he was alone, and God said, No, you're not. There are a whole bunch of others out there that are in this with you. Even Jesus, who was perfect, did not try to walk through this life alone. He surrounded himself with lots of people. He took twelve of them and set them apart to be a special group of disciples, of learners, of fellow uh uh sojourners. And even among them he pulled three very close, Peter, James, and John We see this need in the scriptures to go it go through life with other people. By the way, what did God say of Adam? When he was in paradise, when he was in Eden, when he was in a perfect place without sin, it is not good for the man to be alone. A Christian life is meant to be a life lived out in community Communion with one another. We talked briefly last week. Communion with union. We are united to Christ in this ceremony. But we take it together as one because we are also united with one another. It is communion both with our Lord, and it is communion with each other. And we must recognize this. And so he says, let us consider how to stir up one another. What? To love and good works. Now if we stopped there, I think any money any number of us would come up with all kinds of lists of good works that we could stir each other up to. And many of them really are good, and we really should stir each other up to them It was just a few weeks ago when one of you gave me a call and said, hey, I'm going to go do this visit, this visitation. Would you like to join me? And I have to admit, on my own, I had no plans to do it that day, and yet it was something that I was glad to do and should have been doing. I was stirred up to a good work But it's really interesting. He's gonna go on in chapter eleven and talk a lot more about faith and how that plays out in life and how these people of faith lived out their lives. He's gonna go into chapter twelve and thirteen and talk about how this truth should play out in the way you love your spouse, in the way you love the elders of your church, the way you love uh um uh the brothers and sisters in the Lord. He's going to spell this out in more ways in the in the weeks to come. But when he sums it up right here, he sums it up in a way very few of us would have summed it up. Stir one another up to love and good works And make sure they go to church. Isn't that interesting? Not neglecting to meet together, but encouraging one another. Of all of the things that he could have said, that's a really interesting one. That what he sees as the biggest need of these people who are at risk of falling away from the faith. Is that they need to be in church. They need to be with the brothers and sisters in the Lord. They need to be in the house of the Lord, among the family of the Lord. They need to be partaking of the ordinary means of grace, that their str that their strength and faith might be uh encouraged and and grow. And I know there is a degree to which I'm preaching to the choir, as the saying goes. Because you're all here. But who do you know? That makes a claim of faith in Christ, but always has a reason why they can't go to church. Well, you know, COVID. Yeah, because God didn't foresee that Well, I've got this going on at work. Yeah, because God didn't set aside a day of rest for worship. Well we begin to look at all of our excuses. And by the way, there are legitimate reasons to miss church. Do not come here and spread your disease to the rest of us. If you're sick, please stay home. But if you're not the one who's sharing the germs, don't live in fear of those germs. Live in fear of the Lord. Do not neglect getting together. Who do you know that is, and what can you do to stir them up? What can you do to prompt in them a need to be among the people of God, to be in the house of God, on the day of the Lord? Singing his praises, being renewed in faith, being drawing near to him through the prayer and the preaching, and drawing near to one another. And clinging to the confession of our hope, we are encouraged here to draw near to God It is that dimension of our faith that is oriented toward the divine. He sees the dimension that looks to the future. Let us hold fast to the confession of our hope. And he sees a dimension pointed to one another. Let us consider How to stir one another up. He really does summarize the Christian faith in these three things. This is what it means To be a Christian. This is what it means to be a part of the household of God and of the family of God. Let us be a people who do these things, who do draw near, who do hold fast to our hope, and who do stir one another up to love. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for uh this word through the book of Hebrews, this challenge to us, this reminder of the kind of the essential boil-down nature of the Christian faith, that we are to draw near to you on the foundation we have in Christ, and that we are to hold fast to the confession of our hope these concrete facts of history that do not waver even as our faith does. And we are to stir one another up. Help us to do that. Help us to be recipients of it when we need it done to us. Help us be a people who do these things, who join with this this preacher, this writer of your word, and live out our faith in these practical ways. We pray this in Christ's powerful name. Ahmed