And when we confess our faith, when we confess our Christianity, what is it that we confess? Is it something personal? Is it something that happens strictly to me? Well, to a degree, there is a personal aspect of some of our Christian faith, but that is not what our author of Hebrews has in view. As we have been going through the book of Hebrews, we have seen how he always holds these things out in the collective nature. The sermon series is entitled, Hold Fast Our Confession. It's taken from Hebrews 4. 14. Wherein the preacher writes, let us hold fast our confession. He says it in the first person plural. It is something we collectively hold. Now, why is that important? Because in 21st century America, we have largely given away the idea that we hold to something that is an absolute objective reality. We have largely in the Christian church cowered in the corner and said we cannot stand up against the intellectualism of our age. Ours is an irrational faith. It can't be defended. And therefore, I'm going to personalize it because you can't attack my personal experience. So then I will tell you about my personal experience. I was strung out on drugs, and I was living this life or that life, and then the Lord saved me and changed everything about my life. And while that might be true It can't possibly be what our author is talking about, for that cannot possibly be our confession. It would at best belong to one or two of us Our preacher in the book of Hebrews is putting forth something that exists outside of ourselves Something that is out there, that is an objective reality that we all cling to. And it is a set of facts from history. It is a set of historical events. After all, what have we seen our preacher routinely do? As he's been going through the book of Hebrews, he has looked at the Old Testament stories and shown how those events, those historical facts, led to certain understandings and outcomes He has looked at the sacrificial system of the temple worship or the tabernacle worship and drawn conclusions about the Christ. He has looked at the life of Christ and the death of Christ and made conclusions about his sacrifice on our behalf. He has been looking consistently at objective historical facts and saying that's what we hold to. But how is it that can get one ostracized? Why is that potentially illegal? How could it be that one would ever need to confess, own up to Holding a particular view of history. After all, aren't those facts objective facts Well, of course, history always has an interpretive component. There is always in history a discussion of the why and the so what Why did those events occur? And so what that they occurred. And of course we know this because we know there are any number of events that happened in the past that we never talk about in any history class Because the so what of them is relatively small and has no impact on the wider collection of us. So the question becomes, what is the set of historical facts to which we cling, and why does our interpretation of them Make us outcasts in the intellectual world. What is it that we are confessing to believe As we think about that this morning, let's pray and ask the Spirit's help in understanding it. Lord, we do ask that you would move in our minds that we would understand the historical realities, the truth of what has actually happened in the past? And that we would believe in our hearts your interpretation of them and what they mean for us, so that we would rightly glorify you. And rightly speak of you to this lost and dying world. We pray this in Christ's powerful name. Amen. History is the study of past events, particularly as those events relate to human beings, and it is the interpretation, as I've already said. of those things. And it's usually this interpretation part that kind of becomes the sticking point in history. And in fact, it's the interpretation of past facts that creates some who are History deniers. There are certain events in the past in history that some people will just outright deny. Why? Because they can't live with the implications, the interpretation of those things. If that happened, it means this and that and the other thing, and I don't want to live with those consequences, so I'm going to deny that that ever happened. We are facing the question of what do we believe happened and why does it matter? And can we defend it in a rational way? Now some of you here this morning are going, I'm looking around, Pastor. I'm seeing brothers and sisters in the Lord. I think we are all Christians. We all believe this. And I'm going to say, yeah, maybe. But it's been my experience that any number of Christians, when it comes to the resurrection of Jesus, have a tendency to see in it a really good story. A really motivating tale. A myth that provides hope rather than seeing in it Actual historical facts that have implications for this world and the one to come. And so I want to look at those things So let's begin. I don't want to spend a lot of time rehearsing the things that are generally agreed upon. Let's begin by just briefly outlining the facts of history that almost everybody agrees on. When I say almost everybody, I'm talking about Christians of every stripe and non-Christians and pag atheists and almost everybody who's ever considered history agrees that there was a man who lived in the first century in Palestine named Jesus of Nazareth That is not up for much dispute. And that he was an itinerant teacher and preacher. That is generally agreed upon by everybody. That he had a small band of followers. That he was eventually put to death by the Romans via crucifixion, and that he was entombed. These things stand generally agreed upon by almost everybody, regardless of how you interpret those facts or what you think of those facts or how you think of anything else. The sticking point becomes what happened next. The place of dispute is what happened in the aftermath of his death and entombment. You see, it's also undeniable, it's also widely agreed upon that his followers launched A new religion that changed the course of human events, that changed the course of human history. What we know is Christianity. So why? How? What were the events that led to that? I want to real quickly go through some of the most common theories that are used to explain this Historians, scientists aren't the only ones that work with theories. Historians do as well. They have proposals. A theory is a way to explain the facts such as they've been observed so far. And predict how other facts ought to come about. And when new facts are discovered, they either fit the theory or they don't. And if they don't fit the theory, then we just twist all the facts to make them fit our theory, because we can never admit we're wrong That's how that works. I hate to admit it, that's exactly how science works. Not supposed to work that way, but that's how it works. Okay? Eventually, this is why we have peer review, because other people come in and go, no, no, no, no, no, you are twisting the facts And this is why we have this process of discussion out there in the world, to arrive at a proper interpretation of the new facts. So, what are some of the theories? What happened after the death and entombment of Jesus? Well, it's generally agreed, not universally, but generally agreed. that the tomb was empty for some reason. She can agreed that the tomb was empty. And in fact This is one of the earliest theories that was out there about what happened. We actually find in the scriptures itself, and it's been around ever since, that the disciples stole the body. This is the stolen body theory. You see, the followers of Jesus, they wanted the movement to continue, and it couldn't continue with a dead leader, so they had to give the appearance that he'd come back to life, so they stole his body And from that, they launched the Christian movement. Does that theory hold up? Does it withstand scrutiny? Well, now let's start with, it does at least admit that the body, that the tomb was empty. Right? I mean the Pharisees If we had kept kept reading in that account of Matthew from our New Testament reading, we would have seen where the Pharisees go to the Roman soldiers and say, this is the story we want you to tell everybody, that the body was stolen, that the disciples stole the body. So it does admit there's an empty tomb, and that's going to be important for us. We're going to have to remember that the earliest opponents of Christianity admitted that the tomb was empty. Okay? File that way back up back of our head. But does it hold up to further scrutiny? Well of course it does not Why not? Well the accounts, the historical accounts say that the tomb of Jesus, they thought this was a possibility. They knew that there was some expectation that this guy had claimed that he would rise from the dead So they thought maybe this could be happened, so they posted a guard, 30 Roman soldiers. So for this theory to be true, we have to imagine that eleven, remember Judas has since killed himself, that eleven Unarmed, untrained fishermen somehow overpowered 30 armed Roman soldiers in order to take the body. And remember, in that day and age, if you were derelicting your responsibilities as a soldier, you were put to death. This wasn't a court-martial and a dishonorable discharge. No, it was death. These were not unmotivated or undermotivated soldiers. They were not likely to be asleep at the wheel. Are we to believe that 11 fishermen overpowered 30 soldiers? That's a little hard to imagine. And then we were reminded from the account that it wasn't the men who went to the tomb. John tells us the men were all holed up in hiding, afraid for their lives. That's the record we have. Peter is so brave that when a little girl says, Aren't you one of them? he swears at her and runs off. That's how brave Peter was. The men are holed up. It's the women who are going to the tomb. So now we're supposed to believe that the women unarmed, untrained, overpowered 30 soldiers. It's easier to believe that he rose from the dead. And by the way If this is true, if this is what happened, then we have to believe this also. We have to believe that those disciples Conspired to steal the body, they conspired to build this lie, they conspired to live on this lie, and they held to it for the rest of their lives to their death Remember, ten of the eleven surviving apostles died for their faith. Only John lived out a natural life All the others were martyred for their faith. They went to their grave holding to the lie. Now you want to know how hard this is to believe? Chuck Colson. Many of you are too young to remember Chuck Colson, but in the aftermath, Chuck Colson was one of the attorneys that was involved in Watergate. He was a special counsel to President Nixon. He was one of the first seven men to be aware of the cover-up of the Watergate scandal, the Watergate break-in. He became a Christian later in life, and he looked back at the events of Watergate, and he said, Watergate proves to me That the resurrection is real. He said, we were seven of the most powerful men on the planet We had power on our own and we had the ear of the president. We could pretty much get done whatever we wanted to get done. And we were able to hold on to the Watergate scandal for all of three weeks. Until John Dean finally broke. Why? Because he was threatened with a cruel death, because he was threatened with no possibility of, you know, white-collar prison. And Chuck Olson said, there's no way that these disciples held on for 30, 40, 50 years to their death about a lie. We couldn't do it for three weeks. The stolen body theory almost nobody holds to anymore. But it does serve some important reminders. It does remind us that the earliest opponents of Jesus admitted that the tomb was empty. And it does remind us also that the disciples, something changed them. They went to their death over what happened in the aftermath of Christ's death. There is the swoon theory. This idea that, you know, back then they were a bunch of bumpkins, they didn't really understand life and death, they didn't have good medical training, and Jesus didn't really die on the cross. He actually just fainted. And they mistook that for death. Okay, certainly there's been a time in human history, apparently the family story is that one of my own ancestors was buried alive. So apparently this kind of stuff did happen in the past. But think about what that requires. That these Roman soldiers, they went up to the cross. Remember what they went to do? They went to break the legs of the people on the three men on the crosses. Remember why? Because they were living and they wanted them to die more quickly. You see, suffocation was how you died from crucifixion, the weight of your body, you couldn't expand your lung anymore, you couldn't get air. As long as you had legs, you could lift yourself up and keep breathing By breaking the legs, they could no longer support themselves, and the men would suffocate more quickly. They got to Jesus and they didn't break his legs because he was already dead. And you're saying, well, but it doesn't disprove the swing theory, but they stabbed him to confirm that he was dead. And blood and serum already separating poured out of the wound. So for the swoon theory to be true We have to imagine that after enduring the thirty-nine lashes of the Cat of Nine Tales, after enduring the humiliating trucking of the cross up the hillside to Golgotha, after enduring hanging on the cross for hours, after enduring the stabbing in the side, that being put in the tomb, a little cool air revived him. And without any nourishment, without any food, he was able to regain all of his strength and push away a two-ton stone. And then again, there's those pesky guards. Jesus by himself overpowered 30 Roman soldiers. I don't know, this is kind of like the Hulk Hogan theory. You know, remember Hulk Hogan? He'd be losing every match, he'd be at the bottom of the pile, he'd be about to lose, and then all of a sudden a spark would happen, and boom, and all of a sudden Hulk Hogan would come back to life and he'd win the wrestling match Out of nowhere, strength just magically came to him. That would require a miracle. So why not just believe in the resurrection? There's the mistaken ID theory. They got it wrong. It wasn't really Jesus on the cross. It was somebody who looked a lot like Jesus. That requires everybody to be idiots. The Pharisees have been arguing with this guy for three years. They wouldn't know who was on the cross. The disciples have been following this guy for three years. They wouldn't recognize who was on the cross. Mary stood there. She wouldn't recognize her own son. Well, maybe. Maybe he had an identical twin. That's how the mistake in ID happened. Except there is no record in his family of there being a twin brother And I will tell you a story about identical twins. I was teaching some years ago in a small rural public school, and we had two brothers, identical twins. I won't give you their last name because of the nature of social media nowadays, but Chris and Eric were identical twins, and they were so identical that it turns out they were taking each other's exams There'd be a chemistry and algebra exam on the same day. One of them would study for chemistry. One of them would study for algebra. They'd swap clothes and take the exam twice. Pretty clever. You wanna know how long that lasted? Till the middle of October. Oh, it took about six weeks for the teachers to catch on. After six weeks, we could tell these two identical twins apart and we could bust their scheme and know that they were taking each other's place. Three years. There's no way they mistook the identity of the one on the cross. It is an impossible theory. Some have said, you know what, none of it even happened at all. It was just the copying of a pagan myth. There are these pagan myths, Adonis, for example. You know, he was a god who died, who came back to life, and the Christians liked that story, and they adopted it for their own mythology. Well, a couple of problems there. One, the oldest record we have of the Adonis mythology dates to 150 A. D. 150 years after Jesus. So who copied whom? But moreover, we're back to This would require not only the eleven surviving disciples, but all the other followers to hold to a lie for the rest of their lives. And we're back to the whole Watergate problem. There's simply no way that's going to happen. There is the wrong tomb theory. You know, the ladies, it was dark, they were crying, they're walking in the dark, and they just went to the wrong tomb. I suppose that's possible, but that means there was a right tomb. And that means when the day came, when daylight came and Peter and John ran to the tomb, they ran also to the same wrong tomb. In the daylight. And that also means that when all the followers of Christ started talking about the resurrection, that the Pharisees, the Roman soldiers, they could have just easily pulled out the decaying body of Jesus from the right tomb. And said it ain't true. Look, here he is dead. The wrong tomb theory just cannot hold up. There is the contradiction theory that just simply says, listen, the four accounts of the resurrection, they all contradict each other. Nothing they say is believable. We can't believe their accounts of the resurrection either There are some differences between the accounts. The account that Becky read this morning, as part of our New Testament reading, spoke of an angel. In John's account, he notes that there are two angels. Oh, they disagree with each other. They contradict each other. Of course, Matthew wasn't there that morning, though he was an eyewitness of the ministry of Jesus, he wasn't there that morning So he's getting his information probably from the women who went. And as they're telling the story, the angel who sat over there and said nothing just isn't part of what they're retelling. They didn't say there was one and only one angel. They said there was an angel who did these things and said these things, and they report that to Matthew. John, you'll recall, actually did go to the tomb And he hangs outside as you know as Peter runs in. John would have witnessed them. He writes years later at Matthew, and he just fills in a detail that Matthew didn't fill in. By the way, there were actually two angels. I was there, I saw the second one. It's not a contradiction. It's an addition. It's more information that another eyewitness added. The accounts do not contradict each other. There actually is the alien theory, and I'm not even going to talk about that one. We're just moving on. I suppose if the aliens built the pyramids they could resurrect Jesus, I don't know The most common theory for those who refuse to accept the resurrection is something called the hallucination theory. It's the most prevalent, most lasting of those theories. You see, it's well attested that people can and do see things that they want to see. People miss their dead loved ones and they see the dead loved one in a crowd People long for this, that, or the other thing, and they imagine it being there even when it isn't There's a couple of problems with this. A couple of problems with the hallucination theory. First of all, this would require a mass hallucination. And the scientific evidence is pretty overwhelming that mass hallucinations simply do not occur. While individual hallucinations do, mass hallucinations do not. Secondly, so by the way, the reason I bring that up, remember, we're we're we're dealing with people who are saying that that we hold an unr an irrational, unscientific view of things. And I want to point out the scientific evidence actually is against the hallucination theory. There's also back to that issue of if the disciples hallucinated, then why didn't the earliest opponents of Christianity just go to the tomb and pull the body out? It would have been easy for them to put an end to it. Remember what Peter is preaching. Some 40 days after the crucifixion. What is Peter preaching in the streets of Jerusalem? He's not preaching his own personal story. You know, I was this fisherman and this guy Jesus, this carpenter. He pulled me out of oblivion and now look at me, I'm up here in front of all of you, and you know he can change your life too. That's not what Peter's preaching. He's preaching the historical facts of what happened. This Jesus whom you crucified, God has raised from the dead. And he adds the interpretation. And has made him both Lord and Christ. He's preaching history, facts, and their interpretation. And it would have been an easy thing to disprove Peter if it was a mass hallucination. They could have just dragged the body out and gone, he's dead. Don't know what he thinks he's seeing. But it wasn't Jesus. So here we are, at a point in history, going, what do we make of the historical facts, the historical reality? How do we understand them? And we really are back around to the resurrection. To the fact that Jesus was killed, that he died, that he was put in the tomb, and that he came back to life. Now, first of all, I want to briefly establish the historicity of this. How is history established? Historians rely primarily on what is called a primary source. What are primary sources? Primary sources are usually one of two things. They are either an eyewitness account, so for example, a journal, a diary, I saw this, that, and the other thing. Here with these from the Civil War, there are any number of soldiers' diaries that have survived and have been turned into books where we can read how that soldier that night recorded what happened that day on the battlefield. Primary sources. Of course, Matthew and John were both eyewitnesses of the life and ministry of Jesus. We have two such primary sources. Regarding him. It is historically reliable. It is as rooted in reality as any other historical fact Other primary sources are those things which record eyewitness accounts. So for example, journalists. While the journalist may not have seen it, the journalist immediately records what others saw. And that's regarded as a primary account. That's Mark and Luke. Mark actually may have seen some of the things of the later portion of Jesus' ministry. But Luke says, I went and investigated. I talked to those who saw. I talked to everyone who was with him. I know from their own mouths what happened. We have eyewitness accounts. And now we are finally back around to 1 Corinthians 15, 1 to 11. You see, Paul in 55 A. D. , this is not all that long after the death of Jesus, Paul is writing to the Corinthian church. Notice what he has to say to them. Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you. What was that gospel? Was it a story of how Jesus changed my life? Was it a story of how uh uh uh Jesus picked me up and and uh helped me stand on my own two feet? I would remind you of the gospel I preach to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved if you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. In other words, I'm passing along facts. I receive facts and I've delivered facts that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures. that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas. That's another name for Peter. Then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, that would be Jesus' next oldest brother, then to all the apostles Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and by and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me Whether then it was I or they, so we preached, and so you believed. This is what Paul is saying to the Corinthians We hold to a set of historical facts. Don't give way because of what is going on. Don't collapse under the pressure from those around you. Don't let your church fold because of all the sin within you. These historical facts are still what they are. They're still an objective reality outside of yourself. And notice what Paul writes to them. There are 500 witnesses. If I'm lying, you can go check me out. If I'm making this up, you can go test it. Now some of you would say, but but we don't have that ability. We can't talk to any of those witnesses directly. But that's not the point. The question is, is our faith reasonable? Is it grounded in an intellectual foundation? That actually stands up to scrutiny. And the point is that when Paul wrote to the Corinthians, what he said could have been rejected, it could have been falsified, it could have been shown to be untrue, and it never was. When he wrote it, he absolutely believed that it was verifiable That it could be attested. And so we're back around to this simple reality of all the ways to think about the aftermath of the death of Jesus. The one that makes the most sense, the one that actually fits the facts best, is that he rose from the dead. That he was resurrected Why is that so hard to believe? Well, maybe it's because we can't wrap our heads around it. Maybe it's because we can't understand it. You know, Pastor, in order for people to really believe things, they've got to understand them I want to read to you a quote. This is taken out of a book that's been published. Let me read the quote. Even though there are many things that are highly confusing about quantum mechanics. So here we go. We're in some physics now. Don't worry, you don't have to understand any of the quantum mechanics, as he will argue in a moment. Even though there are many things that are highly confusing about quantum mechanics, the nice thing is that it's relatively easy to apply quantum mechanics to a physical system to figure out how it behaves. There is fortunately no need to understand all of the subtleties about quantum mechanics. in order to use it. Of course, in most cases, this isn't the best strategy to take. It's usually not a good idea to blindly forge ahead with something if you don't understand what you're actually working with. Now listen to what he says. But this lack of understanding can be forgiven in the case of quantum mechanics, because no one really understands it If the world waited to use quantum mechanics until it understood it, we'd be stuck in the 1920s. The bottom line is that quantum mechanics can be used to make predictions that are consistent with experiment. It hasn't failed us yet, so it would be foolish not to use it. Now, is this some high school physics teacher who doesn't really understand it himself and is just trying to make himself look good in front of his students? No, that was written, that quotation is from a book by David Morin. Who is David Morin? He is presently the senior lecturer in applied physics at Harvard University. This is the guy who is supposed to be getting future physicists ready for the world. And he is telling the future physicists of the world nobody understands quantum mechanics. But we accept it because it fits the facts. Why can we accept a scientific theory that fits the facts? But reject the resurrection. You see, when people challenge your faith and they tell you it is unreasonable, it is outrageous It's rooted in the simple reality that they don't want to accept the consequences You see, there are consequences if the resurrection is real. For starters, we better worship. We better be in awe. We better be amazed at the God who can overcome death We're in the midst of the NCAA basketball tournaments, and I don't think this is quite such a thing anymore, but it used to be fairly common in a basketball game if a player made just the most amazing play. A lot of his teammates on the sidelines would be doing this. Why? We acknowledge that you are better than us. We acknowledge that you are the better player. That was an amazing play. We bow before your greatness on the court. They were having some fun with it, but it makes the point that the appropriate response to a phenomenal act is to admit the phenomenal act. If Christ was raised from the dead, and that is the best theory, the best fit to the data. Then the appropriate response is to be in awe of the God who would do that. It's why we worship. It's why Christians have gathered on the first day for worship since the resurrection. On the day of the resurrection, the first day of the week To come together and to be in awe, to bow before, to humble ourselves in front of the God who could do that. We must respond in worship. And we must respond in fear. For the God who can overcome death certainly has control of death. Therefore, we need to fear him You know, it's amazing how many people will say, if God would just fill in blank, if he would just reveal himself, if he would just make himself known, if he would just do this or that or the other thing, then I could believe him. Then I'd be on board. He raised Jesus from the dead. If you're asking for him to do something more than that, you need to be very afraid of God. He has done the most amazing thing ever in history. And more One of the consequences of the reality, the historicity of the resurrection, is that we must fear God. But, but one of the consequences is that it also interprets other events. You see, the resurrection interprets the crucifixion. It makes sense of the crucifixion for us. It now explains the crucifixion. You see, his resurrection proves that he didn't deserve to die. The courts of this earth said he deserves to die. The court of heaven said no, he didn't And I am overruling you, and I'm overturning your verdict. And I am giving him life everlasting. And so with the resurrection, we now have new information about the crucifixion. He didn't die for his own sins. He didn't die for something he did wrong. He didn't die for that which he deserved. He died for some other reason. How does Paul interpret it in Romans 4:25? Christ Jesus was delivered over for our transgressions and raised for our justification. The crucifixion now explains- I mean sorry, the the resurrection now explains the crucifixion. You see, we when we study this rationally, when we look at this in a concrete way, when we consider the historicity of this, we are confronted With three things, three possibilities. One, we can just kind of ignore it and deny it. That's what a lot of our friends and neighbors are doing, right? They don't really want to stop and analyze and think about the resurrection, even on Easter Just sweep it under the rug, be deniers of these historical events. We can come up with some absurd way to explain away the events. But we have already seen that those that have been put forth through over the last 2,000 years just don't stand up. Or we can come to the very reasonable, very warranted, very justifiable conclusion. If the eyewitnesses got it right, he actually did rise from the dead. And therefore we will worship. And therefore we will be grateful. And therefore, we will believe that his death was not for his own sake, but for ours. And therefore, we will acknowledge what Peter said about him at Pentecost. This Jesus, whom you crucified, God is raised from the dead. And made both Lord and Christ. He is our Master, and He is our Savior. That's the confession we hold to. That's what we believe. That's the objective set of historical events that we cling to. And that's what we have to make known to everybody Father, forgive us for Making the resurrection a warm, fuzzy feeling, a myth that provides hope. Forgive us for waffling about the objective nature of your truth. Establish in us a confidence that these things really happen, and because they really happen, there are real consequences And that one of those real consequences is that our sin is paid for, that it has been taken away by Jesus, and that eternal life is ours. And with that reality, with that truth before us, we can face anything. We can endure anything because we have the certainty. of life with you forevermore. We rejoice in this. We sing your praises because of this. We celebrate this today. We do so in Jesus' name. Amen.