You heard me earlier stumble over the reading of the Psalm. My eye condition is particularly bad this morning. Be thou my vision has taken on new meaning to me. So I'd ask you to bear with me. I may be struggling to read some of my sermon notes this morning. Open your Bibles, please, to Hebrews chapter 10, Hebrews 10, verses 32 to 39. We are going to close out our Almost amounts to a mini-series in Hebrews chapter 10 this week. We're going to look at how he closes this chapter with hope and encouragement. Hebrews 10, 32 to 39. Last week's sermon text, if I was to use that well-worn metaphor of the carrot and the stick, last week's text was the stick. It was the warning of wrath, of the fury of fire, of eternal torment. It was an encouragement to fear the Lord and in fearing him stay on the straight and narrow of faith, of holding to our confession, so that by holding to that confession we would need not fear him, but rejoice in him. This week is the carrot It is a sweet and tasty morsel. It is one of encouragement and of hope. And it is the counterpart to last week's text. So I ask you to join me now in looking at Hebrews 10, beginning in verse 32 And I'll even point out, notice the contrast here right at the beginning. But in other words, this stands in a contrast to what came before. But Recall the former days when, after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings, sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated. For you had compassion on those imprisoned, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Therefore, do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. 4 Yet a little while and the coming one will come and will not delay. But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls. Let's pray Lord, we thank you already for the encouraging tone of this text, and as we seek to consider it more carefully and understand it more fully, we ask that you would continue to bless us in encouragement. And hold us to yourself through this your word. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So back in the fall of 2016. I ran a marathon, the full 26. 2 miles. By the way, marathoners always add the 0. 2, because when you've run 26, two more tenths matter. They really do. I ran the full marathon. I ran it in a large city. It was a big race. There were tens of thousands of other runners. And so along the course as we wound our way through that big, it was Indianapolis, as we wound our way through Indianapolis. There were many spectators along the path, along the way. And they would be out there, and as a general rule, for most of the run, they were encouraged they were they were calling out just kind of general uh uh platitudes and encouragement. You know, great job, good job, all you're doing great. It's wonder you know, good j keep that going, great job. And as we would run along, they would offer some encouragement. A few of them would kick back in their chairs and have a little fun at our expense, you know, calling out things like, I am a little more comfortable than you are, you know, look how my legs are lifted up and relaxed But it was fun. It was all in good fun. We had a good time with running along the race. I got to the last two miles of my race, and everything changed. The tone of voice of the spectators was no longer this generic and general encouragement. No longer were they speaking to the crowd as a whole of runners They were addressing me specifically. In fact, some of them were calling out the bid number I had on the front. Come on, 1066, don't quit now. You were so close. It's almost here. You've got to push through. Finish. Don't quit Why the change? Why did they suddenly address me individually? Well at mile marker 24, I tore the quadricept in my right leg, that muscle, that big one on the right leg. the feet on the front there. And I was limping home and I looked pathetic. It was a lane it could not right really truly be called running any longer. I was shuffling along. Becky says that to watch me cross the finish line was a bit painful. It was a pathetic spectacle. And the people were trying to make sure that I made it to the finish line. They were doing what they could to help me along and encourage me. I was numb at that point and didn't even realize I was looking that pathetic, but apparently I was. And they all saw it. That word of encouragement, that you're so close, don't quit. You've come so far, don't stop now. That really is kind of the tone of this passage of the book of Hebrews. Today's sermon has some of that feel to it. Our author is imploring his readers to stay the course and to finish the race. And in fact, he uses some language that in the original Greek is a bit more athletic than it comes through in the translation. But he is later going to appeal to a very athletic metaphor. In Hebrews 12, verse 1, what does he say? Run the race that is set before us. He's going to be encouraging us to finish strong. Much like those spectators that day, he is pushing us to the finish line You know, those spectators urged me on over those last two miles on really two principal bases. There were two main things they appealed to. Some of them looked back. You've already come so far. Don't quit. Some of them looked forward. There was, at many of these big races, there will be a large tent at the end where you can pay an extra few bucks when you register for the race. and they have refreshments, they'll have food, they'll have cold beers, those kinds of things in that tent. And many of them were encouraging me, just think how good that beer is going to taste when you get there. Don't quit now. I'm not a beer drinker, but they thought it was going to be something I would like. Don't quit now. You've just got to finish. You're so close to the end. Some looked back. Some looked forward. And both were doing so to spur me on to the finished line. Our author does exactly the same He looks backward for a time in this passage, and then he looks forward for a time in this passage in order to encourage us, his readers. To hold fast our confession, to finish the race that is set before us. He looks back. Look at verses, I guess it's verse 32. Maybe it's I think it's 32 and 33, actually. Recall the former days when after you were enlightened you endured a hard struggle with suffering, sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated. Recall the former days. It's pretty simple, pretty straightforward. Remember. Bring to mind. Look back and consider. One of the ways to keep a marriage going that's struggling is to look back. Look what we've come through together. We've come so far. We have been through so much together. Now, if that's the only thing that holds a marriage together, it's not going to be a great marriage. But it is something that can help get us through the tough times. We have endured so much together. Why would we quit now? And that's kind of what he is saying to this group. Look back, look what has happened. And then he says, After you were enlightened. This is an interesting, by the way, this is really an interesting thing in this text. After you were enlightened You know, we know that God raises the spiritually dead to life, that he saves us. When we were dead in sin, much like Lazarus in the tomb, God called us to life God put a spark of spiritual life in us that we would hear his word and respond to it in faith. But it's interesting that he would put this reference to being enlightened in the midst of this passage. Because remember, he's writing to those who are at risk of falling away. Who are at risk of abandoning the Christian faith. And that raises an interesting dilemma, doesn't it? If they fall, if they fell away, if they turned back from the Christian faith Were they ever truly enlightened? Now he speaks to them as though they are enlightened. Remember that he doesn't say, remember the day when those of you who persevered the end really were enlightened, and the rest of you will turn out not to be enlightened. It's not what he says. He says to the entire group of them, even though some would eventually fall away, he says to all of them, remember the days after you were enlightened. Now, I don't want to propose for a moment that he's undoing the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints or of eternal security. He is not. Rather, what he is doing is treating the flock like a flock, treating the congregation like a congregation. He is inspired to write the message of God, but he's not endowed with God's omniscience. He doesn't know who is truly saved and who is not, but he treats them as though they are, because on the outward basis they have made a confession of faith. They have said that they believed. It is with your mouth that you confess, and that's what he's heard. And with your heart that you believe. And he doesn't know that. He doesn't know what's in their hearts And so he treats them as though saved. I will say I think this has some implications for how we treat our children. I grew up outside of the Presbyterian Church, a godly church, a Bible preaching and teaching church, thank the Lord, but one that did get a few things wrong, and one of those was That it treated its children as though they were unbelievers. Now I always grew up a believer My parents taught me the Word of God at home. They taught me that I was a sinner. They taught me that I needed Jesus' sacrifice. I can't ever remember a time when I didn't know that or believe that. I have no memory of a conversion experience because I grew up believing these things. I was taught it at home. I was taught it at church. It's what I believed. But the church wouldn't treat me as one of its own until I walked forward at an altar call. So I did that public act. Then I was eligible for baptism. Then I was included as part of the church. The church had unwittingly added to salvation faith and a public walking forward. I don't think they did that on purpose. I don't think that was their intent, to pollute the gospel in that way. We assume that we are going to raise our children in the fear and the admonition of the Lord. We assume that we're going to teach them these things from day one. And so we baptize them as infants. We raise them as members of the church. They reach a point when they then join the church and become communing members and voting members and all of that. But we assume, because they're here in the church, because they're making the outward profession of these things We assume that they are part of us, and that's what our author is doing. He doesn't know who's truly enlightened and who is not. But he assumed, because of their presence in the church, that they are a part of the church. Going on. He says, you endured a hard struggle with suffering, sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, sometimes being partners with those so treated. We don't know the historical or the geographical setting for the book of Hebrews, so it's kind of hard to put a lot of detail to this But we do have a general idea of the sorts of things that occurred in that world when you became a Christian, when you professed faith in Christ. Christianity was for quite a while an illegal religion in the Roman Empire. It was ostracized within the Holy Land because it wasn't the traditional Judaism. And it was banned in the rest of the Roman Empire, so that there were consequences in the real world for professing faith in Jesus of Nazareth. You might lose a job. You might be publicly ridiculed and mocked. You might actually be imprisoned. You would suffer in very real, concrete ways. And apparently at least some of those sufferings were public, the author says, so that people were known publicly as Christians. Perhaps it was the ancient equivalent of water cooler gossip. You hear about Julius? He's a Christian. Does he not know that our boss is a Jupiter worshiper? He's never going to get that promotion. He's in big trouble Did you hear about Claudia? She's converted to Christianity. Does she not know how stupid that is? They deny evolution. What's with that? At least some of them do. What's with that? You see the issue. They were publicly mocked and publicly ridiculed. But in so doing, they identified with Jesus, who was publicly mocked and publicly ridiculed. They had in themselves suffered what he suffered And so we're in a very practical, hands-on way, united to him and joined with him. Verse 34 takes it a step further. It says, for you had compassion on those in prison. Prisons back then in the Roman Empire provided inmates with two things: chains and bars. That's it. Everything else, you were on your own for a pillow, for a blanket, for food, for clothes. Your friends and your family had to provide those things. And if your friends and family did not, then you starved to death in prison, naked on a cold floor. That's the way that the prisons worked. So those who were imprisoned for their faith were reliant upon others bringing them the things they needed. We see this in Paul's writings. We see how Paul makes reference to those who came to the prison and gave him the things he needed. We see here that some of these Jewish Christians had done the same. But the moment you do that, you connect yourself to that person, you unite yourself to that person, you become suspect in the way that they are suspect. You become associated with whatever crime they're associated with. And he says to them, you were willing to do that. By the way, that really is the sense, that's the biblical sense of fellowship. This idea, you know, we we have social times, and those are valuable and they're important. But fellowship is not a mere time of social interaction. It is being in it together. I made the reference a couple of weeks ago. Think of the movie The Fellowship of the Rings, the book, The Fellowship of the Ring. To be in it together. Our fate our fates are tied together. And that was what they were doing when they went to these prisons. And uh uh uh And helped out those Christians. And basically our author is saying, hey, listen, you've done all that. You've gone through all of that. It is the equivalent of the spectator saying, you've come so far Don't quit now. There's something interesting going on in the uh uh uh uh New Testament Christianity, this idea that that you would uh uh be excited about or hopeful in the idea of persecution or of trial. We don't know for certain which New Testament book was written first. If I had to guess, I would say the book of James is probably the first one written. Maybe Galatians, maybe Thessalonians, but probably the book of James. And it's interesting to listen to how James opens his letter. James 1, verses 1 and 2. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the 12 tribes in the dispersion, greetings. Pretty typical. You opened a letter with identifying who you were, writing the letter to them. It's James writing to you. You identify the audience. Now he says to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. In other words, I'm writing to Jewish Christians outside of the Holy Land. Those who have been scattered throughout the Roman Empire. I'm writing to them. Which means in all likelihood he was writing to the same people who would letter later get the letter of Hebrews. Because we're pretty sure that Hebrews was written from Jerusalem out to some other place, probably Rome, but we really don't know. for sure. So these Christians had received the book of James earlier. Now, having introduced themselves, what's the very first thing James says to them? Verse 2, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Not at all joy and trial? Why? Why would he say that? Verse 3. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. From the very first days of the Christian faith, persecution was counted as joy because it was recognized as God's spiritual fitness training. Just as I trained physically for the race that I was going to run, God trains us spiritually for the race we have to run. You know, my brother also ran a marathon about a year before I ran mine. And he ran it, a big hit the Detroit marathon, and he tells an interesting story. These big races, if you'd ever seen these, he got tens of thousands, you know, I think his race had like 25,000 runners. Well it takes a long time to get all that organized. So you can spend up to an hour in the starting chute just kind of standing there waiting for the gun to go off. My brother said he's standing there and one of the young men near him is talking loud enough to be overheard and he's talking to the people around him And he's sharing the fact that he didn't train for this marathon. He was young, he was reasonably thick, and he reasoned that he could just go out and run 26. 2 miles. The gun went off and he took off. And about an hour later, my brother passed him, collapsed on the side of the road. He didn't make it. No way he was getting through to the end without training. And we have here James saying to these early Christians, and now our author in Hebrews reinforcing to them, the trial you go through. The difficulties in your life, whether it be you falling back into sin or it's somebody persecuting you, whatever it is, it's there for your benefit. It's going to make you stronger. All the blood, sweat, and tears are going to pay off when race day comes and you endure to the end. I was training for mine. I was running along a busy four-lane road in Metro Detroit, and I was exhausted. My legs were just rubber. And I tripped over, I don't know, a shadow. And I went down. And I went down hard. Skinned both my knees, skinned both my elbows. I was a bloody mess. The worst part, I couldn't get back up. I was so exhausted I couldn't get myself up off the pavement, and drivers were stopping to help me up. It was embarrassing. But what was the payoff? I finished the race on race day. I got through to the end. And that's what our author is reminding them. You've gone through all of this. You have endured the trials that make you stronger, that will carry you through to the end. I have little doubt that one of the reasons for the shrinkage of the North American Church has been its lack of spiritual fitness training. We don't suffer for our faith. We have not had to suffer for our faith for almost 200 years now. We, even when we have good churches who do a good job of teaching us the Bible, who do a good job of encouraging us in prayer, who give the present the present the Lord's sacraments in the right way, even in the midst of all of that We don't go through the difficult spiritual training of suffering. It has left us ill-equipped. For difficult times. And we have compounded that by making the mistake of thinking that Christianity is all about the here and now. It's about fixing this life, it's about making this world better. To be sure, if everybody lived according to God's word, this world would be better. No doubt about that. But that's not the goal and purpose of Christianity. Its goal and purpose is to remind us that there is a next life, a new age, an eternal world, one that is coming where all of this will be replaced and renewed and restored to what it should have been. And when we take our eyes off that, and we think only of the here and now And then we do so in the la in a in a in a world where there is no suffering for our faith, where we are not persecuted, where we do not lose our jobs. And by the way, that is coming. Let's make no mistake It can't be that far off. It's probably already happened that somebody is going to make the mistake of talking about something in the workplace and getting fired for their Christian views. Are we prepared for that? When that trial comes, will the rest of us step up and help that person through it? Will we come alongside them? Will they endure in the faith? Sufferings make us stronger. Going on in verses 34 and 35, you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one Therefore, do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised. Notice how he begins to look forward now. Having done a quick survey of what was in the past, you've come so far, don't quit, he now looks forward. That tent with all the snacks, those chairs to sit down in, the race is almost over, and the reward of having finished is so close. Look at his references there. Why would they receive the plundering of their property? Joyfully? Because they had a better possession and an abiding one. Looking forward to what they were going to trade that property for. Do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward, looking forward to what is coming. For you have need of endurance so that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. Promises are always forward-looking. They're always about what will come, not what has been. And so he says to them, gladly give it up. You gave it up once in the past. You gave up your property. We don't know the details. We don't know why property was being confiscated. But some of them apparently have had their property taken from them. And they gave it up joyfully. Why? Because they understood when Jesus taught, what does it gain a man What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world but loses his soul? They understood the teaching of Jesus. They understood the teaching of James. They understood That what was out there in the future, that's what was worth holding on to. Not what was in the here and now, not what they had among themselves today. You know, when we get caught up in the here and now, we see Christianity as a failure. A Christian couple gets divorced and we say, oh well, Christianity doesn't work. A Christian falls into some horrible sin. And we say, look at the failure of Christianity. It didn't help that person at all. A Christian falls back into an addiction, and we say, oh, the Holy Spirit has fallen off the wagon Because we have made the mistake of thinking that Christianity was presented and taught to fix now. He says, no, look forward. Look what is to come Look what you are waiting for. You know, the confirmation, the the the the brokenness of our lives is confirmation. Of the truth and the need for Christianity, not of its failure. How did Paul say it in Romans 7 when he ang when he anguishes, when he agonizes over his own sin? What a wretched man am I! Who can save me from this body of sin? Praise be to Christ Jesus. He doesn't look at his failures and say, Christianity has failed me. He looks at his failures and says, This is why I need it. This is why I've got to have Jesus. One of my all-time favorite Christian songs, In the Light by DC Talk, put it this way. Tell me what's going on inside of me. I despise my own behavior. This only serves to confirm my suspicions that I'm still a man in need of a savior. When you fall down, when your knees buckle in the face of suffering, when sin trips you up It's not evidence of the failure of your faith. It's the proof that you still need that faith. And he says, look forward to what is promised. What you wish you had now. The reward you wish you had now, the promises you wish were fulfilled now, they're in the next life, they're in the age to come. Keep your eye on that. Keep looking forward. Hebrews has a decidedly forward-looking focus throughout the book. And he does so here, and he's going to do so even more in the next two chapters. He's going to turn our attention to what is to come. He says they gladly gave up their property, had it confiscated, because they had a better possession, an abiding one. They believed Jesus when he said, Do not store up your treasure where moth and rust uh uh decay. But rather store up your treasure where moth and rust have no effect, where it cannot be lost. They gladly believed Jesus when he said, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or land for my sake. and for the gospel. Who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions? And in the age to come, eternal life. Jesus said, wouldn't you make that trade in a heartbeat? Wouldn't you give up the new car now? It's only going to last you maybe 10, 12, 15 years if you take good care of it for eternal life It's never going to let you down. You've got to keep looking forward. The end is so close. Your goal is just ahead of you Press on. Persevere. Stay the course. At this point, I want to make a quick comment to us who are in the Reformed tradition. There is a Something here that we need to think about rightly. You know, the teachings of John Kelvin have sadly been reduced to five points. The so-called five points of Calvinism. John Calvin taught a lot more than five points. But these were the five issues that were hotly debated shortly after his death. And this debate played out largely in Holland, modern-day Holland, and so the flower of Holland, the tulip, has become a mnemonic device to remember those five points. And the P in TULAP, the P traditionally stood for the perseverance of the saints. Unfortunately, many in the Reformed tradition have reworded it. They have renamed it to be called the preservation of the saints. Why? Because sometimes we become more reformed than the Holy Spirit. Yeah, thank you. That was meant to be Laughable. We are sometimes more reformed than the Holy Spirit. We take this idea that if salvation is of our God, if God saves That it must always be him all the time, and if we ever hint that we have a part, we have blown it. But I go back to Lazarus When Lazarus was dead in his grave, when we were dead in sin, as Ephesians 2 says, Lazarus could do nothing to help himself. It was only and totally the work of God that made him alive. Jesus said, Lazarus, come forth. But the moment that happened, he was truly alive. Now it was by the power of God that he was alive, and it was by the power of God that his muscles were enabled, it was by the power of God that his will was made real, but by his will he chose to obey and walk out of that grave. By his legs, he walked out of there. When we take the perseverance of the saints and trade it in for the preservation of the saints, At first glance, it sounds righteous and noble. It's God that preserves the saints. Oh, the saints don't do anything to save themselves. They don't persevere in their own way. But you know what lies behind that? A belief that the Holy Spirit doesn't actually bring people to life A belief that he carries around corpses and animates them and makes them look alive. The power of the Holy Spirit is the power of spiritual resurrection to make us alive. And once alive, we are called to persevere. The author of Hebrews is telling us to endure. To hang on, to see it through to the end. Why? Because it's in the confession of those historic facts Jesus Christ was the Son of God. He lived a perfect life. He died in atoning death and he was raised in power. And it's that that saves me, not my faith. But in the dark times, I've got to hold on to that. In the difficult times, I've got to cling to that. Those objective historical facts trump my feelings in the moment. This is why in the last sermon, last text, last week, he warned. Don't turn away, don't apostasize, don't leave the faith For all that awaits you then is the fury of fire in hell. But it's why he turns around this week and encourages us Stay the course. Endure. Because there is a great reward out there. There is a great promise at the end. Our faith technically does not save us. For it is by grace you have been saved, but it is our faith. That is the conduit by which that grace comes to us. For it is by grace you have been saved through faith. And the call of the preacher in Hebrews is to cling to that faith To stick with it. You've come so far. You are so close to the reward. If you're a little younger here today saying, oh, the end of my life is so far away, just ask one of us older folks how far it really is. It ain't that far away. The time will pass in the blink of an eye. Stick to the confession of faith. Hold fast our confession. Our author then leans on two Old Testament prophets in verse 37. Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will not delay. He's quoting Haggai, our Old Testament reading from this morning. The context is a bittersweet story The people, some of them, have returned from captivity in Babylon and they're back in Jerusalem, and they've gone through some tough times. in Jerusalem. They have been persecuted by the surrounding peoples. They have wavered in their faith so that they did not rebuild their religion. They did not re-establish the temple. And make no mistake, in the Old Testament, the temple is consistently and always the picture of the Christ, the mediating presence, the mediated presence of God. Whereby we can come to him. And rather than re-establishing the temple, they have given up. They got its foundation laid and then quit. And Haggai chapter 1, he comes to them and he chastises them. He says, listen, you're building your own houses. You've got your own panel houses, but you haven't built the house of God. And he charges the rubble and Joshua to stir the people up, and they do so, and they finish the temple. It is rebuilt. It is the beginning of what's known as the Second Temple period. But some in the crowd, in their late 70s, 80s, and even in their 90s, were old enough to remember the original temple that had been destroyed. And that's what we read in our Old Testament reading. Haggai, the Lord, through Haggai, says to them, Who among you remembers the old house? How does this one compare? Doesn't look like much to you, does it? It doesn't have any of the grandeur of Solomon's temple, does it? It's not as big, the walls aren't as thick, there's no gold plating, there's not the bronze altar, everything about it seems just seems Less. Your earthly religion is disappointing you, isn't it? Your Christianity has let you down, hasn't it? There's no glory in a life that's lived out spectacularly. There's ordinary and mundane. There's trials at work just like my unsafe friends have. There's difficulties in my marriage just like my unbelieving family members have. Nothing about my life seems better for being a Christian. Where's the glory? Where's the goodness? And it's there that this is why our author of Hebrews quotes Haggai: yet a little while, verse 37 in Hebrews 10, and the coming one will come and will not delay. Haggai preached what Hebrews is preaching. Get your eyes off the here and now. Stop looking at the Christianity around you right now, today. And start looking at what it's proclaiming to you. Salvation in the name of Christ. Salvation by faith in Christ. A renewed world, a redeemed world, a world fixed, a world where marriages will be perfect if they exist at all. Okay, probably shouldn't have picked that example. Anyway, where everything, your relationships with your friends and family will all be perfect. Where your houses won't leak when it rains. And everything will be exactly as it should be. He says, that's what you've got to be looking for. And then he quotes Habakkuk in verse 38. Perhaps my favorite Old Testament prophet. But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. Habakkuk was having a hard time with the Christianity of his day. Jerusalem was a mess, spiritually speaking Everything about the religion of Judah had gone awry. The house of David, which was supposed to be the ordained godly leadership, was corrupt. The priesthood was on the take. Everything was false. Everything was empty. Everything was abominable in Judaism. And Habakkuk goes to God and says, What is going on? Where are you? Evil is everywhere on every side of me, and you're doing nothing about it, God. And God says to Habakkuk, The righteous will live by faith. Do not look around Habakkuk, look up Look to me. Cling to me. Hope in me. And then he goes on to encourage him. I'm going to fix it, Habaki. Don't worry. I'm going to make it right. I'm going to set it all straight. But you have to trust me. Do not abandon your faith because things are going badly. Cling to your faith all the more in such times And he says to Habakkuk, my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. And our author, having quoted that, closes so beautifully and so gently in verse 39 But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls Hold fast our confession. Look forward to the promises that are yet to be delivered. And know that the day is coming when Christ Jesus will come back and set it all right. And make real all the hope you long for now. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this message of encouragement. Thank you for the words of Hebrews, the words of Haggai, the words of Habakkuk, and how they all come together to remind us. that we cannot look around at the difficulties of our lives right now. We cannot look at the sufferings that we have, the the difficulties, the sins in which we keep falling. We've got to look forward. To the coming of Jesus Christ. As we study Hebrews in the coming weeks, as we look uh uh as he guides us into looking forward toward the things that you have promised Reassure us in this, give us confidence in these things. Let us be those who do not shrink back, but who persevere, who endure to the end, who run the race you have set before us. so that we might receive the crown of life and lay it at Jesus' feet. In His name we pray. Amen. We're going to close together by singing the hymn in our bulletin. It's on page 10. Stand together and sing Now Why This Fear.