Please turn in your Bibles to Psalm 33. Psalm 33 this morning is the Psalm we're going to consider as we continue in our summer series, Summer of Psalms. Please follow along as I read from the Word of God from Psalm 33. And before I do so, I will remind us as I do often That here at Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know what is praiseworthy and why you should praise, You must know the Word of God. And so I invite you now to hear God's word from Psalm 33. Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous! Praise befits the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre, make melody to him with the harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song, play skillfully on the strings with loud shouts. For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the earth And sorry, and by the breath of his mouth all their host. He gathers the waters of the sea as a heath, he puts the deep in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spoke, and it came to be. He commanded, and it stood firm. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the people. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom He has chosen as His heritage. The Lord looks down from heaven He sees all the children of man. From where he sits enthroned, he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth. He who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds. The king is not saved by his great army, a warrior is not delivered by his great strength, the war horse is a false hope of salvation, and by its great might it cannot rescue Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love, that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. Let's pray. Spirit, through this hymn, show us how to praise. Show us why we should praise. And show us how that praise needs to penetrate our inmost being so that we will hope in you and trust in your steadfast love. We offer this prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I told you last week, as we did our introduction to the book of Psalms, that there are different genres within the Psalms. That these songs, these poems put to music, come in a variety of kinds. And this week, last week we looked at a wisdom psalm. This week we look at a hymn proper. And the definition of a hymn, as I mentioned last week, is simply that it is something that praises. It's a song that praises something. Hence there is a Marine Corps hymn, which praises the Marine Corps. And I mentioned some of our misconceptions about hymns. Hymns are not a particular set of songs found in a particular book on the Pew Rack. That doesn't make something a hymn. And in fact, there are many things in there that are not technically hymns. Most hymnals are sorted with the hymns proper at the beginning. The two songs we have sung so far are pages one and two in the hymnal from which I took them. They're sorted with the hymns proper at the beginning, and as you move through the hymnal, you get away from hymns proper and into other spiritual songs. So that a song like Tis So Sweet to Trust in Jesus, a wonderful song, a wonderful declaration of the hope we have in him, a wonderful testimony and thanksgiving is not really a hymn proper So there are many things in a book called a hymnal that are not hymns, and there are many things that are hymns that are not in the book called the hymnal. It does not define what is a hymn. Nor is a hymn defined by which side of the chancel leads it. We have a tendency in the American Church to say anything led by this side of the chancel is a hymn. And if it's led by the instruments found over here, well then it's a a praise song. Now right there we gotta stop and say to ourselves, what's the definition of a hymn? It's a song of praise. If we're calling the stuff over here praise songs, we're just calling them hymns. They are hymns. And the particular instrumentation does not determine whether or not it's a hymn. Let me read for you an archaeologist's description of the lyre. The lyre was mentioned here in verses 2 and 3, I think it is. We saw there. Here's the definition of a lyre, description of a lyre. The lyre of classical antiquity was ordinarily played by being strummed with a plectrum. Plectrum is a fancy word for pick. So it's being strummed with a pick. rather than being plucked with the fingers as a harp. So don't think of it like a harp. The fingers of the freehand silenced the unwanted strings in the chord. Hmm You strum it with one hand and you move your fingers on the other hand to silence certain strings. What is that? It's a guitar. The psalmist says that you can praise the Lord on a guitar. And it is a hymn. Hymns are not defined by the book in which they're bound, they're not defined by the instrumentation that is used to lead them, but rather they are defined by their content. They are songs of praise. Nor is a hymn defined by its complexity. We have a tendency to refer to hymns and choruses. And we like to sound self-righteous, you know, those choruses, you know, they just 7-11 songs, you know, the same seven words repeated eleven times. They have no depth, no content, no meaning, there's nothing to them. What did we read in the book of Revelation? What do the four living creatures declare throughout all of eternity? What do they never stop singing Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. It barely breaks seven But it will be repeated for all of eternity, to the praise of God Almighty. Hymns are not defined by the complexity of their content, but rather defined by the fact that they praise God. And there are some wonderful simple songs that do that really, really well. Finally, as we Take a look at this opening, these first three verses. It is a hymn, it is a song of praise, a song that calls us to praise. And if we look at something, we see here that it's a song that calls us to praise God outwardly. To do it outside of ourselves. Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous Shout for joy in the Lord, O you race. It's a reminder that all caps Lord in our English Bibles is the proper name of God. We're not exactly sure how it's pronounced, but probably Yahweh. So this is not a call to praise any old God, but particularly the God of Israel, Yahweh Shout for joy in Yahweh, O you righteous. Praise befits the upright. This is a call to define yourself. This is a call to segregate the world into us and them. Those who will respond and sing the praises of God, those who go, yeah, it is actually appropriate. It befits me to sing out his praises, and those who will not. And it's a call to do it outwardly, to do it loudly, to shout it. It's interesting how there are certain sins. Whoo! Boy, we come on glued about murder, abortion, certain sexual sins, but every week there are churches across America in which people are mowing looking at their navel and they're not singing out and they're The scriptures command us to sing out, to shout to the Lord, to sing out loudly, so that you can be heard. If you are worried about what the people around you think of your voice, you're not attentive to who the audience is. It is the Lord. And we must praise Him. Are you really so ashamed of God that you're going to sing to your neighbors and make sure nobody hears what you have to say about Him? Now the next verse says, verse 3, sing to him a new song, play skillfully. Actually the word there play is kind of ambiguous, any kind of musical. It can actually be translated. Some translations have sing skillfully Okay. Um play skillfully on the strings with loud shouts. You're gonna go, aha, Pastor C, I can't do it skillfully, so it's not calling me to it Well that's a misunderstanding of what's going on here. That's like what we do with the New Testament. When Paul says to the in the New Testament, you know, the Lord loves a cheerful giver, we take that to mean, okay, I can reduce my giving until I'm cheerful about it. Hey, I get down here, I'm I'm happy to give that amount. That's not what the command is. It's to give what you're supposed to give and change your attitude. I've shared this before, I'll share it again, it's a great illustration. One morning, uh summer morning, I had to grab the garbage and rush it down to the street in time for the uh the the uh garbage truck to come pick it up and apparently I didn't do it with the right attitude. So at that point my mom has an opportunity to uh to to teach me some lessons. Now she could have said, well, you know, he doesn't like doing it, so I don't want him to do things with the wrong attitude, so I just won't make him haul the garbage anymore. No, that's not how my mom functioned Rather, she stood in the driveway and I repeated every detail of the exercise. So, when I got when they got done taking the garbage, I now took the empty cans. I put them back in the garage, had to shut the garage door, had to walk back in the house, had to walk out of the house, open the garage door, haul the cans, shut the garage door, haul hands to the street, haul them back up, open the garage door for the hands, hands, chair the guy, over and over and over again until my mom was satisfied that I was doing it with the right attitude Because it's not about changing what we do, it's changing how we do it The call here is not to skillful people that they should sing. It's a call to all of the upright, all of the righteous, to sing and to do so skillfully. You say, well, how am I supposed to do that, Pastor? You really want me to sing out? Have you heard me? And the answer is no, I haven't. And that's the problem Sing out. Practice it. Like anything else that is worth doing, you're going to be bad at it initially. Hate to tell you, you didn't walk perfectly the first time you tried. And despite what most of us think of ourselves, we probably didn't drive all that well the first time we got behind the wheel. But you practice because it's important. God's given us some beautiful days for that. Put the window down in the car, put the praise CD in, crank the volume up, and sing. Sing out loud so that you can hear yourself, so you can begin to hear whether or not you're with that song. Sing So that you can be heard. Most Sundays we have 70 in attendance here, ish. Presbyteria a few weeks back, there were 35 Elders here in the worship service, half the number producing twice the volume. Because their hearts were moved to sing out. And I know you're self-conscious and I know it's a tough thing to do, but remember, you're facing this way. There are only a few of us who've got to stand up here and face all of you insane. And you're going to listen long enough. You're going to hear us make mistakes. You're going to hear us go wrong. It's okay. Sing. Shout the joy of the Lord. Sing out loud. We all need to do so Verses 1 through 3 call us to praise the Lord outwardly. Verses 4 through 9 begin to give us, actually the whole middle section here begins to give us reasons for. Verses 4 through 9 particularly focus on this reason. Praise the Lord because of his power. First of all, verse 4, the word word there. Probably don't want to think Bible. Sometimes we hear the word word. You know, there in verse 4, you know, it says, for the word of the Lord is upright. We think, oh, the Bible is good. That's really not in this context what it's talking about. Rather Word here is the uh a statement, that which he says. It's the idea of the fiats or the commands by which he accomplishes things The command he gives, the fiat. And we see that as we go on in the context, that he's talking about his creative power, his creative word Not the word that was re that rendered the scripture. So please understand what is being spoken about there. And it says that we should that that his word, that what he said, is Verse 4b says, all God's work is done in faithfulness. It's an interesting statement. It's the idea that the very nature of nature manifests the nature of God. That the way things were made is faithful to the character of God. It's why we can accomplish the things we accomplish. You know, verse 5, we'll come back around to that accomplishment accomplishment in just a moment here. Verse 5, he loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. We have two very different loves here. If you're using the English standard version, the ESV that I'm reading from, it'll be translated as the second one is steadfast love. Some of the versions use unfailing love. Some of them have loving kindness All are good translations. The whole problem is this word is deep and complex and it's not easy to translate in one simple word or phrase. But this first word love is much like we use the word love in casual ways. I love pizza. That's the first word of love there. Okay? I have this strong affinity for. The second, that's steadfast love in the second part of the verse, is a Hebrew word probably worth knowing. Hesed. When it's rendered in English, it's usually rendered as H-E-S-E-D, Hesed. And it's this idea, it's almost always in the scriptures connected to God's covenants It's this idea of covenant love. Because he bound himself. My love for pizza is just an affinity because of the way it tastes, but I never took a vow to pizza. I never bound myself to pizza. Hasad is God's binding himself to us. In other words, he's never going to lose his taste for us. This steadfast love reflects a God who has committed himself by what he has said through the covenants. And there are some interesting consequences of that when we stop to think about that. We forget, we sometimes cast aside that the The covenant of works that was established at creation, the covenant that God entered into with Adam, was for Adam and all of his descendants. Us. It was a covenant with all of mankind. And in that covenant, God gave Adam certain things he was to do, increase the number, fill the earth, rule over and have dominion. And one thing he wasn't to do, don't eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And we sometimes think to ourselves that the sin of Adam was that he ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Certainly that's part of it. But when we look closely at the curse on Adam and Eve, the curse does not address eating. It addresses not doing the other two things. And there is a definite theme in Scripture that the punishment fixed the crime. When Israel did not properly treat the poor in the land, they were hauled off and the poor were given the land. The punishment fits the crime, but when God punishes Adam and Eve, he says it is with great difficulty that you will bear children. all of a sudden the increasing in number has been cursed. And it is with by the sweat of your brow that you will bring forth your work. It is your The idea here is what God is saying to Adam and Eve is that you broke the entire covenant. Not only did you do what was forbidden, but you weren't doing what you should have been doing. Had you been off plowing the garden and making babies, there would have been no time to stand at the tree and be enamored with it You should have been doing those things. And yet God in his covenant love, his steadfast love, this heched that we see here, nevertheless allows That the aspect, while we have lost the ability to enter into God's eternal rest through our work, nevertheless He still blesses our work. We still live in a world where certain things happen. If you do this, you get that. Reliably, predictably. It's an interesting world we live in. As we've studied, as we've worked this world, we've uncovered some amazing things You may not be familiar with quantum mechanics, but I'll tell you this, that the uh bottom line of quantum mechanics is that you can't predict. You can't predict with certainty on a microscopic at subatomic level, there is a probability that this, that, or the other thing is going to happen. But you can't be sure. And yet out of that level of uncertainty on the subatomic level, God builds a world where things are really quite certain. We can be very sure that if we strike a nail directly with the hammer, it's going to sink into the board Every time we've never once struck a nail and had it like come back out of the board because we struck it correctly. Predictable things. Therefore we can work, we can study, we can learn about this world. And we can make technological advances. It's not like sometimes when when you take a gas and you throttle it through with a compressor and you expand it and a fuel tons of effect, sometimes that causes cooling and we can air condition buildings and create refrigerators, and other times it doesn't You know, you could buy a refrigerator, maybe it'll cool your food, maybe it won't. It's haphazard. It's probability. We don't live in that kind of world. God has blessed our work. Because we study and learn. Technologically, what does it say? The whole world is full, the whole earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord? Every time there's a baby born, he says, See, I'm keeping to you the the the the the fruit, the being increasing and in and and and uh increasing in number and filling the earth, I'm letting you hold to that part of that covenant. I'm honoring it. I'm continuing it. We make every technological advancement from the Stone Age to the Bronze Age to the Iron Age to the aluminum age to the silicon age. We've made these technological advancements because of the steadfast love of the Lord. He has kept the world going in such a way that when we work, certain blessings come out of it. Goes on in verse 9. It says, For he spoke, he commanded, and it came to be. It's really interesting in this world that has this certain amount of uncertainty at the subatomic level that God's things are absolutely certain. He spoke and it came to be. The whole point is here is the psalmist wants to see not only that God created, but the simplicity with which he created. He simply said it. He spoke into nothing and there became something We're to be in awe of that. As I'm reading my newspaper on my smartphone and the app crashes and I have to shut it down and reboot it and re-build my newspaper. I think about the millions of man hours that have gone into programming that app and it still doesn't work right And God simply said, let there be. And everything was exactly the way it was Way he wanted it. The psalmist wants us to stop and be in awe of God. The word of his power and the power of his word. The psalm opens with a call to praise God outwardly, and it gives us another reason in verses 4 to 9 to do so because of is Power. Then in verses 10 through 17, praise the Lord because of his providence. He did not simply wind the world up and then walk away from it. This is not deism. Or there it says, you know, despite the pr the the uh despite predictability, we can't predict. God frustrates our plans. There's an ironic thing at the microscopic subatomic level, it's probability, and we can't predict it At our everyday level of action, we can predict things very well. Our labors in those things, as we study and get to know it, we're blessed. But then there's a macroscopic level which we can't predict anything. We can't make grand plans and expect them to come out. We don't know how it's going to work We can't wrap our minds around all the variables. Not so with the Lord, verse 11 says, God's plans stand He can get his mind around all the variables, all the things that are in play at all the different levels, so that he knows exactly what's going to happen and how it's going to happen and when it's going to happen and where it's going to happen. It's the reason in verse 12 that we're we're told that you know the blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. What a wonderful thing to have your plans align with God's plans. Therefore they won't be frustrated, but rather they'll be assured of being completed. How wonderful it is to have your plans alig around align with God's plans. God is in control. Verses 13 through 15 we see repeated uh demonstration of his control of all things That he sees, he made the heart of man. He knows us inwardly. He sees all that we do. He's in control of all these things. I think of the fear we uh we uh humans have of the things we create. There's a great deal of angst out there about what will happen if we ever do achieve artificial intelligence in computers. And the rise of the machines and how they're going to be able to control them. Are they going to take over? We're worried about genetically modified organisms If we put certain crops in the field, are we uh they're gonna grow and we're never gonna go thick off. We worry a lot about the things we do and make Whether or not we can control them. The Psalmist says not so with God. Not one time has he ever been worried about whether or not he could control the things he made Not one time has there been any concern on God's part that we human beings might rise up and get out of his, get out of control Uh-oh, they did more than I thought they could do. We worry about that. We worry about our genetically modified organisms and our artificial intelligence is doing that to us. God never worries about that. It's ironic that Psalmist comes back around in verses sixteen and seventeen and says, We we hope in exactly the very things that we've made. We hope in armies. We hope in warriors that we've trained. We hope in the war horses. You know, nowadays the tanks that we've made. And says, you don't understand. God's in control of everything He's made. Surely He's in control of the few things you've made. We're called to praise the Lord outly. We're called to praise the Lord because of his power in verses 4 through 9. In verses 10 through 17, we're called to praise the Lord because of his providence, his superintendence of all things. And then in verses 18 and 19, we see providence turns to protection. You notice the contrast between in verse 18, Behold the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him. Now just a few verses earlier, up in verse 13, the Lord looks down from heaven, he sees all the children of man. So somehow this is different in verse 18. This is not a mere restatement of God's omniscience, that he knows everything. But rather down here in verse 18, the psalmist brings it closer to home. Don't just know that God knows everything in the abstract idea of omniscience. That word, an important word, but it's a me it's a cold doctrine. Rather, the psalmist says, do you realize that he's got his eye on you? Not you as a part of the whole big thing, but you as a personal person. It's one thing for the mechanic to look at a spinning engine and see everything there. It's another thing for his eye to be able to pick out each individual moving part. And that's what the psalmist says. God is not merely watching all the things of this world spin, but he can keep his eye on each individual part. We praise the Lord because of his protection. Again, we see the word Hesed. We see this idea of Steadfast love. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love. Second time in this psalm, we've seen that same Hebrew word, Hesed. It's interesting here how he now turns it around. It's because of his Hesed, because of his covenant of faithfulness, because of his steadfast love. that that all the that he created things in a faithful, predictable, reliable way, that we can study the world and as a result of studying it and working out, we can make it better. But this now turns to a different covenant. This is no longer the covenant with all mankind. This is not the Adamic covenant, the covenant of works. But this is the covenant of salvation. This is a covenant for the people of God. He says, the psalmist says to you, the righteous, don't just don't, it's not just that God made certain covenants with everybody, but remember he entered into a special covenant with you And he is faithful to that also. Steadfast love. We there's a great irony to this. We are saved by Jesus' work, by believing that we're saved by Jesus' work. It it's an interesting dynamic. And the psalmist is saying here, you're you're saved. By by uh y by God's covenant faithfulness, his Hesed, his steadfast love, by believing that you're saved by his covenant faithfulness Faith in the proper object of faith is what saves. And that is God's covenant promises. Verses 1 through 3 call us to praise the Lord outwardly. Verses 4 through 9 tell us we should praise because of his power, by which he created the simple word of his mouth. Verses 10 through 17 say we should praise because of his providence, his superintendence of all things and governance over all things. Verses 18 and 19 tell us we should praise the Lord because of his protection. His special covenant relationship he has with those who believe in him. And finally, the psalmist closes out with an inward look at praise. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. Our heart, notice the inward thoughts. Before it was the playing of instruments and the singing and the shouting of outward things. Now there's an inward turn. Our soul, our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. The movement of the Psalm is from the outward to the inward. You know, we tend to assume the opposite, and certainly there are places where the scripture does talk about the fact that that out of Our heart flow the words of our mouths. Certainly there is in the scripture a place for an inward to outward direction. But this poem has an outward to inward direction. We can't miss it. We can't miss the significance of this, the importance of this. There are times that just outwardly doing what you're supposed to do has an inward effect Teachers know this. We know that when you dress the kids up nice for the homecoming dance, they behave a little differently there than they do in class every day. Studies show that you put the uniform on that guy in the army and all of a sudden he behaves a little differently. The outward affects the inward. We don't behave the same way when we're dressed a certain way. The psalmist says there's an outward to inward movement of the psalm. Think of it this way, praise leads to praise. Praise leads to praise. Let me use an illustration. So I grew up in the Michael Jordan era of basketball, when his heiress dominated the National Basketball Association. My son has grown up in the LeBron James era of basketball. And if you read the sports pages, you know that those are the two names that consistently come up in any debate about the greatest of all time, the greatest basketball player ever But an interesting thing happens. As I talk about Michael Jordan's accomplishments, as I praise him, my son is had to go, oh Yeah, I didn't know that. Oh. And now he's more willing to go, yeah, Jordan was really good. And as he has recounted the accomplishments of Michael or of LeBron James, I've had to go, oh yeah, I forgot about that. That's pretty good. And the outward statement of praise for the one player causes each other to kind of think inwardly and go, yeah, I got a new regard for that player in a way I didn't have before. Praise leads to praise. When we sing out, when we shout for joy in Yahweh, as the first three verses call us to do, it affects our inward being. We can't forget that we are the body of Christ. When I look at my navel and mumble the words to the song. Does it really encourage the person next to me? Are they really moved to go, yeah, this is a great God, really worthy of my trust? Look at this clown. He doesn't think it's worth singing about. When we sing out, when we cut loose with the joy we have in our salvation, when we declare the praise of God and powerful, strong, bold ways. It reminds everybody around us and it reminds ourselves. Oh yeah. I'd forgotten that aspect of God. Oh yeah. I'd forgotten he did that. Yeah, I don't know why I've been so anxious in my heart, why I've been so worried. I need in my soul, in my heart, to hope in the Lord. Notice how the Psalm closes out with a third reference to Hesed. Let your steadfast love, O Lord. The psalmist says, well, I'm back to that. I've been praising God's covenant faithfulness, his steadfast love, his pesed. And that reminds me that that's what I gotta rely on. That's what I rest in. That's where my hope is. Outward praise leads to inward praise. Come to church, be among God's people, be in his word, listen to music that glorifies and uplifts him. And it will lead to you wanting to do more of the same. And as you do more of the same, it'll lead to you wanting to do more of the same. And as you do more of the same, it'll lead to oth And with every shout of joy, we give it another turn, and it gains momentum and it builds. And it affects us. Shout with joy to the Lord. Sing out skillfully. Praise his name. Let's pray. Lord, overcome our timidity. Overcome the degree to which we worry about all the wrong things. And remind us of your steadfast love, your Hesse, your covenant faithfulness, that we would praise you boldly, that we would sing out with great joy. That we would work to be better singers. That we would work to be better proclaimers of your praise. Lord, remind us, as we've heard this morning, that you are worthy of praise because of the power by which you created. You are worthy of praise because of the providence by which you superintend and govern all things. You are worthy of praise because of your special protection upon your covenant people. And let all of that outward declaration move our inward being to rest in you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.