I invite you to open your Bibles, if you would, please, to Romans chapter 4, verses 22 through 25. The end of chapter four of the book of Romans, page eleven nineteen, if using that pew Bible there in front of you As you turn there, I want to acknowledge that while almost every sermon by almost every preacher builds on what others have said about the passage under consideration This sermon this morning leans a bit more heavily than it than usual on one particular source. There was an excellent essay by Dr. Fred Zaspel. And I will be leaning on that heavily in this sermon, and it's appropriate to acknowledge that it's uh his work contributed in that way. Let's pray before we consider God's word. Lord, as we look to this these few verses out of Romans 4, we do ask for your help in understanding their significance. And realizing what they mean just for the degree to which we can live our lives day in and day out with great confidence, that we can have absolute assurance of this faith that we hold, this faith that others mock. is an absolutely justified faith because we are justified in Christ Jesus. In whose name we pray. Amen. So here we are in the book of Romans. We're kind of in the midst of the Apostle Paul's extended exposition on this great theme of justification by faith alone. solos the day we saw last week. He has summarized the doctrine in the transitional passage in the middle of Romans 3, and I'm picking up in Romans 3, verse 22 The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ is for all who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned to fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by His grace as a gift Through the redemption, that is in Christ Jesus. There he presents the doctrine in a rather compressed form, and yet there are some important details. And we looked at those a couple of weeks ago Now here in chapter 4, he has offered two Old Testament illustrations of this salvation which is by grace through faith. He pointed to David and to Abraham, and he quoted Genesis 15, 6 with regard to Abraham, which said, And he, Abraham, believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. Abraham was saved through faith. And now we come to the sermon text here at the end of Romans 4, picking up in verse 22. Paul writes, That is why faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him, who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord Who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification You'll notice here in verse 25, pay especial attention to this verse. Christ was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. You know, the most important question that any person will ever face, that you or I have to deal with in this life, is how can I be right with God? The question, of course, assumes some things. It assumes that we are not right with God. And Paul dealt with that great detail in chapters 1, 2, and the first part of 3. that no one is right with God on their own. The question also assumes that God is the judge, and Paul will return to that later in the book of Romans. And that we are accountable to him, and that there is a final judgment. And this question of how can we rewrite what God assumes on any number of other things. But given those assumptions, you know, this really is life's most important question. How can we be right with God? In biblical terminology, it's the question of how can we be justified It's a legal declaration of righteousness. You know, it's a term that envisions a courtroom And Paul will come back around to that theme and talk about Christ as our attorney who stands on our behalf in that courtroom. So standing before God the judge, the big question is, how can we be declared righteous in that situation Yesterday at Presbytery, a church plant was proposed to the Presbytery, and it had a wonderful name, this new church that's coming up in northern Delaware, Great Exchange Church. I love the name for exactly the reason that the planting pastor loved it. Tyler Brown, he's preached here before. Tyler is going to be the planting pastor there. And Tyler was asked why that name, and he said, because it forces people to ask me about the gospel. When they say to me, what do you mean, how'd your church get an in great exchange? He gets to respond, I'm so glad you asked. Because the gospel of Jesus Christ is this good news. That my sin and Christ's righteousness have been exchanged, that my sin was put on Jesus and he died for it, and his righteousness was put on me and I get credited with it through faith. His faith was counted to him as righteousness. The great exchange is the essence of the gospel. And that's why, and that's what Paul is summarizing for us right here. We saw a few weeks ago in our discussion of this work, he makes a reference to propitiation. We saw how That means that Jesus is our righteous substitute, that he took all of the sin of his people unto himself, bearing the curse of sin. in that he expiated us. He got us out from underneath the wrath of God. But he did more than that. He lived out a perfectly righteous life, obeying God completely, and in that he disposed God favorably towards him and then those of us who are in him. And that was propitiation. So we have been seeing these things summarized so far as Romans. With that being the case, and by the way, this doctrine of how can we be in Christ, is it okay if someone takes our place? Is substitution really okay? Paul is going to take that up at length in chapter 5. Sadly, we're not going to get there until after the new year, but that's a good reason to come back. We're going to look at how this is even possible, this great exchange. But today what we what it's important for us to understand is that because of that exchange, because God has signed off on that, because that has happened God, who is just, cannot condemn those who stand in Christ Jesus by faith. It would be unfit and unfair for God to do so. We will close the service later today with this hymn. And as we get there, pay attention to this lyric in the hymn. Because the sinless Savior died, my sinful soul is counted free. For God, the just is satisfied to look on Him and pardon me That's the great exchange. Now at this moment right now, any critically thinking person at this point in the book of Romans is going to have a couple of questions. I mentioned one of them already Is this even a valid thing? That the exchange is even possible? We will take that up, Paul will address that. The other question that we have to be asking ourselves right now Is this question of, is it really worth the risk? Paul, you're telling us That we should stop pursuing our own righteousness, that we should give up hoping that we can please God and throw everything on Jesus. That's a risky proposition. For it doesn't feel logical Our intuition says, no, no, no, I gotta keep trying, I gotta keep striving, I gotta keep heaping up good works, I gotta tip the scale in my favor. And Paul, in anticipation of that question, gives us today's text. He knows that it feels like a big risk to go all in on Jesus. By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And he's going to try to convince us that it's totally uh a bet worth making, that it is absolutely a justified bet. So let's dive in. Let's look at it more closely. We've summarized where we've been, but the question now becomes, what does any of this have to do with the resurrection? This is the first time in this book of Romans, uh first time in his discussion of Justification since middle three, that he's picked up this idea of the resurrection. It's the first time he's brought it in And he addresses it very explicitly here, and he links it to our justification, beginning in the middle of verse 24. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Now notice the two parallel clauses there in verse 25. The two prepositional phrases, the two for expressions. Christ was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. To understand the second, where our focus is today, we need to wrestle with the first. The first one is actually relatively straightforward. Christ was delivered up for, on account of Our trespasses. Our transgressions were the reason for his death. He went to the cross bearing our sins. God put him there in our place to take Our curse. He said that again. Our transgressions were the reason for his death. He died on account of our sins. Now, as we said, that seems pretty straightforward in the text. And I'm not aware of any commentator, any scholar, anybody who wrestled with this who really disputes that. That's what Paul is saying in that phrase. But it's the guide to the second part, to our main point this morning. You see, these two phrases are set in parallel to each other. Paul's done that purposefully so that we might understand each according to the other. So verse 25b says that he was, you know, he was raised for our justification. In other words, he was raised on account of our justification. In other words, he was raised, our justification was the reason for his resurrection. And so that's what we have to wrestle with today. How can that be? In what sense was Christ raised on account of our justification? Flip over in your Bibles if you would to 1 Timothy 3. 16. 1 Timothy 3. 16 1 Timothy 3, verse 16. To understand our passage here in Romans, I think there's some value in seeing how Paul puts it a little differently in another place, in another letter. 1 Timothy 3, 16. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He was manifest-now and he's going to lay out the mystery of this. He was manifested in the flesh. In other words, he became incarnate. He became one of us. Christmas happened. He was vindicated by the Spirit. We'll come back to that in a moment. He was seen by angels in his triumphal ascension. He was proclaimed among the nations in the Church's great commission. He believed on in the world and the successful advance of the gospel and was taken up in glory, his victorious ascent into heaven. Paul here gives us a summary of the person and work of Christ. Now, notice that second statement that I skipped over. Christ was vindicated by the Spirit. This is the Holy Spirit's activity in raising Jesus from the dead. Now it's interesting, in the New Testament, Jesus' resurrection is consistently spoken of in this passive voice. that we see in Romans 4. 25. In other words, Jesus' resurrection is always something that is done to him, not by him. In many places, he's raised by God the Father. Here it's by the means of the Spirit. But the point is that Jesus does not raise himself. Now, why does that matter? Well, because his resurrection is described as his vindication. So, two quick points here. First, which is better? To vindicate yourself or to be vindicated by others? There is that classic movie and that moving scene at the end of this all-time cinematic classic When everybody named John, and everybody named Mark, and everybody named Scott, and everybody named everything else, stands up and says, What? I am Spartacus. Why? Because they they want to vindicate this Spartacus. They want to stand with him. They want to say he's right and you're wrong, and we're going to take his side. We're going to stand with him. Now, if Spartacus had got up and made his own defense, would that have been his moving? Of course not. It's the fact that he was defended, he was vindicated by all the other saints. That made it so profound. When you try to vindicate yourself, it comes off sometimes as petty. But when somebody else comes in and proves you right, Jesus Christ did not raise himself from the dead. He did not say, I have a right to live. God intervened and raised him from the dead. That's why it's always in the passive voice. Now, how does this help us? Well, if you have the Eastern Shore version, sometimes known as the ESV, If you have a footnote, like that's what I have here, if you look at the footnote, down in the down in the bottom, this little tiny font down there, it says, it gives us an alternative translation to the word vindicated. And if you look down, what does it say? The alternative translation says or justified In fact, that's what the King James has in the main line of the text. That he was justified by the Holy Spirit. This is exactly the same Greek word we have back in Romans 4. 25. Jesus was justified by the Spirit. He was vindicated. So what does that mean? Why does that matter? How does that relate to us and our justification and our vindication? Well, we've all had those moments, have we not, when everybody around us doubts us. And then things turn out in a way that show we were right. You know that sunny morning when you head off to the park together and you're the only one carrying an umbrella. They're all mocking you because it's gorgeous out. But then later that afternoon, the clouds roll in, the winds pick up, and the rain becomes to come down, and you're dry, and they're all wet. Vindicated Justified. Proved right in your decision to carry the umbrella. That's what's going on here. Mark chapter 8 In Mark chapter 8, there's this pivotal moment where Jesus turns to the disciples and says, Who do you say that I am? And he's testing them. I've been with you all these times. I've been teaching you. We've been traveling together. We've been eating together. We've been living together. You've seen all my miracles. You've seen all What I've done. Who do you say that I am And Peter gives that beautiful answer. You are the Christ. The very next sentence, Mark records this. And Jesus began to teach them. That the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. Once they came to understand that he was the anointed one, they now needed to understand what the anointed one was going to do. And for the next 18, 24 months, we're not exactly sure the time window there, Jesus begins to confirm that three more times in the Gospel of Mark. He will say exactly those same things to them. And then in Matthew 26, as Jesus is hanging on the cross, we read this: And those who passed by derided him. Wagging their heads and saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself! If you're the Son of God, come down from the cross. So also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked him, and the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him. You who would rebuild the temple in three days. That's exactly the metaphor Jesus had used to predict his own resurrection, and they were now mocking him with it. They were now ridiculing him. You had said you were all this, and look at you up there dying. That's where we go back to 1 Timothy 3:16. Great indeed we confess is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels. Proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. Christmas is there, the gospel success is there, final victory is there. But where is the resurrection? He was vindicated by the Spirit. That's the resurrection. God's Holy Spirit said, no, no, no, mankind, you don't get to mock him. You don't get to use his words against him. He was right, and you were wrong. And on the third day, the Spirit brought him up from the grave, vindicated by all that he had said. Everything he had claimed up to is now proven true. So why does this matter? What does it have to do with us and our justification? You remember the four men? who tore through the roof to lower their friend down in front of Jesus on the mat, the the crippled, the paraplegic. And and you know, they lower him in and Jesus you know, the whole room is kind of shocked that the roof is coming apart and the guy gets dropped in And Jesus has the weirdest thing. He says, son, your sins are forgiven. And the room loses their mind. What? You don't get to forgive sins. Only God gets to forgive sins. And then Jesus does something amazing. That was kind of his thing, wasn't it? Jesus does something amazing. He says, which is easier? I can say his sins are forgiven, but you can't test that. You can't prove me right or wrong. You don't know what the record book in heaven shows whether his sins are forgiven or not. So let me put it on the line. What if I say this? Get up and walk. A little tougher, isn't it? Not when you all be able to stand right here and see if I have any power or not. And he turns to the man and he says, take up your mat and walk. And the man pops up and walks out in front of everybody, and all the jaws hit the floor. So that, Jesus says, so that you will know that the Son of Man has power to forgive sins, take up your mountain walk. You see, the proof is in the pudding, the proof is in the doing. By doing that, Jesus justified himself in forgiving the man's sin. He vindicated his power to forgive the man's sins. That's why his resurrection matters to us. You see, the great hope of Israel was the resurrection of the righteous. Isaiah spoke of it. Daniel prophesied very explicitly about it. Our Old Testament reading in Job referenced it. There are traces of the resurrection going even as far back as Genesis. And the people understood that in the day of Messiah, in the day of the Christ, the anointed one of God, the righteous who were so long oppressed, they would be vindicated in the resurrection. Before God, they would be acknowledged as His, and all the world would know it. Finally, the tables would be turned. Finally, the righteous would be acknowledged as righteous. And the whole world would have to admit you were right. In the end, you were right to have faith in the God of Israel. In a few minutes before we take of the table, we are going to join together with all the saints across the nations and all the saints across history, and we're going to proclaim our faith, our belief in the resurrection of the body. And the world out there says that's crazy. It's insane. It's just foolishness. But Paul says it's justified. Because Jesus was raised from the dead. Jesus was the first to experience that resurrection. All the biblical passages that speak of Christ's resurrection, they remind us that his resurrection was in fact the long-awaited resurrection of the age to come. Sure, there had been some uh resuscitations before Jesus, Lazarus uh the widow's son with Elisha, those sorts of situations. But they died again. They were restored to this life. Jesus' resurrection is a whole nother kind. It's the resurrection of the next life. It's the resurrection we hope for, that we await, that we want, that we long for, that we pray for, that we that we say our hope is in. To the day where everything will be made right. And because Jesus has been raised from the dead, Because that first fruit of the future resurrection has happened, our faith is justified It's validated. It's vindicated. Because Christ's resurrection, it says something. It's the announcement. That there is justification. He was vindicated of all of the unjust verdicts against him. He was vindicated with reference to his death, as he said as he said would be for sinners. He said he would give his life as a ransom for many. He said he would give his life for the sheep. He said that by his death he would affect their forgiveness and bring them into fellowship with God. He said that his death would accomplish salvation for his people. And now in the resurrection, God publicly announces it is so You see, if a single word that Jesus had spoken about his resurrection had been a lie If he had said one false thing about his the salvation he offered, the forgiveness he offered, the the hope that he offered, if any one of those things had been a lie but wrong in the slightest little way Then he would have stayed dead. Because he would have been a sinner. And sin is the wage of death, the wage of sinner death. You see, the ground we do have to remember something. Our justification is different than his. Our justification is on the ground of his righteousness, but his justification was not substitutionary. Nobody else stood in his place and nobody else could stand in his place. So if he had done anything wrong in his life, then he would have deserved to die and he would have stayed dead. The final judge would have gone, Nope, you're justified to be dead. But he was raised. So the arbiter of all things, the judge of all the universe, went, Nope, you humans got it horribly wrong, and I am overturning the verdict. He was perfect in everything he said. Which means if God raised him from the dead, then all that he claimed is true Then there is forgiveness for those who will believe in his name. There is hope of everlasting life for those who will cling to him in faith, for those who are in Christ Jesus, who will stand with him, who will go to him There is everlasting life. There is all the different ways he said it. There's a place that he has gone to prepare for us, and it will be a real place. The resurrection of Jesus from the grave, Paul says, justified our faith It made it all worthwhile. It proves it to be true. It vindicates it. It's why Paul would say to the Corinthians that everything about Christianity hangs on the resurrection. It is the sum and substance of our faith. And it helps us understand Christ was delivered up on account of our trespasses and raised on account of our justification. Our sin was the reason for his death. That we would be vindicated and justified is the reason for his resurrection Is there more to come in our discussion of Romans? Absolutely. The Gospel of Thomas is more than just justification There's promises of renewal and transformation and the renewing of our minds and the glorification of our beings. But all of these things are going to hinge on this key doctrine Because all of it that's the what proves the resurrection is what proves our faith to be valid. A reasonable faith, a justified faith. In the spring of 1990, I was just newly out of college and teaching at a small school, and the PE teacher was a big fan of tennis, and I liked tennis. And I'm not good at making small talk, so I struck up a tennis conversation with him one day in the lunchroom. And it was right near the end of the school year, and you know, so Wimbledon was a few weeks away and I said, Who's going to win Wimbledon? And he said, Pete Sampras. Now, in case you don't know tennis history, in 1990, Pete Sampras was 18 years old and nobody knew who he was. And I went, who? Pete Sampers didn't win Wimbledon that year, but a month after Wimbledon, he won the U. S. Open and he went on to win 13 other Grand Slam titles. That PE teacher was completely justified, vindicated in predicting that this 18-year-old nobody had heard of was going to win a major title. That's what Paul says here. That he was raised for our justification That we are vindicated to believe in him, that we are, that it is valid, that it is reasonable, that it is appropriate, that it is a safe bet, if you want to put it that way. That everything we hope for in Christ will be realized. Because God said, this one does not deserve to stay dead. And I'm going to bring him back It's an interesting thing to go from that to this, isn't it? To say, well, Scott, you just said the whole of our Christian faith depends on the resurrection. And now we're going to come to a table where we celebrate and commemorate his death. Doesn't that seem like a misfit, like a disconnect? Shouldn't there be some sacrament that that uh uh reminds us of the resurrection? Well, I'll remind you this one does How does Paul say it in 1 Corinthians 11? As often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes Part and parcel with this table is the assumption he's coming back. Part and parcel with this table is the assumption he did not stay dead, that he was raised, and that he will return. Part and parcel of this table is that this body and blood paid for our sins and that his resurrection was for our justification. Paul goes on to describe the one who should partake of this table. He says in 1 Corinthians 11, 27, Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. We have to ask ourselves, what makes a person worthy? Or I guess in this case, what makes a person unworthy? What might you have done this past week to disqualify you from this table? I don't want judgment on me. I don't want to eat and drink judgment on myself. Whoever therefore eats the bread and drinks of the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner. I don't want to do that. And so we have a tendency to look at this table and go, well, I guess I really kind of sinned pretty badly this week, so maybe I shouldn't take. I had some pretty horrible thoughts this week, so maybe I shouldn't come. I did this or that or the other thing that somehow might have disqualified me. That's not what Paul says. He goes on to define what disqualifies us. He goes on in the next verse to say, for anyone who eats or drinks without discerning the body eats or drinks, judgment on himself. Question is not, what did you do this week that might have disqualified you? The question is this. Do you understand salvation? Do you understand how the body of Christ is built? Do you understand how the Lord is putting us together and fitting us together Do you understand that you are just as bad as or worse than everybody around you? When you look at them and you see all their flaws and all their faults and all the things they've done wrong, do you get That your every bit is bad or worse. And that you're here by the grace of God through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, as are they. And when you begin to understand that, when you begin to see how this body is built. Boy, I hope that person doesn't take communion. I know what they did this past week. It's not how it works. I see that person taking because they have faith in Jesus Christ. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm going to partake. Because I have faith in Jesus Christ. And through that we discern the body, and then through that we benefit from this table. And so I get to ring the dinner bell. I get to say, come, not because you're a Presbyterian, not even because you're a member of Shore Harvest, but because you're a member of the body of Christ through faith. Come and eat and be encouraged in him. Be nourished in him. Grow in your faith and your knowledge of his grace. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we do thank you for this table, for its reminder to us of what you have done on our behalf. And how you have called us to be your own, and how you put this before us week in and week out to nourish us, to feed us, to build us up, to bolster us. Because we are weak. We misunderstand things. We get these things wrong Yet we realize that it's not the perfection of our doctrine. It's not the goodness of our good deeds this past week. There's nothing in us Our hope is entirely on you. And yet that's a justified hope. Because God raised you from the dead and said, This is my son in whom I am well Pleased. Amen