After a month in December of considering the names which the prophet Isaiah had ascribed to the Messiah. This morning we return to our study of the book of Romans, and so we'll be picking up in a few minutes in Romans chapter 5, if you want to get your Bible open and ready to go. Romans chapter 5 We'll be reading verses 1 through 11 in a few moments, page 1119, if you're using that pew Bible in front of you. Romans 5, page 1119. In anticipation of the reading of the Word of God and of the preaching of the Word of God, let's pray now and ask His guidance. Lord, we do seek your help in hearing your word, in understanding it rightly, in submitting to what it requires of us. And in believing it, in believing that in Jesus Christ we have been reconciled to you. That we need do nothing on our own. We can do nothing on our own to improve upon his work, to better his work, to make his work more real. That by faith we are counted as His and are at peace with you. Help us to see that glorious truth this morning. We pray this in His name. Amen. Because we have been away from Romans for a little while, I thought it would be helpful perhaps to step back in with a little review. Because after all, one of the things we've seen is that the book of Romans is this uh a weaving together of a a series of thoughts. It is one continuous argument to some degree. And to jump into one place of it without knowing where we've been limits what we can get out of it. And so you'll recall that we began in Romans 16. We began at the end of the book. Not because we were, it was backwards day or anything else. But because the end of the book gives us the context of the book, all those personal greetings, all those names, all the information there tells us something about the church in Rome. Things they knew, they didn't need to have that at the front of their letter, because they knew those things. But for us, they were unknown. So we began at the end so that we could understand the context of the book of Romans. And what we saw were some interesting things. The church in Rome was in its own way a multi-site, multi-campus church. It's treated by Paul as a single entity, but it is nevertheless a church that met in at least two places and probably five. If we understand Romans 16 correctly, and I think we do, it appears that there were five house churches that gathered as the church in Rome. And again, we learned that that wasn't a function of, it wasn't like, you know, first Methodist of Rome and First Baptist of Rome and first present. No, that wasn't the issue. One, it was a function of largely the just the reality of the size of the city of Rome. For in the early days of Christianity, the first day of the week, Sunday, was not a day off from work. It was not part of their weekend. And so you worked on Sunday. And if you were going to go to worship on Sunday morning and get to work on time, you could not traverse the width and the breadth and width of the city of Rome. It was just too big. It was too busy, it was too bustling. And so there were these house churches in which they met. But they gathered on this occasion to hear the book of Romans. read out to them. This letter from the Apostle Paul, who was already famous throughout Christendom, and they gathered to hear it read. And it's for this reason that Paul says to them, greet one another. Because they hadn't been together on a regular basis. This would be an unusual meeting of the entirety of the Church of Rome. And we saw that the Church of Rome was a most diverse church. And so there were tensions at this meeting. This gathering of all the Christians across the city would have been a gathering of former enemies. There would have been the clients and the patrons, the patrons, the clients owing everything to the patron, being indebted to that patron, being obligated to that patron. How are they to get along in the church? How are they to behave with one another? How does that relationship differ because of the reality of Christ in their lives? Freedmen might be gathering for the first time to worship in the presence of those who once owned them. Owned them. Imagine being a freed slave and now one of your former masters, one of the people who owned you. is now an elder in the church. You think submitting to your elders is a challenge? Imagine what it would have been like for them. How are they to get along? How does that relationship work? What is to go on in that church? And this is part of what Paul is writing for and writing about. There would be those who were still slaves Who might gather as part of that church? What is the equity and the fairness and the justice of the relationship between them, the communion they have with one another in the church? There would be a desire for some to seek revenge. Would the gospel be a wet blanket that would put out that burning desire? And under all of that, cutting across all of those other divides, was the simmering issue of Jew and Gentile. The church was founded by Jews, it had been led by Jews But Gentiles were taking over, their numbers increasing more rapidly than that of the Jewish Christians. And there was this tension between Jew and Gentile. The church in Rome was in a Synopsis, it was a hot mess. What could bind such men and women together? What could make them a unit, a whole, a body? Paul is clear right up front what he believes will accomplish that, how he hopes to unite them, and how he intends to do it. He says in Romans 1, verse 14. I am under obligation, both to Greeks and to barbarians, the two spectrum, on the spectrum of social standing. The highly educated and the utterly uneducated. Both to the wise and to the foolish. I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. Because I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes To the Jew first, but also to the Greek. Because in the righteousness of God, because in it the righteousness of God is revealed From faith to faith, or from you know from faith for faith, or maybe by faith from all people. It's not exactly clear what that means, that phrase means. As it is written, Paul goes on to say, the righteous shall live by faith. Paul has already said this as a church, he's already called them the saints of God, he's already said they are believers, he's already said their faith is unknown throughout the earth, why would he want to preach the gospel to a bunch of Christians, to a bunch of believers? Why does he want to evangelize you and me? Because the problems within the church flow out of a failure to grasp the importance of the gospel. The implications of the gospel. Oh, yes, they know the gospel in the sense that they know that they are saved by faith in Jesus Christ, but they haven't understood how that ought to affect their relationship with one another. If this top mess of a church in Rome is going to be fixed, it's only going to be fixed if they properly understand the gospel. And he says he is not ashamed to preach that. There are so many things that we struggle to talk about in large groups. Right? We can't talk about politics without a fight breaking out over the Thanksgiving Day Turkey. We can't talk even about sports without a fight breaking out over the Thanksgiving Day Turkey. We can't talk about so much. But he says, I am not ashamed to talk about the gospel. For it is the one thing that I know everybody needs. Perhaps there's a lesson to be taken there for us, by the way. Maybe just maybe, we should not work on mastering the art of small talk. Maybe we should forget trying to discuss the weather when we're with people we don't know. And talk about the thing that binds us together. When we have nothing else in common, we have that and that's everything. Share your story of the work of Christ in your life. Listen to their story of what Christ has done in and for them and through them. And be bound together in your amazement of who Jesus is and what he has done. Paul goes on, he branches from there in the chapter of the second half of chapter 1, most of chapter 2, and beginning of chapter 3 is an articulation of the universal need for the righteousness that is revealed in the gospel. First of all, the righteousness of God is the backdrop that reveals our sin, Paul says, but he also then explains we all need it. And so he talks about the worst of the worst in chapter one, those sinners that are obviously sinners. We all know they're sinners. And they need the gospel. But then in chapter 2, he talks about those who are more or less good people. That sweet little old lady who lives down the street from you. Maybe you're Nana, a nice person, but they need the gospel. And then in beginning of chapter 3, he goes so far as to talk about the religious, the Jews, those who are law-abiding Jews. Those who would see in themselves as keepers of the Old Testament, he says they need the gospel. And how does he conclude in the middle of chapter 3? There is none righteous, no, not one, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Having proven that all mankind is revealed to be unrighteous. Paul has then been explaining that the righteousness comes by faith in chapter 4. He says, here's where righteousness comes in. And he points to Abraham. And he says, listen, we all agree that Abraham's a righteous man. We all agree that Abraham is a man to be respected and to be emulated, but not because of what he did, but because of what he believed. Because of where his faith was placed. For Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness And this is where we pick up now in chapter 5. This is the trajectory of the book of Romans up to this point. And having established that we are saved by grace through faith. In chapter 4, he now launches in chapter 5, verse 1, and follow along with me now. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us to shame. Because God's love has been poured into the hearts, into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. For while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. Now, one will scarcely die for a righteous person. Though I suppose perhaps for a good person one might dare to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God? For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more. Now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Having established that we all need the righteousness of God, having established that it comes to us by faith in Christ, Having outlined the essence, if you will, of the gospel, here in Romans 5, Paul begins to elaborate on the benefits of the gospel, of those things which accrue to us. Because of the gospel. And it's going to be the foundation for his turning in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, and saying, therefore Let us live lives worthy, therefore let us live as living sacrifices. He's going to say that in chapter 12 because of these benefits. If this is what we have gained, shouldn't we live in light of that? So let's take a look at the benefits of the gospel that are outlined in Romans 5. Beginning in verse 1. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. One of my all-time favorite quotes comes from A. J. Tozer's book, The Pursuit of God. And he wrote this. Has it ever occurred to you that 100 pianos, all tuned to the same fork, are automatically tuned to each other? They are of one accord by being tuned not to each other, but to another standard to which each one must individually bow. So one hundred worshippers met together, each one looking away to Christ, are in heart nearer to each other than they could possibly be, where they become unity conscience, his quotes, not mine, and turn their eyes away from God. to strive for closer fellowship. You know the great deception of a Christmas without Christ is the hope of peace without authority. The world understands that unity and harmony exist when everyone is tuned to the same standard, to the same fork, as Tozer put it. And they have agreed to raise a standard, but not one of godliness. And so we have no peace Because we cannot agree to that authority. Why not? Because the standard that we all that is put up there is one that is arbitrary. And is not interpreted and applied uniformly. And so we cry out, hey, there should be kindness in the world. And we all say, yeah, I can get on board with kindness. Right up until the time that there's a pregnancy we don't want. And somehow kindness doesn't apply to that unborn child, but that child's worthy of murder. There can be no peace when that's the arbitrary authority in the world. We all say, hey, the standard should be the rule of law, and everybody goes, yes, the rule of law, that's so important. But generally half of us mean that it applies to immigrants and the other half means it applies to former presidents and nobody agrees that it applies to everybody. How can there be peace when there's no authority? When there's not one standard to which we all must bow When we all are in agreement that that's the truth, that's what we're accountable to, that's the one we have to submit to, then we can agree with each other, then we can be at peace with one another And Paul is arguing that one of the great benefits of the gospel is that we are at peace with God. We have come to understand that He is the authority in our lives, that we are accountable to Him And when we are accountable to him, when we are answerable to him, then peace between us becomes a real possibility. He is not going to explain yet how this is going to play out in our interpersonal relationships, but he is laying the foundation of understanding That when we admit that God is the authority in our lives, when we admit that we owe Him our obedience, when we are at peace on that front through Christ Jesus, Then there can be a hope of peace between us. Because we are like Tozer's pianos being tuned to that same fork Secondly, in verse 2, Paul says, Through our Lord Jesus Christ, we have also obtained access by faith into this grace. in which we stand. Grace is going to be a major theme of the book of Romans. He has touched on it a few times already. He is going to come back around to it. uh uh uh in in in great depth in a future chapter, so we won't unravel all of the meaning of grace just yet. But this is the second benefit of the gospel which Paul lists here for us. And he is telling us that it is the the basis of our ability to stand at all in God's presence. That apart from God's grace, we would not even exist. It is the grace in which we stand. And so he's arguing for unity, that we stand in the grace of God as the basis for the unity of the people of God. And while we will come back around to the doctrines of grace several times in the Book of Romans, I do want to say this now. And by the way, I don't say this because I think in particular you need to hear this, but I think it needs to be said. And I think we all need to be reminded of this from time to time. It is a difficult, painful irony That very often when the so-called doctrines of grace are debated, when they're discussed among Christian brothers and sisters, they become bones of contention. rather than the cause of graciousness. We must proclaim the truth of the gospel of grace We must proclaim the doctrines of grace and the sovereignty of God that's going to be so clearly put forth in Romans 9 and 10 and 11. We must proclaim these things. But then we must turn right around And express that grace to our brothers and sisters who don't see it, who don't get it, who don't understand it, who can't wrap their heads around it. The doctrines of grace must never be the source of strife. They must be proclaimed to the glory of God, held to the reason to be thankful to God. But never is a reason to despise or dislike or break fellowship with a brother or sister in Christ. For if we understand how we have been saved by grace, Then we will be patient and gracious. There is a rejoicing is the third benefit, of the gospel. Joy. We rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character. And character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. In his commentary on the Book of Romans, F. F. Bruce, he quotes a preacher he knew, and he put it in the who put it this way: peace and joy. Are twin blessings of the gospel. Peace is joy resting. Joy is peace dancing I love that. It's beautiful. Let me say that again. Peace is joy resting. Joy is peace dancing. Paul opens this section on the benefits of the gospel by saying that through Jesus we have peace with God. And now he describes the rejoicing that is ours in Jesus. And the nature of that rejoicing, when he describes it, is at first hard to understand. At least I think it is for most American Christians today. I'm not certain I've ever met an American Christian who rejoiced in suffering. It doesn't seem to matter what it is. Our HVAC systems, our mattresses, our lazy boys, our food. We like comfort. I mean, we have a category called comfort food. Isn't that interesting? We like comfort. You know, in the mid-20th century, when there was war, when America was at war, We rallied around the idea of sacrifice, of rationing, in support of that war. In the beginning of the 21st century, when we went to war, our president explicitly told us not to sacrifice. Not to change our lives, to go on living like we'd always lived. Why? Because in the 21st century in America, sacrifice is a losing political idea. That we would suffer for a cause doesn't win any votes. But the New Testament always Treat suffering as the normal condition of the Christian. Jesus warned that if you followed him, you would suffer He didn't preach that you'd have a bigger house and a newer, nicer car. He preached that you would suffer. He taught his followers that if people hated him, they would surely hate you as his followers. And I think most of us are able to see that a time of renewed and increased suffering is on the horizon for American Christians. It's coming. Can we rejoice in it? Will we rejoice in it? Why would we rejoice in it? I've used this illustration before, but I can't come up with a better one, so I'll use it again. I love the scene in the in Fiddler on the Roof, the musical. Where Tevya says to Golda, Do you love me? He sings it, I won't sing it. Do you love me? And at first she's kind of scratching her head, kind of going, what do you mean do I love you? I'm your wife. And he says, yeah, but do you love me? And she is frustrated and she's struggling and she's trying to clean the house and he's annoying and he won't drop it. Do you love me? And do you remember what she concludes? Do you remember how it wraps up for her? I can't find that though. I won't be able to do it for memory. Here it is. He says, she says, in Gold that she's singing, she says, for twenty-five years I've lived with him, fought with him, starved with him. Twenty-five years my bet is his. If that's not love, what is? And it was the suffering they did together. It was what they went through together that convinced her that she actually did love him. I think one of the reasons so many American Christians struggle with the assurance of salvation, am I really saved? Am I really a believer? Is my faith genuine enough? I think one of the reasons is we don't suffer. And when the suffering comes, and it is coming, brothers and sisters, when the suffering comes, one of the great benefits of it is the realization of the genuineness of your faith. The only reason I would have put up with this for this long, the only reason I would live in Rome with all of the persecution of the Roman government The only reason I would continue in this world with all the difficulties that are coming for us as Christians, the only reason, is because I really do believe this. Because my hope really is in the world to come and not in this world. Because I long for what Christ will do when he reigns on the earth, and I don't have any hope in any politician in the here and now. When we have suffered like that for Christ, we will rejoice for the confidence we have in our faith, for the assurance That Christ is ours and we are his. That's why Paul can say that they rejoiced in suffering, because it gave them phenomenal confidence. And it will for us as well. Another benefit of the gospel, as Paul lays it forth there in Romans 5, in verses 6, 7, and 8. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. Now, one will scarcely die for a righteous person. And I wish at this point we could be a little more liberal with our translation, because I don't think it comes through always in a wooden translation. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person. And Paul is basically backtracking, going, okay, I suppose, I guess I could see that for a really good person, somebody might actually die. Verse 8, but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There are those scenes in war movies based on true stories, real accounts. When a grenade is thrown into the foxhole And the one soldier throws himself on the grenade to absorb the energy of that grenade entirely in his body and to spare his comrades from the death that that great grenade would rain down on them. Why? Because they are worthy of being saved, in his view. They are my brothers in arms, and I will die for them. But there is no scene, and in fact it's unimaginable to picture, let's say, I don't know, pick three of the worst guys of the 20th century. Maunt Sedong, uh uh uh Adolf Hitler, and Joseph Stalin. Three of them are having a coffee together over there, and a grenade is thrown in their midst. Now who jumps on that grenade? Nobody, right? We all dive away from that. We all run as fast as we can. Because it doesn't break our hearts if they blow up. That's the picture of what Paul is describing in the gospel here, the benefit of the gospel. That Jesus threw himself on that grenade. That the wrath of God, the justice of God, was going to blow up in our faces and kill us And while we didn't deserve it, we were not worthy, we were not comrades in arms, we were the enemy. Jesus got up out of his foxhole, the only one who was on God's side. He ran across the battlefield to his enemies and jumped on a grenade in their foxhole to save their lives. That's the picture here. While we were yet enemies Christ died for us while we were still sinners. And do not make the mistake of thinking. Do not imagine that Christ did that so the Father would love us. For the text is very clear. This is not how Jesus made God love us. It's the other way around. God loved us, and therefore Jesus did this. F. F. Bruce puts it this way: So entirely at one are the Father and the Son that the self-sacrifice of the latter can be presented as a token of the love of the former. The death of Christ is indeed the supreme manifestation of God's love. Listen carefully to this. What a perversion of the divine character it is. To imagine that Christ died for human beings in order to make God love them. It wasn't the grumpy God of the Old Testament despising us. And the wonderful God of the New Testament, Jesus, he stepped in, and now the grumpy God of the Old Testament likes us. That's not how this is being said. The Father loved us enough to send his son. In this his love, John writes Not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Jesus worded it this way in John 3. 16. For this is the way God loved the world. He gave his one and only Son. Love moves God to justify us, to cover us with the righteousness of Christ. Not the other way around One of the great benefits of the gospel is that we become aware of the love of God for us. That we become conscious. Of his heart toward us. And if that's how our relationship with him began, just consider what a blessing it could go on to continue to be. One of the things I love about the men's and women's Bible study going on right now is that it's trying to reveal to us the continuing nature of the heart of God toward those who are his. The one who did this for us will continue to love us Finally, in this passage in Romans 5, Paul concludes with reconciliation. If you were to take the concept of the benefits of the gospel in Paul's idea and Paul's mind, if you were to sum them up in one word, it would be this word reconciliation. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies We were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. We have already seen the essence of reconciliation. Back in Romans 3 verse 25, we saw that Jesus Christ was put forward as a propitiation. for us, a propitiation for us. And we considered what that word meant. Remember we saw it in contrast to expiation. Ex means out or away from. To be expiated is to be taken out from underneath the wrath of God. I used the illustration of my childhood where I broke the neighbor's window. And I went to the hardware store and I bought the glass needed and I fixed the window. I expiated myself. Toward Mr. and Mrs. Clapper. I righted my wrong. I returned myself to a neutral standing toward them. They had no reason to dislike me any longer. Their window was fixed. But that's not what we have here. We have propitiation, probing for, or towards, or in favor of. You're for it if you're pro. And what do we have being said here? That Christ made God favorable to us. Or because God was favorable to us, he sent Christ. I guess that's the better way to say it. Because God was favorable to us, he sent Christ. Propitiation. He not only fixed the broken window, but while he was at the hardware store, he bought a window box and he filled it with flowers and he melted it on the wall so that Mr. and Mrs. Clapper would love me even more. So that he would be favorably inclined toward me. The propitiation, this idea of reconciliation. The essence of the gospel is that in Christ Jesus we are reconciled to God. We are made right with Him. We are in accord with God. We are in line with everything That he holds dear. If you search the word reconciliation online, if you go to Google and search reconciliation, all the top answers are not going to be related to what we're talking about. You're not directly related. It all comes from accounting. This idea that two different ledgers, two different books, two different financial records can be reconciled to each other. That they match up. That the debits in one correlate to the credits on the other, and vice versa. And that everywhere you see this amount, you see the corresponding amount over here. And everything lines up just perfectly. But that really is kind of the essence of what Paul's saying here to us. Whatever the requirements are of God are over here, in Christ we have them. Righteousness, boom, we've got it. Payment for sin, boom, we've got it in Christ. Everything that God requires of us, all of His requirements in His accounting ledger of humanity are met for us in Christ. We are reconciled to God. Now it would be easy to end the sermon right there and go, isn't that wonderful? And it is. It's a wonderful reason to continue in worship. It's a wonderful reason to continue in hope and in faith and to walk forward with great joy this week. But remember, Paul is not principally writing the letter to the Romans as a doctrinal treatise. It's an occasional letter. It was written to a specific occasion. And what do we see in this church? That it's a mess, that there are divisions, that there are socioeconomic divisions, that there are cultural divisions between Jew and Gentile That there are all manner of struggles within this church. So what is he doing? Why is he talking about reconciliation? It's because he wants unity in the church. And how is he going to accomplish that? Well, he's preaching the gospel. Why? Because if we understand we've been reconciled to God, then we're going to begin to understand our need to reconcile to one another. If you ever stop to think, and by the way, our psalm of which we opened talked about this. How did David say it? Against you and you only have I sinned. He murdered Uriah. Against you and you only have I sinned. You ever stop to pay attention to how Jesus words things? He forgives sins not committed against him, or at least not seemingly committed against him. Somebody comes up and they've done something wrong, they've done this, they've done that, the woman caught in adultery, whatever the case might be, the young man of the mass, over and over again Jesus says, Your sins are forgiven. There's no record of them sinning against him He absolutely treats all sins as though they are against him. Why? Because he was God. Our sins are principally against God. And the message, the groundwork, the foundation that Paul is laying here is to say, dear Christian, if you understand the degree to which you have alienated God, offended God, angered God And if you understand how your sins look to him and he has reconciled you to him and him to you. And how on earth can you not forgive someone else? How can you not be reconciled to your brother or sister who has offended you? You're not righteous and upright and perfect and holy He is, and yet he found a way, made a way, paid the cost to be reconciled to you. Will you not bear some of the cost? To be reconciled to your brother and sister. Will you not forgive? Let it go. Not make them pay for it. And to seek to reconnect with them and to rebuild that relationship He is saying to the poor believer in the church, be reconciled to the rich one. Yes, they've oppressed you economically. Yes, their business practices have been less than ideal, but be reconciled to them. He is saying to the slave in the midst of the Roman church, Be reconciled to your master. Yes, they have owned you. Yes, they own everything about you, including your body and its use for their own perverse pleasure, hopefully in the past. But in the end, that sin was principally against God. And God has reconciled Himself to that brother or sister. Will you not do the same? Many here this morning have suffered horrible, grievous wrongs committed against you. Difficult things. Brutal things. But will you not be reconciled to that other person? Are you more righteous than God, that a sin against you is more grievous than the one against him? Yet he has reconciled us to himself Jesus warns over and over again that the one who cannot forgive may not be forgiven. And vice versa, the one whose debt has been expunged will go gladly and expunge the debt of others. We may not have the suffering that produces the hope of eternal life, but we can evaluate the authenticity of our faith by looking at our willingness to forgive. Those who do not forgive may not be forgiven. Those who are not willing to be reconciled may not themselves be reconciled. We rejoice in God, through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. This is the summary of the gospel. We have been made right with God. We have been reunited to him, reconciled to him. And Paul is going to go forward and say, we ought therefore to be reconciled to one another. Let's pray. Lord, this is difficult teaching. It's a wonderful, glorious teaching of the gospel. It's a beautiful truth. of all the benefits that we have in you. And yet when we think about how that ought to change the way we live, affect how we think, um incline us toward our brothers and sisters. It's a difficult thing to accept sometimes. Help us. Forgive us when we fall short of this. Teach us. Lead us. Show us. So that we would be, like Christ prayed in John's Gospel, that we would be, our unity with one another would reflect the degree you love us. And our love for one another would be a mirror of our understanding of your love for us. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.