We've taken a break uh from our study of Acts this Holy Week to look at Luke's account of the events of Holy Week and invite you to open your Bibles to Luke 24, Luke chapter 24 We'll be reading various verses from that in just a moment. As you're turning there, I wanted to introduce the text a little bit in this way and to think about how it is that we receive certain events in our lives. Events that are happy, good events, events that we're excited about, things that we are glad to have happen to us, they need no warning. We don't have to be told that they're coming. When they happen, we rejoice in them. And yet, bad things that are going to happen to us, we receive them much more easily if we have some warning they're coming. There's a reason the doctor says those little words, you're going to feel a little something, embraces us to get ready for that pain. When the boss walks in with good news, he doesn't prep us in any way. He can come in and just blurt out, you got the promotion, you got the raise. But if it's bad news and she has to break it to us, she's going to give us some signals that bad news is coming. We need to talk. Times have been tough and a layoff is on its way. Warnings about bad news help brace us for that news. Many of us have had this experience in hard ways in our own lives. A loved one who dies suddenly, unexpectedly uh is a shock to our system. The one who uh we see the incoming for weeks or months in advance, it's sad, and yet we can prepare ourselves to deal with it. When good news, when good things happen, we don't need to be warned that they're going to happen. But when bad things are going to happen There is some comfort in knowing that it's coming. We're going to see that theme in the text this morning. We're going to see the angels say to the weeping women, Remember how he told you. We're going to see Jesus say, remember my words. We're going to see the disciples recall that they had been told about the events of Holy Week. Look now in Luke 24. We're going to read starting in verse 1. But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared. And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. But when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed at this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you while he was still in Galilee That the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified on the third and on the third day rise. And they remembered his words. Verse 36. And they were talking about these things. As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace to you. Verse 44. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures and said to them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead. And that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word. Let us hear its message that you had foretold all the events of Holy Week, and that in foretelling them you re announce yourself as the one who controlled these events and brought them about. Let us remember that today. And in remembering, let us also remember the good news of repentance and forgiveness that was proclaimed in the name of Jesus. And in all of this, let us remember that you have also promised us so much more to come. Let us hear your word, let us remember your word. Let us remember that you have told us these things. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen. The passage opens with women going to the tomb expecting to find a body. And many in Easter sermon has pointed out the fact. that they shouldn't have been there. At least not looking for a dead body. They shouldn't have brought burial spices. They shouldn't have come with the the fr the the the the uh uh uh frankincense and the and the things that would be the aromatic spices that would have been used to adorn his body For they should not have expected to find him dead, because Jesus had told them what was going to happen. And yet what we see is that they are there and they are perplexed. Verse 4. And they're in the wrong place, according to the angel, in verse 5. Why do you seek the living among the dead? And then in verse 6 They remember how he had uh they're told to remember how he had told you. You see, Jesus had told them that these things were coming. Jesus had told his followers what would happen to him, so that when it happened, it wouldn't catch them off guard. That they would be prepared mentally, emotionally, spiritually. So for example, in Luke 9. 44, Jesus says, Let these words sink into your ears. The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men. They've seen him exercise authority over demons. They've seen him control the weather. They've seen him raise people from the dead. They understand Jesus to be the one in control, and now he says something shocking is going to happen. It's going to appear that I'm out of control. The Son of Man is going to be given into the hands of men. It's going to appear as if others are running the show. And he knows that's going to be a shock to them. And he tells them, Let this sink into your ears. In Luke 18, 32, he says, The Son of Man will be delivered over to the Gentiles and will be mocked. And shamefully treated and spit upon. And after flogging him, they will kill him. And on the third day he will rise. After seeing all those other things, after seeing the Son of Man given over to the Gentiles, given over to Pilate in the control of the Romans, after seeing the Son of Man flogged and mocked and spat upon. And die. After seeing all of that fulfilled, they should have anticipated that the last phrase would be fulfilled, and on the third day he will rise. In John 16, Jesus warns them this way: A little while and you will see me no longer, and again a little while, and you will see me. He warns them that he will be leaving, but coming back. In Luke, sorry, sorry, John 14, Jesus even warns about his ascension. And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place, you may believe. In other words, not only am I going to die and come back, but then I'm going to leave again. And he warns them so that they will not be surprised. Not only does Jesus tell them that these things are going to happen, He also points out that the scriptures had been telling him for a long time, telling them. Luke 24, 27. And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he, Jesus, interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Jesus told them that these things were going to take place. The scriptures also told them. The scriptures told them that suffering would take place, that the Messiah would suffer. Isaiah 53. 3 says he was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. The psalmist in chapter 22 says this, all who see me mock me. They make mouths at me, they wag their heads. Jesus had told them that these things would happen. The Scriptures told them that these things would happen. The Scriptures also foresaw his death. Isaiah 53, 8 By oppression and judgment he was taken away. Down a few verses later it says, and they made his grave with the wicked. The scriptures foretold the death of Jesus. The scriptures also foretold his resurrection, as we heard in our call to worship in Psalm 1610. Where the psalmist says, you will not let your holy one see decay, see corruption. A few weeks ago in our Acts sermon series, we heard Paul preach on that very verse. How it must point to Jesus, because it couldn't be about David who wrote it, because David decayed. He saw, his body saw corruption. Jesus warned about the things that were going to happen. Jesus had told them about his suffering, his death, and his resurrection. The scriptures had told them about his suffering and death and resurrection. By the way, in our New Testament reading, and later in your at-home worship, you're going to be encouraged to recite the Nicene Creed. There's a little line in there, according to the scriptures. One of the, I don't know how old I was, but one of the first times I can remember hearing the creed, and I read that that according to the scriptures, I thought to myself, Well, what does that mean? That it isn't really true? That it's just the Bible says it happened, but it didn't really happen? According to the scriptures, these things happen. No, what that little phrase means is not that it happened in that story or in that version of history, but rather it's a statement that it happened as foretold in the prior scriptures. According to the Old Testament scriptures, according to the scriptures, it was told beforehand, and then it happened according to the way it was foretold. We must remember how Jesus' suffering, death, and resurrection were told to us. They were told to you by Jesus Himself and by the Scriptures. For in hearing that they've been told to us, we are inoculated against the bad things. We're inoculated against the despair that might come. Because we say, oh right. This was told to us. Remember how Jesus' suffering, death, and resurrection have been told you. Remember also how his how repentance and forgiveness of sins were told you. You see down there in verses 44 through 48 How Jesus turns this around and says, here's what comes out of this. Now all along Jesus had been teaching this. This wasn't a case of trying to make the best of a bad situation. In Luke 19, Jesus says, For the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost. Mark 10, 45 records this, for even the Son of Man, this is Jesus speaking, came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. Matthew 26, 28 records Jesus in instituting the Lord's Supper, and he says, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Also, in Matthew, we read the account of the one lowered through the roof. And Jesus says to him, Your son, your sins are forgiven. And many around mock Jesus. And then what does Jesus do? So that you know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins. He then turns and heals the man. Forgiveness of sins has been a theme throughout Jesus' ministry And now here, when he appears to the disciples in the resurrection, look at verses forty-six and forty-seven of our chapter. And he said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise rise from the dead. and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations. Just as we must remember that the suffering of Jesus was foretold, the death of Jesus was foretold, and the resurrection of Jesus was foretold, we must also remember. That forgiveness and repentance were foretold. And Jesus says, now that he has been raised, that message can go forward. That good news can be proclaimed to all the nations. Our assurance of grace from Romans 4. 25 said this, that Jesus was delivered up for our trespasses. Why did he die? Because we sinned. Why did he hang on the cross? Because we are evildoers. And that evil had to be paid for. The penalty for sin is death. But the verse goes on to say: delivered up for our trespasses and raise for our justification. The resurrection is God's stamp of approval on Jesus. It's the Father saying he didn't deserve to die. It is the court of highest appeal overturning the court of mankind. The courts of this world said he deserves to die. The leaders of the religion of the day said he deserves to die. But God stepped in and said, no, he doesn't. And you say, but Pastor, that's justification of Jesus. How does the verse apply it to us? How is he raised for our justification? But it goes on, the connectedness is this, that if he didn't deserve to die, if God uh validates his perfect life by raising him from the dead, Then why did he die? Then for what reason did he go to the cross? And Paul goes on to explain through much of the rest of the book of Romans that he died so that you and I could be justified. His death, having not paid for his own sins, can now pay for ours. He was raised for our justification. This is the reason that Christianity turns on the doctrine of the resurrection. If there is no resurrection, then Christianity is an absurd religion and it should be abandoned. Praise God. Not only do we have testimony to the resurrection, but the evidence is overwhelming that he arose. We must remember how Jesus' suffering, death, resurrection were told us. So that we can remember how repentance and forgiveness of sins have been told to us. We must also remember how suffering and tribulation have been told to us. Often in his earthly ministry, Jesus warned the disciples, warned his followers that there would be pain and difficulty in this life. In Luke 9, 22, he says this, the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. And he said to all, if anyone would come after me, Let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Jesus makes a direct connection between his suffering and ours. That we are going to suffer in this life because we are his followers. In Luke 14 he says this whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple In Matthew 24, Jesus says this. Matthew 24 is the account of what's called the Olivet Discourse They're on the Mount of Olives, and Jesus is telling them about what is going to come later, about the judgment of God that would come in the future. Specifically, how God's judgment would be poured out on the temple and on Jerusalem. Jerusalem and that temple had been so central to who they were as Jews And for a time would continue to be important even in among Messianics, those who believed that Jesus of Nazareth was the Messiah. For we saw in the opening of Acts how frequently the early Christians met in the temple. And so when it is destroyed, they need to know why. So the Olivet Discourse, Jesus warns them it's coming. And in Matthew 24, 25, he says, this, see, I have told you beforehand. Letting you know that it's coming. Matthew 10, 22, he says this: you will be hated by all for my name's sake. Many of us as Christians in North America have lived lives where we have not experienced that directly, at least not often, that we were hated precisely because we are Christians. But brothers and sisters, things are changing. Increasingly I hear about people having difficulty at work because of their Christianity Men and women who because the the company is following the the tide of the day, is following the societal movement toward the toward the praise of things that are The Lord calls sinful. Their jobs are increasingly imperiled, and they are increasingly facing difficulty at work. And we must know that that kind of thing is going to come. Jesus warns us, you will be hated by all for my name's sake. And in John 16, he just says more broadly in verse 33, in the world you will have tribulation. Not necessarily a consequence of our sin, not necessarily a consequence of our being a Christian, not necessarily a consequence of any one thing, but just the function of being in this fallen, broken world. You will have tribulation. Given all the warnings about the suffering that we are going to go through, that we as his followers are going to experience. It's interesting how Paul, in the midst of his suffering, takes up the issue. Paul in Philippians chapter 3, verses 8-12, addresses the issue of suffering this way. Indeed, I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him Now having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith. Let me pause there. Paul says, I'm happy to give up everything of this life. I'm happy to go through the suffering that I that was foretold, that Jesus warned me about and prepared me for. So that I can cling to Christ. Because that's my only hope for righteousness, is that I am in Jesus Christ. That his righteous life covers me. Only then can I be deemed righteous. He goes on to say this that I may be found in him, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. There it is. that power, that that justification that's available because of the resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own. We must remember how Jesus' suffering, death, resurrection were told to us. We must remember how repentance and forgiveness of sins were told to us. But we must also remember how hatred, suffering, tribulation in this world were told to us. We must remember all of his words, for they prepare us for the reality of living the Christian life while we await his return. And Paul says that for that reason, because I had been warned about this, because I knew this was coming, because this has come. His word and his control over things are affirmed in my life, and therefore I am assured of what comes next. Therefore I will press on. Because Christ has hold of me In our midweek devotional, we considered the motivational poster of the imperiled kitten and the words to hang in there. And Paul says, if you're in Christ Jesus, and Christ Jesus has a hold of you, then by all means hang in there. That's not hopeless platitude, but that's the assurance That we are going to be saved. Remember how Jesus' suffering, death, resurrection were told you. Remember how repentance and forgiveness were told Remember how hatred, suffering, and tribulation in this world were told you. But remember also how glory and eternal life were told you. John 14, verses 1 through 3, Jesus offers these wonderful words. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself. That where I am you may also be. It's interesting how Jesus frames that up If it were not so, would I not have told you? At this point, John 14 comes pretty late in his earthly ministry At this point, he has shared plenty of bad news with them, plenty of negativity with them, plenty of warnings about what was to come. He's pulled no punches. He's not painted a picture of a health and wealth gospel, a let's all be happy now and have our best life now type of gospel. He's been very clear That there's going to be tribulation, there's going to be difficulty. You're going to have to bear your cross. You're going to have to suffer. You're going to have to be willing to give up everything of this life. And he says, listen, if the future also didn't have out if there if there were no hope Of living with me in eternity, wouldn't I also tell you that? Have I not been honest with you at every turn along the way? And so I'm telling you now, honestly. Confirmed by the fact that everything else I've said has come true. I'm telling you that my death And my departure and my ascension from this world, from this earth, are going to be for the purpose Of preparing a place for you. I don't leave you just to leave you. I leave you to get ready for you. We must remember that Jesus' suffering was foretold. And because of it, forgiveness and repentance could be proclaimed in his name. Jesus shares both of those things with his disciples in our text. But we also must remember that he warned us about difficulty in this life And he warned us about great glory and comfort in the next life. Remember how Jesus' suffering and death and resurrection were told you. Remember how repentance and forgiveness were told you. Remember how hatred, suffering, and tribulation in this world were told you. But remember also how glory and eternal life were told you. Remember his word. Remember what he has told you. Because the resurrection guarantees that all the future promises will also come true. Remember these things were told you and walk in faith. Let's pray.