Well, good morning and welcome to worship. We on this Palm Sunday, we're going to take a look at Luke's account of Palm Sunday and the events of the triumphal entry. Over the last several months we have been studying through the book of Acts. We're going to take a break from that for the uh for Holy Week But we're going to stick with the same author. The human author of Acts is also the human author of the Gospel of Luke. And so we're going to consider what he has to say about Holy Week. So I invite you now to turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 19. We'll be looking at verses 28 through 40. Luke 19, verses 28 through 40. I remind us often that if you want to know how to live, what to believe, how to think about Jesus Christ. Then you have to know his word, for it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So I invite you now to hear the word of Almighty God. And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. When he drew near to Bethpage in Bethany, at the mount that is called Olivet. He sent two of the disciples, saying, Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you, why are you untying it, you shall say this, the Lord has need of it. So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it. And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they set Jesus on it. And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road. As he was drawing near, already on the way down the Mount of Olives The whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. He answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Lord, guide us in an understanding of your word. Let my words be yours. And if I stray from your meaning and your intended message, let it be stricken immediately from our memories, so that you and you alone come forward. Convict us of sin where we need to be convicted. Assure us of grace where we need assurance. Let us see glory so that we might know who Jesus really is. And let us leave today remembering who he is and the glory that is his. We offer this prayer in his name. Amen. Luke's account of the uh uh of the entry into Jerusalem of Jesus' time Jesus has been spending most of his ministry up in Galilee in the northern part of Israel, and he comes now down to Jerusalem. to to partake of the Passover there in Jerusalem. There's a map in the worship guide that'll is show you the probable path that he followed. And Luke has been Giving us a great deal about that journey. And now he focuses on the actual entry into Jerusalem. As we prepare to consider this, I want us to consider what's led up to this. What's brought us to this point? And the reason I do that is simple. Our passage started with these words, and when he had said these things. So Luke launches into the entry into Jerusalem, into the triumphal entry, by saying it is connected to what has come before. And so we're going to take a few minutes to consider what had gone before. There's an outline in the home worship guide, and you can use that to follow along. So the first thing we're going to do is to remember the journey. You see, the journey into Jerusalem did not begin here in Luke 19, and in fact, it began a long time ago. If you go back to Luke chapter 9, verse 51. Nearly ten chapters earlier, Luke begins the account of this journey from Galilee into Jerusalem And we see in 101 and 1322 and 1711 a statement that they continued on their way, tying all of these passages together as what was happening on the journey. So a little bit about the journey. That walk for one person in good health, walking briskly by themselves, is probably a three or a four-day walk. But as we read here, this is a large crowd, a big group. And there is no way that a group of that size, some of whom will be elderly, some of whom will be very young, there is no way that they could travel at that pace. So scholars agreed that this is a trip that would have taken at least a week, probably closer to 10 days, for this group to get from Galilee down to Jerusalem And so what we have here is a situation where the the the the journey is an intense journey For ten days, they are living together 24 hours a day. They are walking together along the road. They are stopping to find food together. Each evening they're entering a village looking together for lodging. Every moment of every day is spent together. It is an intense and intensive time. And it's an important time. They're traveling to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. And for those who are believers in Jesus, those who are his disciples, this is not just any old Passover. But it's a Passover with the one who is the Messiah, the one to whom the Passover pointed. And they are now going to go and celebrate it with Jesus in Jerusalem. It is an intensive time. They are Living right on top of each other with each other every moment of every day. And it is an important time. They're going to celebrate the Passover in Jerusalem. And it's a time of intrigue. Mark tells us that many who are part of this journey were fearful. They were afraid of what would happen once they arrived in Jerusalem. They knew that Jesus was persona non-grata with regard to the Pharisees and the leaders in Jerusalem, that he was not like, in fact, he was reviled and hated by them. And they were afraid of what would happen when they got there It is an important time, it is an intense time, it is a time of intrigue. And those things together make it a time when we will remember what is taught. You think about your experiences in life, your camp experiences, your short term short-term mission trip experiences, times of intensity, perhaps a conference where you were all together all day at the conference and then together in the hotel at night. These times of intense focus. And what is taught in the context of that is memorable teaching And so Jesus is teaching. And Luke lays out ten chapters of Jesus' teaching along the way. It is a fitting thing that our lives right now are filled with intensity and intrigue and importance. So that we will hear what is being taught. So that we will remember the instruction that comes from God's word and it comes through Jesus' lips. We must remember the journey. A journey that was intensive and important and intriguing. And so what was taught was it listened and heard in a special way. We must remember that teaching. We can't possibly uh uh go into any detail reviewing ten chapters worth of teaching, and yet I have offered there a survey of the sort of teaching that was that Jesus brought to them along the path. As they traveled from Galilee to Jerusalem, let's take a look at some of the things that were said. Remember, the passage opened with, and when he had said these things. Now probably that points to the immediate uh uh uh a predecessor of the text, and we'll look at that later, what came immediately before. And yet we're going to look at all that he has been saying along this journey. So we see there in 960, commit yourself fully to the kingdom of God was the teaching in that section. And I encourage you, by the way, to take a look at all these passages more fully later this afternoon. In chapter 10, verses 9 and 11, Jesus says that healing and preaching were to be done for the purpose of extolling and proclaiming the kingdom of God. Causes me to stop and think about the things we do as a church. When we do outreach, when we go into the community in various ways, do we short harvest and the broader church? Do we do so for the purpose of proclaiming the kingdom of God? There in chapter 11, verse 2, Jesus taught them how to pray. And do you remember the Lord's Prayer? Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. The kingdom of God should be near the top of the list of the things about which we are praying. We continue in chapter 11, verse 20, and we see that Jesus was driving out demons, and he says that his ability to drive out demons was an affirmation that the kingdom of God was among them. That it was there in a real and present way. Now this is an interesting contrast in Luke 11. For he says to pray that the kingdom of God would come, and then he says that the kingdom of God is among you. There is a now and a not yet aspect to the kingdom of God, and it is one that we sometimes err by not holding intention those two contradictory statements. We sometimes act as though the kingdom of God is fully realized and fully here, and that's a mistake, and it's not in accord with Scripture And we sometimes act as though the kingdom of God is a completely out in the future thing, and that's not in accord with the Scripture In Luke 11, just that one chapter, Jesus teaches that we are to pray for the kingdom to come and recognize that the kingdom has come. In chapter 12, verses 30 and 32, he tells them not to worry about this life, but to seek the kingdom of God. Even in the midst of this pandemic, we must make God's kingdom the priority. We must give to it, support it, spread it, seek it, talk about it, proclaim it. Eternal physical health will come to all who seek first the kingdom of God. In chapter 13, verse 16, Jesus says, the kingdom of God is like a mustard seed. It starts out small and it grows into this wonderful huge plant. A few verses later, he says the kingdom of God is like a woman who waits patiently for her bread dough to rise. Down later in chapter 13, Jesus teaches that the entrance to the kingdom of God is through the narrow door. And he talks about the fact that people try to force their way into the kingdom, coming through ways other than him, other than the narrow door. And it is a reminder. That Jesus taught that he was the only way in to the kingdom of God. In chapter 14 Verse 15, Jesus says that it is a great blessing to be able to eat bread in the kingdom of God. In chapter 16, he says the kingdom of God is something into which Everyone is forcing themselves. We see a recurrence of that theme. In chapter 17, he says the uh in response to a question from the Pharisees, he says that the kingdom of God is not coming, but is in the midst of you So again we see that scene going on. You know, it's an interesting thing. Jesus says the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. Because he is referencing himself at that point. He is saying, Because I am here, the kingdom is here Dear loved ones, dear brothers and sisters, if we want the kingdom of God to be a real thing among us, then Jesus must be real among us. And that means his word must be proclaimed faithfully and consistently. It must be obeyed faithfully and consistently. It must be what we are all about when Jesus is present among us through his word Then the kingdom of God will be present among us. For where there is a king, there is a kingdom. Oh, we sometimes talk about the idea of divorcing those two, a king without a kingdom. But that's not a reality. If a king reigns over no one, he's not a king. And if there is a kingdom that has no one reigning over it, it's not a kingdom. And Jesus says that because he's there, because the king is there, because he's reigning over the demons, he's reigning over the A physical illness that has come as a result of the curse and the fall of humanity. He is reigning over these things and demonstrating his kingship. Where there is a king, there is a kingdom. And where there is a kingdom, there is a king. And if we want the kingdom to be among us, then the king must be present among us And we must talk about and focus on Jesus Christ. Chapter 18, verse 20, Jesus teaches that the kingdom of God belongs to such as little children. Verse 24, the same chapter, he says, it is difficult for a wealthy person to enter into the kingdom of God. Later in that same chapter, he says that those who abandon everything for the kingdom of God will receive many times more in the life that is to come. Participation in the kingdom of God is an all or nothing proposition. You must die to self, as Jesus says it in other places. We must remember the journey, a time of importance, a time of intensity, a time of intrigue, for it focuses our attention. And we must remember the teaching. And the teaching was continuously about the kingdom of God. As we get closer to Jerusalem, we must remember the way in which he entered. We must remember the entry. It is a staged entry. I realize that word is going to bother some of us. There's some connotations with that word staged as though it's a false production. And yet, let me offer a definition that I found from dictionary. com. Something is staged, if it's staged to plan, organize, or carry out an activity, especially for dramatic or public effect. To plan, organize, or carry out an activity, especially for dramatic or public effect. It needn't be false to be staged And this is certainly staged. To plan or organize. Consider the planning that's involved. In verse 30, we see that arrangements have been made for a cult to be waiting. In verse 31, we see that arrangements have been made with the owner of the cult so that it'll be released to Jesus' disciples. And all of these arrangements have been organized and pulled together so that Jesus will fulfill the messianic prophecy in Zechariah 9:9. He is purposely fulfilling it. It is a planned and organized event. It is a staged event. And it is public. It couldn't be more public. It's interesting that throughout most of Jesus' ministry, when he healed someone, he told them to be quiet about it. Don't tell anyone. Go straight home. Don't talk about what happened. He would tell the demons not to not to announce who had cast them out. He would heal people and tell them to stay quiet. He would teach and tell people not to proclaim who he was. And now all of a sudden When it would have been easy to slip into Jerusalem quietly in the huge crowds that were headed there, just to pull his cloak up around his face. To look down at the ground and walk in among the crowds have been as easy as could be. And yet Jesus goes very public. It's planned and it's organized. It's public and it couldn't possibly be more dramatic We won't fully develop all the ways that the drama plays out here. If you'd like to know more about that, you can look up our sermon from Mark's account from a couple of years ago, where we develop that more fully But I'll point out a couple of little things. One, it was the custom of all to walk into Jerusalem. Even the wealthy who could afford a cart or a horse or a donkey, they would ride from their distant home. along the rough roads, they would ride right up to the gate of Jerusalem, but then they would dismount and walk into the city. Jesus does just the opposite. He walks the whole way And then rise into the city. That's how kings entered cities. That's how kings announced themselves. Jesus has made this very dramatic. And he is basking in the halal psalms that are being cast about. They're being quoted and being sung there. Verse 38, they say, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Other uh gospel writers account that they were yelling out, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest. And Jesus just sits in the middle of it and soaks it up. It's very dramatic. And then there's a confrontation with the existing leadership. The Pharisees come to him and say, You've got to shut this down. Nobody can receive praise except God Himself. You've got to put an end to this, or you're a blasphemer. And he says, no. No, they need to sing my praises. They need to proclaim my glory. It is a staged event. He has planned and organized things to occur in a certain way. He has done so publicly, and he has done so with a dramatic effect. Why? Why stage this? It's a glimpse of glory. It is an opportunity to see the veil pulled back a little bit. And see who He is. Throughout the revelation of God, throughout the history of mankind, there have been glimpses of Jesus' glory, and this is one of those We heard in our Old Testament reading from Isaiah 6 how Isaiah got a glimpse of the glory of God. He enters into the temple. And he sees God sitting on the throne. And the doorposts shake with the sound of the seraphine calling back and forth. Isaiah caught a glimpse of the glory of God. In our New Testament reading on the Mount of Transfiguration, Peter, James, and John caught a glimpse of the glory of God, the glory of Jesus of Nazareth. As he was transfigured, he was made to be, to be seen as something that he hadn't previously been seen as here on earth We get these glimpses of glory, and now we get another one. Jesus has staged this event so that we can get a glimpse of his royal glory, of his rightful kingship. of his reign over all. And the people around him see how this is playing out. In their response and behavior, we are we have confirmation that they understood what was happening. For the two disciples who bring the cult back, they recognize that what Jesus is staging, and they throw their cloaks on the cult. for him to sit on. The others begin to lay their cloaks on the ground for him to ride across. Other gospel writers tell us they were taking palm branches and laying them down and waving them and the shouting. The people see what's happening And as we've already mentioned, the Pharisees, his opponents see what's happening. Everybody there present on that day saw the nature of this staged event. That it was a proclamation of glory, of divine and royal glory. It's for that reason that the Pharisees opposed it Because they saw what it was. It is a glimpse of the glory of God. And it was a glimpse intended to force us to take a position Where do you stand? Either you join with those who are calling out Hosanna Or you stand with those who are in opposition to him. And Jesus warns about the right side and wrong side to take. We'll come back and look at that more in a moment. We must remember the journey, a journey of importance, of of intensity, and of intrigue, all meant to focus us so that we would. hear the teaching. And we must remember the teaching which was dominated by the kingdom of God. And now we must remember the entrance in which he proclaimed himself to be the king of that kingdom. And he staged this event so we would get a glimpse of his glory, as we had gotten glimpses in Isaiah and Mount of Transfiguration and other places, as John would later get a glimpse in the book of Revelation. We see these glimpses of his glory, and this is one of those. And as we remember the journey and the teachings and the entry, we must also remember the warnings. In Luke 19, 11 through 27, basically the verses that come right before our passage today, there is a warning about expectations. In fact, 1911 says something interesting. Because he was near Jerusalem, and because they supposed the kingdom of God was to appear immediately, he then taught them in two parables. Why did he offer these parables? Because they supposed the kingdom of God was going to make an appearance Because of their wrong understanding about the kingdom of God and when it would be fully manifest on earth, he teaches in parables. And so what did he teach them? Well, it's a parable about a king who goes to a land And while he's away, he leaves his servants behind and gives them charge over his wealth, some of his wealth. And they are to use it and grow it, invest it and make more, build more wealth for the king. And when he comes back, he holds them accountable for how they had handled his wealth. And when he comes back, there is a note that he was rejected by many others. And while those among those of his servants who mishandled the wealth Were chastised for it, they were not killed. They were not cast out. They were his, and they were kept. But it does tell us, look at verse 27. But as for these enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, Bring them here and slaughter them before me. One of the warnings that we've got to heed is this warning right here. What is your expectation of Jesus? Is he just a really nice guy who's going to sweep everything under the rug? Who's gonna just forget about those those lapses you had? We're not gonna call them sin. They're lapses He's going to forget it all, be a pal, slap you on the back, and let you into his heaven. It's not how Jesus portrays himself. He says those who are his enemies will be destroyed before him. And then there is a warning about how we should respond. We must manage our expectations of the kingdom and we must manage our our expectations of Jesus, but that we also have to respond to the way he is revealed to us. We see that in chapter 19 verses 39 through 40. Jesus says, verses 39 to 40, the Pharisees say, stop them, stop them from glorifying you. And Jesus says, what are you talking about? They see my glory, they have no choice but to glorify me. If they don't, the stones will We must respond. When we get a glimpse of glory, we must respond in praise. We're fond of quoting the first question of our catechism, a question known by many Christians of any tradition and any denomination. What is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And if we're not going to do that, if that's not what we're going to be about, if we're not going to fulfill our main purpose for existing, then Jesus says we're going to be replaced by the stones. We're going to be thrown aside. We're going to be cast aside. We're going to be cut off like so many unfruitful branches and thrown in the pile and burned up. And the stones will take our place. I don't want to be replaced by a stone. And so I want to glorify when I see glory. The glimpse of glory ought to drive us to glorify. We've got to remember the journey, the teaching, the entry, and the warnings. We must remember also the anger. And you say, where was their anger in this passage? Well, not immediately in this passage, but we must remember what comes soon after this. Within that same week, many of those who had yelled out, Hosanna! Will yell out, crucify him! And they will flip sides. Why? Because they didn't heed the warnings. Because they didn't manage their expectations. They had expected him to ride in as a king and then to throw off the Roman rule. They wanted a king who would do what they wanted done Now Jesus had been teaching them all along that he came to seek and to save the lost, that he came to give his life as a ransom for many. That he came to forgive sins, that he must still go away, and that he would come back later. But despite all of that teaching, they wanted what they wanted out of this king They didn't see him for who he was and the glory that was inherently his. They saw him for what he could do for them. They saw him as a cosmic genie, as one who would deliver so many wishes, not as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And because of unmet expectations, they become very angry Many of us are aware of this. When you have a certain one, expectations and reality don't align, it creates problems. One of the reasons that Disney World can claim to be the happiest place on earth is because they do a phenomenal job of meeting and exceeding our expectations. Here, it's not that Jesus failed. It's that the expectations went out of line with his word. The expectations were not in a line with who he had revealed himself to be. And it is my fear, and it is my concern that many who call themselves Christians Are one day going to turn and jump to the other side and scream, Crucify Him! For he will not meet their expectations, and they will judge him to be a failure. Are you expecting Jesus to keep you from getting sick? Are you expecting Jesus to guard your wealth in this world and in this life? He never promised to do either of those things. And you will be disappointed. But if you are expecting Jesus to provide a next life, Where wealth will overflow and never be at risk, where health will be guaranteed for all of eternity. If that's what you're expecting out of Jesus, then you will not be disappointed. For that's what He has promised, and that's what He will deliver. We must remember the journey, an intense, important, and intriguing journey, which focuses us so that we listen. We must remember the teaching, and it was uh principally about the kingdom of God. We must remember the entry which was staged so that we would get a glimpse of his glory. We must remember the warnings that if we do not respond rightly, we'll be replaced by the stones, and we must remember the anger that comes when we don't align our expectations with his promises. But all of this will come by remembering the glory. All of this will come by remembering the glory. Focus on who Jesus is, not on what you want Him to do for you. Focus on what Jesus has actually done at the cross and not on what you want him to be. Know the Word of God so well that you know who Jesus is and what He has promised. His promise is forgiveness of sins for those who believe in him. His promise is eternal life for those who receive him. His promise is not health and wealth and well-being in this life. But his promises that those who will trade the things of this life will get many times more in the next And we remember the glory of Jesus when we see him for who he is and not what he can do for us. Then all the rest of this is going to fade away. All the rest of this is going to be hard to see because of the brilliance of the one we're looking at And it's going to be easy to expect him to be king of our life, of our world, of our eternity. Palm Sunday, the triumphal entry, it is a glimpse of glory. See the glory and respond rightly in true worship. Let's pray. Lord Jesus We do not see you as the glorious one you are. We do not treat you as one worthy of glorification. We do not offer to you enthusiastic praise, especially when we're not getting what we want. Lord, undo our expectations Change us to be people who understand who you are and what you've done and why you came, and in understanding those things rightly. We have certainty that you will meet those expectations. Let us get a glimpse of your glory on this Palm Sunday So that we will rightly understand who you are, rightly glorify you for who you are, rightly praise you for who you are. And we will never be disappointed when we do that. We pray this in your wonderful, glorious name. Amen.