Let's pray that the Spirit of God speak to us through His Word this morning. Dear Holy Spirit, we do ask that we would hear you speak through this your word this morning. And that you would be gracious to apply it to our lives, that we might grow in faith, that we might better understand who the Christ is and what he is doing. Done, and that we might understand our right and righteous response to his work on our behalf. We pray this in his name. Amen Well, we'll take up the text and read it in just a moment, but as we prepare to do so, I I want to kind of uh set the stage a little bit, and I'm actually going to do so in the context of right now where we stand in our calendar. It's that time of year where there's a lot of discussion about who's the best, who's the greatest. We've got the Screen Actors Guilds Awards tonight. We had the Golden Globes just a couple of weeks ago. The Grammys are just a couple of weeks out. And it'll be a discussion about who's the best, who's the greatest, who's the the top of their field. Who's at the peak? In the world of sports, you will sometimes around this time of year hear discussions about the goat. If you're not familiar, it's not the animal, but rather GOAT is an acronym for greatest of all time. The goat. And very often around the time of the Super Bowl there will be some discussion about the goat. Because arguably one of the candidates for that title, at least in the history of football, is still playing this time of year. Season after season after season. So we've we're handing out awards in the entertainment field for who is the best, who is the greatest. We are going to be handing out conference championships this afternoon in football. In a couple of weeks we've got the hockey all-star game. We've got the N NBA All-Star Game. There'll be some discussion about the GOAT in the history of basketball. Is LeBron James really the greatest of all time in basketball? Is Tom Brady really the greatest of all time in football? That discussion, though we put it in the context of things like entertainment and sports, the discussion about the greatest certainly is not a new discussion. And as we prepare to read in our text, we're going to find out that's exactly what's happening in our text. The disciples are having a discussion about who is the greatest. It's not the Screen Actors Guild, but rather the Disciples Guild. DGA, the Disciples Guild Awards. And they're having this argument about which of them is going to be the best. You see, they've been told that they are apostles. They are messengers who are going to be sent forth with authority. to speak on behalf of God. They've a term's already been used of them in the Gospel of Mark. And so they know that they're going to carry forth The power of God and the word of God. And with that comes some some pride of position. Look who I am. God has picked me to represent him and to carry forth his word. I'm pretty special. Well, you are, Peter, but you know the rest of us are pretty special also. We're also apostles. And in fact, you know, John over there, he's pretty quiet, humble, easy-going guy. Maybe he's the more important apostle No, no, it can't be John. It's got to be Matthew, because he was the worst sinner and he's had the greatest conversion. And this debate has broken out about which of them is the greatest apostle. Which of them is going to have the biggest legacy? And it's an astounding debate. It's an astounding discussion Because it comes immediately on the heels of Jesus' second teaching about his calling and his ministry and what he's to do. I keep reminding us, I keep reviewing this, and yet I want us to get this because there's a long flow throughout the second half of Mark 8, all of Mark IX, even into Mark 10. It's really a a a flowing connected series of lessons that Mark is trying to show us. So remind us that back in Mark eight As Jesus and his disciples were walking along, he turned to them and said, Who do men say that I am? And they said, Well, you know, some say Elijah, some say John the Baptist, you know, others say one of the prophets. And he turned and questioned to them and said, Who do you say that I am? And Peter had his wonderful answer, you are the Christ. And Jesus began to teach them. And we read in the text, the next thing we read is Jesus began to teach them That the Son of Man must suffer many things and be turned over to wicked men and be killed and on the third day be raised again. Well remember that Peter didn't like that at all. He said, no, that's not the Christ. That's not who the Messiah is. That's not what he does. And Peter rebuked Jesus. Of course, Jesus turned right around and rebuked Peter and said, get behind me, Satan. That's a lie. That's not who the Messiah is. You've got to rightly understand him. And so we talked about how that turning point in the whole gospel of Mark, the first half building us to the point where we would recognize that Jesus is the Christ, the second half getting us to understand who the Christ is and why he came. And we've begun to build toward that second confession of the centurion, who will not look at a glorious figure, but an abused and downtrodden and dead figure and come to the proper conclusion. Surely the This man was the Son of God. And so Mark's gospel has taken this new turn. And Jesus begins to instruct and teach. And God is gracious to the disciples, and he calls the inner three up on the Mount of Transfiguration, and he gives them a glimpse of the glory of the Christ. You were not wrong to think that there is glory associated with the Christ. You're just wrong in understanding of how that glory comes, when it comes, and why it comes. And they come down from the mountain and there's a debate at the bottom of the mountain, and the disciples are arguing with the disciples of the Pharisees, because they can't heal this man, and the Pharisees are taunting them. Oh, you thought you were all that, you did healings earlier, but now you can't heal. And they turn to Jesus and they say, Why couldn't we heal this? Jesus heals the man, and they say, Why couldn't we? And Jesus says, Because you didn't pray. You didn't go to God. You tried to do it on your own. You thought that the power you had before was your own power. It wasn't. It was the power of God. But in that moment, Jesus was revealed as God, because he heals the boy without praying. Basically saying, I have within me the power of God, because I am God. So the disciples have seen the glory of the Christ revealed. They've seen the prophecies of the Elijah fulfilled. They have seen the power of God in him. And then we close last time with Jesus again takes up the teaching. Now a second time he says to them, The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be turned over to wicked men, and be killed, and robbed And it's on the heels of that second confession, the second teaching, that we have the debate about who is the greatest, who is the goat. And that's where we pick up our text today, and we read a portion, starting in verse 33. And they came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them. What were you discussing on the way? But they kept silent. For on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest. And he sat down and called the twelve. Real quickly, in our culture, you stand up to teach. You stand up to take control of a room. In that culture, you sat down to teach. And what Jesus is doing here is saying, is signaling the fact that yet another time of instruction is needed. You're still not getting it. The debate you were having along the way reveals that you don't understand Come on, guys. I just told you that I am going to suffer and die. And you are my disciples and my followers, and you think that your life isn't going to be the same? I've already told you. That the one who would follow me must take up his cross in order to follow me. And you're arguing about who's going to get the glory. And so he sits down to teach them yet another time. And we continue. Verse 35. And he sat down and called the twelve, and he said to them, If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all. And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, that is, hugging him, he said to them, Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. And whoever receives me, receives not me, but him who sent me. They're in an unspecified house, and Jesus chooses to do an object lesson. Apparently the the family, the the whoever owns this house, has children in the house. Jesus as he's teaching the twelve calls one of the children over. And the term they're used in Greek implies a pretty young child. This is not like a 10 or 11-year-old. This is a toddler, probably Okay? And he calls the child over and he takes the child in his arms and he says, guys, it's like this child right here What does our society think of this child? How does our culture look at this child? And the reality is that in most like most ancient cultures, there was little regard for children. In a society predicated on regard for the elders, there was little regard for children. And Jesus says, guys, that's what it's got to be like for you. You've got to be willing to be perceived in this society like this child is perceived. And he says to them, You must, those who would receive this child a child in my name. Now we sometimes miss that part about in my name. We take this text to mean that, you know, anything and everything we do, you know, this text was talking about how we should be good to children. It really isn't. That'll come. Mark 10, the next chapter, Jesus is going to come back to that topic But that's not this text. In this text, Jesus is not talking about children, but rather he's using a child to illustrate what must go on among his followers. He says, guys, you're worried about who's going to be the greatest because you think the greatest is going to get all the glory. You think the greatest is the one that stands out in society And I'm telling you, don't fawn over the greatest. Don't kill yourself trying to throw your home open to politicians and power brokers and businessmen. But rather, if one who is as disregarded as this child comes to you in my name Bears my name. If a Christian who is himself as lowly in society as this child, and you receive him Him. You receive that sister in the Lord. Then you've received me. And if you've received me, you've received my Father who sent me. And Jesus takes this object lesson and says, guys, stop worrying about how you're going to be great in stature. It's not about the world system of greatness. It's not about climbing the ladder and being up here. Are you worried about the ones down here? You see, the twelve of you are in training to be the shepherds of my flock when I am taken away. And if you're worried about who's the greatest, then you're going to neglect the very people you're to be shepherding. And it's to be those who are immature in the faith. Those who are of no account in society, those who have the status equivalent to this little child. Those are the ones you need to consider. And we must not forget, he says, In my name. He really is saying, I want you to look after the weak and the feeble and the disregarded. Within the church, among my people, those who bear my name. You know, Jesus explains this and he explains the object lesson to the twelve. And John, the youngest of the disciples, the youngest of the twelve, i it clicks in his head, he realizes that very possibly we run afoul of this principle And he says to Jesus, let me tell you about something that happened, and you tell me if we've gone wrong. Have we missed the mark that you're talking about here, Lord? You want us to be concerned about these These little ones, the immature in the faith, the little ones who bear your name, I got a feeling we've already blown it. And we pick up here in verse 38 where John says Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him because he was not following us. Jesus, we're trying to keep the faith pure. We're trying to make sure that we have absolute control over the doctrine and everything that goes forth. We're not gonna let anybody in. No nobody who's you know the he hasn't sat at your feet, he hasn't heard all the instruction we've heard, he hasn't gone through all the classes we've gone through, he hasn't written the papers we've written. He's not as prepared as we are So we're a little concerned he could go wrong, and so we shut him down. But boy, based on what I just heard you say, uh did we did we protect the little ones or did we do something wrong here? And Jesus said, verse 39, but Jesus said, Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak ill evil of me. For the one who is not against us is for us. Truly I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink, because you belong to Christ, will by no means lose his reward And Jesus said, guys, you don't get it. You fail on that account. It's not that you protected the flock. Rather, you actually did harm to the Word of God going forth, to the gospel going forward. This guy was not working against us by your own account. He was working for us. And Jesus says that this is the standard. But those who are not working against us are for us. That's how you judge, that's how you make the call, that's how you decide who should you should shut down and who you should protect the flock from and who you should let go. It is a lesson for us To consider. There are many with whom we share a great deal of historical commonality in our church. Other churches that trace their lineage back like we trace our lineage back. history similar to our history. And yet sadly many of those churches today are actively working against the gospel. They are actively proclaiming that Christ is not the only way. That all those who hold their faith truly and sincerely will go to God. And they are working against him. But there are many with whom we do not share that common history. with whom we do not share doctrinal standards, with whom we do not overlap on a lot of the details, and yet they are faithfully declaring that Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no one goes to the Father except We need to pick our battles more carefully. It's one thing to have a friendly doctrinal debate and dialogue. with a fellow believer. It's a whole other thing to talk badly about their church because they don't align with our doctrine. To try to shut them down or to run them down. Jesus says, no, no, no, if they're not against us, if they're not stopping the gospel, if they're not keeping my word from going forward, then they are with us. That doesn't mean we have to love every word that comes out of their mouths or get excited about every ministry their church is doing, but boy, it does mean we had better not be trying to shut them down or to stop them or to in any way inhibit what they're doing. The principle upon which these things must be evaluated is that of the gospel. Are the other doctrines important? Absolutely they're important. The other teachings are important? Absolutely they're important. But we don't break fellowship over those other things And Jesus says to John, Yeah, you blew it, guys. You should not have shut him down. If he wasn't working against us, if he wasn't out there like the uh Pharisees and like the scribes, badmouthing me and running me down and talking me down, then he's with us, guys. And they begin to understand what really needs to go forward to the flock. What really needs to happen if they are to be the greatest. Jesus has told them you must be willing to serve, you must be willing to be last of all if you wish to be first of all. And now We see that again. And he says, look at verse 41. I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink, because you belong to Christ, will by no means lose his reward. There it is again. Jesus reiterates that idea of service. Of servanthood. And again, just as they were to receive the child in his name, So again, we see here that the good deed, the cup of water, is going because the person bears his name, because you belong to Christ. There is again a principle here of being concerned with and prioritizing the people of God, caring for them and looking out for them. And some will hear that and be deeply bothered, deeply offended. What? You're telling us we should look inwardly first? Isn't our job to to kill ourselves, to to serve the the world? And I'm going to argue that it doesn't appear that way according to this text. Twice now we've been told that it's attention to those who come in his name. The child, you receive the child in his name. Here you give the cup of cold water to the one who comes in the name of Christ. The one who belongs to the Christ. Now, can there be kindness and generosity shown to others? Absolutely. But that's not the job of the twelve, of the overseers. They're to be the shepherds of the flock of Christ. What did Jesus say to Peter when he reinstates him after the denial? Go and be a missionary and reach out and find the lost. No. He says, feed my sheep. Tend to my flock. And we must recognize a need to To take care of one another. We must recognize the need to tend to the Church of God, to the Bride of Christ to serve one another, to give out this cup of water to our fellow believer precisely because they are our fellow believer. Well, you say, well, Pastor, that's just going to shut down all outreach. No one will ever get converted. No one will ever come to the Lord. And I'm going to suggest that that's exactly the opposite of the truth. That it was precisely because in that dark Roman world, when there was persecution and when there was hatred, and there was so much poverty and so much uh difficulty in life. It was precisely because of the way the church loved one another and cared for one another. People said, I want to know more about what's going on there. What is that? I'd like to know more about that. And it's because the church said we are going to make sure that the weak Among us are taken care of. We are not going to throw them under the bus. We are not going to only be concerned about who are the power brokers and who are the strong. We are not going to quibble over which one of us is the greatest Rather, we're going to fight over who has an opportunity to serve. You know, my uh my previous boss tells a great story of his early days at at Knox when he was there. He uh one of the elders of the church invited him to go golfing uh on uh Saturday afternoon, one of the local country clubs. They go golfing, they get all done golfing, and they're loading the clubs back in the uh the elders' car and they go to back out and And the elder backs into another car in the parking lot. Both these elders have gone to be with the Lord now, so you know I'm not telling anything. You know. And the the elder backs into another car in the parking lot. So he's getting out his business card and he's putting the information on there to put under the window wiper and the owner of the other car walks out, and lo and behold, it's another elder at the same church. So now you've got the pastor and two elders, all from the same church, in the parking lot, with these two dented cars. My boss told me a wonderful story okay next because an argument broke out about which one got to pay for it. I'll take care of it. No, no, it was my fault. I'll take care of it. No, I probably parked too far over the line. I'll take care of it. And he said it was hilarious. The argument was not the argument the world would have had. It was the argument over which one of them got to pay for it. Looking out for one another. Taking care of one another Shepherding one another. In this discussion about the greatest, Jesus now shifts gears and says, Let me tell you what not to do. If you don't, if you want to be considered great among my followers, if you want to be one who receives great things, well you also got to avoid some pitfalls Just as a great uh uh uh quarterback in in football has got to throw a certain number of touchdown passes, he's also got to avoid a certain number of interceptions. There are things you do that can damage your reputation and your history. And Jesus now turns his attention to that. And in verse 42, he picks up and he flips it over. So in verse 41, he said, if you do these good things If you take care of one another, you give a cup of water because of Christ. You know, because they belong to Christ, you will by no means lose his reward. Actually, before I go on, I need to stop real quickly and comment on that reward idea. It is really interesting to me how much we struggle with that idea of reward, particularly in the in more reformed churches like ours. We say to ourselves, well, you know, Pastor, the the the the first question of our catechism says, you know, the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. I mean, so we've got to glorify God. We can't talk about our own rewards. And I want to point out to you that the two are not mutually exclusive. It can be both and. Those of us who are parents or who had parents, I think that covers all of us. Will understand that you can glory in the rewards of your children. You can take great pride in the success of your children. All you have to do is mention somebody's kid and I heard they had success and bam and are off and they're excited to talk. It's exciting for the parents. And as a child, you remember your parents bragging about the things you did and they were proud of the things you did. When we as believers Do the things we're supposed to do, and rewards flow out of it, it glorifies Christ. Just as the success of our children glorifies the parents It's not either or. And nor is it any way. . No, Jesus is not teaching salvation by faith. But he is saying that there is real reward that comes from obedience. As we read in the Psalm, as we saw in the Old Testament reading, as we saw in the New Testament reading. In fact, it is throughout the scriptures we needn't be afraid to talk about this. We needn't pull back from this. Yes, there will come a day when our Lord will wipe away every tear in heaven. But you've got to ask yourself, why does he have to wipe away tears? It's because they're there. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, but there still is judgment. We will All give an account. For every word that we wasted, for every opportunity we did not heed, for every chance to serve one another that we did not take And it will hurt. And we will mourn the fact that we did not live as we should have lived. We will not be condemned. And those tears will be wiped away. But boy, why wouldn't we want to minimize those right now. Why not seek every opportunity to serve one another because we belong to Christ? Jesus flips it around and has hadn't spoken about the reward side. He begins to talk about the punishment side. And in verse 42 we pick it up. Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone actually the in the Greek here it's the millstone of a donkey. And the idea is this, that there were millstones. Okay, we we don't we love Okay, so you you harvest the grain from the field, you get the wheat kernels and they're kinda hard, they got a kind of hard coating. Uh popcorn. Picture of popcorn before it's popped, that kind of a hard shell in the other side. You need to grind that and break it apart if you're going to get the flower. Grind it a flour. There were millstones that were small and made to be worked by hand, you know, so you could in the household, you know, work them. But then there were these millstones that were huge. And they would be to be driven by a beast of burden. A donkey or an ox would be uh lashed to them and they would walk around and move these huge millstones that were far too heavy for any human being. That's literally the word donkey gets left out of our English translations, but it's there in the Greek. This is the millstone of a donkey. This is one so big that you cannot move it as a human being. You need a beast of burden to move this millstone So big you can't move it, let alone pick it up. And he says, it would be better. For him, if he leaves the little one away astray. And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled Than with two hands to go to hell to the unquenchable fire. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, where their worm does not die and the fire is not Quenched. Jesus now turns to the other side and says, if you want to be great, if you want to be one of the great ones of my followers, you must do these good things. You must look out for the least among us. You must serve your brothers and sisters in the Lord. He says, but you also must avoid this. And he really lists two things that are tied together under the rubric of sin. Do not lead anyone else into sin. Do not cause one of the least of these to stumble into sin. That's so serious. That's sin. That's so bad. It'd be better for you to die, to drown in the sea with a millstone around your neck than to lead a a little immature brother or sister into sin. He says, but you also need to tend to yourself And you need to recognize how serious sin is. And you need to avoid it Now to be sure Jesus uses a literary device here. He speaks in hyperbolic terms, exaggerates this. I don't really for one moment believe that he is espousing actual maiming of our bodies. That's not what this is. But the whole point of the literary technique of hyperbole is to drive home how important something is. You exaggerate and go over the top precisely so your hearers will know this is a big deal. So I don't know that we need to necessarily gouge out our eyes, but maybe we need to avert them from certain things. I don't know that we need to actually cut off our feet, but maybe we need to cut off the path to some of the places. Our feet are taking us. I don't think Jesus is actually telling us to lop off our hands. But he certainly is telling us that we need to be attentive. to the works of those hands. And where they take us into sin, they put us at great risk. Where our eyes cause us to lust, they bring serious consequences. Consequences where our feet lead us astray. There are dire, dire uh uh circumstances that follow. It's a big deal. Jesus closes out this way, for everyone will be salted with fire. Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves and be at peace with one another. It's a long passage, but we see now it comes right back to where it started. It started with an argument among the twelve, and now Jesus comes right back around that says stop arguing with one another. What you need to recognize is your value as salt. And if you aren't salty Then what's going to be salty? And if the church is not going to stand up for the righteousness required by God and his word, then who's going to? You want to know how we ended up in a society where anything and everything goes under the rubric of marriage? How is it that we got to a point where we're approving homosexual marriage? It's because the church a long time ago stopped caring about heterosexual sin We stopped calling that sin. We stopped treating that as serious. I was part of a Christian school once upon a time where there was some debate about whether or not we should allow a certain student to enroll because there was some suspicion about the sexual orientation of their parent. Nothing concrete, suspicion. And what was interesting, in the midst of that debate Somebody stopped the conversation and said, yeah, but isn't John Smith's mom living with her boyfriend? And he's here. And we're not doing anything about it. It points out the seriousness of this right here. We allowed our feet to take us down the the path of anything goes in terms of heterosexual sin, and now we're shocked because anything goes in terms of homosexual sin? We've allowed it to go down the path of we'll gossip under the guise of of prayer requests. And now we're shocked that there's fake news that's permeating our world? He says, tend to yourselves. Look out for yourselves. Because if you aren't salty as my followers, then there is no salt. There's nothing left. For uh salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? He says, have salt in yourselves. Be at peace with one another. Let's be those who quibble over who gets to serve. Let's be those who quibble over who gets to pay for the bumper That's dented. Let's be those who quibble over who gets to reach out to one another in loving-kindness. Let's not be those who are trying to figure out which one of us is the greatest. You know, I'm not going to be on that committee if I don't get to chair that committee. Jesus. has been teaching his disciples that he is going to suffer many things and then die. They've missed The fact that to be his followers requires the same thing. To suffer much and to be willing to die. In his service. Give yourself up for that cause. For the cause of Christ in the gospel. For it is It's the only thing worth letting go of this life. Let's pray