Open your Bibles to Romans 15. 7. Romans 15, beginning in verse 7, page 1128 of the Pew Bible in front of you there. This is our penultimate sermon in our Roman series. I love to work in the word penultimate whenever possible. This is our penultimate sermon in the Roman series. You'll recall that we began in chapter 16, so next week will be our last sermon in chapter 15, and thus our last sermon in the book of Romans. Before we take off this text, let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Spirit of God, work through my lips this morning that we would hear you speak. Open our ears to hear these words and our hearts to believe them and obey them. And if I should say anything, Lord, that is out of accord with your word, let it be Immediately forgotten. So that it is your truth and your truth below which rests upon us as we leave this morning. We ask this in the gracious name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. I don't actually recall all that much that the preacher said at our wedding. I remember Becky taking vows. She says I took some. That's kind of a blur. But in his homily, in his charge to us, there was a line that stuck. He says, love never fails. People fail to love, but love never fails. I suppose if I'm only going to remember one line, that's a pretty good one. I'd like to put a Romans 15 spin on that, if I might. The gospel never fails. We fail to uphold it, to believe it, to live it. But the gospel never fails. How do we fail the gospel? Paul's thesis statement of the entire book of Romans, way back in chapter 1, was that the gospel was the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Now, why? How does it save? What is the mechanism? He goes on to say. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed. When we imagine that the gospel needs our help, making us righteous, we fail the gospel. It's called legalism. If, on the other hand, we imagine that the gospel merely tapers over sin, kind of tricking God And makes us merely look righteous, we also fail to apprehend the real power of the gospel. To reveal real righteousness. It's called antinomianism. But we can fail the gospel in other ways as well. The point of the righteousness which the gospel provides is because righteousness is necessary to be reconciled to God. It was wickedness that separated us from God, and it is righteousness which allows us to be reconciled to Him. And the gospel affects that reconciliation by giving us the needed righteousness. Last week, Paul was emphatic. We must not, we cannot love the freedom we have in Christ more than we love our brothers and sisters. Anyone who thinks themselves strong in the faith, he said, if they're strong in the exercise of godly freedom That person, he said, was obligated to give up that freedom for the sake of the weak, who might be made to sin in the exercise of a comparable freedom. Now, why is that? Because to properly represent the gospel in this world, to live out the gospel before others, we must be reconciled to one another. How is anyone going to believe that the gospel has power to reconcile us to a holy God whose standard is just a little higher than ours? How are we to believe that it's possible to be reconciled to him when we cannot be reconciled to one another? Verse 7. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised, that is to say, the Jews. To show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs. In his covenant with Abraham, the patriarch of the patriarchs, God promised him, I will be your God and the God of your offspring after you. That's why righteousness was necessary. To make that promise possible. Christ, Paul says, served the circumcised, he served God's covenanters, the Jews, by living righteously and dying righteously. Thus, righteousness was available so that Jews might be acceptable to God. But wait! That's not all, for look at what he goes on to say in verse 9. In order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles and sing to your name, Psalm 18. And again it is said, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people, Deuteronomy 32. And again, praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him. Psalm 117, with which we opened our service. And again Isaiah says, the root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles. In him were the Gentiles hope. Isaiah 11. Why is Paul so insistent that the Roman believers get a law? Because reconciliation is central to the gospel. In it, God reconciles Jews, his enemies, to himself. And seeing that, Paul says, Gentiles are going to say, hey, I want a piece of that. I want that. If they can be reconciled to God, I want to be reconciled to God. And that's not going to be believable if reconciliation is never observed. If it's never seen on the earth, how are we going to believe it to be possible? If we are so badly out of tune with one another, Who's going to believe that we are somehow aligned with God? In my high school band, if my bassoon was out of. . Yes, I played the bassoon. Pretty cool, huh? If my bassoon was out of tune with Jeff's trombone, it wasn't because we had failed to tune to each other. We never did that Rather, each of us was to tune to the oboe. And by being in tune with the oboe, we would be in tune with one another. If Jeff and I were out of a tune with each other, one of us, or both of us, had failed to properly tune to the oboe. That's a picture of what Paul is saying here. If there is disharmony in the body of Christ, somebody is out of tune with God. And maybe all of you are. If we're going to live gospel lives, if we're going to demonstrate that it is possible to be reconciled to God, Then it's going to be shown in the way we are reconciled to one another. And so Paul adds this prayer in verse 13: May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing. So that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Of all the things that Paul might have prayed for at church, it's interesting that he chooses to pray for joy and peace. He wanted them to enjoy being in the church, to be at peace in the church. To find great comfort in being a part of the body of Christ. And to what end? Hope. So that they might abound in hope. His logic is simple. If Jew and Gentile, slave and slave owner If the learned and the uneducated could all get along in the Roman church, then there would be a restoration and an emboldening of their faith. They would really see a practical playing out of the gospel and believe that they were also reconciled to God. Now someone might say, but Pastor, I did all that I could to be reconciled to that man or woman. And they just refused reconciliation. Paul knows that. He has already said earlier in Romans, inasmuch as it depends on you, live at peace with all men. Paul understood better than we do that it takes two to tango. We say this wrong, we use this incorrectly. The tango is this beautifully coordinated dance. When one moves one way, the other has to move the other. They've got to move in perfect harmony so they don't set on each other. It takes two to tangle, it takes two working together to make something beautiful. And Paul says, I get it. If the other person won't be reconciled, there's nothing you can do in the end. But be sure you have exhausted every effort. to be reconciled to that brother or sister. For when you do not make the effort, when one of the dancers refuses to give way when they need to, catastrophe happens. They trip over each other, and they stumble, and they fall, and they hurt each other. And what should have been beautiful, what should have been artistic, What should have been engaging to watch becomes a disaster Why does anyone refuse to make the effort for reconciliation to the church? Ultimately, it's because they don't really comprehend the effort Christ made to be reconciled to us. They have not fully wrapped their brain and heart around the gospel. We tend to imagine that the churches of the New Testament were somehow purer. They were more spiritual than our churches are today. And we imagine that since they were closer to the apostles, some of them even led by the apostles, that they were less prone to error and more likely to get it right. But if this church in Rome in the Apostolic era needed this kind of admonition, this kind of guidance We certainly need a dose of it also. Yet we keep reading. Verse 14. I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness. You or I might blow a little sunshine now and then. We might say things that aren't quite true just to make somebody feel good about themselves. Paul does not do that. Paul is totally willing. To call out sin when and where he sees it. In fact, he's not just willing, he sees it as his obligation. The doctor who says nice things when you are truly sick is not a good doctor. The pastor who says nice things when you are spiritually dying is not a good pastor, but Paul is a good pastor. Paul will speak the truth, regardless of first feelings. So when he says to the Roman Church I am satisfied with you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness. He means it They're not perfect, they're not pure, but they are good. In fact, they're full of goodness. But think about this. They're together in that room while Phoebe reads the letter. They're seated down, slave and slave owner Free man and former owner, shopkeeper and starving street urchin. The politically connected and the utterly disposable are gathered together in one room. Paul knows it to be true. It's why he addressed all of those whom he addressed in chapter 16 that we saw back in September. For this would not be possible apart from the gospel. And he says to them. I see it. I know you're gathered. I know I've encouraged you and challenged you and called you out on some things, but you're together as the church Do you see the profound implication of that? It is my great joy as I shared before with you That is the sense of this church. We don't agree on everything. We have different opinions on how things should be done. There are disputes, there are disagreements. There is not uniformity, but there is unity. And it's a blessed thing. The very fact that I am empowered by your graciousness to say some of the things I say from this focus. Is a testimony to the work of the Spirit in you, not me. For there are many pastors who would want to say these things but could not, for the sake of what it would do for their congregation. I thank God that He has put that spirit in me, that desire for the truth. For it is easy to be bold about those out there. It's easy to speak boldly about somebody else's sin and problems. But you do not shy away from hearing what you need to hear. And it is a measure of the goodness of God placed in you by his Holy Spirit. I join with Paul and commend you for that. Paul continues, you are filled with all knowledge. This is a characteristic Pauline way of saying things. He doesn't mean that they know everything that can be known. But rather that they know in the different categories the key things they need to know. Across all of the necessary doctrine, across all of the necessary realms of knowledge, you know what you need to know. To put it in modern systematic terminology, you know enough Christology and enough soteriology and enough ecclesiology and enough bibliology and enough theology to get by To take care of yourselves, to feed the flock, to stay afloat. In the spiritual cupboard, there is a sufficiently wide variety of knowledge, of food, that you are not malnourished. You've heard me say this before. When you start to look at some of the historic churches in the United States, they're churches that have stayed faithful for generations That have remained committed to the Word of God across multiple centuries now. Yes, you will, you may, see in their history some famous, well-known positives. But the thread that holds all those churches together are the lay elders, the Roman elders, faithful men behind the scenes Shepherding the flow, guiding it. It's one of the reasons we spend as much time as we spend training the officers of our church, vetting them, asking them to prayfully consider who might be in office. Because that's where this knowledge comes from. That's how the flock is fed. That's the those are the ones who keep the pastor on the straight and narrow, who check in with him occasionally and go, you know, you said something in that sermon a couple of weeks ago. Wasn't quite right. Paul looks at the Roman church and says, you have that. You are well equipped to know what you need to know. And we continue to be blessed in that regard. We are incapable human hands. Your brothers, the ruling elders of this church. Try, try to Be faithful to the Word of God, to be wise in their administration of His Word in this congregation. Paul goes on, he says, You are able to instruct one another. The English versions, at least the the kind of the big ten or twelve, are almost exactly 50-50 split on this translation. The ESV, which I read from, says instruct. About half of the English words that out there say admonish. And it's not a question of one being right and the other being wrong. It's the problem with translation. For the Greek word has both of the nuances behind it. And you can only give it one of the English words to put in that But if you think about old school teaching, if you think about what instruction would have looked like, it would have included much admonishment. Many of you are aware that our son Andrew is serving something formally or officially, but something akin to a carpentry apprenticeship. And how does it go? When there's a new task to be done, when there's a new skill to be acquired, what do they do? They instruct him. And he does it. And afterwards, they admonish him. Next time, do it differently. As of yet, he's not been told tear it apart and redo it. But that can happen. It's part of the learning process, right? Instruct and admonish are two sides of the same coin. So that you would learn what is right and go the right way. An instruction and admonishment requires both sides of the equation. The instructor cannot admonish unless the one who's being instructed will take it. We'll listen. We'll submit. We'll have the humility to go, yeah, I may have gotten that wrong. For the one who lacks humility cannot be instructed and will not grow and will not learn. So when Paul says to the Roman Church. You are able to instruct, you are able to admonish one another. He is saying not just to the leaders, but to all of them. You have a heart to grow. You have a desire to learn. You're willing to be corrected and be correct. Thankfully, we don't have to do a ton of that here. But do consider yourself. Pray for your own humility in that regard. If anyone ever approached you and said, I've got a little problem with what was said or done. How would you take it? Would you get defensive? Would you dig in your heels? Would you listen? Would you admit a trunk? I might be wrong, so maybe I should do what they others say It is a difficult thing. Paul goes on in verse fifteen. But on some points I have written to you very, very boldly by way of reminder. He says this church is pretty healthy, that it's pretty pretty good shape, the Roman church. And yet they still have to be taught. Well that's true of everybody, is it not? Teachers who have been in who have been teaching, who have been in the classroom for 20 years, they still have professional development days. Surgeons who have been surgeons for their entire lives still go to conferences and learn new techniques There's no one who is above getting better. And we recall that Paul even admonished Peter of all men. And so Paul, of course, has written to them with words of admonishment, with bold words of reminder, not because they're failing. Because they're human beings. It's one of the reasons we come back, well, because the Lord ordained it. But one of the reasons the Lord ordained that we come back to worship every Sunday Because even if we are going well, even if we're doing well in our walk, even if our life of faith is a good walk right now, we still need that reminder. That refreshment, that renewal, that guidance, that nudging, that urging in one direction or another. Advertisers get it, right? When you stand at the shelf and pick a product, you probably aren't actually conscientiously remembering their ad. And yet the studies show over and over and over and over again that you will pick the product of the one of the advertisement that you've heard. The life is full of these moments of decision-making, this or that, this or that. And if we are not constantly renewed in the Word of God, if we are not constantly reminded of His Call upon our lives and what he has done for us in Christ Jesus and what he expects out of us because of that, then we will make wrong choices. That steady diet of admonishment, of guidance, of instruction, of teaching is not because we're not doing a good job, Paul says It's because we constantly need to be guided. Because that is how our minds and hearts work Now, why does Paul do all of this? Because of the grace, I'll figure it out 15. Because of the grace given me by God to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles in the priestly service of the Gospel of God. So that the offering of the offering of the gentiles may be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Remember what we saw a couple chapters ago, or a couple weeks ago, Paul said there were some who favored certain days over others? Almost certainly in the Roman Church those would have been the Jewish believers, that they would have set aside the Saturday, that they would have set aside Yom Kippur, that they would have set aside these other days of the calendar. The Gentiles would have been looking at the calendar going What's the big deal about that day? And remember that Paul says the one who has to worry about a certain day of the calendar is actually the one who's weak in the faith. And what has he been preaching the last couple of chapters? He's been preaching not to the weak. He's not corrected them. He's not told them to get stronger. He's been preaching to the strong, saying, put up with the weak. Not bear with them, but bear them. Carry them along until they grow In other words, he's been talking to the Gentiles in this church because he's the apostle to the Gentiles. He's been saying to them. This is how you must behave in this mixed company of bereavements, of weak and strong together. He goes on, verse 17. In Christ Jesus, then I have reason to be proud of my work for God. What a profound sense. I have reason to be proud of my work for God For I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience by word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God So that from Jerusalem and all the all the way around to Eli uh I swear I looked up how to pronounce this. Il Illyricum. Illyricum, there it is. All the way around Illyricum, I have fulfilled the gospel of Christ That word ministry is not in the Greek, and I'm not sure why it's added in the English. It doesn't say to fulfill the ministry of the gospel, it says to fulfill the gospel. And thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel. Not where Christ has already been named, thus I build on someone else's foundation. But as it is written, those who have never been told of him will see, and those who have never heard will understand. Paul has had a great deal to say in this passage. But what he says at the end is interesting. To speak of his pride and his ambiction, Napoleon Bonaparte once said, glory may be fleeting, but obscurity is forever. I suppose if you're going to be one of history's most significant leaders and influential leaders, you better be able to turn a phrase, and he certainly could. Glory may be sleeping. But obscurity is forever. That haunts us. That our lives may come and go and be little remembered is a terrifying prospect. Was Napoleon justifying his conquest of Europe because it gave him glory and provided that history might remember him? I don't know. But for sure, he, like all of us, preferred to be remembered over being forgotten Glory may be fleeting, but obscurity is forever. I looked it up. Only seven thousandths of one percent. Only seven thousandths of one percent of all the people on Earth warrant a Wikipedia page. Even fewer will make the pages of the history books. You and I will not be remembered for the lives we live on this earth Now this is not a call for us to mount up and go conquer Europe. It got Napoleon second place In Time magazine's list of the 100 most significant people in history, Napoleon was number two. But our obsession with being remembered in this world belies our fear, and it reveals our doubts. For if we truly believe that there is a world to come, that there is another life, and that it is an everlasting life. That our obsession will be remembered in this world is finished. Paul says in Christ Jesus then I have reason to be proud of my work for God. Not of just any old thing I do. But what I do for God. The Apostle Paul ended up on Time Magazine's list of the 100 most influential people in history. He was number 37, I think. But he didn't do his work to make it on that list. He didn't do what he did in order to be remembered in this world and in this life. Paul longed to be judged faithful by God. Paul's pride was not in how the world would remember him, but in how Jesus would welcome him. And for all eternity, his work will be remembered Now to be sure, some of the people that are higher on that list than he was, some of them are higher than number 37. They'll be mentioned in the world to come. They'll be mentioned on the new earth, but it'll be only in passing. Two believers will meet in the new earth. And they'll get to know each other and they'll exchange their stories and one of them will say, so what brings you to this spot on the planet? And the other one will say, oh This is where I was executed by Adolf Hitler's SS, the hiding genes. Hitler was number five on that list, but that's the only way he's going to be remembered. But Paul's work will be spoken of in revered tones and glorious words for ever. Remember what Jesus said about the woman who anointed his feet? That she would be remembered forever. This little thing that she did that didn't seem like any big deal. That the world wouldn't care a hoot about. Yet for all of eternity, we are all going to know what she did for Jesus. All who are all those who are faithful, who, as Paul put it, fulfill the gospel. Are going to have a lasting legacy. They're going to build something they can be rightfully proud of. So what brought you to the new earth? Well, I was friends with this free woman in Rome. She kept talking about how she went to church. And one day I found out that at the church was her former owner. The people who treated her like property, who abused her for their own pleasure and comfort And she forgave them. And they apologized to her. And they were reconciled to one another. And I thought, if that's possible, maybe there's a power there I want to know more about I went to their church and I learned about reconciliation to God through Jesus Christ. And I'm here today. The people of the Roman Church who were living out gospel lives Their names have long since been forgotten in this world. But what they did will be spoken of throughout all of eternity. For they showed that reconciliation was possible. And they gave the hope that we might be reconciled to a holy God. And even down to today, they are challenging us and encouraging us, and this is no small thing. This is not inconsequential. For what the world forgets, the judge of all eternity will remember. For Paul has already reminded us that we are all going to stand before the judge someday and give an account. So, how's that going to play out? We don't know how our faithfulness, how our obedience affects others. We don't know who is wobbling in the faith. Who's been attending our church for years, maybe even a decade or more? But they've always had in the back of their head this nagging doubt about the reality and the truth of the gospel. They are taken aback by the way you act toward your sponsors. They are shocked at your willingness to submit to the elders. They are aghast at your willingness to forgive those who have wronged you. And those doubts begin to melt away. How did Paul say the Gentiles were brought into obedience to the gospel? By word and deed, by the power of signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God. Signs and wonders is the biblical's characteristic way, the Bible's characteristic way of identifying the things which accompany God's messengers. So Moses and Joshua work signs and wonders. Elijah and Elisha work signs and wonders. Jesus and the apostles, they work signs and wonders. But what is first on Paul's list? Word and deed. Someone spoke the gospel truth, then they lived the gospel truth. They said reconciliation with God was possible, then they lived in a reconciled and peaceable way with others. What did Jesus say to the twelve? You will be my witnesses. You will say what you saw. You will speak a word. And they will know that you are my disciples by the love you have for one another. You live what you believe. Word and deed. We always want the signs and wonders, but we doubt sometimes whether word indeed have any power. But Paul puts them together and sums them up this way. He says, in other words, it's by the power of the Spirit of God. The same God who empowers the signs and wonders empowers the word of his gospel and the witness of your lifestyle. And apart from the power of God, parting the Red Sea might actually be easier than reconciling enemies. The power by which Elisha raised the widow's son is the same power by which the Word of God raises the spiritually dead. Word indeed. If we should take any pride in this life, if we should have any hope of being remembered. of being influential of being worthwhile, it must be in what we do for Jesus and through Jesus. Whatever you might think of Time magazine and whether or not they got all 100 people on that list correct, they did get this correct. For while Napoleon was number two, he was a distant second. The most influential and significant person in human history they listed as Jesus of Nazareth. It's the work of Jesus which makes possible the new life. Which will bring about the new earth, which will be the place where we spend eternity living with God and one another in perfect peace, in perfect harmony, in full reconciliation. In full unity. Paul took pride in what he had done because he had done it for and through Jesus. The British missionary C. T. Studd wrote this well-known poem. I share only four of the eight stanzas with you now. Two little lies I heard one day traveling along life's busy way, bringing conviction to my heart, and from my mind would not depart. Only one life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, yes, only one. Soon will its sleeping hours be done. Then in that day, my Lord, to meet and stand before his judgment seat. Only one life twill soon be passed, only what's done for Christ will last. Give me, Father, a purpose deep, in joy or sorrow thy word to keep, faithful and true whatever the strife, pleasing me in my daily delight. Only one life will soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. Only one life, yes, only one. Now let me say thy will be done. And when at last I'll hear the call, I know I'll say 'twas worth it all. Only one life will soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. Lord grant us a sense of the prioritization of our lives. That we would orient them toward you and toward your body here on earth. That our lives would be guided by your word and be focused upon your church. That we would do what glorifies you and edifies her. That we would understand that everything else passes away. And that if we have any, if we want to have any justified righteous pride in the life you've given us in this time, that we would build it upon the things that will last forever Help us to let go of the things the world says are important. Help us to let go of our desire for momentary pleasure and passing fun And let us live lives that are oriented toward the future. That we can look forward to the day when you will say to us Well done, good and faithful servant We ask this in the name of the one who lives such a life on our behalf. Amen.