Open your Bibles if you would please. Open your Bibles to Romans 14. Romans 14, beginning in verse 1 in just a moment. Romans 14, 1, if you're using that red queue Bibles, page 112. Romans 14. 1 in just a moment. Almost every semester as an adjunct professor at the community college. I have a Muslim student or two in my classes. So imagine this scenario. Imagine that one of those Muslim students is talking to me about Christianity, that has happened, and begins attending here. And she converts to Christianity. She becomes a member of Shore Harvest, and she eschews her previous religion and all the outward trappings of Islam. Now imagine that a few weeks later, you see her in town at the farmer's market, and to your surprise, she's wearing the hijab, the traditional head cover. More than that, she's with a man and they're discussing the Quran. What do you think? What do you do? Our Old Testament reading this morning is a profoundly underappreciated passage. Naaman is a Syrian general who comes down with a horrible skin disease. He tries everything the doctors recommend. He tries everything the witch doctors recommend. Nothing works until a slave girl tells him about Elisha, the prophet of Yahweh. Naaman is a committed pagan, so he has no problems trying yet another god, adding one more god to his pantheon. So he slips quietly into Israel. Syria was an enemy of Israel at the time. He slips quietly into Israel, and he tracks down Elisha, who cures him. Naaman is in awe, and he denounces all other gods, and he swears allegiance, only to Yahweh, the God of Israel. And he confesses all of this to Elisha in the passage that was read earlier today. On his way out the door, it dawns on him that when he gets home, he's going to be expected to accompany his king into the temple of Rhima. The Syrian god of thunder and storm. And when that king goes into the temple and bows before Ramon, Naaman, out of respect for his king, is going to be expected to bow as well. And so he asks Elijah, is that okay? Is it okay if I bow my head because my king has bowed his head? And of course, Elisha, being a good fundamentalist Christian, says, Are you kidding me? What kind of testimony would that be? If the king kills you, he kills you, but that's how you stand up for God. It's interesting, isn't it? Eliza simply says, Shalom. Go in peace. You needn't fear anything. You see, you are now a servant of the true God, and He knows how to measure a heart correctly He knows how to judge what's going on inside. He knows your faith is genuine. He will not mistake your bowing out of respect to the king as though it was worship of a false god. And Elisha says to Damon, go in peace. Perhaps our sister done the hijab because it was her brother she was with at the farmer's market, and he would not meet with her if she didn't. And perhaps the conversation regarding the Quran was her attempt to witness to him, to refute the Quran. And perhaps it was a moment of weakness and of backslawing. But we are not perjudged. The acts of covering one's head and discussing the Quran are not inherently sinful. There is real sin in the world, but there is much which is difficult, even impossible for us to judge. The prophet allowed Naaman to bow in the temple of Ryman. Maybe our sister can wear the hijab. And maybe just maybe there is room in the church to disagree. about important matters. Listen now to how Paul teaches this lesson to the Roman church. This is the Word of God. It is authoritative. It is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So if we want to live lives of true faithfulness, we must hear and heed this book. Verse 1. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him. But not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike, each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord says he gives thanks to God. Well, the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this in Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord, both of the dead and of the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Spirit of God, guard us this morning. Help us to Understand our obligation to bear with one another where there is debate, but never compromise where there is not. We must stand against sin, and yet we must not see sin where it does not exist. Help us in the end to have the humility to recognize you alone are the perfect judge able to sort all of this out. And in the meantime, to teach us to have great patience with one another. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Verse one, as for the one who is weak in faith This marks a new direction in Paul's thinking. I've explained how you should live, he's saying, sort of, but some are weak. Now about them. In fact, the word now is actually present in the Greek text. Now as to the one who is weak in faith. It's a gentle but emphatic break with what came before. He's taking a new direction. You should live as I described above, but you should treat the weak as follows. There is a light contrast here to what he is saying. And to understand the contrast, look back with me at the close of chapter 13. Look up ahead, look above where we started, back in 13. I'm going to go back to verse 12 and pick up there. And if I read this, remember. In the ancient Roman world, oratory, rhetoric, was highly regarded. It was engaged as entertainment, and so when it came into the church, it had kind of that crossover It was both respected and it was engaging, and they would have listened intently to what was being read. They would have been drawn in, actively participating Chapter 13 verse 12. The night is far gone. The day is at hand And as Stevie reads this letter out, you can see some heads nodding in agreement with that statement. The night is gone, the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. And some amens joined the nodding. Let us walk properly, as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling, in jealousy. And now there's a chorus of amends. And some maybe even clapping. Remember, they weren't Presbyterians. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. And with that kind of rhetoric, the room is going to be energized. Everybody is fired up. Everybody is going to be gone home. And it is that rampant enthusiasm that Paul wants to dial back. That's what he's addressing. Be fired up, be excited, but don't take it out on the weak. See, Paul understands how the sinful heart works We are almost always more concerned about the sin in others than we are about the sin in ourselves. It is almost always easier to nitpick at the sin of others than it is to pick at the sin of ourselves. And Paul is saying, yes, go after sin, but don't go after a weak brother. Now As for the one who is weak in faith. And so he wants to set a different tone. How we treat the weak among us is to be different than the way we go after sin in ourselves. It is tempting to want a church filled with the straw. Filled with those who understand Christianity, who know their Bible stories inside and out, upside down. It is easy to want every to wish every member had a doctorate in theology. But that's not a healthy church. Process that thought for a moment A church filled with mature, strong Christians is not a healthy church. Think about it. There is only one way a flock, be it geese or sheep or us, does not have weak members. And that's because it is not reproducing. If the flock is static and not growing, then there will be no weak, no vulnerable, none in need of nurturing and care. A church with only spiritually healthy members is not a spiritually healthy church. Ironic is So Paul says, all that I said in 12 and 13, that's what the strong and the healthy believer ought to look like. Now, as for the one who was weak in faith, let me tell you how to treat them. And what does Paul say? Welcome him. The one who is weak in faith is to be welcome, to be invited in, to be given preferential treatment even. He's to be made a congregational priority. Is every one of our women's Bible studies, I'm not just putting on the women, but also, is every one of our Bible studies aimed at those who want tremendous depth? Does that welcome the weak? You see a great flaw of the seeker-sensitive church Is that the constant diet of milk does not allow the believer to grow strong. But a flaw of many conservative Presbyterian and Reformed churches is that a diet only of meat Starves the weak. It starves the young. We must welcome the weak. Or we risk starving our games. So be prepared to explain justification over and over again as needed. To reteach a Bible story that may be very familiar to you, but less so to the new believer. To allow for the fact that maybe not everybody knows the creeds that we know from memory. We must be patient, even when there's serious sin. Think about this. Paul had to tell Timothy that elders should have only one wife. What are the implications of that? That there were men in the church who had multiple wives. For otherwise, it would be a ridiculous statement. Could we be patient and nurturing and helpful to a convert who maybe recently came out of a form of Islam or a form of Mormonism? And he came to our church with three, four, five wives. And that immediately flows right into leads right into what Paul has to say next. Notice the qualifier he adds. Now, as for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. We only say hello. Glad you're here. Now let me help you get straight. Let me help you get it right. Becky and I, years ago, were chaperoning a weekend youth camping trip. And on the Sunday morning of that weekend, we took the five or six teens to the small town Baptist Church. The pastor, upon learning that we were Presbyterians, and I'm not kidding about this, he preached an ad-lib sermon on the necessity of full immersion baptism and on the evils of infant baptism. I'm not kidding. And how do I know it was ad-lib? Well, first of all, it was a somewhat disjointed, disorganized sermon. Secondly, he never once looked down at his notes. And thirdly, he never once referenced the passage that was printed in Bullet Which had nothing to do with Baptist Mother. He had one Sunday that six us Presbyterians And he is going to do it. That is not of the model set forward here We do not welcome the weak in order to quarrel with them, if we even allow that we were the weaker road away. So what's a better way? You ever watched a puppy around an older dog? The puppy watches the mature dog. And mimics what it does. I have literally seen puppies bark and they don't even know why they're barking, but the big dog is barking. I have seen puppies eat grass without knowing why they're eating the grass, but the big dog is eating grass. But over time, the puppy learns what a mature dog does, and it becomes part of who they are. The older dog for Acepark is attentive to any danger, but does not correct every little thing the buck does. We welcome weaker members of the body of Christ. We are patient with them. We feed them. We nurture them. And at times we even tolerate grievous sin. As we hold the men to the flock. You see, without them we have no future, and without us, they have no future. Now, what does weakness in the faith look like according to Paul? Vegetarianism. I'm not making that up. That's not my opinion. That's right there in the Bible. One person believes he may eat anything while the weak person eats only vegetables. Can I get an Amen? Amen. So strong Christians will have crab cakes this afternoon. No, Jesus is crystal clear. What we put into our bodies does not make us unclean, nor could it purify us. This isn't about our doing it. It's about the thought process behind that diet. Pagan worshippers of Jupiter or Juno or Minerva would bring bulls and goats and chickens to the temple as offerings. Most of that meat was sold in the market. Thus, in any Roman butcher shop, most of the available meat had been through a pagan ritual. This deeply and understandably bothered many young believers. The argument might go like this. I turned away from Juno. I'm not going to eat her meat The other person would say, well, of course, you turned away from, you know, because she isn't a real God. It's not like her priests have real power. That stake isn't cursed. It's just a stake. Even so, at the very least, you're financially supporting a pagan temple. And I pay taxes to a pagan government. I buy my clothes at a pagan tailor, and those vegetables you're so proud of. Do you imagine that every farmer in all of Rome was a Christian? Yeah, but my vegetables were never part of a pagan ritual. And on and on and on the debate rages. And in such a debate, in some ways the vegetarian sounds more righteous, doesn't he? Yet Paul calls him the weaker brother. I think it's because of the penchant toward legalism, zealously pursuing non-laws as if they were God's laws. But for Paul that's really beside the point, in fact, he quickly moves on to another illustration of which he takes no side at all. Look at verse 5. One person esteems one day is better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who stains stains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God So what is the balance of Christian liberty? And where is our obligation to God's moral law? Can you, for example, go out to eat today after church on this Sunday? The fourth commandment forbids servants from working on the day of rest. By going out this afternoon, aren't you asking your server to break the commandment? And yet Among the Ten Commandments, only the fourth is never specifically reiterated in the New Testament. So was it a part of God's civil law and not a part of his moral imperative? So, which one is right? Paul doesn't care. Oh, he does, and in other places he addresses it more fully. But his point here Is that you execute your conviction to the glory of God out of thanks to Him, and that you let your brother do the same. So if you eat out this afternoon, pray before that meal and thank God for the freedom you enjoy. Thank you for those who are serving you so you can life. Thank you for the food. Thank you for the wealth which allows you to go out to eat. for the opportunity to be in that fellowship. Eat out in Christian freedom, but do it all with thanks to God. Or do not. If you go home today out of your conviction that you ought not to make others work on the Sabbath, if you go home and enjoy a relaxed meal with no deadlines, with no chores to be done, with no kid soccer matches to attend, Then do it with thanksgiving. Give thanks to God that He provided a day of rest for you and for others. Give thanks to Him that you can die in a leisurely manner. Eat out, don't eat out. Either way, do it to the glory of God with thanks to him. And let your brother do the same. So if you eat out this afternoon or you don't eat out this afternoon, give thanks to God for the brother who holds exactly the opposite conviction. Celebrate your sister's freedom to hold a different view from yours. God's call is not for uniformity, but for unity. Whether you esteem one day more highly than another, or you don't. Paul's point is that such matters should never drive a wedge between brothers and sisters in Christ. And take note of the second half of verse 5. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. So let me throw another Christian gray area controversy at you. Are depictions of Jesus, pictures, drawings, movies, TV shows, etc. , are depictions of Jesus a violation of the second commandment? The traditional reformed view, enshrined in our Constitution, by the way, is that they are. But a large and growing number of reformed preachers and theologians no longer hold to that view. This is, by the way, a constant debate point on the committee at which I am a part of the Presbytery. So should a conscientious Christian watch the chosen? This TV miniseries on the life of Christ. So here's how that argument might go. Well, the traditionals would say the Second Commandment prohibits depicting the deity. Jesus is God. The chosen depicts Jesus. So it's a sin. But the opponent might say, well, right there you just pointed it out. Depicting God is a sin. The chosen depicts his humanity But if it's in doing divine things. Yes, but in human form. The presence of deity is stated But not show. Every Sunday, 10,000 creatures around the globe state that Jesus is God If it's okay to then do it, why is it not okay for the show to do so? And on and on and on You see, faithful brothers and sisters can come down on either side of that debate. And at some point it's easy to say, well the smart Christian figures I'm not going to tell you which side these men are on, but they are on different sides of the issue. If smart Christian thinkers, men like Kevin DeYoung, Tim Chalys, and Not all men, Nancy Guthrie, Robert Godfrey, R. C. Stroll. If these people cannot figure this out, then why should I be the father to strive? I looked at pictures of Jesus as a child, and I guess I turned out okay, so I'm okay watching a TV show about Jesus. Or, when in doubt, I'm going to stay on the other side of the line, it's obviously not going to watch, but you know, I don't even know for sure or not. You see, there's the problem. The problem is not that you watch or you don't watch. And please note this sermon is making no comment about whether you should or should not watch the show. The problem is why we do or do not watch. Paul says each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. You're not to slip into some position on the difficult issues without thinking them through. We're not to simply take the position of our parents or our friends on Facebook or whatever for whatever reason. By the way, we're not even just to take the opinion of our pastors. A majority does not rule, and simplicity should not decide. A difficult issue isn't to have a simple solution. Just the opposite. Even though you may not be able to resolve the issues perfectly, you're to wrestle with it, to flip it over in your head, to see all sides, and to be fully convinced in your own mind. Come on, Pastor, seriously? That's a lot of work. By the time I decide whether or not I'm going to watch the chosen, I'll probably be seeing Jesus face to face. So why should I bother? Let me give you four reasons. The first reason to study a gray area of faith is this. Many of them are not as gray as you thought. Many of them are not as gray as you thought So many young Christians today have bought into the idea that love is love, and it's no thing if Tom loves him. Jesus was just all about the love. So for many young believers, that feels like something of a gray area. That argument lasts about three seconds once you dig into scriptures. Not every controversy is so controversial. What you will quickly find upon study is that many who hold one side of the issue do so For reasons that have nothing to do with the scriptures. Do you really want to take a position on a difficult issue Based on the non-consideration of others? What seems vague and cloudy and gray when you dig into it Often turns out to be rather starkly black or white. Now, all the things that are called gray are, in fact, gray. And that leads right into the second reason that we ought to study the gray areas, the debatable things. You're going to have to give an account to God. You will face judgment someday. Now imagine for a moment the CEO of a company of your company asks you to make a presentation at the annual meeting. And he or she asks you to propose a solution for what has been one of the company's most protracted and persistent problems. Now you might think to yourself, smarter minds than mine have tackled this issue and haven't come up with an answer. I'm not even going to bother. Would you really show up to the annual meeting? Was the CEO expecting you to give a report and say, I didn't bother, because I don't try to figure it out No way would you do that. You would make a good faith effort to study it as best as you could and present the best result you can come up with. Now if that's true of your boss, how is that not true of Almighty God? You see, we Christians get this horribly wrong, horribly wrong. We often make the mistake of saying that we don't face judgment, but we do. Paul could not be clearer in verses 10, 11, and 12. This is a letter by a Christian to Christians. And he's talking about how Christians should handle controversy. In the midst of all of that, he says, we, we, will all stand before the judgment seat of God. Christians do not face condemnation. There is, therefore, now no condemnation. For those who are in Christ Jesus. But there is still judgment. And you say, well, if I know I'm not going to be condemned, why don't I care about judgment? Because one of the things that's going to happen on Judgment Day. If that you were going to come to grips with all the pain suffering, you cause Jesus On that day, I will have to watch and see what it costs him to provide my righteousness. It's why the book of Revelation speaks of God wiping every tear from our eyes. Because as we go through the judgment day, there will be tears. For we will have cost Jesus more suffering than we've ever imagined. Now if that's on the line, why would you go there with a laida attitude about important doctrines and about important We should wrestle with all the gray areas of Christianity because many of them will turn out to be black and white. And we should wrestle with the gray areas of Christianity so that we are fully convinced before we face the judgment that we have considered it. The best way we could. Now imagine you dive into an issue and you find that it is gray, or at least it's much grayer than you realize. You are still convinced of your position, but now you see that the other side has a better, more biblically sound argument than you previously realized. How is that not valuable? Will you not have a greater respect for your brothers and sisters with whom you disagree? I'm fully convinced in my own mind that theistic evolution is wrong. But I've come to understand that the other side of the debate has some merit. They've really tried to think it all through, and I am less dismissive than I once was of those who hold that argument. I once imagined that somebody who held the theistic evolution couldn't even be a real Christian. And now I understand many of them are more sincerely Christian than I could ever hope to be. How is that not valuable to dive into these areas so that we respect one another where we disagree? Gray areas are worth consideration so that you are sure they are gray. They are worth consideration so that you're ready to face God's judgment and so that you respect your brothers and sisters And there is at least one more reason we should strive to be fully convinced in our own minds. Think of the Second Commandment controversy, for example. What we talked about earlier. If you're going to understand and become convinced, is it okay to depict Jesus or not? You're going to have to wrestle with the hypostatic union, the idea that Jesus was fully God and fully human. And if you consider his humanity in this time of study, You're going to come to the realization that as a human being, he suffered in this life the things you're suffering: loneliness, abuse, abandonment, etc. Now tell me this. When you learn that God the Son volunteered to put on this flesh and endure this suffering for your sake, Are you not going to love him more? Will you not worship him more richly and deeply and sincerely? Time spent in the gray areas Are going to make the blue skies of God's glory shine all bright. Be fully convinced in debatable areas so that you're sure they are debatable. So that you should prepare to face judgment, so that you will respect one another, and so that you will be enriched through the effort. Here is another aspect of this statement that warrants serious consideration. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. Do you see the difficulty and the irony of that statement? Let me stick for a moment with the second commandment controversy. Paul is saying that he wants you, right there, to be absolutely 100% convinced that a nativity scene without a baby Jesus is a horrible dishonor to the incarnations, and it is a sin And Paul wants you over here to be 100% completely sure that an intimity with a baby Jesus is an abomination and a mockery of the Second Commandment. And he wants you to get along. And he wants you to hold your conviction while you allow for the other to hold their conviction. Now let that sink in for a moment. We're not talking about the color of the carpeting. We're not talking about musical preference or what kind we gather for worship. We're talking about sin. Your brother in the Lord is doing something you know to be wrong. You're fully convinced. And you're to let keep doing it? You're to let that sister go on sinning? The pastor Jesus said if your brother sins confront him. Well actually Jesus said if your brother sins against you Go and tell him. Okay, I missed what he's easy, sorry, Pastor. But in Galatians, Paul writes, if anyone is caught in any transgression, well he does. And he goes on and says, This you who are spiritual should restore him. Now, among all the believers who have the Spirit, who would be the spiritual? It's the ones who exemplify life in the Spirit. And according to Timothy and Titus, those who exemplify life in the Spirit become known as Elders. Yes, any and every sin can be confronted, but not by any and every one So you over there cannot go burn down her titty because it has a baby Jesus in it And you cannot be convinced that your sister must hate Jesus because she wanted his picture taken out of the lobby. As much as you need to be fully convinced in your mind on matters of debate, you need to allow your sister or brother to hold the exact opposite conviction. And you need to continue in fellowship with them. One of the reasons we have so many churches in America is because we have been unable to pull this off. More often than not, unwilling to even try. It is saddening how readily we ignore this and walk away. Why? Go back to the beginning of chapter 12. How did Paul open this whole subsection of the book of Romans? He said, do not let pride ruin the church. Be humble. Don't imagine yourself to be all that great. Stay in your lane. You don't know how to know everything. You don't know how to do everything. You're not included everything. Let the singer sing, let the nursery workers run the nursery. Let the elders owl this. I don't know if that's a verb or not, but something It's difficult. You're fully convinced. You know what they're doing is wrong. And the elders aren't doing anything about it. And then righteousness freaks in, or maybe I should say self-righteousness. I've got to go find another church. I've got to go to a place where they care about sin. And poof you're gone. And forget about the rest of the chapter. Picking up in verse seven. None of us lives to himself. And none of us guys to himself If we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lords. Your life is not your own. To spend as you will. It's Christ. You were bought at a price, a steep, steep price. He paid a premium for you. If Jesus wants you to stay in this fellowship with those crazies across the aisle who don't love him enough to put a baby Jesus in their nativity. Well so be it For to this end, Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the living of the dead and of the living. All authority, Jesus said upon his resurrection, all authority has been given to me. Even the authority over your life and your death, that song we sang earlier. Beautiful line in there, the one who ordained uh my first birth ordained my second birth. He is the Lord of all things. And if so, is he not the Lord over the time I have on this earth and where he spent? And if he wants me to remain in fellowship with those that I'm convinced I wrong Why would I not do something? Paul brings it home now in verse ten. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written. As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God I fear the judgment of day more than I imagine most Christians do. I think every pastor does and should. On that day, I will not only see how Jesus suffered for all that I got wrong. But I'm going to have to see how he suffered for all the things, all the error into which I led you. Now think about that. On the day of judgment, do you really want to be responsible for your sister's error? Do you want to watch her be called out for a conviction you thrust on her? We're all going to face a judgment. If we are believers, Jesus is going to be held accountable for all we are. Do I want to eat my sister's wrong conclusions on it? By the way, I've been starting this last I'm not. There are twelve verses in this passage, but we looked at eleven of them. I've passed over the most important one. Look back at verse four with me, please. Romans fourteen four. If you've not memorized this verse, you probably should. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? Are we to serve one another? Yes. But that does not make us one another's servants. We are all servants of Jesus. Not of each other. So the answer to Jesus and not to each other. So Paul goes on to say: it is before his own master that a servant stands or falls. Whatever I might think about your nativity scene, with or without a baby Jesus, you don't answer to me. You stand or fall before Jesus. So if you live in the hope of the gospel, that at the judgment day Despite all your sin, you will be made to stand by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. If that is your fault, then realize that it's true of the weak brother or sister. Next thing Do not quarrel with him. Teach him, guide him, help him, but rejoice that the strength and perfection of Jesus Moving compensates for his weakness and imperfections. Jesus will make him stand, as Jesus will make you stand. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will stay. For the Lord is able to make him mistake.