We took four weeks to look at Holy Week in some detail. Eight days that changed everything This morning we return to our regularly scheduled series in the book of Romans. So I encourage you to open your Bibles to Romans 9, Romans 9, verse 30. It's page 1124 if you're using that red pew Bible. Romans 930 When we stepped away from Romans a month back, we had just jumped in to the this insertion. This Romans 9, 10, 11, this long parenthetical discussion that uh kind of in some ways uh uh breaks the trajectory of the book, but it does so with great reason. Paul had stated boldly that nothing could separate us from the love of God. And he anticipates an objection. Someone might argue, wait a second, if nothing can separate us from the love of God, how is it that Israel has fallen out of the love of God? For they were his chosen people, and they aren't flocking to Jesus. How can you make such a bold promise, Paul? And so this is the place of Romans 9, 10, and 11. It's put here to help us understand what is going on with the salvation of Israel so that we will believe the promise. That nothing can separate us from the love of God. And the first part of Paul's answer we saw four weeks ago, we saw the last time we were in Romans, was the question of divine election. God is right now, he has chosen for whatever reason, and Paul will address some of the reasons later, but he hasn't yet, for whatever reason, God has chosen for a time To focus on saving Gentiles rather than Jews. Oh, that's not to say there aren't Jews who come to faith But God's primary work right now seems to be upon Gentiles, and Paul explains that that is God's prerogative. He is God. He will have mercy on whom he has mercy. And if he has chosen for a time to harden Israel while he has mercy on the Gentiles, that is his right. Now the moment you address divine sovereignty, the moment you broach the subject of election The question of human will is right there, and we have to wrestle with it. We often speak of reconciling the doctrine of God's sovereignty with the idea of human will. But I was reminded this week That reconciliation is for enemies. Friends don't need to be reconciled. And the doctrine of God's will, of God's sovereignty, and human will are theological friends. They routinely sit right next to each other on the pages of Scripture. So for example, If we were to answer this question, why, after the death of Solomon, did the nation of Israel split into two? On one page of scripture, we're told it was God's judgment on Solomon because he had accommodated the foreign gods of his wives. But on another page of scripture, we're told it was because Rahaboam was insolent and would not listen to his human advisors. Why did Israel split? There's both a God component and a human component. And the Bible never tries to resolve the two because it sees no conflict between the two. If you ask the question, why is it that Joseph was sold into slavery? Well, for three or four or five chapters, it's clear. It's his brothers hated him. They despised him. They could not stand this young punk. But why was Joseph sold into slavery? Because God worked it out for the saving of many lives. There's no effort to resolve those two. There is a human component and there is a divine component and they coexist in peace, side by side each other in the scriptures. And here Paul, having explained the divine component, immediately jumps in and articulates the human component of Israel's current situation. Picking up in verse 30. What shall we say then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it. That is, a righteousness that is by faith. But that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Why did the Jews stumble over the Christ? Why was he an offense? You see, by the first century, Judaism was a religion of self-salvation. By zealously keeping all the accumulated rules, you could make yourself sufficiently righteous and pleasing to God, or so they thought. But the appearance of a sacrificial lamb The intercession of a substitutionary atonement meant that they hadn't made themselves pleasing to God. And their pride could not accept that. They stumbled over the Christ precisely because they imagined themselves to be good enough. And if he's here to save them, well, that implies that they cannot save themselves. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved For I bear them witness that though they have a zeal, I'm sorry, for I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. The Jewish problem in Paul's day wasn't lethargy They had effort to spare, but all their work was toward the wrong goal. Now remember, Paul himself is a Jew. And he is a Jew who thought this way. He describes himself as being a man of great zeal, of great effort. He was a zealot without knowledge He was eagerly pursuing righteousness without knowing that it was found in Jesus. And this is a fact he now attributes to his fellow Jews. Verse 3. For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, as if that were possible, they did not submit to God's righteousness. We mentioned a moment ago the pride. Look at the word submit there. Isn't that an interesting choice of words? That they must humble themselves and admit they need God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. This is worthy of a few moments' consideration. What does the it mean that Christ is the end of the law? The Greek word behind it is the word telos, and it really end is a perfect translation, but that Greek word telos has a duplicity of meaning just as our English word end does. So it can have the idea of termination. A movie in the time of Jesus in Greek might have had on the screen hotelos, the end. When the movie was over. But just like that is not the only meaning of the English word, it's not the only meaning of the Greek word either. Think of American football. Why do those men bash into each other to get to the end zone? which is marked by the goal line. Telos can have the idea of your purpose, your target, the goal at which you are aimed. Just like our English word end. What is the chief end of man? We don't cease to exist when we glorify God. It's our purpose for being. So the statement here is not saying that Christ has brought an end to the law as in though he has terminated it. For that would run contrary to what Christ Himself said. I did not come to abolish the law. Rather, Paul is saying that the purpose of the law, the goal of the law, the function of the law. Was to point out Christ. How did he say it to the Galatians, whom he wrote to before the book of Romans He says to them that the law was our schoolmaster. It was our governor. It was the one who taught us what we need to know. And pointed us in the right direction to Jesus Himself. Now how does that work? He goes on in verse 5. For Moses writes about the righteousness. that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. You see, there's the rub. To live through the law, you have to actually do the law. And notice the positive way that Paul says it. Most of the law is given in negatives. Do not murder. Do not commit adultery. But Paul says you gotta do the law. You can't just not do the transgressions. It's not enough to not murder your neighbor. You have to love them. It's not enough to not have an affair with your secretary. You have to respect her as something other than a sexual object and love your wife. You've got to do the law if you intend to live by the law. And that's Paul's point. Anyone who is ever considered the law in seriousness is going to be forced to their knees. They're going to cry out, I can't do this! God help me. Verse six But one of the greatest words in all the Bible. But the righteousness based on faith Says, do not say in your heart who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down. Don't imagine to yourself you have to do some great feat. Don't convince yourself that you've got to kill yourself to uh overcome the law. Don't imagine that you've got to go to these phenomenal lengths like going into heaven and bringing Christ down. That's not living by faith. That's living by works when you try to do that Herculean task. Or uh uh Who will just, you know, or verse 7, who will don't say who will descend into the abyss? That is to bring Christ up from the dead. Don't imagine that you need to suffer. Don't imagine you have to do amazing things, but don't imagine that you have to suffer enough either to get to please God. If you just, okay, I can't actually keep the law, but if I beat myself up enough over it, if I descend into hell. If I if I feel badly enough about the law, well that that will please God. No. You don't need to do this Herculean task of going to heaven, nor do you need to suffer as though you descend into the abyss. Verse 8. What does it say? The word is near you. It is in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord. And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. It's that easy. The righteousness you need to be right with God is right there. If you just humble yourself and stop trying to do it on your own For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. For there is distinction, and this is part of the problem. This is part of our issue. It was part of the issue for them. There is a distinction. We're Jews. We keep God's law. We're not like those pagans out there. And boy, don't imagine that's not a struggle for us, right? We're conservative Reform Presbyterians. Surely we've got it right. Surely we understand it better than other people. No. There is no distinction We are not saved by the goodness of our doctrine. We are not made perfect by the by the way that we conduct our worship services. We are not ripe with God because of anything in and of ourselves There is no distinction between Jew and Greek, between Baptist and Presbyterian, between any of us. It is all comes down to this, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Let's pray. Lord, there are important truths in here, important warnings in here, things we need to hear, things we need to humble ourselves before. Help us to examine ourselves with great humility. Let us be slow to see the other people here And quick to see ourselves. So that in understanding what you demand of us, we would be driven to our knees. And we would cry out, Lord, help us. Do not let us imagine that we achieve any of this goodness. on our own. We pray this in Christ's name and for his sake. Amen. I have never, and if you've been here for any length of time, you've heard me say this before, I have never been comfortable That the wide way leads to perdition. And that the narrow way leads to life. That the way to hell is as broad as it is, and the way to eternal life is as narrow as it is, I have always found that to be a difficult doctrine. And yet this passage reminds me why it is so. There are a lot of ways to hell Atheists show us one way to hell, right? They just flat out dishonor and offend God by denying his very existence. But there are theists who show us another path to hell. Oh, they acknowledge that a God exists, but they don't give the true God credit. They worship not the idols that were handmade in Paul's day, but mind-made idols. Allah, the Great Spirit, Universal Consciousness, and such things This is an offense to God, for he is not acknowledged for who he really is. Among the theists, there's a subset of them who call themselves Christians. And they roughly describe a God akin to the God of the Bible. They would say that they hold to the God of the Bible, and yet they find their own path to hell. For they do not imagine this God actually cares that much. About what they do day in and day out. Oh, sure. You can't murder people. You should probably pay your taxes and be nice to your neighbors. But after that, God doesn't really care. And they set a bar so low that maybe only Hitler and Mao and Stalin have ever managed to limbo under it. And everybody else is good enough. They are antinomian. They reject the idea that there really is a law of righteousness, that there really is a standard we must meet. Most of your neighbors, most of your unsafe family members fall into this category, right? Research shows us that a majority of Americans still acknowledge that there is a God. Most Americans are not atheist, and yet they act like this. Sadly, many who attend church regularly act like this. Oh yeah, there's a God. But he's mostly there to take care of my wants and needs, and I'm kind of free to do whatever I want. It is a Christian path to hell. Paul has briefly touched on all of these in the book of Romans, but here he slows down and looks at a fourth. path to hell. Why does he spend more time on this one than he did the others? Because it is the great risk of his target audience. Paul is writing to the devout, to the highly religious, to those who are actually going to church on a regular basis, to those who would have been gathered when Phoebe arrived with this letter and read it out to the church in Rome. These are religious people, devout people And the risk of the devout, in other words, you and me, is legalism. It's this belief that the law will get you there. The risk of the highly religious Is that they would believe in the things they do. We're reminded that Romans 9 is about Israel, but it's to us. Warren Buffett, my favorite of the gazillionaires out there, he says, it's good to learn from your mistakes, it's better to learn from other people's. Paul wants us to learn from the mistakes of Israel. He wants us to secure our election. To know that it is sure. Dual causality. God elects. We make our election sure. And that's the warning he has for us. So what is this error of the religious? What does this legalism look like? What is this stumbling stone to which the devout are susceptible? Well, as I already said, it's the pursuit of righteousness of the keeping of the law in our own way, in our own selves, that we can be good by doing good. That we can be good by doing good. That we can change the core of who we are by the things we do on the outside. And it comes in a whole host of varieties and flavors For 350 years, roughly, after the death of Solomon, Israel went through a time of a certain type of legalism. This is the period of time with the rise of the prophets, Elijah and Elisha, and after them Jeremiah and Isaiah. If you don't think Jeremiah and Isaiah ought to rhyme, just look at the spellets. Jeremiah and Isaiah wrote about this the warning of these things. that the Jews were practicing a form of religion that was only outward How did this happen? Well, the pagan gods all around them, you know, uh Baal and Moloch and Asherah and all the rest of them, the surrounding nations, those gods. were not did not require any ethical behavior of their people, of their worshippers. If you simply bought them off every so often with an offering, if you simply appeased that God with a gift, a sacrifice. That was enough. Those gods weren't particularly ethical themselves, so why would they require any ethical behavior of their people, of their world? And that viewpoint always was creeping into Israel And the people would think, I need only go to temple. I need only make the required sacrifices. I need only to appease God in the outward things I do. And God doesn't care a hoot about what's going on in my life. These people, Isaiah said, they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. This confidence in the temple, Jeremiah warns. He says to them, do not say, the temple, the temple, the temple! Do not put your hope in your religious rites and things you do, for they are mere ritualistic formalities and they cannot save. It's why the great weeping prophet called for a circumcision of the heart rather than merely of the flesh. This was, by and large, the religion of Israel and Judah for three and a half centuries. As I describe ritualistic legalism, many of us, I suspect, are picturing in our minds, you know, Catholics or Anglicans. You know, they're the ones with the censors. They're the ones who cross themselves. They bow. They kiss things. They sprinkle things. Surely this is their sin and not ours. Maybe, I don't know. I don't get to judge their heart. What I can tell you is this, do not think for a moment that because we're conservative Presbyterians, we do not find great comfort in outward trappings. Do you imagine that the descendants of the Puritans do not take as much hope in our Spartan sanctuaries as the Papists take in their ornamentation? Do you not imagine that Presbyterian pastors are not chastised after a service because we forgot to say this ritual line at this point in the communion service? Two or three summers ago I took my robe off for an entire summer. Do you not think I got comments about that? Do you think that ritualism is a non-issue for us Let's admit it, if we're honest with ourselves, we have found great comfort, great hope in things like Christmas candles and nativity scenes. And while there is great comfort and hope in a baby's baptism, do you truly believe that no parent has ever misunderstood that hope? And assign the wrong thing to that baptism? We must always be on our guard against ritualistic legalism. And I would challenge you, every time you object to something new, ask yourself why. Every time you're upset that some tradition is removed, ask yourself why. And be prepared to be very discouraged. by what you find inside. We take comfort in the things we do. And our comfort needs to be in Christ and in Christ alone. Oh, for sure. There are elements of worship that are prescribed by the Scriptures. And we would sin if we did not have them in our services. But let's not imagine that having them makes us right with God. His grace and the righteousness of Christ makes us right with God. Now, as much as the ritualistic legalism had a long history in Israel and Judah, God pretty much whooped it out of them in the fall of Jerusalem in 586 BC. There is no record in the aftermath of the fall of the temple in 586 B. C. that they ever returned in any large scale. to this idea of ritualistic legalism that we're going to make God happy by the ceremonial rites that we perform. They no longer took God for granted, believing that he could be bought off with a mere sacrifice. Rather, they had come to understand that God demanded righteousness not only in the matters of religion and ritual, but also in the matters of life and ethics. And ethical legalism soon arose. It is a form of unbelief, wherein we find favor with God not in the religious rites we perform But through the ethics we uphold by the things we do and by the things we don't do. I have conducted many membership classes in my time as both a teaching elder and before that as a ruling elder And I have asked many people, tell me about your relationship with Jesus Christ. And it is sad how many begin to tell me the story of all the churches they've attend, all the Sunday school classes they've attended They've sat through, how their mother and their grandmother were Christians, how they sang in the choir, how they volunteered to the nursery, how they helped out the mission trip car wash fundraiser and then a brownies for the bake sale. And when it is all over, they have not said one word about Jesus Christ or their relationship to him. And those are the people who want to be members in a conservative Presbyterian church. That's ethical legalism. It's the assurance that you are good by what you have done. It's the confidence in your own righteousness. Yes, we admit righteousness is necessary, and that's better than nothing, but it's not enough if we think we can get there on our own. It's the belief that, okay, yeah, we're not perfect, but we we've got to be good enough. And this had become in Paul's day the religion of Israel. And it was, he's arguing, the reason they were not saved. They were not coming to Jesus, their very own Messiah, because they could not accept that goodness was not enough. The Bible exposes the folly of legalism in three common ways. First, the Bible points out that legalism is inherently dishonest. Ethical legalism basically requires you to believe yourself to be better than you really are. To hold to this view, one has to imagine themselves building something akin to the spiritual tower of Babel Every day I do something good and I stack up another stone and eventually through all this goodness I will reach heaven and I will ascend to God. When in fact you're digging your own grave Deeper than any gravedigger ever has. Legalism is disconnected from the reality of how wicked we really are. It's why Jeremiah would say the heart is desperately wicked. Who can know it? It's why Paul, over the course of his ministry, moves from saying, I am the least of the apostles, to saying, I am the least of the saints, to saying, I am the chief of sinners Because he was not dabbling in legalism. And every day he lived, and every day he poured over the scriptures, every day he looked at his life, he realized anew how bad he was So that at the end of his ministry he says, I'm the chief of sinners, because at the end of his life he had come to, not probably fully, but at least become more aware of how wicked he really was. And if that's the Apostle Paul, what do we imagine to be true of ourselves? The dishonesty of legalism precipitates the second flaw of ethical legalism. It is always a cheap righteousness. It moves the goalpost and declares victory. It imagines that one only needs to fulfill a set of outward requirements while it cares nothing for the inward disposition of the heart. You remember the rich young ruler when he came to Jesus and he asked what he had to do to be saved? Jesus said to him, You know the commandments? Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not lie. And the man dares to say to Jesus, all of these I have kept since my youth. How could he say that? How could he imagine himself to be perfect before the law of God? Because he had cheapened the law of God, and he had made it the righteousness that it requires A bare matter of one's outward reputation, so long as they out there all think I'm a good person. Boy, don't imagine we don't do this. We are all worried about our public perception. As long as we look good on the outside. And how did Jesus expose the rich young ruler? He says, wonderful. You're perfectly keeping the law? Well then you'll be able you'll be able to keep if you can keep all the details of the law, certainly you can keep the summary of the law. What did Jesus always say the summary of the law was? Love God, love your neighbor. Jesus says, no problem, you're a good man, so all you got to do is this. Sell everything you have and love your neighbor by giving it to them. Oh yeah, and then follow me. Love God by following me. And with that, Jesus exposed that the man's righteousness was only this deep. His heart wasn't in it. He didn't want to actually have to love God and his neighbor. And he walked away. What are our New Testament reading? The man, it trails off, you know, who is my neighbor? What comes next is the parable of the Good Samaritan. But what do we see in that New Testament reading? The man wants to justify himself. Jesus has told him how he must keep the law perfectly to be saved. He says, well then, okay, I gotta love my neighbor. Well that's pretty easy. You know, if we define who my neighbor is, I can do that. And Jesus' point is, no, you can't Because there are people you need to love everywhere. You can't not only apart from your heart for these things, you can't actually pull off loving all of them all the time. Legalism is dishonest about how sinful we are, and it cheapens the true righteousness of God, making it something attainable when in fact it is our abilities. But the third flaw is worse than both of those combined. Ethical legalism ultimately denies the life and work of Jesus Christ. You see, if the requirements of God's righteousness can be met by oneself, then it's not necessary that God become one of us. Keep the law himself. Pay the loss penalty on our behalf. That doesn't need to be done. All God needed to do was help us be good enough. Legalism denies the work of Christ. If you think Christ is only a moral teacher You're a legalist. If you think Christ is merely a good example, you're a legalist. If in Christ you see anything short of the embodiment of righteousness itself, then you are a legalist. Christ must be the end-all and be-all of your hope for being right with God, for being justified. For why else would God have sent him But what about the good people we ask? What about my Aunt Lily? She's so kind, so generous, so helpful. Surely God would not condemn Aunt Lily. Think about what we mean when we say such things. Good people. What did Jesus say to the one who came to him and said, good teacher? He said, buddy, there ain't nobody good but God Himself What do we mean by that? We mean again that they meet some bare minimum standard. A few basic ideals We mean that they are good by some human evaluation And surely if we were to look more closely, we would be forced to admit that even our beloved Aunt Lily has failed to love God all the time with everything she is and does. Oh sure, yeah, yeah, yeah. I I guess Aunt Lily did have a fondness for those trashy romance novels and yeah, maybe she lusted after that guy on the cover, you know, but but but she was basically a good person. The moment we expect Aunt Lily's life more closely We're forced to confess that even she does not uphold the law of God with perfection. So when we ask, what about the good people? We expose how little we think of God's own perfection. And more than that, we suggest that God ought not have s uh if we suggest that God ought not send Aunt Lily to hell, we condemn him. We condemn God. We are saying that the ant lilies of the world don't need Jesus. They don't need his perfect obedience. In other words They in saying that these basically good people are good enough, we are saying that God sinned against Jesus by putting him to death. Do we really want to justify the Aunt Lillies of the world and say, God, you wrongly killed your son? Christ is the end of the law. The law's purpose, its goal. It was meant to drive us to Christ. For if we are honest about ourselves We recognize that we are more wicked than anyone knows. And we cannot be legalists. If we understand the high bar of God's righteousness and holiness. We cannot be legalists when we see that God, in God's estimation, it was necessary that he become one of us, live for us, die in our place, then we cannot be legalists. Instead, we are forced to throw up our hands in desperation, to hope in our hearts that God will justify us in some other way. And to call out and confess with our mouths, I can't do this. I need a Savior. I need a righteousness which comes from outside of myself. And we find great comfort in the words with which Paul closed. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Lord, guard us from legalism. Guard us from all of its dangerous forms. our desire to cling to a set of rituals, because that's where righteousness is found. our temptation to hold to the goodness of our being, our ethical uprightness, as if we actually cleared the bar. Of what you expect from us. As we grow to know you better, understand you better, as we grow to have a better picture of your holiness. Let us have the humility of the prophet Isaiah, that we would fall on our knees. And cry, woe upon ourselves. For we are unclean. And then let us recognize your grace. That just as you sent that coal to Isaiah to cleanse his lips That coal taken from the altar where the sacrifice was smoldering. You have sent Jesus as that sacrifice for us. It's in his name we hope, it's in his name we pray. Amen.