Open your Bibles to Acts chapter 13. Acts 13. We will be considering the entire, well I'm sorry, not the entire chapter, but uh we'll be looking at verses 1 through 16, though we did consider verses 1 through 3 more closely last week. As you're turning there, I'll say I did uh uh miss one announcement. Page 13 of the bulletin, the bulletin was printed before we knew this information. Page 13 shows the women's conference for the Presbytery. As of yesterday, that was canceled. So that is no longer going to be taking place. So that uh is a change to our bulletin. If we look at Acts thirteen today and uh consider the uh the opening verses, the opening half of this chapter. we're going to be seeing uh Paul and Barnabas embark on what is usually referred to as the first missionary journey. And we've got a map in your bulletin to give you some uh sense of the geography of that and some of the places we'll be talking about today and next week. And so we encourage you to follow along there. Let's read Acts chapter 13, verses 1 through 15, uh. . this morning. Excuse me. Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon, who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Menaeon, a lifelong friend of Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Then after fasting and praying, they laid their hands on them and sent them off. So being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the Word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John to assist them. That's the man also known as John Mark, the author of the third gospel. When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician, a Jewish false prophet named Bargesus. He was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence, who summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God. But Elamis, the magician, for that is the meaning of his name, opposed them, seeking to turn the pro-council away from the faith. But Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him and said, You son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, full of all deceit and villainy Will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord? And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind and unable to see the sun for a time. Immediately mist and darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking people to lead him by the hand. Then the pro-consul believed when he saw what had occurred, for he was astonished at the teaching of the Lord. Now Paul and his companions set sail for from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John left them and returned to Jerusalem. But they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia And on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat down. After the reading from the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent a message to them, saying, Brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for the people, say it So sp so Paul stood up and and motioning with his hand spoke to the people. We will consider what he said next Sunday. Let's pray. Lord, lead us into an understanding of this passage that is in keeping with its message. And as we understand the message of Acts, and as we understand the work that your Holy Spirit was doing among those people, we ask, Lord, that he would do the same work among us. That we would be a church that reflects the spirit and the nature and the call that you placed upon this early church We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So my brother's two middle children, his daughters, they were young. Um I'm going to guess I'm trying to do this from memory. I think they were like five and four, something about that age. And they decided to open their own business. They were going to go out on the sidewalk in front of the house and set up a stand and make some money. They were going to sell a product and they were going to turn it into hard cash. Now if you're going to sell something, a couple of uh adorable little five and four-year-old girls is a good start. That's a way to draw some attention, get some sympathy, get people to come and consider the product. But as the they they made their signs, they set up their table, they got their cash box ready, they they they did their little uh dances with their little flags to get the attention of drivers going by But a long day out in the sun resulted in zero sales. Now, some would say that the problem was a bad business plan. That they hadn't properly analyzed the market. They hadn't properly identified to whom they should sell their product. But I think the real problem was what they were selling. You see, they were selling snails. Not just snails that might be useful, like not the big ones that you might like put into a recipe. No, these were common, ordinary, itty-bitty tiny snails. Their aquarium in their bedroom had a couple of snails that had produced a few more snails that had produced a few more snails and they now had hundreds of snails. And they decided that that's what they were going to sell. Snail Sales LLC. I don't know if that was the official name, but you know, it would work. The problem they had was not their business plan, per se, it was their product. What they had was just not appealing. I suppose, I suppose you could make an argument that if you found just the right niche market, you might be able to unload a few of the snails. But as a general rule, it just ain't gonna sell. I think sometimes that's how we think about the gospel. It just ain't gonna sell We just got to find the right market. Maybe if we try hard enough, if we find exactly the right person, if we find exactly the right target audience. Maybe under those circumstances, well, we could pawn off the gospel on a few people. But for the most part, it's just not going to sell. It's like trying to unload snails at the end of your driveway. It's just not a good business plan. But of course, the gospel is not a business plan at all. The church is not a business. Oh, there is the business of the church, but we are not a business. Rather, we are called to go forth in obedience and to trust God. And so this morning I want us to think a little bit about the audience, the target of the gospel, as we see it set forth here in this first missionary journey, this first missionary effort that we have recorded for us in Scripture. And what we're going to see this morning is that Salvation's audience is from every race. And Salvation's audience comes from every rank. Salvation's audience includes people of every type of righteousness. And Salvation's audience includes those of every religion. Salvation's audience comes from every race, from every rank, from every righteousness, and from every religion. And we see that set forward in the verses here. Let's take a look at how some of this unfolds. Salvation's audience comes first from every race. Look at these opening verses. We considered another aspect of them last week, but let's take a look at a closer look at this aspect. Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers. Barnabas Simeon, who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Menaeon, a lifelong friend of Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul It's all comes out of Tarsus and Cilicia. It's actually on the map there, a region, a Mediterranean region. Uh you're going to be, you know, he's going to have what olive-colored skin, dark hair, going to be consistent with that region. Uh uh. Lucius of Cyrene is mentioned there. He's out of North Africa Gonna be even a little darker skin, a little darker hair, what we might refer to frequently as a Middle Eastern A man of of another skin tone. But the one that's interesting to me is this Simeon, who is called Niger. Niger is simply the Latin word for black. He's a black man. He's a man from some part of sub-Saharan Africa. He is a black man. And one of the things we see right at the opening of this passage is that we have this mix of people of different ethnic backgrounds, different racial backgrounds. Different parts of the world, different skin colors, different cultures. And the gospel has gone to all of them And in fact, the gospel has so penetrated their hearts and lives that they are now leaders in the church at Antioch. They are prophets and teachers. They take a fore of a position at the fore, at the front of the ministry of this church These men are united by what they have in common, and that's Jesus Christ. They are not divided by the things on the surface Like skin color. It is an interesting thing to consider. Why is it that they could be united in one church? Is it because there were no cultural differences back then? Well, that's just absurd. We know that there were Was it because there were no differences with regard to their background or their upbringing or their language? They are united. They are together because the gospel has brought them together. Because the God of the gospel died for those from every people, and every tongue, and every tribe, and every language. And in fact, it's interesting, in our Old Testament reading, we saw there the this idea that in from Zechariah that He is the God of all the nations, and that peoples from all the nations shall come in to his house and be a part of his people. Even in the Old Testament. We tend to think of the Old Testament as God dealing only with the Jews. And yet, even whilst he was dealing with the Jews, he's setting the stage and saying the day that's going to come when people from every walk of life are going to come and be among my people. And then when a Jew, Simeon, is at the temple and sees the baby Jesus in our New Testament reading, what did he do? He held the baby and he said, This is a light for the Gentiles. And salvation for the nations. Salvation's audience has always been People of every race, of every skin color, of every ethnic and cultural and uh uh uh uh uh uh uh Regional background. And we see that here in the first missionary journey. We also see that salvation's audience comes from every rank. We see in this list, and in this reading, two and three people of very different backgrounds. It's interesting. Saul is essentially a man of no social standing. While he, we tend to think of Saul as this really important person, this uh figure of prominence, and he is in the history of the church, if we pay attention to the little clues along the way, though. He didn't carry that kind of weight. He's not a guy that could just walk in and get immediate attention because of his his social prominence. And in fact, he's a tent maker. He's a common ordinary tradesman. He's a manual laborer. He's not a person of high social rank. And yet the gospel found him. He was part of salvation's audience. That sets in contrast to other men who are named here. One we see on the island of Cyprus, Sergio Paulos. He's the governor of the island. A fairly important, prominent person. We also have mention there of Menaeon. A literal uh translation would say he was the foster brother of Herod. He was raised alongside of Herod. He's a man who's connected at the highest levels of earthly power. There is no racial boundary to Salvation's audience, and there is no boundary within social-political rank. The gospel goes forward to men and women of every status. Salvation's audience comes from every race and from every rank, and we also see from every righteousness. Consider Barnabas and Menaean and the contrast they provide us. Barnabas was a respected Jew. A Levite. He is regarded everywhere he appears in the New Testament as a respected man. For him to have been respected as a Levite, he would have necessarily been a man of high moral character. It would not have been possible for the words respect and Levite to have gone together if he were a man who was immoral. Who was routinely violating the Ten Commandments? He is a moral man And within the church, he's, we see him early on in the church, early in the book of Acts, early in the in the church, taking a prominent position. And he's nicknamed, his name, we forget this, but his name is actually Joseph Barnabas, Bar means son of, as we're going to see in a moment with Bar Jesus on the island of Cyprus, Bar means son of in Aramaic. He is Bar-Nabas, he's the son of encouragement. Is that well regarded? He is a man of high moral character, and the gospel calls him, nevertheless, to repent. Nevertheless, to turn to Jesus. Put that in contrast to Mannean, the one mentioned here as Herod's brother. My translation says lifelong friend. Imagine the household he grew up in. This is Herod uh uh uh uh uh Agrippa, uh um that's being referred to here, um would would have been uh the one who presided over Jesus' trial. Okay? Which means he grew up in the household of Herod the Great. So he grows up in the household of Herod the Great. This is a baby killer This is the one who ordered that all the children in Bethlehem, two years and younger, be killed. That's the household he grew up in. Then his foster brother throws a birthday party at which John the Baptist is beheaded. You know Menaeon was there, right? This is a lifelong friend of the man throwing the birthday party. He was at that party where John the Baptist was Beheaded and they all celebrated. This is a corrupt, immoral, evil man. And now we see him in the leadership of the church at Antioch. Because the gospel goes out to every level of righteousness Because it doesn't matter how righteous you are in the eyes of this world, you are still a sinner in need of repentance, in need of Jesus Christ. And it doesn't matter how immoral you are and how corrupt you are in the eyes of this world, Christ can still save you. His blood is still sufficient. So the salvation's audience must be people of every level of righteousness. We must not ever hesitate. To call the worst sinner to repentance. Nor must we ever hesitate to call the nicest neighbor we've got to repentance. I think sometimes we look for this sweet spot in the middle, somebody who is just enough evil that we're going to be able to convince them they need repentance, but not so bad that we believe them to be beyond help. You know, the really nice people, I can't share the gospel with them, they don't need it. And the really bad people, well, they're not going to respond to it We're back to trying to do market research and analyze who we should share the gospel with. But that's not our calling. Salvation's audience are people from every race and from every rank and from every righteousness. We must proclaim it to all of them. As we continue through the passage, we see that uh uh salvation's audience are those from every religion. This man uh Elamis, as as we see him if we meet him there in Cyprus. Um uh Verse 5. When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the Word of God in the synagogue of the Jews, and they had John to assist them. When they had gone through the whole isle as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician, a Jewish false prophet named Bar Jesus. He was with the Pro-Consul Sergius Paulus a man of intelligence who summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God. But Elamas, the magician, for that is the meaning of his name. By the way, this is weird it's hard to figure out exactly because from what we can tell, Elamis doesn't mean magician at all. That parenthetical probably means not to translate Elamis as magician. But probably this is Luke saying this is how I translated his name when I wrote it in my book. Olabus is the translation of his name, not magician is the translation of his name. But it's not clear. Okay? This man opposed them, seeking to turn the pro-council away from the faith. So let's think about this man. He's a magician. Now I think we have a tendency to look at that and go, oh, he pulled rabbits out of hats, he did card tricks, he No, that's not what the word meant then This man is practicing black magic. He is dabbling in the occult. He is messing around with demonic forces. He has literally sold his soul to the devil to be able to have some temporary power on this earth so that he can do certain things and the demons will make it happen and make it appear as he has this power, this magic, so he can hold sway over people. That's what is meant by magician in this setting. This is not a birthday party entertainer. This is a man who is meddling with the darkest powers in the universe. And the gospel is proclaimed to him. Paul and Barnabas do not say, well, you know, he's not going to respond anyway. You know, the gospel doesn't really have that much power. He is part of salvation's audience. Now we have no record that he came to faith, but we are going to see in the book of Acts many others who are just as corrupt and just as evil are going to come. And in fact, uh church history suggests he's actually the one that led the the uprising that ca that cost Barnabas his life down the road a few years. Elamus seems to hold a lifelong grudge against Barnabas and ends up being the leader of his death later on. But he is nevertheless part of salvation's audience. It is interesting how Paul takes him on. One of the things that's there, uh the little k you catch the little play on words there, Paul calls him uh uh uh You son of the devil, verse 10. You son of the devil. That is a play on Bar-Jesus. Bar Jesus means son of Jesus. Now Jesus was a common name back then. This is not a son of the Jesus. But a son of someone named Jesus. But Paul plays on that and says, you are not a child of Jesus. You are not a child of God. Not the Jesus I proclaim. You are a son of the devil. And it is interesting, Paul's powerful stance against this evil, Paul's powerful opposition to this evil, is what leads Sergio To faith. You catch that? We have a tendency to go, well, it was the blindness, it was the miracle. Yeah, that got Sergio's attention, but what does verse 12 say? Then the pro-council believed when he saw what had happened, for he was astonished at the teaching of the Lord. Not astonished at the power of the Lord, not astonished at the miracle of the Lord, not astonished at the judgment of the Lord But of the teaching of the Lord. It is precisely because Paul proclaimed the truth to Elamas in the hearing of Sergio that Sergio came to faith. And if we consider that fact that those of every religion are part of Salvation's audience, we must consider the pro-consul Sergio He is undoubtedly a participant in the Aphrodite cult that was prevalent on Cyprus at that time You say, well Scott, how do you know that? How do you know undoubtedly he was up? Because he was a politician. Politicians take up whatever the prevailing religion is. I really, really like reading about Abraham Lincoln, but I gotta deal with face this reality. He never once talked about God until he ran for office He never darkened the door of a church until he ran for office. Politicians always adhere to the religion of the masses. He is undoubtedly a participant in the Aphrodite cult, the goddess of love and of reproduction. And you can fill in the blanks of all of the corrupt aspects of the worship of Aphrodite. And yet the gospel goes to him. Barnabas and Saul don't say, well, you know, he's so far gone, he's so steeped in that pagan religion. No. The gospel is proclaimed to him. It's interesting, we see them leave uh Cyprus actually when they first landed on Cyprus, but then they leave Cyprus and and they they they see him we we see them go into uh by the way, there's m Two Antiochs that show up a lot in the New Testament. This is the second one, so we're not back at the home base. This is not the Antioch at the start of chapter 13 So Antioch 13 is Antioch and uh Assyria, major city. This is Antioch Pisidia, minor city. There was a uh a general in um Alexander's army that named uh renamed or founded thirteen cities named after his father, Antiochus, and they all bore the name Antioch. Okay, and so there's some and most of them have not survived uh history, but these two show up a fair often in the New Testament, so they're two different Antiochs. here. So they go in now to uh Antioch Phycidia, and they go into the temple, uh the synagogue. And they preach to the Jews. So in a short time, we see them preaching to one who is dabbling in the occult. They're preaching to one who is involved in pagan goddess worship, and they're preaching to those who are Bible-believing Jews. Salvation's audience is those of every religion, not just those who seem closest to us, most like us, most probable in our judgment to come. Salvation's audience are those from every race and from every rank of society and from every level of righteousness and from every religion. It's interesting some of the things we see along the way here, some of the providential. We talked last time about how, last week, about how the Spirit of God leads in part through providence. Opening and closing the doors of the things around us. And we see some of that happening here We note here that Barnabas is still listed first. When Sergio Paulus calls them into his office to talk to them, it's Barnabas and Saul. After this, it'll always be Paul and Barnabas. Paul will now from here on out be listed first. But here it's Barnabas. Why? Well, most commentators agree it's because Barnabas is a Cypriot. And they're on the island of Cyprus. This is one of his own. They have a commonality. This is one of his uh uh uh uh uh compatriots and it seems at least in part That God opened the door to meet with this man precisely because of Barnabas' background, because of who he was and where he came from. And then they get on uh they get in the synagogue in Antioch Pisidia. And we read this as though uh uh you know it was I sometimes I think sometimes we read this and go, oh, it was open mic night. You know, just anybody could walk up and start preaching. That's not what's going on here. That's not how the synagogues ran. They didn't just throw it open to anyone But rather, they it appears that they found out that Paul was a Pharisee. He was a man who studied under Gameliel in Jerusalem. He was a graduate of the Harvard of their day. He comes out of the top-flight school that a Jew could come out of. And he's part of the most the strictest of all the sects of Judaism, the Pharisees. This is a man that comes with credentials. And that's why they offer him the microphone. That's why they turn to him and say, Are you willing, interested in bringing us a word? We would welcome One who is so learned. They had no idea what they were opening the door to. We'll find out more about that next week, exactly how he shared the gospel with them. But we see providential openings. God working through the things that to us just seem like natural, ordinary things. God using them to open doors. Salvation's audience is from every race, it is from every rank and from every level of righteousness, and people of every religious background. And that means one thing for us. Salvation's audience is our audience. Period. The person in front of you is Salvation's audience. Your coworker is Salvation's audience. Your family members are Salvation's audience. And you say, well, how am I? I'm not Paul, I'm not Barnabas, I don't have that kind of ability to speak. But God has providentially put you there, precisely as He put them here. And you're there because you share some commonality. You are co-workers. You have at least that in common. And it is an opportunity to share the gospel. Salvation's audience doesn't need market research. This isn't snail sales We don't need to find just the right niche person that'll be interested in what we have to say. We need to say it. We need to take advantage of the providential place in which we've been put and proclaim it. And we need to recognize one other thing. I didn't know how to get this to alliterate. I didn't know how to get this with an R. But Salvation's audience includes both the elect and the non-elect. Don't try to outsmart God. Don't try to guess who is elect and then target them. Do we see the failures of Paul and Barnabas in this passage? As if we should call them failures. I'm not sure that's the right word, but I'm pretty sure it isn't. But we tend to look at ourselves that way. When we share the gospel and it isn't effective, we declare ourselves to be failures. Do we see their failures here? Do we see how many? We haven't read the rest of 13, but we're going to find out a big chunk of that synagogue audience did not come to faith. And Elamas does not come to faith. There is a recognition that everyone needs to hear the gospel. I'm reminded of what Mordecai said to Esther. If you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise from another place. God's elect are not going to get left behind. He will save them. He will call them out. If you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise from another place. But you and your father's house will perish. It's not going to go well for you if you do not obey. And then the famous line that Mordecai gives to Esther. And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a time as this? Salvation's audience is our audience because it is the audience that God has providentially put in front of us. Because it's an audience that's filled with people of every race and every religious background and every rank of society and every level of righteousness. Just as these were. And we need to proclaim the truth One of the things we're going to do next week is we're going to look at the how. We're going to look at how Paul shares the gospel. It's not the only model in Scripture. But hopefully it'll be one that'll be helpful to us. But the first need to accept that we are called to proclaim it. Everyone, all the time, no matter what. Let's pray. You told us that the problem was not the audience. You told us that the harvest is plentiful. It's the workers who are few. Raise us up to be your workers. Work boldness in us that we would share the truth with those we meet, that we would proclaim the truth. To those from every background. Let us see salvation's audience. As the man, the woman, the child in front of us, with us, next to us. And give us a boldness to speak it to them And as we study your word and acts over the coming weeks, give us guidance and instruction and insight on how to do that. But Lord, even when we lack the know-how, let us trust in the one who can get it done regardless. We ask, Lord, that you would equip and enable and embolden and encourage us to speak your truth to men and women of every race and every rank and every righteousness and every religion. That salvation's audience would truly be all the nations, as Zechariah foresaw. A light that Jesus would be a light to the Gentiles and to every nation, as Simeon foretold And that we would be used by you to bring that about. Recognizing that you have put us where you have put us for such a time as this. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.