I invite you now to turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 13. Acts 13. We're going to be looking, starting at verse 13 and going through the end of the chapter. The first few verses will be a review of what we heard last time, but they set the stage for this week. As you're preparing there, as you're turning there, let me uh offer some thoughts about what we're going through and how this ties in. You know, to be ripped from the social fabric uh of one's life is a shocking and unsettling uh thing, to say the least To be unable to participate in normal everyday activities which bind us together as a society, which pull us together as human beings, is a very disturbing and upsetting thing. We were created to be social beings, created to be in community. Even in the Garden of Eden, in our state of perfection, our God said it was not good for the man to be alone. We are not made to be alone. And so this time of isolation, this time of separation is a time of difficulty and of great trial. We need each other, we need community. It's interesting. Some of us would say, well, you know, I'm a loner. I can go it alone. And yet Our society has deemed that the most severe punishment that can be offered to the most hardened criminal is solitary confinement. Even one who is hardened by life Still doesn't want to be taken away from his fellow human being. So what happens to us in a time where we cannot connect? where we cannot be a part of normal everyday activities, where we cannot be together in the way that we're accustomed to being together. It drives us to ask the difficult questions. Is God really behind this? Is this really his doing? And if so, why? What is his plan? Why is he doing this? Why does he bring these things about? When we last looked at the book of Acts two weeks ago, Paul was getting ready to preach a sermon in the synagogue to the Jews in Antioch, Pisidia. And for a time I was thinking of setting that aside and going elsewhere with today's sermon. And yet as I looked at the text I realize that Paul addresses this question of God's involvement in history, as we're going to hear in a moment, Paul's sermon to those people 2,000 years ago was a message that God is in control. He is working all things for his purposes and to his ends. And so I decided to stay with the book of Acts, and I invite you now to follow along as we read in Acts 13 and hear how it is that God worked throughout history. You see, the Jews of Paul's day were an isolated people, separated from the society in which they lived. They couldn't go to the local restaurant. They couldn't go to the events in the local arena. They couldn't participate in normal everyday life of their culture. They were God-fearing, God-loving people in an utterly pagan society, and it isolated them. And so what Paul preaches to them was a message that God had worked those things out. He was in control of them. He had brought them about to his purposes and his conclusion. And that their isolation was not a mistake. It was not a surprise to God, but rather had brought them to that very moment at which he was preaching to them. Paul was preaching to them. And as a reminder to us that our God has worked things out, that we are right here, right now, in this place, in this time, in this moment. Let us hear now the word of God as we look at Acts chapter 13. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, We believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice if you want to know who is in control of history, even one devastated by disease. If you want to know what to believe in the midst of these difficult times, if you want to know why this point has come and how to respond to it, then you must know God's Word. Hear now the Word of God from Acts 13. Now Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John left them and returned to Jerusalem But they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia. And on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue and sat down. After the reading from the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent a message to them saying Brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for the people, say it. So Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand, said, Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen. The God of this people, Israel, chose our fathers, and made the people great during their stay in the land of Egypt. And with uplifted arm he led them out of it, and for about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness And after destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land as an inheritance. All this took about 450 years. And after that, he gave them judges, until Samuel the prophet. Then they asked for a king and God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years And when he had removed him, he, God, raised up David to be their king, of whom he testified and said, I have found in David, the son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all my will Of this man's offspring, God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised. Before his coming, John had proclaimed a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel And as John was finishing his course, he said, What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. No, but behold, after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to us has been sent the message of this salvation For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him nor understand the utterances of the prophets, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him. And though they found in him no guilt worthy of death, they asked Pilate to have him executed. And when they had carried out all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb But God raised him from the dead, and for many days he appeared to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people. And we bring you the good news, that what God promised to the fathers, this he has fulfilled to us their children, by raising Jesus. As also it is written in the second Psalm, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And for the fact that he raised him, and as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he has spoken this way. I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David. Therefore he says also in another psalm, You will not let your holy ones see corruption. For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep, and was laid with his fathers, and saw corruption. But he whom God raised up did not see corruption. Let it be known to you, therefore, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. And by him every one who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses. Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the prophets should come about. Look, you scoffers, be astonished and perish, for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will not believe, even if one tells it to you. As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next Sabbath. And after the meeting of the synagogue broke up, many Jews and devout converts to Judaism followed Paul and Barnabas who, as they spoke with them, urged them to continue in the grace of God. The next Sabbath, almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. Since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district. But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word. Let us hear the message that Paul preached 2,000 years ago and let it be applied to our lives and our situation today. We pray this by our Christ, by our Savior's name. Amen. The worship guide that has been sent out and made available so you could follow along with the service has the outline of the sermon there. It's a three-point outline. It talks about his story, your story, and their story. His story, your story, and their story. That first point is not one that I've made up. I'm not that creative. History is his story. That has been around for a long time. But it's a fitting and it's an appropriate thing, and this text makes that extremely clear. History is his story. It's God's story. What has happened is an account of what God wanted to have happen. Because God is in control of all things. Let's take a look at this more closely. Paul in verses 17 through 33 kind of goes through the history of the people of Israel. basically making the argument that their history was no accident, that these things did not come about by chance, that they did not find themselves where they were by some coincidence. Let's go through this rather quickly. We start in verse 17 where we see, and listen how often we hear God's activity It was God who chose the people of Israel. Continuing in verse 17, it was God who made them great during their time in Egypt. It was God who with his uplifted arm led them out. In verse 18, it was God who put up with them in the wilderness, who was patient with his people. In verse 19, it was God who gave them the land of Canaan as an inheritance, driving out the nations before him. And in verse 20, we see that it was God who gave them judges to rule over them while they lived in the land. And when they asked for a king, when they rebelled against God's government, it was God who gave them Saul. When Saul was no longer worthy to be king, when God took him and pulled him aside and took him from the throne, it was God who raised up the true, rightful king, David. And we see there in verses 22 and 23 God's assessment, verse 22 of God's assessment of David. And then in verse 23, something really interesting happens. Of this man's offspring, God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised. Paul stops and says, do you realize what's happened? All of these things have occurred. All of this history has led us to this moment. This time, where Jesus of Nazareth has come and he has walked the earth and he has fulfilled all that was promised about him. God has been behind all of this. God has made it happen. We continue then in verse 24 and we read where God sent John To proclaim Jesus, to point him out, so that we would not miss him. And John points to the one who comes after him and says, It is he. I'm not the one, I'm not the Messiah, I'm not the Christ. The one who comes after me, it is he. And John points us to Jesus. And then something very interesting happens in verse 26. So these verses, 17 through 25, we have seen God active. It is God acting And in verse 26, the grammar changes. Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, those among you who fear God, to us has been sent The message of this salvation. Now, not all of us are great at English grammar. We may not catch what's changed there. But let me help you out a little bit. We've moved into the passive voice. what your middle school English teacher called the passive voice. Now you we were discouraged. In English that's considered a weak way to say things, and so we don't talk this way very often. But in biblical Greek it was an extremely common way to say things. And as a general rule in the New Testament, when you see this passive voice, when the doer of the action is not explicitly stated. It's almost always meant to be assumed to be God. And so while Paul backs off from some of the direct God did this, God did this, God did this, his hearers nevertheless are getting the message. That this message has been sent by whom? By the unstated divine presence. God sent the message to his people. The message of salvation. And so we see a little change in verses 27 through 32. No longer is it necessarily focused directly on God's action, but rather now on human action, and yet the underlying message is it's human action fulfilling a divine plan. And we continue to see these important activities. It was uh the prophecies about Jesus and the salvation that would come through him were fulfilled because the people did not recognize Jesus human action fulfilling divine prophecy. He goes on in verse 27 and and and says uh uh sorry I lost my place uh uh Not only because they did not recognize Jesus, but they also didn't understand the prophecies that they read every week in the Sabbath. And by failing to understand them, walked right into them and actually fulfilled them. It is reminiscent, it reminds me uh uh of the uh the Greek tragedy, Oedipus Rex, who about whom there had been a prophecy made that he was going to kill his father and and marry his mother and they took actions, his his parents took actions to make sure that didn't come to be, and it was precisely the actions they took that led to the fulfillment of that prophecy. Now that's a a play, that's a piece of fictional work, but what Paul is pointing out is that sort of thing has happened here. Precisely because the people of Israel failed to understand and believe the prophecies they've been given, they walked right into them and fulfilled them. We continue to see there in uh in the following verse, verse 28, uh they asked so it's human activity again, but fulfilling God's plan. They asked Pilate to have him executed. And then in verse 29, when they had carried out all that was written about him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb. So we continue to see history moving along, fulfilling God's plan. And then we notice an important, boy, you study the New Testament, this little phrase, but God. The opening there of verse 30, but God, there are so many places in the New Testament where that little, the whole passage turns on those two words. In the midst of all the human activity intended to kill Jesus, intended to get him off the scene, intended to eliminate him, God takes it and turns it around and stands it on its head And what do we read there, but God raised him from the dead? And because God did that, what do we read the next verse He was able, for many days he appeared to those who would come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. He was able to walk among the people. And then Paul says, And so there are now witnesses to the resurrection And in fact, Paul and Barnabas are themselves witnesses of the resurrection. For sure we know this of Paul. At his conversion on the road to Damascus, he sees the resurrected Jesus. But church history suggests that Barnabas was one of the 72 that had been sent out by Jesus to be a teacher and a messenger of the Word And Barnabas probably also was therefore a witness of Jesus in Jerusalem and in Galilee. And so now the word of Jesus, the hope of Jesus, the good news of Jesus is able to go forward because there are those who can testify to what God has done. Paul continues to preach in this sermon, continues to show them how these things are happening according to God's plan. And so we see then in verses uh 30 through 33, um the uh sorry, we already we already covered verses 30 through 33, uh uh in verse starting in verse 33 and following We see then that we have now Paul working kind of backwards saying, have you considered all the prophecies? I mentioned prophecies earlier in this sermon. Let's look at a few specific ones. And so there in verse 33, Paul references Psalm 2. You are my son, today I have begotten you. What is Paul saying by that? Why does he quote that verse of all that he could have quoted? Well, we're reminded that to be of a particular family is to carry particular characteristics. The son or daughter of royalty is royal. Prince Charles has been in the news this week because he has been diagnosed with the coronavirus. And so there's much consternation in England about what that would mean for the line of succession and and what would be involved in their in their uh uh uh government if something were to happen to Prince Charles. You see, by virtue of whose son he is He is royal. And so when the psalmist makes this comment, you are my son, today I have begotten you. To be the son of the divine is to be divine. To be the Son of God is to be God. And so what we have going on here is a clear statement of divinity. And Paul says that doesn't apply to David. That couldn't possibly apply to David As much as we love and revere David, not a one of us as Jews believed he was divine. It applies to somebody else. It points to Jesus. He then quotes from Isaiah 55, verse 3: I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David So now we fast forward in Jewish history as well after David is dead. Now the prophet Isaiah is promising that the blessings promised to David are going to come to the people of God, nevertheless. And this is why the one who was to come, Jesus of Nazareth, must be a descendant of David, so that the promises made, the blessings made to David could come through him. This is why Matthew and Luke take the time to give genealogies of Jesus, so that we would know that he is a descendant of David, and that this prophecy from Isaiah is fulfilled in him and through him. Then Paul quotes another Psalm, Psalm 16. You will not let your Holy One see corruption. And he goes on to comment about the fact that that again cannot apply to David. David died. David was laid with his fathers. David's body has seen corruption. He has decayed. He has rotted away. This cannot be talking about David. And so as he looks back at these scriptures, he says, there is only one to whom these can apply. There is only one who has not seen decay. There is only one who, because he has not seen decay, can bring about and fulfill the blessings promised to David. And there is only one who because he has not seen decay and because he is a descendant of David, can therefore be called worthy of being called the Son of God because he is eternal because he is God. And Paul says what we have here is clear evidence pointing to Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus was not Plan B. Jesus was not God's quick thinking response to what happened, to come up with some way to make the best of a bad situation. Jesus was planned from the beginning. And that's why these prophecies could be put in place hundreds and many hundreds of years before Jesus actually came. And the fulfillment in him is a confirmation of him. History is his story. Paul's clear message throughout all of this is that God is at work. controlling everything to bring it to his point and his purpose and his conclusion conclusion. The second point of our sermon this morning is where did your story fit into this? If history is his story, if history is God's story, The unveiling of all that has happened. Where do you and I fit into this? And we look at verses 38 and 39. Paul says, uh back up to verse 37. But he whom God has raised raised up did not see corruption. So having said all these things about Jesus, look how God or how Paul now ties it in with the word therefore. Let it be known to you, therefore, based on all of that history, based on God's story unfolding through all the centuries. Therefore, let it be known to you, brothers. That through this man, through Jesus of Nazareth, forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. And by him, everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses. If you're following this sermon this morning and you have already put your hope in Jesus Christ, Paul says here a reminder of what we have. What is ours? What is our story? And he says, because of all that God has done, because of all that has gone before, because of the story of history. Therefore, we have these two wonderful things. We have forgiveness and we have freedom. We have forgiveness in and through Jesus Christ. Why is that important? Well, because God is holy. And we cannot hope to spend eternity in heaven with Him if we remain in our sins. And because of Jesus, forgiveness has been offered. And because of Jesus, we can be made clean. And because of Jesus, we can be with God. And we have freedom. He references the law of Moses. He says, the law couldn't set you free from these things. We can't fully develop all this, but in a nutshell, the law serves this purpose. It's the test, it's to confirm that you have the disease. The law functions like a medical test. It's not the cure, but it is what tells you that you're sick. And Paul says, if you're resting on the law, if you're hoping that the testing mechanism is all you need, you're in trouble. He says, but Jesus, unlike the law, goes beyond the mere affirmation that you have the disease. It goes beyond merely telling you that you're sick. Jesus offers a cure. He sets you free from the illness. His story is history, is the unfolding of all events that brought us to the point where Jesus walked the earth. Our story is forgiveness and freedom as believers in the one whom he sent, Jesus of Nazareth. So what is their story? What is the story of those who are yet to come, who have not yet perhaps heard this message, or who have perhaps not yet believed in it? We look at the remainder of the passage and we see two different Storylines playing out. Now in your sermon notes there, I've listed three possibilities, a negative, a neutral, and a positive. We'll take a look at each of these in turn. Notice there in verse 40, we continue to see that word therefore. Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the prophet should come about. This is still tied back to all that history. All of that's happened in the past, all of God's plan coming about, is still the reason. So in verse 38 he says, Therefore there is good news for those who believe in Jesus. And now he says, but therefore there is also warning to those who would reject. And there is a warning about perishing found in verse 41. Look, you scoffers, be astounded and perish, for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will not believe, even if one tells it to you. Part of the story of others is the story of those who reject, who scoff at the message of Jesus. And Paul reminds us that part of that is perishing. He picks it up in verse 46 and comes at it a little differently. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. But since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. What is the clear contrast Paul's making there? If you don't receive this message, you don't receive eternal life And by rejecting the message, by turning away from the message, you have turned away from eternal life. You have judged yourselves unworthy of eternal life. Finally, in verse 51, we see one more warning. But they, Paul and Barnabas, shook uh shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium. This shaking off the dust of the feet is a Jewish practice, an ancient Jewish practice, and it's meant to show disdain for and contempt for. And basically, if you were leaving a pagan area, a pagan village, a pagan city, a Jew would go to the edge of the city and they would stop and they would Take off their sandals and and beat them together and the dust would fall there. And the idea was, I don't even want the dirt from this place to go with me as I leave. And it was meant to say this is a place utterly despised and rejected by God, and I don't want anything to do with it. Now we're going to see that Paul is not meaning this for the particular city of Antioch, the Cidia. Later in in Acts 14, he's going to come back around through that city and revisit it. But rather it is symbolic of the way that the some of the people there have rejected his message. And he says to them, You are as the pagan. And your future is like theirs. You know, as those of us who have got to share the message of Jesus with others, sometimes we want to leave off this last part, this warning, this threat. It's not easy to talk about it. It's not easy to talk about death and eternal condemnation and God's judgment on those who reject Jesus. And yet that is a bit like not facing the reality of a disease. It's a little like looking at it and going, well, it's not that bad. What's worse? To be the one who has to share the hard message of condemnation, of judgment, of eternal damnation? Or to be the one who has to deal with the reality that you didn't tell somebody. Our Old Testament reading reminded us of the duty of the watchman. Ezekiel was told by God that if the watchman calls out the warning and the people don't heed it, it's their responsibility and their fault when they perish. But if the watchman does not speak the message, does not warn people of what's coming, the watchman also bears guilt. And will have to pay for his disobedience. Brothers and sisters, it is not easy to talk about these things, and yet to not talk about them is to condemn people to them. If we think they're hard to talk about, how much harder is it going to be to accept that because we didn't talk about it, we condemned somebody to it? If this is a difficult truth, then let it be a truth that we avoid as often as possible. Let it be a truth that we appeal to people to run away from And to run into the security of Jesus. Paul did not back away from the hard truth Of those who reject Jesus. The neutral, in verses 42 through 44, we see a group of people who clamor for more. They aren't believers yet But they'd like to hear more. Tell us, come back next week and tell us more. And some of them we see read actually followed Paul and Barnabas out of the synagogue and kept talking to them and kept the conversation going and they wanted to know more I do want to say that some of us will occasionally encounter people who listen. They're open. They'll hear what we have to say about Jesus. And then they ask for more. Please understand that while that's better than an outright rejection, in the end, in the final analysis, there are only two camps. Neutral is at best a temporary state It is not an eternal state. Eventually they must either believe and be saved by Jesus, or they will be among the scoffers and condemned by Jesus And then there are the positive in the close of this passage. In verses 48, 49, and 52, we see an image of those who rejoice, who believe. Who come to these things. And in verse 48, when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Verse 49, the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the region. In verse 52, the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Some are going to come When we share the message, some are going to hear and they're going to believe and they're going to respond. I would point out Verse 48 in particular to us. There are going to be some of us who are a little nervous about how we share the Word of God, how we share the gospel, how we share this information. Did I do it effectively? Did I do it well? Did I do it right? And your only guilt here is not doing it at all. The watchman is held accountable if he doesn't share the message, but he's not held accountable for how people respond to the message. Yes, we should do our best to present the message as clearly as possible. But notice even with Paul and Barnabas, I mean who among us is ever going to present the gospel? Who's ever going to preach a better sermon than Paul preached? And what does Luke say there? And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Not everyone who heard the perfect sermon of Paul believed. Not everyone who interacted with Barnabas in the aftermath of that sermon believed, but rather those whom God had appointed to eternal life. Be the watchman. Share the warning. Share the message. Share the history that has led to this point. Share your story of rejoicing in forgiveness and freedom. But don't fret over the outcome. Leave that in God's hands. You know, we said that history is the retelling of God's plan and purpose, and that the focus of that plan has always been salvation in Jesus. God worked all things to the point that Jesus of Nazareth came when and where he did come. And in the life of Jesus, we see all that was foretold in the Old Testament coming true as an affirmation that he was the one foretold. History is his story. Our story, brothers and sisters, is one of uh freedom and forgiveness in the one who came. Their story hangs in the balance Have you thought about how this applies in our situation? As you're standing talking to your neighbor six feet away over the back fence, commiserating together about the difficult situation. And your neighbor says Why are these things happening? Your loved one on the phone says, why is this happening? You believe in God, don't you? Why is this happening? Can you explain this? Have you thought about Paul's response? Have you thought about what he says to them here? He says, we are right here where we are in this moment, so that you can hear the message. Dear neighbor, we're standing here asking these questions so I can tell you about Jesus. God has worked all of history to bring Jesus and to bring salvation through him. And we stand here in this moment now, in this difficult time, and you ask that question. God has done this in part. I'm not saying this is the whole reason that there has been a coronavirus. But let's not discount the reality that our God is still in control of history. And you and I stand here right now talking over our fence. You and I, dear loved one, are on the phone right now talking about this difficult situation. And you're wondering why. One answer to the question of why might be so I can tell you about Jesus. Let me tell you about how God has controlled history. Let me tell you about how the way He has always worked all things to His purposes. And let me tell you that he has brought us to this moment so you would ask that question. And so I could tell you about Jesus. History is his story. Dear friend, my story is one of forgiveness and freedom in Jesus Christ. Your story still lies in the future. Will you reject him, be among the scoffers, and count yourself unworthy of eternal life? Or will you receive him, rest in him, trust in him? And enjoy the forgiveness and the freedom he offers. The message Paul gave 2,000 years ago was that God is in control of all of history. So that he, Paul, could preach the good news. God is still in control of history, so that you and I can share the good news of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord, convince us of this important truth, that you are a God in control of all things all the time, everywhere. And renew us in our confidence, that that means that every moment is brought about by your plan and purpose. So that as we enjoy moments at home with our beloved ones that we wouldn't have otherwise had, let us be thankful for them because you brought them about. Yes, we have opportunity to comfort those who are scared and worried. Let us answer them with the assurance that you are in control. And those who do not know you, who do not believe that Jesus Christ offers eternal life, let us work in and in these moments to share with them That you are in control of history, and you have brought us to a point where that question would be asked, and we could now answer it. We are here so you can hear about Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen.