Open your Bibles if you would, please, to Hebrews chapter 10. Hebrews chapter 10, our focus this morning will be on verse 14. But we're going to put it into some context, so we will be reading Hebrews 10, verses 1 through 14, leading into it I mentioned last week that Hebrews 10 might possibly be the single most often referenced chapter in all of the Bible if you were looking at systematic theology textbooks. I suspect that if you went through the indexes and looked at all the places where they referenced in Scripture that Hebrews 10, if not at the very top of that list, would be very close to the top of that list. And it's because it is the pinnacle of the argument of our author in the book of Hebrews, where he is reaching the climax of all that he is trying to convince us of. And so we saw last week that Hebrews 10 is rich in soteriology, the doctrine of salvation, how it is that we are saved by the sacrifice of Christ, a sacrifice superior. to any of those sacrifices that were part of the Levitical system. This morning we're looking at another doctrine, the doctrine of sanctification. And if you go and pull any of the systematic theologies off the shelf in my library and you look at the chapter on sanctification, I guarantee you Hebrews 10 is referenced. often. It is again an incredibly important chapter. So that we have to know it. We have to understand it. We have to come to grips with what is taught here. Why? Because we know that the Bible alone is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. That means that we cannot possibly understand our relationship to sin, our relationship to good works, and our relationship to God if we do not understand His Word. So join me now in listening to the Word of God from Hebrews chapter ten, beginning in verse one. For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins. But in these sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins every year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. That I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book. When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings These are offered according to the law. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every high priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Let's pray. Lord, reveal to us the meaning of your word this morning. Let the words of my mouth closely match the message of your mouth Let us hear only what you have for us to say, so that if I bring anything out that is not true, let it be quickly forgotten. So that your word and intellect stands at the forefront of our minds and shapes our hearts. We turn to your word this morning, not only to understand sanctification, but to be sanctified. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So it's on the afternoon of July 16th, 1988. That I stood in front of God and his church and his duly appointed minister, and he asked me, Scott Lee Shaw, Do you take Rebecca Eleanor Healy to be your lawfully wedded wife? Do you promise to love, honor, cherish, and protect her, forsaking all others and holding only to her In riches and poverty, sickness or health, for better or worse, until death does part you. The same vow was set before Rebecca, and with our affirmative answers And a ceiling kiss. The two of us became one. It's 35 and a half years later, and I want to let you in on a little secret. The two of us are still becoming one. Some days more so, some days less so. We live in a paradox. Two seemingly contradictory situations at one and the same time Legally, spiritually, morally, we are one. United in our destiny, in our purpose, and our mission, in our love But there are those days when nobody would guess that to be true. One and yet sadly still very often two. Another wedding on another Saturday. Another true story, though it's long ago, and so some of the details are fuzzy in my mind. A wonderful young woman from our church got married, and just a little over a month uh nine months later, they had a baby. But a year after that, they were divorced. Turns out, this guy was having babies with lots of women. Including one whom he impregnated during the honeymoon. With the advantage of hindsight, judge for yourself Were these two ever one? She thought they were, but did this man mean the vows he took? Was there even an iota in inkling that this man was sincere or truthful in the vows that he took? The degree to which he pursued a lived out oneness, and that is to say, not at all Revealed the degree to which he held to the oneness which was bestowed upon them at their wedding. He was unrepentant, and so they were divorced. A third marriage, and I promise the last one. Another true story. The wife walked in on her husband. Quite literally walked in with him in bed with another woman. Fast forward, it's ten years later, and they're still together. By their own testimony and by every outward sign, closer than ever, actively pursuing the oneness which was so badly ruptured on that afternoon. What do you think of the reality of their oneness, of their vows? Despite the horrible events of that afternoon, I would argue they are one and becoming one Hebrews 10. 14. Look down at Hebrews 10. 14. By a single offering Christ has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Right now, I'm going to tell you, if you ever complained about your eighth grade grammar lessons, you need to apologize to the Mrs. Nelson of your life. For understanding this passage is going to turn on our understanding of the tenses of the verbs. We've got to grasp them if we're going to grasp what this is saying. Christ has perfected. This is the perfect tense. That is to say, it speaks of a completed action A completed action with a present reality. Lost my point, sorry. The perfect ten. Yeah, I didn't pay close enough attention to wing it on my own in these tenses, so I've got to read this The perfect tense differs in this way from the simple past tense. You see, the simple past tense is something that happened and kind of stays in the past. The perfect tense brings the impact of that past event into the present situation. So for example, I was sick. Its significance may be meaningless today. At some point in the past, I suffered an illness. But if we say, I have been sick, that's that perfect tense And we say the implications still matter. I have been sick, and that's why I fell behind at work. I have been sick, and that's why I can't come to your party. Past event, present implications. That's the verb tense when it says Christ has perfected. It's a past action of Christ which has made perfection a reality Now, the most common Greek verb tense is the simple past tense, the errorist verb. But that's not what our author uses here. He uses this less common tense to speak of something that still has meaning today. You see, here's the problem. If it's a simple past tense, something that happened back then, its meaning may not still linger. If it said Christ once made perfect, at some point in the past he made perfect. Well the implication could be, but since then you've messed it up. But since then you've polluted that perfection. That's the Roman Catholic view of how salvation and sanctification work. That at your baptism or at your conversion, if it was later as an adult, the slate was wiped clean. You were made perfect. All original sin and actual sin was removed. But then you had to keep the slate clean. You could mess it up. You could pollute the perfection. Thus the doctrines of confession and penance. You have to bring forward the ongoing sins of your life and then pay for them. Penance. That cheapens the work of Christ, does it not? That He does not pay for those sins, you have to pay for them. It also gives rise to the doctrine of purgatory. That doctrine of that understanding of sanctification, that Christ made you perfect in the past, simple past tense, but that you can then mess up that perfection eventually evolved into doctrine of purgatory. I say eventually, the doctrine of purgatory was not officially accepted by the Catholic Church until 1274. It took twelve centuries for that doctrine to evolve, making it very far removed from any biblical basis. And what's going on there? Well, you can't possibly remember every sin you've done. You can't possibly confess them all. You can't possibly do penance for all of them. And so when you die, well you were baptized, you were part of the church, you professed faith in Christ, so we can't send you to hell. But because all these sins have gone unuh uh addressed, we can't send you to heaven. Hence purgatory. Where you linger for a time until one of two things happens. Either you suffer long enough, and that would count as penance for those unconfessed sins. And you are then released to heaven. Or someone on the earth prays enough for you or does enough good deeds for you that you can be set free. Now, if you know your church history at this moment, you may begin to realize how this doctrine intersects our own Protestant existence. For while we don't know for certain that John Tetzel ever actually said the little jingle, when a coin in the coffer rings, a soul from purgatory springs, Nevertheless, that was being used, that phrase, and Tetzel certainly preached that concept That indulgences could be sold, that you could buy your loved ones and ancestors out of purgatory if you just help us build St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. And Martin Luther could not stand it any longer by the grace of God. It's the flame, it's the spark that ignited the Protestant Reformation. That's not how righteousness occurs. That's not how holiness is attained. That's not how perfection becomes yours. If justification is the hinge on which the door of the Reformation swings, as has often been argued, then I would argue that sanctification was the screw holding the door to the hinge. That this view that you somehow have to pay for the ongoing sins of your life is just a horribly false view. You see, that's the point here of the careful attention to the words that are used. It brings us back to our text. Hebrews does not say, it does not use the past tense. Our author uses the perfect tense. Which has been captured well in English. Christ has perfected. Yes, the perfecting happened in the past, but the consequences and the significance they linger into the present. And then what does our author do to drive that point home? Look what he adds. Our author adds three precious words. For all time. To good translation. Other good translations might be forever, continuously, perpetually. Those would all be good renderings of what's going on here in the Greek. By a single offering, Christ has made perfect perpetually. Forever, for all time. We are not made perfect once And then risk losing that perfection. That's not what's taught here, not even close. You see, our author is arguing against that view. He is saying if what you want is a religion of formalism, a religion of ritual, a religion of rites and ceremony, If you flee back to Judaism or to Roman Catholicism or to much Protestant liberalism You will have a religion that looks good and feels good on the outside, but it won't offer you the benefit of Christ. Who has perfected for all time You see, the whole point he's been making in this paragraph is that the rituals of Judaism, the sacrifices in the tabernacle, had to be repeated over and over and over again. And make no mistake, when you have a false view of sanctification, then you have to have repeated sacrifices, which is exactly what the Roman Catholic Mass is: a recurring sacrifice of Christ. More on that next week. If you are dependent upon constantly wiping the slate clean And where is their assurance? Where is their actual hope? And where is the work of Christ? Those who believe in Him, and not in themselves and their religion and their good deeds, they have been made perfect. For all time. Now, how? How did Christ enact perfection on our behalf? Well, how did Becky and I become one? In one sense it was with two words. I do. With those words, we became one. A past event with impact right down into our present existence. And in a similar way, Christ enacted perfection with two words. Look at verse 14 yet another time. For by a single offering he has perfected Upon his ascension, Christ stood before the judge of all the worlds, Abraham called him, who said to him, Do you, Jesus, offer your life? In the place of Simon Peter. And Jesus said, I do. Do you offer your life in place of John, son of Zebedee? I do. Do you offer your life in the place of Scott Shaw? I do. And by that, I was made perfect forever. Because he offered the sacrifice needed in heaven to accomplish perfection. For by a single offering. That's how you and I were made perfect And by the way, and not for nothing, Jesus does not stand before the throne in heaven humming and hawing Um well I I don't know just yet, Father. Give me a minute. Let me see if she's going to come to faith. Then I'll let you know if I'm offering my life in her place. That's not how this works out. What do the multitudes before the throne in Revelation declare? Salvation belongs to our God who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb Salvation belongs to the one who made the sacrifice. He declares that his life is in your stead, and then the reality of faith occurs in your life. Then you can be made alive to know the call and to hear and to respond For it's only one whose sin is no longer against him who is able to believe And by the way, my dear brothers and sisters, do not allow the Catholic view of penance to creep back into your thinking. We do this too often. When we get sick, when we have trouble, when we lose our job, when there is difficulty, are those things punishment from God? Is he making you pay? Now, did God ordain that trouble in our lives? Yes. The nuance is what's he doing with it? Why? Is he making you pay? If you say yes, is that not penance? Is that not falling back into the mistake of the Catholic Church that you have to pay for your sin? And have we not said all along that it is Christ who pays for our sin? I've been I love this new song we've been learning. It's not new, it's new to us. The lyrics were written in 1772, so you know, older than America. But we've been learning this song, Now Why This Fear? There are some great lines in there. One of them is this: Will the righteous judge of men condemn me for that debt of sin, now cancelled at the cross? And the answer is no. You don't owe any penance. You don't pay any price. If you're having trouble in your life, it may be, not maybe, it is the hand of God, but it's not to pay for something you've done wrong. For by the one sacrifice he has made you perfect for all time. Amen? Amen. So then, how do we think about these things rightly? How do we rightly comprehend the troubles that fall upon us in our lives? Well, we look to the biblical illustrations, we look to Job. Why did trouble fall on Job? Was it for anything he had done? In fact, Job argued throughout the entire book. I've done nothing to deserve this. And God comes into the end of the book and affirms him, says to Job's friends, he's right. His view of what's going on is correct and yours is wrong. Throughout the whole book, they're saying you must have done something, and God's making you pay. Job went through trials and difficulties. So that God could glory over Satan. Now, wouldn't that be a wonderful reason to suffer in this life? John chapter 9. The disciples are walking along and they find a man blind from birth, born blind. And they say to Jesus, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? And Jesus says to them, Neither this man nor his parents. But he was born this way, so that the work of God might be displayed in his life Some of what befalls you is there, so God can work through it and be glorified by it. And then there's James chapter 1, verses 2 to 4. Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the tesling of your faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work. So that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. The testing comes as refinement, not as penalty As polishing, not as scourging And finally, in Hebrews 12. 6, we read these words, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves. You know, there's a terrible, horrible irony that we call our prison systems the Department of Corrections. Wherein there is no attempt to correct anything. There's just penal justice. They have to pay a price for what they've done. But there are times in our lives where the Lord really is correcting us, disciplining us. We're not paying for the sin. We're learning from the sin. We're growing in maturity. We're growing in development. Christ has paid for it. We must never let the doctrine of penance slip into our thinking. By one sacrifice, that of Jesus Christ, he, not us, has made perfect for all time. We owe nothing to make it continue, to keep it true Back to the song, now why this fear? Be still, my soul, and know this peace. The merits of your great high priest have bought your liberty. Rely then on his precious blood. Don't fear your banishment from God, since Jesus sets you free. I am loving this song and I'm loving how it ties into the book of Hebrews. Alright, now into the second half of verse 14. We're back to chapter 10, verse 14. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time. That's what we've been talking about. Those who are being sanctified. Again, we're back to our eighth-grade grammar lessons. Are being sanctified. That's the simple present tense. It's happening right now. It's underway even as we speak. Arguably, it's because of what we are speaking. Did not Jesus say, Father, sanctify them in the truth? Your word is truth. The very process of sitting under a sermon is part of our sanctification. It's happening right now. Now, if this doesn't feel like a bit of a contradiction, well perhaps I've not preached very well yet. So let me see if I can help you see the contradiction. What does it mean to be sanctified? Well, the word shares its root with the word sanctuary. And what is a sanctuary? Well, a sanctuary is a place set aside for a special purpose. I don't remember where it was, but at the end of the day I drove past a waterfowl sanctuary. Can't drain the wetlands, you can't put any development in there. I suppose there's no hunters allowed. It's a place set aside for waterfowl This is a sanctuary. We don't have our fellowship dinners in here. We don't play our youth group games in here. It's set aside for specific purpose of worship. To a sanctuary is a place set aside, something that is sanctified, has been set aside. To be sanctified is to be set apart for a special purpose. Now In the Bible, there is a more familiar word, an incredibly important word, that's actually a synonym for set apart. Does it come into your heads? It's the word holy. Holy. That word means set apart It is a synonym for sanctified. In fact, my guess is that a few of the English translations you have in your lap actually translate verse 14 this way For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being made holy. They're synonyms. Same meaning. That's a valid translation. But the Bible uses the word holy so often in so many ways that it begins to take on for us another dimension. In fact, when most of us hear the word holy, we don't think set apart. That's not the first thing that pops into our heads. When we hear the word holy, what does generally pop into our head? Sinless, perfect, righteous, without blemish, holy And that's a valid understanding also. The Bible uses it so frequently in that context. So do you now see the contradiction? You see, the verse says that he has made perfect for all time those who are being holified. Sanctified, made righteous. How can we be both perfect and still under process of becoming perfect? How can it be that we are in one sense declared perfect for all time, righteous, holy, and in another sense in need of an ongoing process? of sanctification. I hope now you see the contradiction of this verse. It's not truly a contradiction, it's better instead of a paradox. The tension of this verse. And I hope now you see why I use the illustration of the marriages With the words I do, Becky and I became one. It was a reality Which is why Jesus could say in Matthew 19, what therefore God has joined together, let no man separate. You don't get to tear apart what God is joined. We became one. Yet we are still becoming one. This is the essence of sanctification. It is the reality, in one sense, that we have been perfected for all time, and it's the ongoing process in another sense that we are being perfected. Three wonderful deacons took their oaths last week. They knelt here, where they stood here first, and took their vows and said the same words. I do. And with those words, they became deacons in our church. And then the snow came and they became deacons in our church. There was a reality that was enacted instantaneously last week that they were our deacons. But there was a reality this morning that they became even more so our deacons. And so it is with our sanctification We are in God's sight perfected. If that were not so, we could not enter into his presence, not at death, not in worship, not in prayer. You know, we often talk about the human problem being sin, and that's valid in one sense to speak of sin as the problem of humanity. But our bigger problem is God's holiness. You see, if God were not holy, sin would be of little account. Which, by the way, by the way, this is important. The essence of our God is holiness. And there is no other God like that. Do not ever let anyone say that Christians and Muslims worship the same God. For Allah is not perfect. Not holy, I mean, not holy. For in that system, in that religion, what needs what does one need to do to attain a paradise and enter into Allah's presence? Uphold the five pillars of Islam, and be sure that your good deeds outmatch your bad deeds by at least one. The sin's still there. You go into Allah's presence with all of that sin still in tow. So long as the good deeds outweigh the bad, you're okay. Which is, by the way, the essence of liberal Christianity. He's got to be basically a good person, an ethical religion. All about your morality. So long as you uphold back, you're okay. But that's not a holy God. Our problem is the holiness of God He will not tolerate sin, not one iota, not one inkling, not one hint of defiance or disobedience. And so we are in desperate need of perfection, without which we have no hope. But our author says we have that perfection. It's really there. Because Christ gave his life on our behalf by one offering. So the question becomes, the question you might be asking, the thing that might be going in your head then, is that me? Am I among those who have been perfected for all time? Am I really saved? And what Christian has not pondered that? Well, let me ask you You've been around now, around us for many years. Does Becky love me? And if you were trying to explain whether she does or does not, if you're trying to defend whether or not she loves me, would you go back to July 16, 1988, and say, well, she took vows, so therefore she must love him? Is that where you would go Of course not. You would look at the degree to which she has pursued oneness with me For better or worse, sometimes stronger, sometimes less so. But that's what you look at To assess whether or not she loves me. I love the scene in Fiddler on the Roof, where Tevya asks Golda, do you love me? Do I what? Do you love me? I won't sing the whole thing, even though I could. And there's this fun, cute little song back and forth. And what does Golda conclude? She looks at her life and says, I must love him. Based on all the things I've put up with, and all the things I've gone through, and all the ways that I have stood by him, I must love him. It's not rooted, her assessment of her love was not rooted in some vow she took back on that day. Oh, they make us take vows for a reason But you know she knew she loved Tevia because of how she lived with Tevia. And you would do the same with Becky Folks at my previous church used to call her Saint Becky for having to live with me. And you would come to the same conclusion. It's not rooted in something you said or did. When you are having doubts about your salvation, when you are unsure of your status before God, Do not fall back on I knelt next to my head and prayed the sinner's prayer when I was six I went forward at a Billy Graham crusade. I raised my hand at Vacation Bible School or a camp meeting. Now don't get me wrong. The Lord has revealed Himself to many in exactly those situations. The Lord has made his salvation known to many in precisely those ways. I'm not saying that those things are invalid. I'm saying they don't prove your salvation. They are not the evidence, the confidence upon which you should build your life and your hope. So how can you know? How can we be sure that we're saved? Well, we turn our attention again to verse 14. For by a single sacrifice he has made perfect for all times. Who? Those who are being sanctified. Christ has pers perfected the people who are being perfected Becky and I have not achieved oneness in our marriage in any real and full and complete sense, and yet There is an advancement in that regard. There is progress on that front. There is effort made toward the goal of oneness, which it reassures me That she loves me. That's how I know. And that's what Paul said to the Philippian church Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. He didn't say to them, work for your salvation. That would be contrary to everything Paul ever wrote. But the affirmation that salvation, but what he wrote was the affirmation that salvation can be found in our efforts. For anyone who has been truly made perfect Will actively seek perfection. To be sure, they will not achieve it, not in this life, but they will pursue it. Some days more, some days less. Our own confession of faith grants that there may be times when a true believer is in doubt of her salvation. Yet over the long haul, she can be sure that she has been perfected because she sees herself being perfected. She sees herself being sanctified. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. That is the assurance of salvation, not the acquisition of it. But that you already have it. Peter says it this way: therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. How does one confirm what God has done by the practice of the qualities that Peter elaborates in that text? In other words, by working out your salvation, by seeing it in a life being sanctified John confirms the same things when he writes this, and by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. You see, in our life, we see the affirmation that Christ's sacrifice was on our behalf. Affirmed by a pronouncement of faith, reaffirmed daily by an ongoing repentance and renewal of that faith By an ongoing hatred of our sin, by an increasing desire for the law of God and a diminishing love of sin. And by the way, where did the author of Hebrews, the Apostle Peter, the Apostle John, and Paul, where do they all get this idea? From none other than Jesus Himself. John 14, Jesus says, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. A few verses later, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word. The very next chapter: if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. Jesus could not have been any clearer about the relationship between our outward lives and our inward spiritual reality. The former reflects the latter and is driven by it Make no mistake, we do not acquire salvation through our efforts and through our work. But we'll turn right around and go: those who are spiritually alive despise sin. They long for the law of God and they strive for it Who is Christ made perfect by a sacrifice? Those who are being sanctified. You see, the struggle of your life against sin, the struggle which brings you so much frustration and difficulty and grief and sorrow. It is the blessed assurance of an acquired perfection, of an attributed perfection. You are quite simply fighting to live out the reality which already exists. Quit the fight, and that just simply means that Christ's sacrifice never was on your behalf. Fight the fight without Christ in the hope of your own good deeds, and you are hopelessly lost. But fight the fight against sin because of Christ And the glories of his perfection are already yours. By the way, did you catch our New Testament reading this morning? Chapters and verses are a wonderful study aid and they can be very helpful, but they can also get in the way. I'm not sure I've ever connected chapters 7 and 8 of Romans. The way I did until this week when I was prepping for this sermon. Turn back, whether it's in your bulletin or in your Bible to Romans chapter 7. Look back. I think it's page 7 of the bulletin. Let's reread our New Testament reading. Paul, the apostle. The one who is so important in the founding of the early church. The one who is so central to the New Testament and the Word of God we have there. Expresses his frustration over sanctification. I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now, if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me, for I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want. But the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now If I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand For I delight in the law of God in my inner being, but I see in my members another law, waging war against the law of my mind, making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. There is therefore Therefore, a linking word. It ties what comes next to what has come before. There is, therefore, because of my wretched life, on account of this miserable war I wage with sin, because of that There is, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are Christ Jesus. That's the glory of this passage. All of that wrestling with sin, all of that waging of a war within the members of your body, are not reason to doubt. The reason to be confident of the righteousness bestowed by Christ. For the one who has not been made holy doesn't care for holiness. It is in the midst of the battle that we are affirmed that we will win the battle. There is, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. We have been made perfect in Christ precisely because we cannot get there on our own. But the effort to get there for Christ's sake is the affirmation that we stand not condemned But perfect forever. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Amen. Lord, drive this truth deep within our hearts and minds. Let us reflect on the richness that is found here. That in the midst of our struggles against sin, in the midst of our disgust with our own evil, In the midst of our wonderings about whether or not you would really have one like me, let us be reminded that it is precisely those who are being sanctified. Whom you have perfected for all time. And you have done this through the single sacrifice of Christ, In whose name we pray and whose name we glorify. Amen