Turn your Bibles, please, or if you prefer, click in your Bibles to Romans chapter 6. Romans 6, we'll begin in a moment in verse 15. Romans 6, 15, and we're going to read through chapter 7, verse 15. 6. Romans 6, 15 through 7. 6. I ordinarily referenced the Red Pew Bible at this point, but I don't think they made it in here. So we will go with Sharing with a neighbor. If you don't happen to have a Bible, find somebody near you who you can share with Before we read there, I want to kind of remind us where we've been. Personally, I enjoy it. It's a I don't know what the right word is. It's valuable to my thinking when the the different meanings of a word click, when they come together in my brain. When I don't have to realize, oh, that's something how different from this. No, they go together. So I can remember as a teenager when it dawned on me that net Net pay, net pay. It's like the fish that don't swim through the mesh of a net. I get to keep them The nephew was that which I actually got to keep. And it dawned on me that these two different meanings of net were related It helped it become a little more real in my brain. It was this light bulb moment, and I enjoyed it. The text in your Bible in front of you is justified. Think about that. The text, the actual ink on the page, is justified. What does it mean? It means that it all lines up. And Paul has been talking about our being justified. That we line up, we are aligned with God. We are justified. Now did that happen because we did something? Did that happen because we decided to move ourselves morally into a place where we aligned with God. We were justified. Of course not Let's review what Paul said. I'm going to pick the highlights out of Romans chapter 3 as a point of review. For by works of the law, no human being will be justified in God's sight. Rather, the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by His grace as a gift And here was Paul's own summary at the end of chapter 3. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works. of the law. We are justified aligned with God, but not by our goodness Not by keeping God's law, but by the righteousness that's been revealed in Christ Jesus and applied to us through faith. Because of Christ God declares us justified. That declaration, that legal pronouncement, is known in theological circles as forensic justification, forensic justification. Now you're familiar with the word forensic if you've ever watched a single crime drama on television, right? Forensic just simply means having to do with courts of law Forensic accounting is an effort to catch the bad guys by taking a look at their finances. Forensic evidence are the things that'll hold up in court, fingerprints, DNA, fibers, etc. Forensic means related to courts of law. And so a forensic justification is a legal pronouncement that you are justified. Now there are some people who will say such pronouncements have no real meat to them. They're meaningless. I think the 1919 Chicago White Sox would disagree with you In 1919, the Chicago White Sox lost to the Cincinnati Reds in the World Series five games to three. It was a best of nine series back then. They lost five games to three. Almost immediately after the series was over, there arose uh uh uh uh widespread uh uh uh uh rumors that there was a fix that the series was thrung, that gamblers had bribed seven members of the White Sox, and they became known in history as the Black Sox. And that seven members of the White Sox were paid to throw the series. About a year later, before a grand jury, under oath Four of those seven admitted, they confessed that they had in fact thrown the series and taken bribes. They were brought up on charges of conspiracy and fraud and etc. And a year later, the judge got up And in that courtroom was ready to deliver the verdict, and the whole world was convinced they were going to be found guilty because they had confessed under oath. For reasons that I don't understand and we won't get into, the judge pronounced them not guilty and dropped the gavel. A forensic declaration, a legal court ruling, not guilty. Now do such legal pronouncements actually matter? It mattered to those seven men, did it not? They didn't go to prison. They didn't have to pay criminal fines. Regardless of what you might argue about the reality of the situation, the legal pronouncement that they were not guilty changed the course of their history. So does a forensic declaration matter? Absolutely, it matters. And that's Paul's argument that God has declared us justified forensically. And so we are justified. We are no longer at odds with him, no longer out of whack with him, but aligned with him. Justified. We may not fully understand how that's possible in Christ, but that's beside the point. Truth is truth, whether you understand it or not. The facts are the facts whether you feel it or not. Now that has prompted a series of discussions since chapter 3 in Romans. And he has slid kind of quietly from one doctrine, justification, into another important Christian doctrine, sanctification. And by the time we get to the end of chapter 7, we will be fully into a discussion of sanctification, but we're in that transition period right now. If justification is being aligned with God by his declaration in Christ Jesus, sanctification is coming into line In a way that reflects that. It's speaking and talking and thinking and acting in ways that are actually aligned with God. Now, how does that happen? How do we live increasingly righteous lives? Well, um there has been a second And a divine pronouncement that has been made in this text, and that's where we are now. Paul is arguing from a second pronouncement One pronouncement is we are justified, aligned with God. The second pronouncement is what we are going to get further into today. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. And that means that if you want to rightly understand your place in God's eyes, your standing before him and the impact that ought to have in your life, then you must know this book. Here now the Word of God from Romans 6, beginning in verse 15 What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law, but under grace? This question is obviously similar to what we saw last week in verse 1. Now the difference here is in the nuance of the objector's false logic. The earlier objection, back in verse 1 That interlocutor, the imaginary opponent, asked if it was good to sin so that grace might be increased. This time he's not asking so much if it's good to sin. He's kind of asking, is it at least okay to sin? Since the penalty of the law has been lifted off from us. We are not under law. It's kind of a toned-down argument. It's a nuanced difference. Paul's coming at it from a different angle. But of course, Paul's answer is the same. By no means. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves? You are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. But thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin Have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. He's acknowledging that these Roman Christians, despite the fact that he's Trying to challenge them to be even more righteous, he's acknowledging that there is already a growing thread of righteousness in them. And having been set free from sin And have bec you have become slaves of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms because of your natural limitations I would take that as a warning not to push this metaphor too far. We'll talk more about that in a moment. But just as you once presented your Uh-uh. Present your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness leading to more lawlessness. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. Anyone who would look at last week's text and argue, as many have done, that Paul is against the law, he's anti-law, we are no longer under law. Any who would say that haven't Capture reading. Because here in verse 19, he clearly despises lawlessness Paul is not against the law. He's simply trying to tell us that we're free from the penalty of the law Verse 20. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness, but what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and it's in eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord. Look back briefly at verse 21. What fruit were you getting when you lived as slaves to sin? Now there is an entire sermon right there in that verse, I know, because I listened to an excellent one this week from another pastor. This morning our focus is elsewhere, but I don't want to pass over this without at least saying something about it. Sin ultimately disappoints. Sure, in the moment, it often seems pleasurable, but it doesn't ultimately satisfy. It's kind of like seawater to a castaway. It looks like it's going to satisfy and meet what you need, but it actually brings death. Humanity has never been more supportive or encouraging of transgenderism. But you ask any high school teacher, and they will tell you that teen boys in their classes who lack a clear sense of masculinity have never been more depressed, more morose. More unhappy than they are today. Use of pornography and participation in no strings attached sex are at an all-time high. And so is sexual dissatisfaction. It's measurable. We know that we have never been less pleased with our sex lives than we are right now, as a culture, as a society. We've never been richer or more bored of material things. Never have we been so collectively Ready to give God the middle finger, while at the same time so disgusted by our own evil If you are wavering in your faith, if you are ever tempted to throw in the towel and say, why do I bother? I keep sinning, I keep falling back into it, why don't I just give into it? More of that next week as Paul will have that same debate with himself. But let me point out what Paul is saying here. The world has tried this and is trying it all around you. The world is giving into sin at every turn. And it isn't working. We're not happier because of it. Our culture is not better off because we have caved into sin. That's his point there in verse 19. What fruit did you reap? What good was there when you were steeped in sin? Paul's main point, and it's going to be ours this morning, is that certain legal changes might seem like they don't really change anything about you, but they do. He continues now with that same thought, except now he grabs a new illustration. The the feeling, I kind of wish the chapter break wasn't here because I think these thoughts go together. And it's this gives a sense as you read it through, it's almost like Paul was talking about slavery, and then you can get the sense that he's like, you know what, there are a lot of former slaves and current slaves in the church at Rome. Maybe slavery is not the best illustration. Let me try another one And so he spins the illustration beginning in verse 7. Or do you not know, brothers, for I am speaking to those who know the law, that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? Kind of commenting about the death to sin. For a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law of marriage. Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, and if she marries another man, she is not an adulteress. Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit, and not in the old way of the written code. Let's pray. Lord help us to to see the the point of these illustrations as Paul has has pointed to slaves who change masters as he has pointed to a woman who loses her husband to death. Help us to understand his point and help us to realize how it applies to our lives. And help us to understand the great change that has occurred because of a pronouncement you have made over us. And help us to live in light of that. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So I open by expressing my delight when the meanings of words kind of come together in my brain. There's also joy, at least for me, when I see how different words connect. So I can remember, and it wasn't as long ago as maybe it should have been, but I can remember when it dawned on me that our word alphabet, where it came from We learn our ABCs. The Greeks, they learned their alpha beta. The first two letters of the Greek alphabet. Alpha beta. Alpha beta. I was like, oh duh. It's just Greek for the ABCs. And seeing how those two words, alpha and beta and alphabet, how they connected Helped me understand better what was going on. Well, there are some words that are related that you need to understand if we're going to understand Paul's explanation here. Paul knows that his argument in defense of justification, that we are legally aligned with God, has raised some questions, or at least is going to raise some questions. about sanctification, about the way people are thinking and talking and acting in a way that is aligned with God And to understand him, we've got to understand what he means by sanctification. I'm going to tell you, this is only a part of it. Next week we will come back and consider sanctification further. But we have to understand where Paul begins with this idea of sanctification. We need to plumb his background. You see, Paul was a a A master student, a PhD student, if you will, of the Old Testament. He had trained under Gameliel in Jerusalem. Gameliel was the harvard of his day. Paul was trained at the highest levels. He knew the Old Testament inside and out. By his own attestation in other places, he was an expert with regard to the law, a Pharisee even among the Pharisees. The best of the best in his knowledge of the Old Testament. Why does that matter? Well, because for Paul, to speak of sanctification He is thinking sanctuary effication. Sanctuary effication. You hear how sanctification and sanctuary are related? What is a sanctuary? It's a place set aside for a particular purpose. Right? Sanctuary city, set aside for the refugees. A bird sanctuary. There are no uh uh uh there's no game hunting allowed And our sanctuary, set aside for worship or the business of the church. We don't throw our parties in there, we throw our parties in there. That's set aside for a particular purpose. So a sanctuary is a place given over for a particular purpose. Now why does that matter? Because it informs Paul's teaching on sanctification. To be sanctified was to be set aside for some purpose other than common use. So in your mind, travel back with me to Paul's time and place. The temple was the center of Jewish worship during Paul's life, and it was the center of early Christian worship as we see in the book of Acts. The temple was the sanctuary, and everything used in there had to be sanctified. It had to be sanctuary. It had to be set aside for sanctuary use. So, you've probably been wondering what these things are doing. They are not new decor. But these two pictures here, they are, just imagine with me, these are both made of the same refined gold from the same gold mine. They were shaped by the same craftsman on the same day, in the same smithy, to the same design. Outwardly they are identical. Yet one of these pictures was given to the priests for ceremonial use in the temple. for holding the ceremonial wine, for pouring out drink offerings, for consecrating objects with holy water, etc. The other picture is to be sold in the market, obviously to a wealthy person if it's solid gold. One is blessed, it is santuaryfied, it is set aside for particular use, the other for common ordinary uses. And even if the second one is never used in anything truly sinful, it's still not the special one. the set-apart one, the sanctified, the sanctuaryfied one. Now, obviously the two pictures to us seem identical in every way. And yet they are not equal. The priest would absolutely insist That they never be mixed up, that they not be confused with one another. Why? What difference would it make? Because one of them has been sanctified. And the other has not. One of them is holy to the Lord. That's literally what the word saint means. Holy to the Lord. It must never be used for ordinary common purposes. Now, does that kind of designation actually matter? Many of us are dismissive of such things. I tend to be dismissive of such things. Much to Becky's consternation, I see an old mug and I think to myself, it can be thrown away. It's just an old mug It can be used to hold trim paint when I'm going around the house and painting the trim. It's so convenient with a little handle there. I can put it on my workbench and throw loose nuts and bolts in it. It's just an old mug. But I have to admit, even in my own history, there was one mug that was not like that It was a Farside mug. Remember the old Farside cartoons? It was a Farside mug. It was not inherently expensive. But I couldn't just throw it away. I couldn't treat it with that kind of disregard. Why? I've been teaching high school and there was a tenth grader who was failing my biology class. He had a rough home life and there was no one there to help him. And he came to me and he and I began to meet after school on a regular basis. And we began to study, and I began to teach him how to study. I began to show him how to prepare. And by the end of the year, he had gone from a failing grade in 10th grade biology to a good solid B in my biology class, and he had taken the lessons that I had taught him, that we had worked on together, and applied them to his other classes, and he was getting excellent grades across the board. And he wanted to thank me. Now I know he had little to no money. This is before the days of Amazon when you could just have things delivered to home, so somehow despite not having a car, he got down to the local mall and he went to the novelty shop, probably old Spencer's gifts, and he found he knew I liked the far side and he found that mug and he bought it for me as a thank you gift Now you could have replaced that mug. Easily replaced that mug with one that was absolutely identical. Would I have wanted the second mug? No. Why not? Because it wasn't that mug. That mug might have been exactly like every other far side mug, but that mug. was associated. It was connected. It belonged. It was special. It was set apart in my life by its association. with that student. Another illustration. Paul uses two, so I can use two. When I bought Becky's engagement ring as a sophomore in college, I got taken. I got ripped off by the jeweler. When I was shopping, they showed me the stone under the microscope. Look how perfect it is. I paid for it. They kept it to resize it. I gave it to Becky and sometime later she said, oh, it's cracked Took it to the local jeweler in that town, and they said it's not a crack at all, it's an inclusion. It's been there since that diamond was formed in the earth a gazillion years ago. Now how can we see it with the naked eye, but I didn't see it under the microscope They swapped out the diamonds. I paid for one, they gave me the other. I was taken. And I told Becky, I'll make it right I'll either go back to the store and get them to give me a better diamond, or I'll just go buy you another. I will make it right. That's not the diamond I intended to give you. And her answer was wonderful. She said, no. I want this one. It's the diamond you gave me. It's the diamond that is special to me. Not because of something in the diamond, but because of its association. By the way, a diamond later fell out of the uh setting it was lost forever. So our love has done better than the symbol harm. Anyway, you see the point that the association mattered. The connection matters. A particular diamond was set apart. A particular mug was more important than the others. It was treasured because of its connection to something. That is Paul's understanding of sanctification. One picture is set apart from the other, not because of some inherent difference, but because one of them was chosen and blessed. And made for use in the sanctuary. Now In 6. 19, Paul actually kind of brings this idea home. Notice what he says there. I am speaking in human terms because of your natural limitations. I get that you guys are a bunch of Gentiles in the Roman Church. You don't have my understanding of sanctification. So let me use these human illustrations, and we're going to go back around in a moment to his two illustrations. He uses these illustrations to drive home this point that a simple declaration, a simple pronouncement, radically changes everything. Let's look at Paul's arguments. First, he says: consider a slave who transfers ownership. A slave who was once under one master and is now under another. You could argue in one sense that nothing of consequence has changed in that slave's life. They're still a slave, they're still under a master, they're still accountable to another, they then nothing has essentially changed. The person is still the same person His status in life still seems the same, but Paul says everything has changed. He doesn't answer to the old master. Yes, it's a simple piece of paperwork filed in the court. It's a bill of sale. It's a document signed by the slave seller and the slave buyer. And you might be dismissive of a piece of paperwork filed in court. But he said it changes everything. It's no longer appropriate for that slave to do the bidding of their former master. It's now necessary for that slave to obey the new master. And that's akin to Paul's understanding of sanctification, right? It's merely an outward act. The priest pronounces a few words of blessing over one of the pitchers, sprinkles some water on it. And it somehow becomes the sanctified picture to be used in the temple Now we could argue it's the same picture, but it's not the same picture. The one that is blessed is not the one that is not blessed. They're different This is where we disconnect from the ancient world. For they would find it unthinkable that you would act like the two pictures are the same. It doesn't matter, we can pick them up, we can switch them. What difference does it make? So what if a blessing was pronounced over one of them? But Paul says it makes all the difference in the world. By the way, jumping forward, knowing where he's going in the book of Romans, can you see how he's beginning to lay the groundwork for that famous verse in Romans 12, 1? I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God. This is your true and proper worship. What God has done, that simple pronouncement that you are sanctified, that you are set apart for a holy use, it ought to change what you do. He has set you apart for his good pleasure. He has sanctified you. You also see, by the way, how he's laying the groundwork for Romans chapter 9. If one of these pictures, is one of these pictures better than the other? Is there somehow one of them, the the priest, did the priest choose the one over the other because something in the picture No, they're identical. More on that when we get to Romans chapter nine in a couple weeks. Paul moves on to another illustration. Consider two women. Actually, sorry, sorry, sorry, one woman, two life paths. One woman, two parable pat parallel paths in her life. In both versions of her life, she marries a man. She sleeps with that man. She bears that man's children In both versions of her life, she is unhappy in her marriage. In both versions of her life, she eventually sleeps with another man, even going so far as to live with that second man. It's the same woman living the same life. The two paths are identical in every way, except for one. In one version of that life, her husband dies. Now we could argue that in one sense that doesn't really change anything about the woman She's not a different person because her husband died. She was unhappy with that marriage. She was looking to get out of it. We're not accusing her of killing him. The only difference in these two versions of this woman's life, Paul says, is that her husband died And you could argue on the face of things that makes no essential difference to her. But Paul is saying it makes all the difference in the world. Because in the one version of her life she's an adulteress, but in the other version of her life she's guiltless. But that legal reality utterly changes her life. And her standing before the law. You see, brothers and sisters, you are the saints of God. The word literally means sanctified ones, holy ones. And it's not because you're inherently better than anyone else, not because you feel different about yourself, but because God has set you aside for his purposes. Like a woman's dying husband, that thing that feels like it happened outside of you, it changes you. And it changes what is appropriate and right for you to do. You see, if you are given to God, set aside for his purposes, if you are sanctified You are like the slave transferred to a new owner. It's out of place for you to follow the orders of the previous owner. Christ paid the price for you to free you from sin. How does it say elsewhere you are not your own, you were bought at a price. So obeying sin's call on your life is grossly out of place. It's phenomenally uh Disrespectful of the one who bought you. You might feel like the vessel that was made for common use. But by God's divine edict, you are set aside for his purposes. You are sanctified. Do not profane his sanctuary by using yourself in service to wickedness, in the performance of vulgar acts. You belong to the temple of God, not to some merely to some rich man's dining room for his partying pleasure. The two vessels appear the same. There is no inherent difference in them, but one is set aside for God's purposes. And therefore must be treated differently. We are the saints of God, the holy ones, set aside for his purposes, to do his work, to answer his call in our lives, to obey his commands. To continue to walk in sin is to deny that real. Let's pray. Lord, help us to come to grips with this pronouncement you have made. That we are holy, that we are sanctified, that we are set apart for your special purposes. It doesn't feel like it changes anything in our lives. And yet it makes all the difference in the world. Help us to accept, help us to believe the truth of your pronouncement and to judge ourselves as you see us. And to conduct ourselves in accord with the way you see us. Help us to be outwardly what you have made us before yourself. Holy ones. Set apart for your purposes. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.