Open your Bibles to Psalm 8. Psalm 8, a Psalm of David, a Psalm of the glory of God, a Psalm of the Place of Humanity. As you're turning there, let me tell you a little bit, a little story to get you thinking about what we're dealing with today. So the Shaws have relatively compressed generations, at least by modern standards. We tend to get married young, we tend to have our children young, and our generations tend to be close. One of the consequences of that, it was less than three years ago that I was blessed to still have a living grandfather, and that my children had a great grandfather that they will, that they knew and had a relationship and will remember. And yet, as most of you know, today, our family faces the death of my father. So that in a period of less than three years, I have gone from being the third generation of Shawmen too soon looking at being the oldest Shawman in my line. And that is the sort of rapid life change that does stop, cause one to stop and to think a little bit and to reflect on God's providence and God's blessing in and through families. And for sure I had been blessed by my family. By God's grace, my grandfather and father both professed faith in Jesus. Both were active in biblically conservative evangelical churches. Both encouraged me to know Jesus and to know his word. I have been incredibly blessed by my families. Christian heritage. It would be hubris on my part. Sinful pride for me to imagine that my spiritual standing is somehow of my own making. That it somehow came to me because of something I did. I am who I am in Christ, because Christ put me in a family that was in him I have been blessed by the generations that went before me, by things outside of my control. By God's providence through them. Is no less true in other areas of my life The relatively comfortable middle-class life I live springs largely from the lives of my grandfather and father before me. Let me illustrate. It was in August, August of 1941, that my grandfather enlisted in the U. S. Army. If you know your history, you know that he beat the bombing of Pearl Harbor by a few months. And because he enlisted and did not wait to be drafted, he had the freedom to request certain training in the army and to be put in a position. So that while my grandfather certainly faced enemy fire, he told stories of being shelled while in North Africa. Times when for one morning they woke up and found out that during the night they had been temporarily on the wrong side of the front. These things happened. And yet, because Grandpa was not in a trench. The likelihood of his survival greatly increased. I'm here in part because the army made my grandfather a welder and an airplane mechanic, and he spent most of his time behind the front. Grandfather benefited from that training in other ways. When the war ended and he came home, the economy in the United States boomed. We have a tendency to think that's something wonderful about us. We kind of forget that every other industrialized nation was bombed as smitharines Japan, Korea, uh Germany, England, France, Italy, Russia, all flattened And so the rest of the world had to come to the United States to acquire factory made goods So my grandfather took the skills that the Army gave him as a welder and a machinist, and he came back to the States and he got a good job. A high-skilled trades job, a stable job, so stable that he did something unimaginable today. He worked his entire adult life for the same company And throughout that time he prospered and was blessed, never rich, neither was he ever poor His wife and four boys always had a roof over their head, always had clothes on their back, always had food on the table. Grandfather was blessed because of the place where he lived. And as a result of that, my father grew up. In a home that saw the benefits, the blessings of a biblical work ethic. Dad grew up seeing that if you work hard, Do what you're supposed to do. Live with integrity. Treat the workplace well. Obey your boss. My dad grew up seeing those things and saw the benefits of them. So that one day, when the opportunity came, my dad had a chance to jump from the shop floor to the engineering office, to go from the blue collar to the white collar Now he had to work very, very hard. He was not college-educated, but he had to catch up to all the college-educated engineers all around him. But he had come up in a family where the blessings of hard work had been seen by God's grace. And he believed that if he worked hard. he could do what was needed to fill this new opportunity. And so my dad is now exposed to things that he wouldn't have otherwise been exposed to, and he sees the value of education. And he in turn encourages his children to go get an education. So that I became the first Shaw, at least the first Shaw in our line of Shaws. To get a college degree, and then a master's degree, and then a partial PhD, and then another master's degree. And then my wife said, Stop, enough school already. I am not the product of my own making. Rather, God's blessings to my family have played a role in my being who I am and where I am. Now let's take a look at it from another angle. Imagine for a moment that it's World War II breaks out and my father enlists in the or my grandfather enlists in the Army and wants to be a welder and a machinist in the Army Air And be a repairer of airplanes, but instead of having been born in America, he had been born in Russia. Good chance they would have had him a gun with just four bullets and said, go fight, regardless of his aptitude as a welder and a mechanic. So that now the odds are good that I'm not here because grandfather dies. But imagine he lives through that war. Does he get to go back to a prosperous economy where hard work is rewarded? No, he goes home to a Marxist corrupt system. that does not reward hard work, and in fact does everything to undermine it. And so my father now grows up in a household that doesn't see the fruit of a biblical work ethic. Doesn't believe that it actually has value. Doesn't encourage his children to work hard and get an education. And make something of themselves. I am not a product of my own making. I am a product to a large degree of things outside of my control, of factors beyond what I have ever chosen. By God's grace, Grandpa was not born in Russia. Dad was not born in Russia. I was not born in Russia Let's try one more thought experiment. I know if you're here regularly you say, wow, sermon illustrations don't usually go this long. We're getting there. Let's just try one more thought experiment. Imagine again that that grandpa enlists in the army. But that this time, instead of being in Russia, he's in the US and he's black. Does the Army make him an airplane mechanic? Ninety percent of all the blacks who served in World War II were grave diggers, cooks, and quartermasters. Service roles. The Army probably does not let him take on a skilled position as a welder and a machinist. But let's imagine that they do. Would he come home to factories that were excited to embrace the skills he'd acquired in the army? Would he come back to an economy that was going to reward him for his hard work? I think we all know the shameful answer to that question. The factory that loved my white grandfather probably would not have loved my hypothetical black grandfather I am not a product of my own making. I have received blessing upon blessing because of the family into which I was born, because of the country into which I was born. And to some degree, because of the skin color into which I was born. Now, I'm not ashamed of those things. I'm not about to apologize for those things. But neither should I take great pride in those things. Rather, the appropriate response to grace is more grace. God has been gracious to me, and I ought to be gracious to others. So that when I see someone who is perhaps homeless. Maybe, maybe, I should ask myself, is it not possible that God has presented them with challenges where He presented me with blessings? Is it not possible that God has put in their lives for his own good purposes, for his plan? Difficulties where he gave me opportunities I need to look at my life, recognize the grace I've been given, and be gracious to others. You know, when it re comes to salvation, we talk a lot in this church about the sovereignty of God and about the rule of his grace. Do we believe that extends to every aspect of our lives? Do we really believe the old adage, there but for the grace of God go I? By virtue of the calendar, we have an interesting weekend today, this weekend. Today is Sanctity of Life Sunday. A day which asks us to look at the unborn And to consider the challenges that are before them, not of their own making, in many, many, many most cases since they are unborn, but by virtue of the fact that they are in the womb, and that alone. There are those who want to kill them. We are asked To prayerfully and powerfully take up that cause. Tomorrow is Martin Luther King Day. It's interesting how these two are juxtaposed on the calendar. Tomorrow we are encouraged to consider the plight of those who, by virtue of their skin color. Have faced difficulties and challenges and have been killed just because of the way God made them. My family story is a simple illustration of the fact that we do not make ourselves. We benefit in every way from the way God has made us. And others face challenges because of the way God has made them. We have been this year starting out looking at things that we need to consider in a more biblical manner. This little mini-series has been called 2020 Vision, Seeing as God Sees. And first we saw the centrality and the essential aspects of Jesus. If we want to see religion clearly, we must see that he and he alone is the one who saves. Last week we were encouraged to see the bride of Christ as a beautiful, glorious thing, the church. See the church the way Jesus sees the church, as he revealed it in Revelation 21 and 22. And today we are going to take a look at the image of God in his pinnacle creation, mankind. Here at Shore Harvest Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. Among other things, that means if we want to know how to rightly glorify God by honoring his image in humanity And we must know his word. Hear now the inerrant, infallible, authoritative word of Almighty God from Psalm 8. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. You have set your glory above the heavens Out of the mouths of babies and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor, and have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have Put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas. O Lord our Lord How majestic is your name in all the earth. Let's pray. Lord, teach us to see your glory and your majesty and your image in humanity. Show us a new Your image in every man, woman, and child. As we see it, let us glorify you. Let us rejoice anew at the work of Christ which redeems people from every nation, every tribe, every tongue. We pray this in his name and for the sake of his glory. Amen. Communication can be a struggle. It is amazing how often Becky or I will look at the other and say, what are you talking about? I see we're not alone. What was clear in my head is not at all clear in hers, and vice versa. Communication experts tell us that one of the ways, one of the ways, to overcome difficulties in communication is with these little things and boy I always hate to do this because I've got to go back and apologize to my high school English teachers. But those little things like clear statements of what you're talking about. You remember what your English year called a thesis statement? At the beginning of the paper, how about you just start by saying what it's all about? And at the end of the paper you say what it was all about, a thesis statement and a conclusion. And in between, hopefully the body develops what you said at the beginning and it builds through what you say at the end, and it all ties together Communication would be clearer if we just said what we are talking about. Praise God, our psalmist went to English class that day. Probably went to Hebrew class that day, not English class. Anyway, look at the Psalm. Look how he opens and closes the Psalm. Look at verses 1 and 9. They are identical, verbatim, word for word, the same. In your English Bible and in the Hebrew Version. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth What is this Psalm about? What is the thesis statement and conclusion statement of Psalm 8? If we are to see this psalm clearly, we must see it as being about the majesty of God in all the earth. That's what this psalm is about. That's the clear thesis statement. That's the clear conclusion of the psalm. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Now you may notice that the re the repeat of the word Lord, they're typed out there a little differently in your translation. O Lord, all caps are Lord, lowercase letters. Oh Yahweh, the all-cap Lord is the proper name of God. It is the covenant name of God. It is the name that God gave Moses at the burning bush. Who shall I say has sent me? If I go back to the captive Israel in Egypt, who am I going to say has sent me? God said, You tell them, Yahweh, I am, has sent you. O Yahweh are Adonai. That second Lord is the translation of the word Adonai, which can mean Lord, like a landlord, someone who's in control, someone who has authority, someone who has power. To me, master. O Yahweh our adonai, how majestic is your name in all the earth. I point that out simply to remind us That this is not talking about any old God generically. That David is not writing about the idea of God, the concept of supremacy. He is specifically addressing a particular God, the God of Israel, the one who was known as Yahweh and became known as Yahweh saves. You would pronounce Yahweh saves in Greek as Jesus. That's what the name means. And he addresses that God as we must always be centered on that God, the only true God, the one who saves. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. So does the body, that's its thesis and the conclusion of the psalm, does the body tie into that? Does the middle of the psalm go with that? Well, take a look at it in verse 2. Out of the mouths of babies and infants, you have established strength. Verse 3, when I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers. Verse 4, what is man that you are mindful of him? Verse 5, you have made him a little lower than. Verse 6, you have given him. Throughout the rest of the body of the Psalm, we see a focus on God. And yet it's interesting how the psalmist chooses to focus on God. It's instructive. We ought to look at it. So we see the Psalm. If we're going to see the Psalm clearly, we must see it about being about the majesty and glory of God on the earth. But if we are going to see that glory rightly, we must understand how the psalm explains the glory of God. So when I was in high school, I had the benefit of the most awesome job any high schooler has ever had. I was blessed to work part-time as a computer operator for an engineering firm engineering and machine manufacturing firm. This was back in eighty-three, eighty-four, eighty-five. I made ten dollars an hour back then. And I worked one to five in the afternoon, no evenings, no weekends, making three times minimum wage. It was the most awesome job. And one of the things I enjoyed about working there. was this company was a a leader in the field of manufacturing processes. They would establish ways to make things in factories And if you're going to be a leader, if you're going to claim that you're a leader in that field, then you ought to be good at it. And so one of the things they did was develop a very sophisticated production line. So much so that an engineer could sit at their computer screen, in the computer-aided drafting, draw up a part. a three-dimensional object, let's say a bracket for a new machine. And they could click send, and it would go out. They didn't have to like Printed out and carried out the factory. Just click send. And it would go out to the factory floor, and a piece of steel would be picked up in the storage bin and put on the first machine and the and it would be c the block of steel would be cut down to the necessary size and picked up and moved to the second machine and the surfaces would be milled, you know, down to tolerances uh less than a thousandth of an inch. Just amazing tolerances. Then they would be picked up and put on the next machine. and and holes would be drilled in all three axes, all three dimensions, whatever way holes needed to be drilled. And you picked up another next machine and those holes could be could be uh threaded if needed and be picked up on the next machine and cleaned and stripped of all the grease and protective oil, picked up and put on the next machine and painted all the protective coatings, picked up put on the next machine and packaged and picked up and put up on the dock for shipping and never touched by a human hand. A robot got it out of the bin and put it on the first robotic cutting machine. And then the robot transferred it to the second milling machine, robotic milling machine, which you then transferred it to the robotic drilling machine, which you then robotic all of it The only time humans were involved is when the engineer clicked send and the UPS man came and picked it up off the shipping dock. And that was back in the early 80s. It was cool. Now imagine for a moment that in my awe, and I was in awe As a 17-year-old, I would stand there, we had these big glass, these the machine, the computers where we work, these big glass plate windows, and we could see the factory floor and see all this happening. And I would stand there in awe and my boss would say, get back to work. Imagine for a moment that I went out on the factory floor and in my awe, bowed down before the robots. That'd be a little foolish, wouldn't it? Robots are amazing, but what's even more amazing? Isn't it the engineers who designed the robots and the machinists who built the robots? Doesn't what they did have all of the glory of the robots plus a whole lot more? They're responsible for everything the robot did, and they designed it to do it. To glory before the robots is to miss the glory of the engineers who built the robots. But of course the glory before the engineers is to fail to ask the question who made them? And that is the point of the psalmist. When he points to the glory of God, he does so by talking about the glory of man. You see these middle sections. You have made man, verse 5, a little lower than the heavenly beings. Heavenly beings, this is a Hebrew word a lot of you will recognize. It is the word Elohim. Many of you have heard the Hebrew word Elohim. It occurs over 2,600 times in the Old Testament. And in the vast majority of those occasions, it is translated as God. When in the context of false gods, it is translated with a lowercase G. When in the context of the true God, it is translated with a capital G, uppercase G, but it's usually translated as God, Elohim. That is why some of your translations will have. You have made him a little lower than God And when we consider what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6:3, that we, the believers in Jesus Christ, will judge angels. Then I think saying here that God has made us a little lower than himself is a really good way to see this. You have made him a little lower than Elohim. For we have a place even above that of angels. The author of Hebrews picks that idea and says that the mystery of the salvation that we have is something angels long to look into. They don't get the benefit of the things we get. How do we bear the image of God? How does God glorify? God is glorified by the place we have. Our dominion. Look at the dominion language there. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas. We are a highly capable race of people. We are talented. God has given us great gifts. And allowed us a dominion. So that in many ways we are making this place a better place to live Many of you will remember as a child, you got out of any parking lot, any corner convenience store. There was broken glass everywhere. It's almost non-existent nowadays. I can remember when I first learned to ride my motorcycle. You couldn't drive down the middle lane of the highway because there was just oil and gunk because every car leaped horribly Go look at the old 70s movie. You'll see the black strip down the middle of the highway. It's not like that anymore. Our cars don't spew oil. We don't have to get the oil checked every time we fill the gas tank. But that's what grandpa and grandma had to do. The world is constantly getting better. I think of my great-grandmother's life. My great-grandmother was born in 1882. She died in 1979, I think it was. She was born before the electric light bulb had been invented. She was born just a few years after the telephone when only Alexander Graham Bella had a telephone. Nobody else had one She was born before the car, before the airplane, uh before many, many. She lived to see a man walk on the moon What an amazing uh species we are. What an amazing creation we are. But if we bow before us, we've missed the reality that our uh dominion Our gifts are designed to point to the one who gifted us Before you are a couple of pictures on my right, your left is a reproduction, not the actual thing. This is not the original. Okay. It's a reproduction of Da Vinci's Mona Lisa. What I say about that says something about Da Vinci, does it not? The fact that we highly regard this work collectively as a people speaks to something about Da Vinci. We glorify it, that glorifies him. If I critique it, if I say, I'm not sure I love the brush strokes on her hair, you're gonna look at me and go, wow, pretty arrogant there, Scott. I've seen your artwork and don't come close How arrogant of you to think that you can critique and criticize Leonardo da Vinci. What we say about this artwork Says something about what we think of its creator. Now, some of you will say, but Pastor, I mean, can't we just not like it? Don't we have the option of saying, well, I prefer Starry Night by Van Gogh? Yes. Because it's a mere human artist. But if the artist is divine, if the artist is all-knowing, all-powerful, always right, always just, always good, And I look at the artwork and criticize it. I am no longer expressing a human opinion against another human where I have a right to have my opinion. I am now expressing my judgment of the Almighty, and that He didn't know how to make what He made. It isn't color it properly. That his brush strokes were a little off Consider the other image and what it says to us. This is an artwork that hasn't yet received its due, not yet quite to the level of Moda Lisa, but it will be, I think, one day. This is a Marianne Merrickan original. And if you ask any mother, any grandmother, any pastor in this room, which would you rather have hanging in your home? They will all say this one. Why? Because of our affection for the artist. Because of our love for the one who made it. We love Marianne. And therefore we love the work of her hands, and we esteem it highly. If I tore this off right now, wadded it up, and threw it aside, you would all be aghast. And rightfully so. So that it works in both directions. When I look at this piece by Da Vinci and I critique it, it reflects back on what I think of its creator. But when I consider the creator and look at the creation It affects how I see the creation. Both are true. Both are true of how we see the image of God in our fellow mankind. And the psalmist says, look at man and be in awe of his position in creation. Look at man and be in awe of his dominion over all things, and then be reminded he didn't put himself there. God put him there. God raised him up to that point. Seeing the Psalm correctly means seeing it as being all about the majesty and glory of God. But seeing that glory correctly means that we have to realize that it's tied in, it's intricate with, it's interwoven with The image of God in his apex creation. You and me? Yes, we have been impacted by the fall. Yes, we are not as beautiful as we were once intended to be or will one day be. But nevertheless the image is still there. The image of God in us is to the glory of God. And therefore we ought to see his creation As beautiful. And we ought to recognize that what we say about his creation reflects on him. The image of God, when we see it in us, is manifest in so many ways. It is manifest, as we've already said, in our dominion. In our Old Testament reading, we saw there that God gave dominion over the earth to his apex creation, humanity. We must not forget that God also asked us to rule over and subdue The creation was unfinished in important ways. You know, we have a tendency, and I believe it to be a flawed one. to to to uh uh uh poo-poo anything mankind does. We we we uh uh gotta give everything in nature is inherently superior But that's really not the trajectory we see in the scriptures. For God created us and put us in a garden But when he restores all things, is he going to restore us to a garden? We just looked at that last week, didn't we? We're going to be restored to a city. We are going to be restored to a place of culture and refinement and completion. Part of the image of God in us is that creation mandate. To take the garden, which was in order, and to extend that order into the chaos of the rest of creation. Part of the creation mandate is to make people. God made people, we make people. That is the fulfillment of the creation mandate and the image of God in us So that God created a place where there were two people. He wants a place full of people. He left some of that work to us. And when we fell and corrupted his creation, he calls on us to also play a role in its restoration. So that we must help those who are impacted by the fall of man, hurt by the sin of this world. affected by our own sin. It's one of the reasons I'm excited about the trip to Mexico this summer. Now we are going to get to see the majesty of God in all the earth, as the psalmist encouraging us to see. We're going to go see it in another place. We're going to have an opportunity to see God's majesty there in that place. But also, they've asked us. They've said, come help us. We have this work that we need help with. We have this work to overcome the impact of sin in this world. And because those are people created in God's image, we say, yeah, we want to come and we want to help. As we consider the blessings we have been given, some of us with our own challenges, no question. We must look at others and go, how can I return God's grace to them? And as we look at others and see the hurt of this world, The effects of sin, we have to ask, Lord, how can I help them? Can I get the gospel to them? What is the venue, the avenue by which you want me to do that? How can I share with them the blessings you have given me? Because when I consider you, I look at your handiwork, and I am impressed by it. And in love with it, because I love you. Let's pray. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Let us see the majesty of your name and your creation. Specifically, let us see the majesty of your name in the creation of our fellow man. Help us to care for those who suffer by virtue of not being born yet. Help us to care for those who suffer. The effects of sin in this world have caused them to be without basic necessities. Let us care for those. Who, by virtue of the color of skin you gave them, suffer Let us care for those in our own midst who are hurting because of sin. Open our eyes to the beauty of your image in every man, woman, and child. Help us to glorify you. By upholding them. We pray this in Christ's name, who died for all of these people. Amen.