John chapter 8, we'll be looking at verses 39 through 47. John eight, thirty-nine to forty-seven. As you are Turning there, I would ask you to contemplate this question. What is the biggest threat to Christianity? On a global scale, in your home, in our community, what is the biggest threat To Christianity. Now, in one sense, there is no threat to the Christian message. Christ is going to come back He is going to judge all peoples and all nations. He is going to reign forevermore on the throne of David from Jerusalem. And no one or nothing can stop that. In one sense, there is no threat to Christianity. But the outcome of a war is no guarantee of the outcome. Of particular battles. And for sure we have seen throughout the centuries that there are times and places and people's hearts where Christianity is defeated. on the small scale. And so I ask again, what is the single biggest threat to Christianity? Now let me say right up front, I don't know the answer to that. I don't think any other mere human does. But I do want us to take a look at what is certainly one possibility. And the text that is before us, Jesus addresses one very real and in my opinion, perhaps the leading threat today. to Christianity. Here at the Shore Harvest Church, we enter 2020 the way we close 2019. Believing that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know What is the truth? What is the way? And what is the only means by which we can come to the Father then you must know God's Word. And so I invite you now to follow along in John 8, and I will start in verse 39. They answered him, Abraham is our father, Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing what your father did. They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I came from for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot hear, bear to hear my word. You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning. It has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But I tell you the truth. You do not But I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not Believe me, whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. Let's pray. Lord, by your grace, let us be of God, according to Jesus' words here. Let us hear your words. Guard my words so that they are yours alone. What I fail to include that I should have, please bring to the mind and heart of each one here today. And if I include anything that I should not have Please let it fall on deaf ears. Let us hear you and be more like you, so that we are more of you In short, by your word today, make us Abraham's children. Amen. Everyone has a God. Interestingly, even polytheists have a God. Hindus admit that there are, or claim that there are 2. 3 million, I think it is, that last count, gods. But if you've ever known a Hindu, they have a particular god that they hold to be their household or family God, the God that they believe to be worthy of attention and worship and praise. They have a God. Among all their gods, there is one that is for them the supreme among the gods. We might argue that uh uh uh we we look at uh a religion like Islam it has a god Allah they call him He is the supreme being. He is the one who they believe to be over and above all other beings. Now I don't think Hinduism is a is while it is certainly a false religion and it can be in place as a threat to Christianity Islam is a false religion, and in places it's a threat to Christianity. I don't know that either of them are the biggest threat to Christianity where we live. Nor do I think either of them are what is addressed in this passage. I said everyone has a God, and some would argue, well, there are atheists. The very word atheist means without God, no God. And yet they still hold to a view that there is one who is a supreme being. For most atheists, it comes down to the self. I get to decide what is right. I get to decide what is moral and ethical and good. I am the only one who must be served. I am the only one who must be Placated, and therefore the great me is supreme. Now that is certainly a growing belief in our country, and it is a threat to Christianity, but I don't believe it to be the threat to Christianity, nor do I believe it to be what Jesus is addressing in this passage. Buddhism puts an interesting spin on it. Technically Buddhism is an atheistic viewpoint. They don't believe in any gods. Rather, what Buddhas hold as supreme is the enlightened mind, the enlightened human being. So they elevate gurus and they extol them as those who should be pursued. So they don't technically believe that every person is the supreme being. I may not be now the supreme being, but I can become supreme by becoming enlightened. Again, it's a false view, it's a false religion, but I don't think it's the major threat to Christianity. In 2020, in Easton, in our church, in our homes. So what is the major threat to Christianity? What is it that Jesus is addressing in these verses? Well, the first thing I think we need to do is to understand that All of these religions are competing themes for supremacy in your life. Competing views of what should be supreme. To understand this passage and to understand the major threat to Christianity in 2020, I think we need to understand, we need to see clearly that religion is not ultimately about external things. Surely there are external things that distinguish the religions And those external things reveal something about the religion. We just saw that last week in James 2. James says that I will show you my faith by my deeds. What we do reveals who we hold to be supreme. But that is still an outward thing that even James says that points to the inward. If we see religion clearly, we see that different religions are competing for supremacy in your life. What do you hold to be supreme? If it is the self, then give up the charade of Christianity and just become an atheist. And serve yourself. But if it is Christ, then let's be sure that we make him supreme and serve him. Religion, when it is seen clearly, is seen as competing views on what is supreme, who or what Is supreme in your life. And once we see religion clearly, we can begin to see what is the major threat to Christianity and what Jesus is addressing in this passage. Let me share a story. I've shared it. I know I shared it in Sunday school class, which means some of you will have heard it. I may have shared it in a sermon, I don't remember, but it's a It's apropos to what we're addressing today in the passage that's before us. So some years ago I was teaching a college chemistry class. We were in lab. One of the great joys of being a college chemistry professor is the lab. While the the beaker is stirring and while the chemicals are mixing over here, you can chat with the students and get to know them and have conversations. And I liked it The particular college I was at at the time had a large number of immigrants from Arab-speaking countries, that area where we where we were. And and therefore there were a significant number of Muslims in my classes. And on this particular d lab period, I was in a discussion, debate with one of my Muslim students I arguing for the virtues of Christianity, he for the virtues of Islam. And we agreed on nothing. As you might imagine. Now it was a collegial and cordial and friendly back and forth, but it was one where there was absolutely no agreement. Until a third-party student, another student nearby, stepped in to solve our problem for us. She simply pointed out that we needn't argue at all, but to accept the fact That both Christianity and Islam were two different paths to the same God. And that we would end up in the same heaven and the same eternal life. Ironically, it was precisely at that point that my Muslim friend and I finally agreed with each other that she was wrong. That our religions made competing and opposing claims, and there was no way they could both be right. But that other student reveals what I believe to be the major threat to Christianity. In our church, in our homes, in our hearts, and in our community. And I believe it to be what Jesus is addressing in this passage. Seeing religion clearly means that we must see it As a claim to what is supreme in your life. Seeing Christianity clearly requires us to see That we hold that Jesus alone is supreme. That the Christ alone is supreme, that there is no other way. As a result of this claim, Christianity is susceptible to charges of being exclusive and exclusionary. Being both exclusive and exclusionary. Now, to be sure, Christianity is exclusive, and we will come back to that in a moment. But it is not exclusionary. We have been looking at the Book of Acts, and one of the themes of the Book of Acts is that much to the chagrin of the early believing Jews The message of their Messiah was going out to others. It was going to those much disdained Samaritans. And then it went beyond them to God-fearing Gentiles. And then it ended up going to outright pagans. The gospel message of Christianity is not exclusionary. You compound this with the scandal that Jesus uh befriended and ate with prostitutes and tax collectors, the lowest of the low in that society. And then you consider the fact that the gospel went to every social class. So that eventually at the Lord's table, slave and slave owner met as equals before the Lord. The high-ranking politician and the homeless man came together as equals. at the Lord's table. It was as if God was trying to build for Himself a people that had come out of every possible racial background, every possible nationalistic background, every possible social standing, and even every possible sin background. And they were all coming. And the message was for all of them. Christianity is not exclusionary. All who come to Christ are Christ. All who come to him are our brothers and sisters in the Lord. It is not an exclusionary religion, but it is an exclusive one. It is one in another sense that makes exclusive claims, and that brings us back to my discussion with my Muslim student in the Chem Lab, and to the other student. That intervened. Because as our discussion went on with this other student, I found out later that she claimed a form of Christianity. But here she was saying that Christianity and Islam led to the same place and the same result and were on different paths with the same end. Jesus makes repeated and clear claims of exclusivity If we look at our text here, he offers only two categories, those who have God as their father and those who have the devil as their father. According to Jesus' argument, you are in one group or the other. You have God as your father, or you are a child of Satan. As Jesus is clear, the distinguishing marks between those two camps are this. What does he say? If God were your father, you would love me. It's a simple logical if-then statement. If this criteria is met, then this consequence necessarily follows. It must be so. If God is your Father, you will love me. Later on, he adds the idea of believe me. You will love me and you will believe me. There is no one who has God truly as their father who does not love and believe Jesus. That's why I could not agree with my Muslim student that we and he with me that we were on the same path to the same outcome because this statement makes it clear It is a dichotomous situation. You are in one camp or the other. That's it. The contrapositive of Jesus' statement is also true. That you can work it backwards. If you do not love and believe Jesus, then you do not have God as your Father. Now, I thoroughly enjoy the writings of C. S. Lewis, and I would commend to you his classic work, Mere Christianity. But sadly, there is a fatal mistake. Fatal is not quite the right word, but there is a serious mistake in that book For Lewis proposes, he asks the question a little rhetorically, but he asks the question, is it not possible that some who have Jesus as their Savior don't know that they have him as their Savior? But that flies in the face of what's being said right here. For this says that Jesus says, if God is your Father, you will love me and believe me. How can they possibly love and believe one they do not know? And if they do not know him, they cannot love and believe. And if they cannot love and believe, then they do not have God as their Father. There is no one who is saved by Jesus except that they know they're saved by Jesus. And they love and believe. Him. I am convinced the biggest threat to Christianity in our time If church-going, pew-sitting, pulpit-filling people who claim the name of Jesus, they are called Christians. But they do not believe in Christ's singular claim of absolute supremacy. Rather, they leave the door open to other paths and sincere faith. As alternate ways to go to God. Seeing religion clearly means seeing it as a dispute over supremacy in your life Seeing Christianity clearly means seeing it as an exclusive claim that Jesus alone Is the marker of true religion. And that Jesus is supreme in the lives of all who hold to true religion. We say that Christianity is not exclusionary. Any and all are welcome to come to Christ, but that it is exclusive. Jesus alone is supreme. Jesus alone is the way to God. And one of the reasons that we as Christians today are missing this fact is that we have overlooked Jesus' own claims to his exclusive place in religion. Turn over in your Bibles to Matthew seven. Turn over your back and your Bibles to Matthew chapter seven. Look first at verses thirteen and fourteen. Matthew seven, verses thirteen and fourteen. Jesus says, Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. But the gate is narrow, and the way is hard, that leads to life, and those who find it are few. Does Jesus leave open the possibility that there is some third path? That there is some other way? And does he not later in his teaching point to himself and say, I am the gate? He says you must enter by the narrow gate. And he says he is the gate. And those who do not enter by the narrow gate, what is their destiny? It leads to destruction. Jesus makes repeated, exclusive claims. Look down further in chapter Matthew 7. Stay in Matthew 7 and go down to verse 24. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall. Because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat against that house. And it fell, and great was the fall of it. There are only two ways to build. There are only two foundations You either build on the rock or you do not. And what does Jesus, a few chapters later, when Peter says, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God, what does Jesus say? That upon the rock of that confession Upon that wrath, the confession that I am the Christ, upon that will I build my church. Jesus makes exclusive claims. If you were to flip to Matthew 25, you'd see that there are sheep and there are goats. The sheep are destined to everlasting life, and the goats to everlasting fire. There are only two camps. If we were to look at Luke 9, 49, we see there that Jesus says, you are either with us or against us. Jesus makes repeated, exclusive claims. There are but two camps. And you are either in the one or you are in the other And to be in the saved camp, the redeemed camp, the camp that's headed to paradise, you must enter through me, Jesus. Look, go back to John, go to John chapter three. John three, verse sixteen, is the best known of all the Bible verses. Everyone, many people who aren't Christians at all know John 3. 16, but look at John 3. 18, just a few sentences later. Whoever believes in him, the Son, is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Jesus makes yet another exclusive claim that He alone is the path to everlasting life. And of course in John 14, 6, there is the plainest of all such claims, where Jesus says, I am the way. the truth, and the life. And no one comes to the Father except through me. That is an outrageous statement. That is an astounding claim. Muhammad claimed to be the only true prophet of the truth. Muhammad claimed to be the only reliable revealer of the truth, but Muhammad never claimed to be the truth. Buddha claimed to be able to show us the way to enlightenment, to be able to show us the path. He never claimed to be the path, to be the way. Jesus alone makes these outrageous claims. And in our day and age, Google has set about to extend our lives, perhaps, forever. They're going to fix all of our health problems. They claim that they are on a path where they will give us, if not, everlasting life, life that is surely goes on for a very long Time. They're proported numbers like five, six hundred years. But even Google All they claim is to be able to help us live life. Jesus claimed to be the life. This is an astounding distinction, and it's one that we must always hold to. Our religion, our true faith, our Christianity is exclusive with regard to the gate, to the entry point to the way. It is exclusive but inclusive. The exclusive claims of Christ mean that Islam is not an alternate path to God, but the inclusive nature of the gospel means that a Muslim can come to Christ. The exclusive claims of Christ mean that good works and generosity are not an alternative path to salvation. But the inclusive nature of the gospel means that a sinner can come to Christ. The exclusive claims of Christ mean that spiritually speaking, there is no brotherhood of all mankind. Jesus himself in Mark 3 points to believers and says, they are my brothers and sisters. But the inclusive nature of the gospel means that even an enemy of God can come to Christ. The exclusive claims of Christ mean that only in Him are you a child of God. But the inclusive nature of the gospel means that even a son of Satan can come to Christ Seeing religion clearly means seeing it as a struggle for supremacy in your life. Seeing Christianity clearly means seeing it as a claim that Jesus alone is supreme. And seeing Christ clearly means that we must see that even Jesus himself makes absolute claims of exclusivity. And that those who do not believe in him and love him are on the path to destruction. Now, at this point, some of you here are saying to yourselves, Amen, Pastor, I agree. I believe this. I'm on board with this. But I'm wondering why you're preaching it to us. I sit here in a room full of others who profess the same belief. Why did you choose this as the place to begin a new That's a good question, and it's one that deserves explanation. Let's go back now to John chapter 8. Flip forward a few pages from John 3 where we last were And go back to John 8, go back to verse 39. Now, we've got a bright group here. Many of you are gifted students studying the scriptures, and I'm going to guess that many of you asked the right question when I first read this passage, but then I went on and distracted you with a sermon and you've forgotten to come back around to the question. But if we look at this passage, it opens in my translation with an interesting word. They What part of speech is they? Well, it's a pronoun. What do pronouns do? They're like the body double for nouns. You know, they take a noun steps off, take a break, they step in, take its place. Okay, pronouns take the place of nouns. So we've got to ask ourselves who are they? Who are they? And so let's chase it back up through the text and find out who they are. So we back up to verse 38. I speak of what I've seen with my father and you, and other pronouns, that doesn't help us, both plurals, so they're apparently pointing in the same direction We back up to verse 36. The sun sets you free again, plural. That's so obvious in English, but it's plural in in the Greek. So it still doesn't help us, though. We go back to the verse 35. Oh, we have two nouns there, slave and son. But those are singular nouns, and we have a plural pronoun, so it's not those nouns. We keep backing up to verse 34, verse 33, verse 32. All of them have more pronouns in them. It's not until we get back to verse 31 that we find the antecedent noun to our pronoun they. Do you see what it is? So Jesus said to, he is speaking to the following group of people. The Jews who had believed him. That catch you a little off guard? I think it should. When we were reading this passage, didn't you assume that he was speaking to his opponents? To his enemies, that he was debating with those who were contrary to him. But he's speaking to the Jews who had believed. Now, to be sure, a thorough, careful study of the Greek word used here would show you that John does use two different parts of speech to talk about two different types of faith, two different types of belief. And to be sure, John here is not speaking of true faith, of true belief, but rather he is speaking of those who are professing, at least in that moment, faith. And that's us. We are a body of people who profess faith as they did. Which means we are at risk of committing the error they committed. We run the risk Of being led astray when it comes to the importance, the essential importance, the central nature of, the non-negotiable aspect of Jesus' role in true religion. These were men and women who were standing there while he was teaching and they were nodding and they were in agreement. They were using the ancient Hebrew word that we still use, Amen. They were on board with what he was saying. They believed his words. Jesus pointed out they didn't believe him. They agreed with his words, but Jesus points out they didn't agree with him. They loved what he was saying. But they didn't love him. The biggest threat to Christianity, in my assessment, as we stand here at the opening of 2020, is that we run the risk of being a church like this body of believers here. Those who agree with the words of Jesus, who like the miracles he's performed, who really respond to the compassion he's shown. But who do not hold to his exclusive claims We must not forget that though our co-worker volunteers regularly at the homeless shelter, that is no guarantee that she is in Christ. We must not ever forget that though our co-worker is a sincere believer in his religion, he is on the wide path. to destruction. We must never give in to the pressure of our society to throw open the gates of heaven to any and all who want to find their own way to get there And Jesus says, you fall into one of two camps. You are God's child because you love me. Or you are the devil's child and on the path to destruction. If we are going to see clearly in this new year If we are going to be effective in this new year, we must always come back to this one central non-negotiable tenant of Christianity. That we stand in Christ and in Christ alone. Not Christ and my good works. Not Christ or Muhammad. Not Christ or Buddha We stand in Christ and Him alone. If we are to see religion clearly, we must see it. as a as a as a debate, as wrestling for what is supreme in our lives. If we are to see Christianity clearly, we must see it as the claim that Jesus alone is supreme. And if we are to see Jesus clearly, the Savior clearly, we must accept his dogmatic view of himself. That He is the only way. That must move us to come back to Him in faith and repentance. That must move us to go out with Him. To others who do not accept this. And it must guard us from ever veering from the true path. It is my prayer, it is my hope that the year twenty twenty will be yet another year I don't bring the sermon because I think we have gone astray. I bring the sermon because we are always at risk of going astray. And it is my hope that in 2020 we will have a clear vision of who alone is the Savior. Let's pray. Lord, save us from the pressure of pluralism Protect us from our desire to be nice and inclusive Guard us from being obnoxiously exclusive. But Lord, plant us firmly in the view. That it is Christ and Christ alone, who is the way, the truth, and the life. It is Jesus and Jesus alone who is the hope of the world. And we must hold to Him in our hearts and homes and church. And we must proclaim Him to a world in desperate need. We must have compassion upon those who are like we once were children of the devil. And reach out to them and offer to them sonship in your household through your appointed Savior, Jesus of Nazareth. It is in his name we pray. Amen.