Turn in your Bibles this morning to Matthew 28. Matthew 28, the first book of the New Testament, the last chapter of that book. We'll be looking at verses 16 through 20. Matthew 28, 16 through 20. We have started this year with a little sermon series called 2020 Vision, seeing as God sees. We have been trying to take a look at a handful of different topics and to try to recalibrate how we think about them in a more biblical way, to try to look at what the Bible has to say about these things. And so we saw in the first week the need to see the Savior, to see Jesus as the only one who can redeem fallen humanity. In the second week we took a look at the need to see the bride, to see the church as this glorious one who will be united to Jesus for all of eternity. In our third week, last week, we took a look at the our need to see the image of God in our fellow man. and then to treat our fellow man as though they reflect the handiwork and art, artistry of our God. This morning we're going to look at our mission. Seeing the mission. What is the mission of the church? And to help us understand that, we're going to look now at Matthew 28, starting in verse 16. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, and some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is the word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray and ask his guidance and understanding it. Lord, show us your word this morning. By your power, let it get past our stopped ears and penetrate our hard hearts That it would convict us of sin where we have sin. But once we are convicted, Lord, let it also show us. The great confidence we have in the one who has saved us and made us his own. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So what is our main purpose as a church? What is the basic reason we exist? As a general rule, there are two answers given most often among churches today to that question. One of those answers goes like this. The main purpose of the church is to find the lost. The function of the church, the reason the church exists, is for evangelism. This view tends to skew everything in the church to being all about the unbeliever, the non-churchgoer. You who are sleeping in on Sunday morning and waiting only for football. What can we do to entice you? How can we bring you in? What do you want? Or perhaps we're going to sound a little bit uh more righteous about it, what do you need? As if fallen man knows his own needs And we appeal and say, we're going to make the church all about being appealing to the lost so that they will come in. And that inevitably leads to churches that look an awful lot like the world. In our attempt to accommodate them, we end up looking like them. Charles Spurgeon, more than a century ago, warned, one reason why the Church of God has so little influence over the world is because the world has so much influence over the church. The risk of the church being driven by evangelism is that we will sell out in order to attract the unbeliever. This error arises because we do not properly understand our mission. Evangelism by itself is not the main purpose of the church. Now let me say that again. Many of you have been in church a long time, and when you hear Matthew 28, 16 to 20 read, what you expect to hear next is that you must be all about evangelism. I didn't say we shouldn't be about evangelism. What I did say is that evangelism by itself is not the main purpose. of the church. It is not solely the content of our mission. Now the second answer that's often given to the question, what is it we should be about, is that the church is all about discipleship. The church exists to make believers stronger. The church exists to build up the body of Thus, in this scenario, the question is not, unbeliever, what do you need? But as believer, what do you think you need? What do you want? How can we serve you as a believer? And when you frame it up that way, you realize that it is also an error. For it is just the reflection of the first view. Each of them is a marketing ploy. They just have a different market niche. The first view says our market is the unbeliever, the second view says our market is the believer, but they're both driven by the wants or perceived needs of humanity. And both, therefore, are flawed. When we become discipleship focused, us focused We tend to abandon evangelism and we devolve into what J. D. Greer, he's the president of the Southern Baptist Convention, what J. D. Greer has called not a church, but just a group of disobedient Christians hanging out. Both views are consumer driven. Both views are about people. And therefore, both views fail. So, what is the purpose of the church? What is its mission? Well, we saw two weeks ago that the church is the bride. of Christ, a bride adorning herself, making herself beautiful for her bridegroom. The purpose of the church is to please Jesus. The purpose of the church is to satisfy and make him happy. He's, if you want to put it in the business model I spoke of a moment ago, he's the consumer. He's the target audience The purpose of the church is to please Jesus Now what pleases Jesus? What makes him happy? He tells us in the passage, he says to his disciples, Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have said. Commanded you. The question is not evangelism or discipleship, but it is evangelism and discipleship. For what purpose and in what context? Worship. What did we see here? That the disciples, and when they saw him, they worshiped him. And out of that flows his command to evangelize and disciple. Doing one at the expense of the other is failing to be the church we are called to be. Even Jesus himself talks a little bit about this, and we see he says, the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost. Yes, part of what we do is evangelism. But then he turns right around and says, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded. Part of what we do must be discipleship, growth of believers. Now, when I ask what is the main purpose of the church, what are we all about, I gotta believe that there were any number of you, good, lifelong Presbyterians, who were fully expecting me to answer it with the first question of the catechism Even non-Presbyans, I grew up not a Presbyterian. I knew the first question of your catechism. What is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. So let me frame it up in that category, in that way, with that language. If our chief end is to glorify God, how do we do that? How do you glorify someone? Well, there really are two ways to do it, are there not? You can declare praise to them Or about them. Grandmothers are not at all abashed about declaring the glories of their grandbabies to the grandbabies. You're so cute, you are so adorable, you are so lovely. That is one way to glorify someone. That's what we call worship. We declare to God how wonderful He is. We say to Him, You are awesome. But another way to glorify someone is to declare their praise to another. Those same grandmothers are onabashed about telling you how adorable their grandbabies are. And rightfully so, they should. We glorify God. If our chief end is to glorify God, then we must worship. And declare his glory to him. Praise him. We must evangelize, declare his glory to the lost And praise him to the lost. And we must disciple, declare his glory to ourselves and remind ourselves of who he is and what he has done. If we frame up the question, what is the content of our mission? If we frame it up with regard to our catechism, we see that it aligns perfectly with what was going on here. There is worship, there is evangelism, there is discipleship. We must be about all of those things. If the content of our mission is not evangelism alone or discipleship alone, but it is rather evangelism and discipleship for the purpose of worship. And we have to ask ourselves, what is the context of our mission? Where does that happen? How does that get done? How are we supposed to accomplish both of those things on a Sunday morning? You see, Pastor, the churches you talked about that took an evangelism approach or discipleship approach, they're dealing with the practical reality that you can't do both in a given Sunday morning service. And I agree. I agree. But Jesus frames up how we accomplish both. Look at the language he uses here. Go, verse 19, go therefore and make disciples of all nations. It doesn't necessarily imply that the evangelism portion is supposed to occur within the body. It's an out there thing, an out there activity. Think about Jesus' own model. When he met with his believers, when he met with the disciples, with the twelve. Did he not often go away to do that? Get away from the crowds? Get away from the unbelievers? Get away from them so that he could disciple his followers. That was an in-hear thing. Then he sent them out there. The context of this mission is a two-location, two-place context because our mission is a two-fold context. In here, one activity happens. We declare to him and to each other the glory of God. Out there, we have to be about the declaring to others and the evangelism Now of course that implies that one of the things we must do is, as we disciple ourselves, we must equip ourselves to go out there. And to declare it. We must be prepared to go out there. One of the way we saw last winter when we were going through the book of Zechariah, we saw in Zechariah 8 21. One of the simple ways to accomplish this is simply the invitation. I'm going, will you come with me? I'm going, will you come with me? But we'd like to be equipped to do more and to be able to share the gospel more fully. It's part of the goal and purpose of our Mexico mission this summer. It's to build that experience. To gain that practice. It's never fun to try something new in front of people you know It's always a little easier to do it out there where nobody's gonna see you. And one of the blessings of a short-term mission trip is to go there And get an experience with evangelism. And to see God at work and to be blessed by it, and to come back going, that is something I can do at home. And so we see that as an opportunity to train ourselves about our call to go out there and do evangelism. The out there activities of evangelism. We do not skew the service in here to be driven by the unbeliever. The in-here activity is discipleship. It's why we have Sunday school classes and youth groups and we have training times and women's ministries and all these different things to help ourselves grow. in these things. Now, this sermon, this scripture, is really about the the church and its role in the mission, but I would be remiss if I didn't also point out there is one other incredibly important place where this mission is accomplished. And it is the family. It is in the family that we are to evangelize our children. We are to worship together. We are to instruct and disciple them. Help them think biblically. Help them grow up in these things. The context of the church's mission is pleasing Jesus through evangelism and discipleship, which lead to worship. The context of that mission is an out there thing for the evangelism and an in-hear thing for the discipleship and worship portion of it. By the way, it is worth thinking about if evangelism is an out there thing. Who is the go part of this? Who in the church is the most poorly equipped to do evangelism? Ironically, it's the pastor. Not your pastor here, any pastor anywhere. The pastor, by definition, is focused inwardly, or at least he ought to be If you are waiting for the pastor to do the evangelism of the church, you have not understood how things have been set up. We have the content of our mission, pleasing Jesus, through evangelism and discipleship leading to worship. The context of our mission. One of half of it out there, half of it in here. Now let's consider the conflict surrounding our mission. The thought of going out there and evangelizing people is a little terrifying. It really is. I can remember one of the first times I tried to share the gospel with somebody out there. I won't quote her exactly because it was profane, but it was not a good response And I went back to my pastor and said, I yeah, I was explaining to him how discouraged I was that that they they didn't come to know the Lord. And he looked at me and said, Scott, there has never been a time in history where sinners like to be called sinners. And I was like, oh yeah, that's a good point. Going out there and evangelizing is a little scary. It's a lot scary. Why is it so hard? Why is it when you take the medicine needed to revive the dead soul, the dead soul isn't excited to get it Why is it when you take the food needed to enliven the dead spirit, that spirit isn't excited to eat it? Let's back up at our passage. Back up to verse 11. So in verses 1 through 10, we have the account of the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. Now we pick up in verse eleven with the world's response to that account. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. Jesus has come out of the grave. He's alive. He rose from the dead. And we don't know what to do about it. Verse 12. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed, and this story has been spread among the Jews to this day, until the day that Matthew wrote this. Now let me explain to you the whole thing about the governor. If it goes to the governor. You see, in the Roman legions, in the Roman army, if you failed in a task such as standing guard, keeping watch. If you were on sentry duty and were found asleep, you were executed. You had put at risk the entire company. And you were executed. So for these men, these Roman soldiers to say, well Some unarmed Galilean fishermen snuck in and took the body while we were asleep, was tantamount to saying we have failed in our calling and our job as soldiers. And if it rose to the ears of the governor, the governor would order their execution. This is why they have to be paid off. And this is why they have to be assured, despite the money, the money ain't worth it if I end up dead. Don't worry if it gets the governor. We got you covered, we got you back. We'll take care of it. Do you see now why our mission is difficult? The conflicts surrounding our mission? Because when the facts of the resurrection stand right in front of sinful man, they say, we're not going to believe it. We're not going to accept it. We're not going to to to believe w its implications. Yes, he rose from the dead. Yes, no one else has ever done that. I don't care. I don't care. I'm not going to change my view How does Paul say it in Romans 1? For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteous men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to him, but became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were darkened. The mission of our church is steeped in conflict because the heart of sinful man doesn't want the truth. And will reject the truth no matter how plain it is. I'm amazed at how many people say things like this. You know, if the church would just get out of the way, if the church would just show people Jesus and love people and get out of the way. They'd be full to the gills. People will be clamoring to get in. Stop and think about that for a moment. Think about the implications of that statement. If the church were just more loving and would show people Jesus, Hmm. Really? Because we could be more loving than all the miracles that Jesus did for the lame, for the deaf, for the blind, for the hungry? We could be more loving than all of those miracles. I don't think so. And on what planet do we believe that we're going to show Jesus more plainly than he showed himself? We cannot portray Jesus better than Jesus portrayed Jesus. The church is not the problem. The dark heart of fallen man is the problem. And against that, we have nothing to offer in and of ourselves. Don't blame yourself Maybe I didn't share the gospel properly, and that's why they didn't come. No Maybe I didn't use the right words to convince them. No They don't come because they don't want to come. Because they are steeped in the mindset of these soldiers and leaders. You're fallen, man. is hell-bent against the truth of the resurrection. Though it be plainly laid before them, though they see it with their own eyes. And is our mission not doomed? Is it not completely doomed? And in one sense it is. Your mission is doomed. Your evangelism will be met with conflict. Our discipleship will be met with conflict. Our worship will be met with conflict. Flip over to the prophet Isaiah. Look at Isaiah chapter six. Look at Isaiah chapter 6. The first half of Isaiah 6 is fairly well known. It is the vision Isaiah has. Of Jesus in the temple. Isaiah is in the temple, he sees Jesus on the throne And and uh uh uh he he is struck by his own sinfulness, but he is assured of pardon uh by the angel touching his lips with the coal, and and he's had this amazing vision of Jesus. He has just seen Jesus. And in his zeal and in his enthusiasm, we pick up in verse 8. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? And Isaiah said, I have seen Jesus. I will go. Here I am. Send me. Nobody could be more stoked up for missions right now than I am. I just saw God with my own eyes. Let me at him. I'm going to convince him to come in. And he said, God said, Go and say to this people, keep on hearing but do not understand, keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed. So I said, How long, O Lord? Really that's what you're sending me out to do? Well that'll be for a time, right? And then my mission will be successful. Then my church will explode. Then the people will come flocking in. I said, How long, O Lord? He said, until cities lie waste without inhabitant, and houses without people, and the land is a desolate waste, and the Lord removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land. And though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again. Like a terebinth or an oak, whose stump remains when it is felled. The holy seed is its stump. Your mission is doomed. The conflicts surrounding our mission leaves it in terrible, terrible shape. It is not a function of the church's inability to show Jesus or love enough. It is a function of man's sinful heart. You know, it's precisely when we come to grips with that, when we come to terms with that, that we are finally ready to do mission work. When you accept what Isaiah had to accept, that you are going to preach to ears that do not want to hear. And you are going to invite those who do not want to come. When you think you have nothing to offer because you've tried everything, and by the way, Please know this is that kind of sermon when preachers have to listen to themselves. We have to hear ourselves preach this. When you have finally in your own strength tried everything and it has failed because it was doomed to failure, then you're ready for mission work. When you think you have nothing to offer to your co-worker, when you think you can't possibly contribute to a trip to Mexico, when you think that your family will not listen. When you have come to grips with the utter certainty of the inability of you to accomplish the mission, it is at that point We can finally move forward. For what do we see next? When we consider the confidence in our mission, why on earth would you talk this way, Pastor? Why on earth would you frame it up this way? Because the confidence we have in our mission comes not in ourselves. It comes not from who we are or what we would do. Look at the frame in which Jesus puts this. I read, go therefore and make disciples. Back up. Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore go. All authority in heaven on earth has been given to Jesus. Not, by the way, I don't think he was saying, given to me now, as if he didn't have it before. He's just reminding them of an eternal truth. I have always had authority over everything, which means I have authority over that dark heart that refuses to hear the truth. I have authority over your perceived inability to convey the truth. I have authority over your fear while taking forth the truth. I have authority over the words you're going to use, and no matter how inept they are, I can make them work. I have authority over everything. That's why you go. Not because I've given you some special gift. Not because you are empowered in some special way. Well, yeah, the apostles could go because they were given special powers. They had miracles. I don't have miracles. I can't go No! They didn't go! He didn't say, I have given you authority to perform miracles, therefore go He said, I have all authority. Therefore go. The confidence in our mission is rooted in the one sending us. As you know, we've got two boys in the army, and one of the things that they talked about happened in many of you will be familiar with this. Uh uh uh uh one of the things that happens in in basic training is that they they the the the drill sergeants just give ridiculous command after ridiculous command just to get the the the the the soldiers the trainees to a point Well they just do what they're told without question. So that when you're on the battlefield and that lieutenant or that sergeant barks out an order, you don't doubt it or question it. You react instantly because lives are on the line. That's what we need to see here. We don't go because we think we understand why. We don't go because we are somehow empowered or equipped. We go because we're sent. And the authority lies with the sender. My fear of sharing with my co-worker about Jesus reflects my doubts about the authority of Jesus over that co-worker's heart. My fear of going to the mission field in I don't care where, pick some faraway place Because it's not going to be fruitful. It's not. They're Muslims. They're not going to come to the Lord. Reflects my belief that the authority of Jesus extends only to non-Muslims. I'm worried about the plane ride. I hate plane rides. I'm worried about the plane ride to Mexico. We're gonna fall out of the sky. Because I believe that the authority by the way If we fall out of the sky, then that will have been in the hands and plan of Jesus. Well, I don't like to think about that. The content of our mission is evangelism and discipleship so that there will be worshipers, so we can please Jesus. The context of our mission is that the evangelism occurs out there And the discipleship and the worship occur in here. The conflict we have in our mission is because sinful man refuses to acknowledge the truth. But the confidence we have in our mission is in the one who sent us and is sending us with all authority. That brings us to the question of the consequences of our mission. Look at the end of this passage. And behold By the way, this is why I don't like airplanes. Remember the old King James Version? Lo, I am with you always, not up high. Down low. I am with you always to the end of the age. How does Jesus promise to be with his people? He promises to be with his people in and through the church. The promise is that if we abide in him and he abides in us, how do we abide in him? Well, he talks about the fact that you abide in the church, in his body on the earth. You abide in his word on the earth. Those are the things of the church. So, what is the consequence of our mission? Well, let's look at it the other way around. What happens if we fail in our mission? Or, for that matter, don't even try, don't even take up the mission. What is the consequence? Well the consequence is one day our children Will not have Christian mates, because no one will have called them to the Lord. No one will have taught them and raised them to be godly husbands and wives. We will not have Christian friends who share our viewpoint because no one will have gone out, brought them in, and discipled them. There will be no Christian shoulder to cry on, ear to hear us, and counsel for us, because the church will have ceased to exist. Where we cease to do our mission. Gee, the promise, the consequence of our mission is the continuation of his presence with us. In and through the church. So long as this mission continues, his church continues, so long as his church continues, we continue to bask in all the benefits and blessings. of it. Oh, to be sure I get that in the short run, in any given snapshot moment, the church, like any other family, may not feel like a blessing. But over the long haul, over the period of your life on this earth, it's the one thing that's going to be there for you over and over and over again. But if we don't pursue the mission we've been given, the church is doomed. The consequence of our mission is the abiding presence of Jesus with us through his word in the church, through his body the church. And his guidance through her, most of all, most importantly, it is in the church that we hear God's appointed man Declare, thus saith the Lord, by the power of his spirit, not again because of the person doing it, but by the power of his spirit. We are renewed in our faith, drawn back again to him and cemented in him. The content of our mission is evangelism and discipleship for the point of worship. The context of our mission is both out there and in here. The conflict of our mission is the heart of fallen man will always oppose the truth, but the confidence we have in our mission is Jesus Christ, who sends us with all authority in Him. And the consequence of our mission is the abiding presence of Jesus in his body, the church. Let's pray. Lord, make us mission-minded people. Let us see the mission of the Church, that we would pursue it in faith, not in any confidence in our own strength. But rather, utterly convinced that we can accomplish nothing, let us go forth in the faith we have in you. In your authority over hard hearts, in your authority over disobedient disciples, in your authority over our own flesh. Let us be used by you to bring in the lost, to disciple the found. And to bring them all together to praise you in worship. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.