I invite you to open your Bibles to Job chapter 28, Job chapter 28, as we look at the wisdom today, the last in our Little mini-sermon series, 2020 Vision, Seeing as God Sees, comes from Job 28. And as you're turning to Job 28, Let me remind you, or maybe tell you for the first time, of where we are in the book of Job. We jump into the middle of a book, we need to have some context. Most people are at least vaguely familiar with the trials of Job. Job is a piece of literature that transcends the church and has permeated even the wider culture But let me remind you of where Job is at this point in his life. And I realize before I keep doing this, we should probably stop and ask the Lord's blessing on this sermon. So let's do that. Lord, we do want you to speak to us. Let my words be yours and not mine alone, and if I say anything that is out of accord with your word, strike it immediately from our memories, so that all that we will recall Is the power of you speaking to us through your word? We pray this in Christ's name. Amen So anyway, continue to update you on the status of Job, where we find him in Job chapter 28. You'll recall that back in chapter 1, God, in a meeting with Satan points out Job. He takes Satan's attention and points it toward Job, and points to Job as a man who is blameless in all of the earth. Satan takes issue with that and says, of course he is who he is and what he is, because look how you've blessed him with so much. And Job was an incredibly blessed man. phenomenally wealthy, big, wonderful family. He was blessed. And God says, go ahead, Satan, and strike Job. And you will see that his heart is not a reflection of his blessings, but of his faith. And so Satan in one day destroys all of Job's wealth. Raiders come and steal his oxen and donkeys, basically the farm equipment of the day, and they kill all of the servants out in the field. And as Job is getting that report, another report comes and says that fire came down from heaven and destroyed all of his flocks, all of the sheep, the cash crop. and their cash livestock and their shepherds. And then all of his camels, basically the delivery trucks for the business of his day, were all stolen by Chaldean uh invaders and all of their caretakers killed. And in the midst of getting that news, he finds out that all ten of his children were together for a big family get-together at one son's home when that home collapsed and killed them all. Job has lost everything in his business life. He is ruined financially. And that would be enough to drive many of us. To great despair, and even thoughts of suicide. But on top of that, he is socially ruined There's no one left for him. In that society, in that culture, his family was all he had, and they are gone. And yet we read in Job 1. 21 that Job says the following: The Lord gave, the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. An unbelievable response in the face of all that had befallen him. And then Job's health fails. As if the tragedy, if his financial ruin and social ruin were not enough, he is now assaulted physically, and his health fails. And his body begins to suffer the consequences of Satan's attack on him. At which point his wife, his wife, his covenant life partner, comes to him and says, just curse God and die. We want to talk about the gift of encouragement. Unbelievable. And yet it still says that Job did not sin And then in the midst of chapter 2, all of this is just the first chapter and a half of the book of Job. And in the midst of chapter 2, three friends come to Job and they begin to counsel him. They begin to try to Comfort him. And their counsel over the next many most of the bulk of the book of Job is the back and forth between him and his friends. And in the midst of that council, they basically say this. If you boil down their counsel over all the 30-some odd chapters of their council, it boils down to this. Those who do good, good things happen to them. When bad things happen, it's because something you did wrong. You did something bad. It is the earliest recorded account of the health and wealth gospel. Job, you just need to name it and claim it. Job, if you'll just walk up and put your hands on the TV set and pray along with us, you'll get everything in this life you want. And in the midst of that back and forth, Job for the most part reflects a godly wisdom, but he, like any of us, under the constant assault of these friends, dragging down his view of God, dragging uh him into a worldly assessment of what's happened, he tends to teeter And he begins to debate with God. And he begins to say, Yeah, God, what have I done? I want an audience with you. I want to stand before you and make my case. And as he goes back and forth, he has moments like all of us. When any of us are wrestling with these sorts of situations, he has uh uh moments where he does better and he does worse. But his life is in ruins by every measure. How do you deal with that How do you face that? How do you navigate that? Many of us have serious and severe trials. But I can't imagine that any of us have faced what he is facing. It's it it's an like you're out at the beach And you're swimming and everything, and all of a sudden a storm kicks up. And a big wave breaks over your head. And you come up coughing and sputtering And gasping for air, and just as you think you've got you, another wave breaks over your head. And another one, and another one, and you're fighting just to get your face above water long enough to get some air And as all of this is happening, you don't realize that the storm that has suddenly come in has created a riptide that has pulled you away from the shore even as you were fighting to get air. And of course, no one else. There's chaos. The storm has come in so suddenly that on the beach everyone is running for cover. And the sky has gotten dark and the waves big enough that no one has noticed that you've been pulled out from the shore and are fighting for your life. That's a picture of what Job was going through spiritually, emotionally, mentally, physically. He is fighting for his life and everything seems to be breaking against him and trying to drown him. But you look up and you see a boat coming towards you and you think, I'm saved. Rescue is at hand. And the boat comes up and you stick out your hand so they can pull you in, and rather than pulling you into the boat, they handcuff a weight to your wrist and drive away. That's what the three friends have done. That's the counsel of the three friends. They've not helped Job survive the situation. They've handcuffed him with a weight that's going to drag him even further down. How do you survive? And we all realize that in the picture that I've drawn, the only one who's got a hope of survival in that situation is one who is phenomenally well trained. An unbelievably good swimmer. We're talking Delta Force, Navy SEAL type swimmer. And it is only then that they might have some hope of getting to shore. That's what this passage talks about. The passage uses four times it uses the word wisdom. The word wisdom in English is a translation of the word chukma. In the Hebrew. And that word, when you search it out in all of the Old Testament, that Kokmah gives a sense of skill, of talent, of ability. And in fact, one of the first places we see it is in the book of Exodus, where Moses is told that God has set apart certain men who have Hukmah. To make the garments for Aaron the high priest and to complete the artifacts for the tabernacle. They have skill. Because of their training and because of their experience, they have special skills Hukmah, that's the biblical picture of wisdom. And the one who is fighting the ways. Fighting the riptide out there by themselves, if they're going to live, has got to have chokma. Life-living skill. Training and experience. I wish they can survive in that moment. And it's that's what Job wants to seek out here in this chapter. And so we pick up at the beginning of Job 28, and his analogy is one of a mining situation. He's going to describe mining for the riches of this earth, and he's going to use it as an analogy for the search for wisdom. And it's an apropos analogy for much of the rest of the scriptures. Compare wisdom to the wealth of this world. Even Jesus talks about, you know, would you not give everything? If you had the whole world, would you not give that up to save your own soul? Even Jesus compares the wealth of this world to wisdom. And that's what we see here. So we see in verse 1, we start there. But Job says this, surely there is a mine for silver and a place for gold that they refine. Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted from the ore. Man puts an end to darkness in search of out the farthest limit. Searcheth out to the farthest limit in the ore in gloom and deep darkness. He says the material things that we need, well, they can be found if we look for them. With a little effort, the earth can be persuaded to give up its material resources. Silver, gold, iron, copper? Well, we just dig them up. If we work hard enough, we're going to find them. We may have to smelt their ore to get the refined. We may have to refine them to get the impurities out. But for your effort, there's a handsome reward. precious metals. In fact, even in Job's day, mankind's technology had advanced to the point where they could dig shafts down in the earth. That's that comet there about Man puts an end to the darkness and can dig down so deep into the earth that sunlight now reaches to places that were unimaginable in the past. The effort, the ingenuity, the stictuativeness of mankind exposes the wealth of this earth. And of course, the picture he's setting up is, does the same apply to wisdom? If we took that same approach, could we get to the wealth of wisdom? Then in verse 4 he says this, he, mankind, opened shafts in a valley away from where anyone lives. They are forgotten by travelers, they hang in the air, far away from mankind, they swing to and fro. When we first moved to Pennsylvania, we were out on a Sunday afternoon drive and we came over a mountain and down into a valley and it was we just we drove into this weird situation We suddenly realized that there were side streets where there had been none, where we'd been on this country road, there were now side streets, but no neighborhoods There were sidewalks but no pedestrians. There were driveways but no cars. There were utility poles and no houses connected to them. It's like this ghost town. Well, it turns out that Centralia, Pennsylvania has vanished precisely because under it there's a coal mine that has been burning since the 1960s. It has been undermining the foundation of the city of the earth, and the town has now been abandoned. And why is it because they when the fire first lit, they tried to snuff it out. They tried they brought in bulldozers and tried to uh close the mouth of the mine, rob it of oxygen, and it would go out. And it didn't go out. Well you see in the 1930s, during the Great Depression, Bootleg miners opened up shafts, dozens and dozens, almost into the hundreds of different shafts down into that coal mine. And they would lower, guys, the picture here, they would lower men on ropes down into these shafts. And the men would dangle the swinging to and fro. And the MID would chip away and gather coal to bring back to the surface to warm their own houses, to sell to raise a little bit of money And all these bootleg shafts down in the mine keep venting it, and here it is some sixty years later, and it's still burning. That's the picture we have here of these shafts being dropped down into the earth And people going down there, risking their lives and limb to get the wealth found down in the crust of the earth. Verse 5. It has for the earth, out of it comes bread, but underneath it is turned up as by fire. Its stones are the place of sapphires, and it has dust of gold. This idea of being turned up as by fire, basically the The mining technology of the day, one of the little tricks they would use is they would take fire down into these shafts, dangling, swinging to and fro, first four. They would take fire with them and they would heat the rocks Even to the point of spilling oil on the rocks and then igniting it. And as the rocks get hot, they would then take water and splash it on the rocks, and the rocks would shatter and break apart. Exposing the gemstones. Exposing the gold. Exposing the desired things Job's painting a picture of man's ingenuity. When it comes to the wealth of this earth, nothing's going to stop us. We're going to find it. Verse 7: The path that no bird of prey knows, and the falcon's eye has not seen, the proud beast have not trodden it, the lion has not passed over it. It's a metaphorical, poetic picture of the lengths that mankind has gone to. You think the birds of prey have incredible eyesight? You think they can see things we can't? We can dig down into the earth and see what they cannot see. You think lions are fearless? Our miners will go to places a lion would be terrified to go. That's the picture he's painting here. It's one of man's commitment to digging wealth out of the ground. Verse 9, man puts his hand to the flinty rock and overturns mountains by the roots. He cuts out channels in the rocks, and his eye sees precious things. These miners, they've made tools, these tools they can dig down to the very roots of the mountains, he says, and basically pull out all that dirt and turn it over on top and search the root of the mountain As you know, uh most of our family resides in Michigan, and we go back there every so often to visit family, and every time we do, we drive along the Pennsylvania Turnpike and we go through the the uh Allegheny Mountain Tunnel That's cool. It's really amazing to me. And then I found out in preparation for this sermon, it was built in 1939. That's a long time ago, and it was regarded rightly as an engineering marvel. It goes right through the heart of a huge mountain. Well we often discuss as a family what's worse, tunnels or bridges? You know, which more scary? You know. I vote for the bridges are scarier. Out of the tunnel, I didn't I'm not worried about that mountain falling on my head It's pretty awesome going through the heart of it. And Job says in his day, sometime around 1500 BC, they'd already figured out how to tunnel into the hearts of mountains. In order to get the wealth out of it. Verse 11. He, mankind, damned the miners, dams up the streams so that they do not trickle. So the thing that is hidden, he brings out to light It's a picture like mammoth caves in Kentucky, by the way. If you're ever there, it's worth seeing. Pretty amazing. It's like a picture of mammoth caves. The water has done the work for us. The water has cut away the rock. The water has created all these channels down in the earth. And the miners have figured all we gotta do is dam up the stream, and we can follow the stream bed down into the ground, into the mountain, and the things we want. They don't erode away, they stay there. And we get what we want. The gold, the gems, it's all revealed. We don't even have to work that hard. For the water has cut away the channel that we Need. Job's point is really pretty simple. When it comes to material wealth Nothing will stand in the way of mankind. Every obstacle will be overcome, every problem solved, every ingenious idea applied. This world will not be stopped from obtaining the wealth it seeks. Nothing will get in our way. Do not dare stand between me and my money. It is a dangerous place to be. We will overturn mountains themselves in order to get at gold and silver and gemstones. In verse 12, he begins to contrast. Having painted a picture of man's determination to acquire wealth, he now in verse 12 says, But where shall wisdom be found? That hokmah, that life-living skill, I'm dying here, my family's gone, my wealth is gone, my wife has abandoned me, my health is gone, I don't know how to live on I don't need wealth, I need wisdom. Where is that found? Where is the place of understanding? Man does not know its worth. It is not found in the land of the living. I don't want my money back. I want my heart back. When it comes to wisdom, when it comes to living well. In hard times and in good times, just cannot be found among mankind. Look at verse 13b. Wisdom is not found in this life. Wisdom does not rest in Hollywood's tales, as enjoyable as many of them are. That's not where wisdom is to be found. Wisdom is not found in the council of social media. And by the way, when you're going through a tough time in life, social media is the last place you should be. For it is a snapshot of only one side of life. It's where people go to post their new hairdo or their new car or whatever other wonderful blessing has come their way. And by comparison, you think my life stinks. Because all you're seeing is the pretty side of life. Social media is a distorted picture of the reality of this life. Use it to stay connected with friends. Do not use it to compare yourself to them. He says, there cannot be wisdom found in the land of the living. It's not to be had in this world. There's something wrong with me, Job says. My life, my friends are telling me there's something wrong with me. My life is hurting. God seems to have turned his back on me. What do I do? How do I live? In verse 14, he says, even the sea, man searched everywhere for on the on the land for gems and precious metals. It's just not here. And then in verses 15 and 19, it cannot be bought for gold, and silver cannot be weighed as its price. It cannot be valued in the gold of uh fear, in precious onyx or sapphire. Gold and glass cannot equal it, nor can it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold. No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal. The price of wisdom is above pearls. The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it, nor can it be valued In pure gold. Wisdom cannot be bought. It cannot be had at any price. You could mount mount up all the silver ever mined in the history of the world, and its weight would not Come close to what wisdom is worth. That's what he says here. My life I've been blessed to know some interesting people, some connected, powerful, wealthy people, and one of them is a is a is a man who in the early 2000s sold his business. For one billion dollars, that's a B. It's a lot of money. A lot of money. You know what's wonderful about this man? This is a man for whom there are YMCAs named, wings of hospitals named, orchestra halls named after him. But his testimony is that that money has really never been worth anything other than a way to bless other people. For it has gotten him nothing that he needed in this life. When there was difficulty in his family, it wasn't his money that helped him through. It was the wisdom of God. As his health has failed in his later years. This is a man who can fly anywhere in the world to the very best hospitals and afford any doctor. His only comfort against the terror of death is the salvation he's found in Jesus Christ. A billion dollars does not buy that kind of wisdom. And that is his testimony, not mine, about him. That Job has pointed to here. Gold, silver, onyx, sapphires, jewels, crystals, pearls, topaz, none of it measures up. None of it can bring the wisdom needed to weather the storms of life which Job is facing. And which you and I face. And if you're not facing it now, thank God that don't get comfortable. It's coming soon. How on earth do you move forward? Verse 22 a bad dun and death. say. We have heard a rumor of it with our ears. Abaddon, uh Abaddon, uh accent the wrong syllable, sorry about that. Abaddon is the underworld. It is basically an ancient equivalent of what we would call hell It is the place of of eternal punishment. And basically the picture he uh paints here in verse twenty-two is of uh of the fool coming to the end of his life, facing death, facing the underworld, the the everlasting place of darkness and torment. And standing there going, well, I heard a rumor of wisdom. Somebody said it existed. But I've lived out my whole life and can't confirm that. And now I face death and eternal darkness without I think ever found wisdom for myself. What a tragic picture Joe paints here. What a terrifying picture Joe paints here. That we would get to the end of our lives, and the best that we could say was, well, supposedly there's wisdom out there, but I don't know it. For twenty-two verses, Job has painted a picture of the elusiveness of wisdom. It escapes the pursuit of mankind. Though we are able to plumb the depths of the earth for gold and jewels, we cannot find wisdom. Though we would amass a fortune and try to buy it, we cannot purchase wisdom. Wisdom eludes every effort of mankind. Job's point is that in the final analysis, there is no guide in this life for living this life. Well December of 2012, in case you can't keep your history safe, I certainly couldn't, that's just uh this occurred just two weeks after the Newtown, Connecticut school shooting. The New York Times ran an article, and the title of the article was this: In a crisis, humanists seem absent. And the author noted that atheistic secular humanism had nothing to offer. And there are times when what we have to offer in a crisis like a school shooting seems like it's not enough. But it's not nothing either. Imagine for a moment being an atheistic, secularist humanist. And you're saying, so we're just a function of evolution. What is your response to such a tragedy? Well, someday there'll be unetic mutation that'll make us bulletproof. But until then, these things are just going to happen. What is it? I mean, there's nothing. That's what that article the New York Times pointed out, and that's what Job is pointing out. That in this world there is nothing that gives us a way to respond to the tragedies that happen. Praise God that verse 22 is not the end of the chapter. Thank God that there is a verse 23. God understands the way to it and he knows its place. Wisdom is the antecedent of those pronouns. God understands the way to wisdom and he knows wisdom's place. That which the world has failed to find, despite its Herculean effort, God can show us. knows the way. He knows right where wisdom exists. The secret recipe for living skillfully in the midst of Job's shattered world. Lies with God. God knows it. He knows the secret. It is not hidden from him. What the falcon cannot see, God sees, for he looks to the end of the earth and sees everything under the heavens. When he gave to the wind its weight and a portion of the waters by measure, when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder, then he saw it, wisdom, and declared it, wisdom. He established it wisdom and searched it wisdom out. At creation, God established wisdom. Life-living skill, this hukmah, this training and experience that provides what's needed. to do the job before us. God saw it. God declared it. God established it. God searched it out. And what is the answer? Where does this wisdom come from? Where is the place of understanding? Job has held it to the very end. He has held it back to verse 28. Verse 28 is what my biology professor in college used to call the take-home message. The thing you gotta have, even if you miss everything else. And God said to man Behold the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is understanding. In the midst of the greatest trial ever God reveals to Job, you want to know how to get through this? Fear God. If wisdom is what is needed to live life well, if chmah is the essential skill for navigating this life, than the source of that skill, the fount of that ability, the well of that life surviving life enjoying wisdom is nothing less than the fear of God and turning from evil. It is exactly what the apostles have been proclaiming in our suspended study of the book of Acts. Repent and believe. Turn from your sin and go to God. It's what Job is saying here. The only way that Job is going to come out the other side of this unimaginable horror is to fear God. What does that fear of the Lord look like? What does that mean that we fear God? Too many of us will often reduce this concept to something less than fear. Well, you know, Pastor, the fear of the Lord, well, that isn't really fear. I mean, it's just awe and reverence, right? God doesn't really want us to fear him, does he? I don't know. Everything in Job's life has been taken away. Everything in Job's life has been taken away Even his own hope for living. He has cursed the day of his own birth. If you're not going to fear the one who can do that, you say, well, Satan did that. Yes. Read the book of Job. Job knows who holds Satan's leash. Job knows fully who's ultimately responsible for his situation. He doesn't ask that Satan be stopped. He turns to God and says, why did you do this to me? And if you're not going to fear the one who can take away everything, then what does the word fear mean? If you're going to stand before this God and not fear, then let's get the word fear out of our language altogether. For there's no point in talking about it. And by the way, the rest of scriptures bear this out. When the people stood at the base of Mount Sinai, and there were peals of thunder and lightning coming back and forth, and the earth underneath their feet trembled. They didn't stand there in awe. They begged Moses to make sure that God never came down and met with them again. And we read in Acts 5 how the fear of the Lord spread through the church. Why? Because Ananias and Sapphira had been struck dead. That is fear, brothers and sisters. It is not awe or reverence. It's terror. Knee knocking, heart pounding, uh gut-wrenching terror I've mentioned before that in the mid eighties I had the world's greatest part-time job. And the company I worked for, and though most of those who I worked with, they traveled a lot Even as a high schooler, they sent me on a couple of travels to go do work with kind of cool. Um one of the men that I worked with, a man I only knew in passing was on United Airlines Flight 232 in 1989, a flight that was headed from Denver to Chicago. And over Western Iowa. Why was it DC 10? Yeah, I don't see a lot of those anymore, but two engines, one on each wing and an engine on the tail. The three engine jet? The engine on the tail exploded. And when the w engine on the tail exploded, it took apart the tail, but it also severed hydraulic lines. And in less than two minutes later, all the hydraulic fluid had drained out of the system so that the crew had no control over any of the usual flight mechanisms. They could not control the airlines, the rudder, the the the the uh uh uh flaps. They had no control over any of that And the nose began to pitch down. And everyone assumed that they were going to die in the cornfield below in just a matter of moments. Fear is an expression of vulnerability. Fear is an acknowledgement of vulnerability, of exposure to risk. Every one of those passengers And the crew experienced fear. Any moment, we're going to be in a burning heap on the ground with 200 tons of metal down on our heads. We have a vulnerability, we have a risk. The crew almost immediately began setting about how trying to figure out how to learn how to fly a plane with no hydraulics. And they learned quickly that they could control the plane through the two remaining engines. And they throttled it up, and the nose came back up, and they were able to keep the plane in the air. Giving throttling one engine, pulling back on the other, allowed them to steer the plane. And with no airlines and no flaps and no rudder, no hydraulics, they began to bring the plane into the Des Moines, Iowa airport Now landing was a terrifying thing. Because every time they tried to slow down to normal landing speeds, that nose pitched down and they were headed right into the ground again. They had to keep the speed up. To keep the nose up so they could land the plane, but that meant they were going to hit the ground going about a hundred miles an hour faster than they were supposed to. But don't worry, there's no hydraulics, so the brakes aren't gonna work either And they smacked the runway because of their lack of rudders and airlines and control over pitch and yaw and everything else. Just as they came down, one of the wings scraped The fuel tank burst open, caught fire. As the plane skidded down the runway, it burst into flames, broke into four parts, one of which went off the end of the runway at 200 miles an hour into the cornfield off the end. The man that I worked with, this man I knew in passing, his principal injuries were from getting hit by corn cobs at 200 miles an hour So that it severely damaged his face. Now, one hundred and twelve passengers died in that crash, but 184 of them Lived. That's all. That's all Awe is defined as reveling in, basking in something sublime. It's the reason we use the word awe when we stand at the rim of the Grand Canyon. We are basking in the sublime. The awe of the 184 survivors was rooted in their fear. They were at risk. They had real vulnerability. Their lives were really and truly threatened. And somehow they walked away. They were in awe If you want to talk about the fear of the Lord, the reason I stress the fact that it has to start with fear is because we are not going to ever stand in awe of our Redeemer. Until we have come face to face with the reality of our vulnerability before an Almighty God. We are sinners. We deserve his punishment. We deserve his anger and his wrath. We deserve the hell he has prepared for all who are his enemies and for whom he is the enemy of them. And it is only when we come to grips with that, when we are terrified by that reality. That we can then stand in awe of the wisdom of God personified in Jesus Christ. Our New Testament reading says He is the wisdom of God. And Job says, it's precisely then when you come to grips with what you deserve It changes your perspective on everything else. For no matter how bad off Job had it. If you asked him, hey, how are you doing today? He could still answer truthfully, better than I deserve. Better than I deserve. And life lived in that perspective A life lived in light of what Jesus Christ has done for us is a life that can endure anything else. I'm not going to hell. I don't care what else you throw at me. I don't have to face an angry God someday. Give me your best shot. I get to know the King of all the universe and to live with him for all of eternity. Bring it on. Where does life-living skill, hokmah, where does it come from? Job says it comes from the fear of the Lord. It comes from having stood there face to face with God, having searched out his word and gotten to know him through it. And been terrified by the abyss that is there. And then stand in awe of our Savior who closed the gap. At the cost of his own life. You want to live this life well, even in good times? Know what you deserve and stand in awe of what you've been given instead. And everything else. Everything else. Is going to seem far less by comparison. Let's pray. Lord, teach me to live every day with an awareness of what I deserve because of who I am, but what I get because of who Jesus is. In light of that, let me face every other trial, every other difficulty, every other pain. With the wisdom that comes from knowing Jesus Christ and what He has done for me. We offer this prayer up. In his name. And in the hope he gets. Amen.