Turn your Bibles to Revelation 19. 6. Revelation 19. 6, right near the end of the Bible. 22 chapters in Revelation, just go back to 19. And once you found Revelation 19, 6, keeping a finger there, also find 219, as we will be uh reading both of those passages this morning. As we prepare to Look at God's word. Let's pray and ask His guidance in understanding it. Lord, let us see the meaning of these texts. Let us get a vision of the awesome and indescribable scene they reveal. And let us see where that beauty and splendor and awe applies to our lives today. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. I have this wonderful memory of our family watching one of those children's movies, you know the kind. They have Just enough tension, just enough drama, just enough scary to kind of keep you on the edge of your seat, but The outcome's never in doubt. We all know the good guys are going to win at the end. It's going to be resolved in some wonderful way. And we were watching this movie as a family, and my wife nudged me And she motioned to the other end of the couch. And I looked down, and there's our daughter Jacqueline, probably about eight at the time. And she is just so into the movie. And she's sitting up on the edge of the couch and she's got her hands in front of her and she just she can't wait For the resolution. She can't wait for the big reveal to see how it's all gonna come together. How are the prince and the princess gonna get together and find each other? And how is it all going to wrap up She had no doubt, even in that moment of tension, that it was gonna work out, but she just couldn't the excitement there. I wish you all could see what I saw that day. Because I think it's a good picture of what John looks like here. What John is experiencing as he writing the book of Revelation. Probably not so much as he was writing it, but as he was originally receiving the vision. For at this point that we're about to pick up You need to understand a little something to get that that tension, that excitement that John's got. For up until this moment, John has seen a lot. Of really devastating scenes. John has witnessed the seven seals broken, each unleashing God's judgment. Seven trumpets blown, each marking some new calamity upon the earth. Seven angels, each with a plague, seven plagues, and the seven bulls of God's wrath Have been poured out. John has witnessed horrifying, dreadful scenes. And then in chapter 17, he is shown a beautiful and terrible woman. What is called the Whore of Babylon. She's intoxicated with the blood of the saints of God. And he is bewildered. John can't figure out what's going on And like a child in the scary, tense part of the movie turning to mom and dad, going, is it going to be okay? John turns to his angel guide. And the angel guide says, yes, it's going to be okay. It's all going to work out. And in fact, the angel says to John, they shall make war on the land. This is 1714. But the Lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful. And from that moment on in the book of Revelation, exciting things begin to happen. Good things begin to occur. Resolution begins. The prostitute of Babylon is thrown down. The city of Babylon is destroyed. The beast is defeated. And just as that movie that Jackie was watching, was she waited anxiously for the romantic climax. So John is now waiting. For that same romantic climax. And that's where we pick up here in chapter 19, verse 6. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters, like the sound of mighty peals, the thunder crying out, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. It was granted Her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the angel said to me, Write this Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God. The bride is ready. The excitement is building. Look at verse 11. That I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. The bride is ready, and here comes the bridegroom. Riding in on a white horse, it is a dramatic scene. And John cannot wait For all the revolution and all the consummation of all that he has been waiting to see unfolded in the book of Revelation, everything is ready. The joyful moment is upon. Awesome. And like any well told story, we have to wait a little longer. He's there, the bridegroom has entered, but then something happens. The enemies aren't fully destroyed and fully dead. And they come again. And rather than the bridegroom riding up to his bride in chapter 19, he has to go and defeat the remaining enemies. The groom does not ride to the altar and ride off into the sunset. No, he has to subdue the bad guys once again. You see, when you are king of the universe, there's always something to do. With the devil locked away in hell All those who fall with him must be dealt with. We've all watched enough movies to know that until you take care of them for good, those bad guys will keep cropping up Finally, in chapter 20, we see the devil locked in the abyss and the rubble band. is condemned to the lake of everlasting fire. And the moment that we have been waiting for, that John has been waiting for Like Jackie on the edge of the couch waiting for the resolution. It now comes as we flip over to 21 and pick up in verse 9. Then came one of the seven angels, who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb, and he carried me away in the spirit. to a great high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal As we read through this, we're going to need to stop and think about what we are hearing. What's the the vision that's being described to us. The first and most important thing I think we need to come to grips with is this. This is not literal language. If what we hear now describes something literal in our minds, we will miss its meaning. It is figurative, it is symbolic. It is metaphorical, it is picturesque, but it is not literal. That is a bit of a problem for us in 21st century America, for we are not a people given to that sort of language. Most of us maybe had one semester of poetry, some English class somewhere along the way. We hated it. We got through it as fast as we could. We tend to like the more literal direct language. But if we take that approach to this book, to this passage, we're going to miss its meaning. How do I know that it's Symbolic? Well, first of all, it's the book of Revelation. It's apocalyptic literature. It's a genre It's not a genre we're familiar with today, but it was a common genre in the ancient world, and it was a genre defined by its symbolism. You know, we don't approach very certain things we know. Instructions. Instruction manual, you go, you buy that Swedish furniture, some assembly required. We know that instruction manual is going to be literal. When it says a screwdriver, it means a screwdriver because of the genre to which it belongs. But this is not that. Secondly, the whole book has leaned heavily upon some symbolic language Throughout. We don't have time to review it all, but we're at a point in the book where you can't possibly, if you take Revelation literally up to this point, it will be self-contradictory any number of times. The seminary had a professor who liked to take try to take revelation literally. And it was interesting how often he said, well now what this means is I'm like, well, I thought it just was literal. Well, okay, but what it means, I thought it was literal Even the literalists don't take it literally. You can't. Number three, we're about to encounter a whole bunch of numbers. Numbers which if taken literally describes something that's literally impossible. They are symbolic, figurative numbers that have been used throughout the Old and New Testament and are brought up here by number four. The simple language of the passage is metaphorical. Verse 11 itself uses three clues. It talks about the radiance of the city was like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as a crystal. That's metaphorical language. It's not saying it was those things. It was like those things. If we're going to take the passage literally, then let's take those words literally and understand that it's symbolic. So now we pick up in verse 12. It had a great high wall with twelve gates and the gates, and at the gates twelve Angels. If you're familiar with the storyline of Scripture, you will recognize that this is the third time that the dwelling place of God has been guarded by angels. The first was Eden. After the fall, Adam and Eve are kicked out. And what guards the entrance to Eden? There is a flaming sword and a cherub. An angel who is there keeping them from re-entering into that place of the presence of God. Then the tabernacle and temple are built. The physical structure that embodies and symbolizes the presence of God. And what was on the veil that separated the holy place from the most holy place? Embroidered on that veil were cherubs, angels. Guarding entrance into the presence of God. And here on these gates, there are angels guarding entrance into the presence of God. And these angels keep sinful people from going to the place of life. They are symbolic of eternal damnation. Those who are not in this city will not get into this city. There is no purgatory. There are those in and those who are out. And these angels guard the entrance. Obviously, the application there. We need to tell people now about Jesus. Let's continue to read about this new Jerusalem. And on the gates, the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed. On the east Three gates, on the north, three gates, on the south, three gates, and on the west, three gates. Again, if you're familiar with Exodus and Numbers, you will remember that that was the arrangement of the tribes in the wilderness when they set the tabernacle in the middle. There were three three tribes to the north, three to the east, three to the south, three to the west, surrounding God's presence. And that's the arrangement of the gates we see here. Verse 14, and the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. We are getting a vision of a place where all of the saints of God come together. Old covenant and new covenant. Jew and Gentile are together united as one people with their God. Think about our suspended study in the book of Acts. How we read that Philip, a Jew, took the gospel to an Ethiopian. Who took it back to his homeland? Peter, a Jew, took the gospel to Cornelius, a Gentile. Who believed and entered the people of God? Peter and Cornelius are going to walk together. In this place being described. Philip and the Ethiopian are going to walk together in this place being described. The most excellent Theophilus, a man of some social rank, is going to be right at home with Onesimus, the slave. Together as the people of God. It is the names of the tribes on the gates and the apostles on the foundations to show that this is the united people of God. Our Lord does not have two brides. He has one bride, in which all are brought together in unity for all eternity. It is one of the reasons why the New Testament stresses unity in the church now, today, so that we reflect the reality of this right here. Picking up again in verse 15. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width, and he measured the city with his rod, 12,000 stadia. At this point you might be tempted to do a conversion. What is that in modern measurements? Well, I'll do it for you and then tell you we shouldn't do it. It's about 1300 miles. We don't know exactly. It seems at different times in history. A stadium was defined differently, but it's around 1,300 miles. By the way, that's another reason I don't believe for a moment this to be literal. It's not that God can't build a city that's 1,300 miles in every direction. But if he does build that city, then it's not going to be on the literal earth. So what we have a problem. Either the city isn't literal or the earth isn't literal. Because 1300 miles, let me give you some scale The highest continuously inhabited point on Earth right now is about three miles high. Place in Nepal. That means the other 1,297 miles of that city will be uninhabitable. Or 99. 75% of the city, of the volume of the city, uninhabitable. Something's got to give. Either the city is not literal, or the earth is not literal, or our occupancy of it is not literal, but if we take the whole thing literally, it falls apart. So what is going on? That's our problem. Forget the conversion. Forget the 1300 miles. Put that out of your head. Focus on the 12,000 stadia. You see, twelve is the number of the people of God. Even if you've never heard that before, if it's the first time it's coming to you, you've seen it already in here Twelve gates with the twelve tribes, twelve foundations with the twelve apostles. The number twelve is throughout the scriptures, the number of the people of God. It is symbolic of God's people. And 1,000 is used in scripture the way I use bazillion with my children. It is a nonspecific number meant to uh to symbolize enormity I've told you a bazillion times to make your bed. Now how do I know that the thousand is used that way in the scripture? Well, gee, let's do a quick survey. The Lord owns a cattle on a thousand hills, Psalm 5010. I grew up spending every summer in Wisconsin, in one county of Wisconsin. There are more than a thousand hills, each of which has many, many cattle on it. Are you telling me that our God owns just one county of Wisconsin? Now Wisconsin is a beautiful place, but our God owns so much more than that. That he owns the cattle on a thousand hills doesn't mean that hill number one thousand and one isn't his. It's a number meant to convey enormity. How about this? Exodus 20 says that the loving kindness of the Lord extends to a thousand generations. Who? Does that mean in generation 1001 our God is faithless? That his loving-kindness ceases? A thousand years, or like a day, and a day like a thousand years. Is that a literal mathematical formula for conversion? No. A thousand is a nonspecific number of hugeness. Twelve thousand stadia It is the many, many, many, many billions and billions of the people of God throughout all of history. And the city is on that scale. It's on a scale to accommodate all the people of God throughout Paul time. Its length and width and height are equal. We don't have time to fully develop that, but we've seen that cube shape before in the temple. The most holy place of the temple was a cube. Verse 17, he also measured its wall 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement. Again, we see the number 12. This time it's 12 times 12. It's the people of the old covenant and the people of the new covenant brought together. In one figurative number. This wall protects all of the people of God. It is not a guard only for the New Testament people, or only for the Old Testament people, nor is it a wall that's between them to keep them separate. Rather it is around them. Verse 18. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold like clear glass. Look at John's inability to describe what he is seeing. As a chemist, I can tell you with confidence that pure gold is not clear. This is not literal. This is John at his wit's end trying to describe the beauty, the radiance, the shininess of what he saw. And he describes the two things that he can think of that are the shiniest things he's ever seen. Pure gold and clear glass. I've never seen anything shinier than those. That's the best I can do to try to describe to you what I am seeing. We have got to go beyond this. Don't picture golden glass. Picture brilliance that exceeds those. Because John is at a loss to describe them. Verse 19: The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was Jasper, the second Sapphire, the third Agat, the fourth emild, the fifth Onyx, the sixth Carnelian, the seventh Chrysalite, the eighth barrel, the ninth Topaz, the tenth Chrysophi Chrysophra. I practiced that one I knew it was going to get me in trouble. The tenth Chrysophrase, the 11th uh J Senth, the 12th Amethyst. The symbolism of the jewels is not quite as clear as some of the others. probably points maybe to the twelve jewels on the ephod of the priests. We know the temple and the tabernacle had precious stones in them, so there's some hearkening back to that. But there is one other thing that they might be pointing to. Isaiah 6110 says this. I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exalt in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself for a Like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with jewels John is trying to say that what he is seeing here is a fulfillment of Isaiah 61, I think Verse twenty one, and the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city were pure gold like transparent glass Again, the literal interpretation fails, for I'm having a hard time picturing an oyster big enough to produce a pearl big enough to provide for this gait. That would be a what an oyster that would fill the entire Chesapeake Bay. Not a bad catch if you're an oyster. What a oysterer? Wait, fishermen? Oysterman? I'm not sure what to say Somebody will fill me in afterwards, I'm sure. Oyster Man. Okay, there we go. So now we have it. Alright. Again, it's meant to convey beauty. Wealth, enormity, splendor, grandeur. Verse 22, and I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb. We will not go to church. Church is where God, where we go to hear God speak and to be with him in a special, unique way. Well, that's going to be every day in this situation. And the city had no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and his lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations, but nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, brightest crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb, through the middle of the street of the city, also on either side of the river, the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. The tree from which Adam and Eve were barred is now available to all those who are in that city. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. Again, the everlasting church service. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign for ever and ever. And he said to me, These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. Our first goal has to be simply to understand the meaning of the words in front of us. And I've tried to unfold that as we go through, to show you the some sense of the symbolic nature of these words. All the people of God reside here. New Testament and Old Testament. Jews and Gentiles, whites and blacks, weak and powerful, men and women, slaves and slave owners, powerful and homeless. All those who are in Christ Jesus are gathered here. Hence the repeated emphasis on the number twelve. It is built upon a foundation of the apostles. It is built upon the foundation of the Word of God. The apostles are those who were specially appointed messengers of God's Word. That it is on their foundation means it's built on the word they brought, our Bible. Its entrance is the gates of the tribes How does Paul say it? Salvation comes first to the Jew and then to the Gentile. For salvation is from the Jews. Entrance into this place comes through the Jews, through the tribes of Israel, ultimately through the one true Israel, Jesus Himself. The one who was the fulfillment of all that Israel was supposed to be Is the way that we enter into this place. It's not just the numbers that we need to see. We need to picture all of the beauty. The things are described as pearls and as jaspers and as amethyst and as emeralds and as gold and as clear glass. Is meant to convey phenomenal beauty, unbelievable wealth, indescribable splendor. Whatever you're picturing isn't enough. Whatever beautiful thing that you can imagine doesn't come close. The vision is bigger and brighter and bolder than anything you or I have ever seen or could ever imagine. Now, close your eyes for just a moment. I really mean it. I don't do this very often. I literally mean for you to close your eyes for just a moment. Some of the elders are peeking because they're worried about what I'm going to do next. But come on, everybody, close your eyes. Picture it. Picture the brightness which would come from streets if they were like gold that would come from glass. That would come from foundations like gemstones. Picture the immensity symbolized, twelve thousand stating in every direction. Try to wrap your mind around the beauty portrayed. Bask in the warmth, the weather, the wealth Now let me ask you this question while your eyes are still closed. What are you picturing? My guess is most of us are picturing a city. Open your eyes for a moment. I understand the temptation to picture a city, for certainly that is what I have a tendency to picture unless I correct myself and force corrections on myself. It's the mistake we've made. When we do flannel graphs in Sunday school uh with little kids, it's how it was shown to me as a city. When I go online and I search this, I see pictures of a city. When I open certain study Bibles and I get to this section, I see pictures drawn of a city But that's not what it is. John's very clear. The angel is very clear. Go back to 21, verse 9. Go right back to the top of this section. Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the lamb. Forces me to smile if we try to take this too literally, for I gotta imagine if taken literally this is a dress fitter's nightmare. A bride that's 12,000 stadia in every direction. This is not literal. It's not a city at all. We're told very clearly it's the bride. And who or what is that? Who or what is that? What was the language in Jeremiah, the covenant language used there? That God is the husband of his people. What did we see in our New Testament reading in Ephesians 5? All this talk about marriage, back and forth, back and forth, and the final verse says, Oh, by the way, I'm actually talking about Christ in the church. The bride of the lamb is us, it's the church That's what we need to picture. All the beauty, all the splendor, all the glory, all the shininess, all the brightness, all of the awe. Is a picture of the church. Not something we ought to be waiting for, but something we ought to be living in. It's astounding how we miss this. None of you, none of you would come to me and say, Scott! I like you well enough. But boy, that bride you picked. Whew. Now that's because of who she is. I get that. You go to her and say that about me, I understand. But you would never go to anyone and say, Scott, I really like you But I can't stand your bride. Because you know full well I'd punch you in the nose If you fear saying that to me, why are we so comfortable using that kind of language about the bride of Jesus? He's the one on the white horse who is going to ride out. He's the one pictured in Psalm 45 with which we opened our service, who is going to ride out, who has the power to defeat Every enemy and every opponent. If you don't talk about my bride that way to me, why on earth do we talk about his bride that way? Oh, I love Jesus. I just hate the church. Not possible. Not possible. You cannot hate the church and love Jesus. That is to say, you died for a fool, Jesus You gave your life for a bride that is not worth my time. I know better how to pick people than you do, Jesus. I want no part of your bride, the church. You cannot, cannot, cannot claim to love Jesus and disparage his bride. And we must see it the way he sees it. This is the revelation of Jesus Christ. Go back to chapter 1, the revelation of Jesus Christ. to his servant John. It is Jesus revealing a Jesus-eye view of the church. This is what he sees when he looks at us. Now, I blame the parents of this church for me not having a better sermon illustration at this point right here. You see, we ought to have a gangly, awkward teenager who is someday going to develop, but we got pretty good teenagers around here. Our parents have done too good a job of raising two mature, two talented, two wonderful teenagers. But imagine for a moment that we had a gangly, awkward, z unsure teenager, little acne issues going on, and all of that happening. Yes, that might be the status of the church today. A little awkward, a little gangly in its development, a little unsure of itself. Problem with acne bursting out over here. But if we freeze the church in that view in our minds and fail to realize where it's headed. We have badly misunderstood who she is. This is the bride for whom Jesus died, the one he was willing to give his life for. It is a beautiful thing, a transcendent thing, a splendorous thing And we must see it that way. We must be excited to serve this one. Excited to be a part of this one. Careful about how we speak of this one. And ready to tell everybody. About it. Who goes to a wedding doesn't get asked about the bride Monday morning you go back to work. Hey, you were at your cousin's wedding over the weekend, right? Yes, yes. And how'd the bride look? Well, you like her dress? That's that's standard question. And who would say anything along the lines of, well, it was, you know, hideous, ridiculous. You might you might you might say not a dress that I uh I'd want to try to pull off, but you know, it was pretty. But this is the vision that Jesus has of the one whom he is going to marry, of the one who will be his, to whom he will be united, and we united to him for all of eternity. And it is beautiful. Let's talk about that beauty. Let's rejoice in that splendor. Let's be blinded by that brightness. Let's be excited. About that promise. Let's pray. Jesus, help us to see your bride the way you see her, the way you revealed her here to John. That we would see all the splendor, all the reflected glory, all of the brilliance that you have bestowed upon her You died for her to make her this. Let us live for her to help make this reality visible now. We ask that by your grace we would see the bride clearly. Rejoice rightly. Celebrate fully. As we live waiting for this reality to be manifest on earth. Pray this in your precious name. Amen.