It has frequently been said that hindsight is 2020. I think for most of us, most of the time, that means we look back at missed opportunities when we could have made a different call, a moment of judgment in which we could have picked either this or that. And almost always when we're talking about hindsight being 2020, We're talking about the regret we have with regard to the decision we made. Had we chosen differently, this path could have been averted. These bad things would not have happened. We could have had a better outcome. We read where We are told that Judas, he came up to Jesus, and at once he said, Greetings, Rabbi, and he kissed Jesus. Jesus said to him, Friend, do what you came to do. Then the armed men that were with him came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. And behold, one of those who were with Jesus Peter stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. And Jesus said to him, Put your sword back. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father? And he would not at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then would the scriptures be fulfilled? How then should the scriptures be fulfilled? Jesus had perfect foresight. He could look ahead with 2020 vision. What was happening to Jesus Was it not a case of things spiraling out of control, a case of inattentiveness or missed opportunities to change things? He did not blunder along the way so that these bad things happened to him. And in fact, in all that we are going to consider this morning, Jesus does not miss a single moment. Rather, he recognized each moment. And he let each of them unfold just as they did. And it did not happen out of some apathy on his part. Just the opposite. We're going to see that he actually prayed for strength so that he could let these things happen to him. Nor did he misunderstand or mispredict the consequences. Just the opposite. Foreseeing the consequences, he let them happen. For all the ways we have, over the past two weeks, seen Jesus actively moving the pieces on the board, as it were, in order to bring about his death. Today we will note how many times he could have stopped the progression. He could have stopped the flow of events. He could have averted his own death. But he chooses not to. Let's pray. Lord, there is so much that happens on these two days of Holy Week. On this Thursday and this Friday, and as we consider them, as we try to digest them, we ask, Lord, that above all of the details, above all of the interesting interactions, what would stand out to us first and foremost. Is Jesus letting things come, letting his death proceed apace so that we might be saved in him We thank you, Lord Jesus, for going to the cross on our behalf. We ask that as we consider it again this morning, we would be renewed in our faith, encouraged in our obedience, but most of all stirred in our love for you. We pray this in your name. Amen. Jesus, kind of accepting what happened to him during Holy Week, during what is sometimes known as his passion, has been called in theological circle circles his passive obedience, his passive obedience. Sometimes labels are just what they are because we can't come up with a better one, and this is one of those times. As we're going to see, he's not nearly as passive, as inactive, as that label may imply. The passive obedience of the Christ is actually a picture of Jesus taking steps so that certain things would happen to him. Now we're going to need to back up a little bit if we're going to understand this picture of the passive obedience of the Christ. For I've jumped into the middle of the story with his arrest in the garden. But we go back to a couple of nights before. I'm going back to Wednesday, April 1st, A. D. 33. on the evening. You'll recall we looked at that last week. There was a dinner with quite a few guests present, and at that dinner a woman opened a bottle of very expensive perfume and she poured it on Jesus. There was a bit of a kerfaffle among some of the disciples. Somebody pointed out and said, hey, that stuff's seriously expensive. It could have been sold and the money put to some charitable purpose. You'll recall that Jesus cut that conversation off. He said it has been put to the best possible purpose. I have been prepared for my death. She anointed him She acknowledged him as the Messiah, and she prepared his body in the burial tradition of that time and place. Now, the disciple who had objected, who had taken offense, Jesus must have seen something snap in him. For when he was corrected, when he was told that he had looked at this all wrong. He changed. This was not new to Jesus. He had corrected many people and seen many of them respond badly to it. But on this night, this one, when the party was breaking up, when everybody else was saying their farewells, their good nights, when they were thanking the host and the hostess for dinner, he slipped away in the dark. It's very possible that no one perhaps noticed except Jesus. He noticed. He noticed and he knew what it meant when Judas slipped away. In the darkness that is afforded by a place without electric lights. Now, how can I be sure that Jesus noticed and understood what was happening? Because at the dinner the next night on Thursday night, Jesus will point out that Judas is the one who is going to betray him. Jesus, we've known, if you've paid attention to his ministry on earth, is a spectacular reader of people. He knows what people are thinking, what motivates them, what's going on inside of them. Recall how Jesus with the woman at the well He knew her living situation without being told he could read it in the way she behaved. You'll recall how when Nicodemus snuck up to him at night, he really understood what was going on. He exposed the greed of the rich young ruler without any difficulty. And you recall when he forgave the man on the mat, the one who was lowered through the roof? You'll recall how Jesus, when he forgave him, he read all of the eye rolls in the room. He forgives sins. Anybody can say that. And Jesus knew immediately what they were thinking And so he healed the man to prove that he had power and authority. Just a few days earlier, before this moment, they were walking up to Jerusalem, and there was an argument among the twelve. And Jesus knew what they were arguing about. And we saw a couple of weeks ago how in the temple uh last week on Tuesday morning of this week Jesus knew the hearts of his opponents, those who confronted him. He knew what they were really trying to do. Jesus is an expert. At reading people. And so when Judas snaps that night, when he's finally had enough, when he's reached the point that he cannot stand any more correction. And by the way, we all struggle with that, right? Jesus was a rabbi. He was a teacher. What do teachers do? They correct. There's a reason they've all got a mountain of red pens. Jesus was in the correction business. And Judas had agreed to be one of his followers, one of his students. But his pride could take it no longer And he snapped and he walked out. And we see here the first time when Jesus lets things happen. The room had at least Jesus. The other eleven disciples. We know Lazarus was there. We have reason to think that Mark may have been there, possibly Zacchaeus, possibly Nicodemus, maybe Joseph of Arimathea, and any number of others. It wasn't twelve legions of angels, but it was more than enough men to detain, to detain Judas. But Jesus does not. He lets him go, for it has to happen. For if he should detain Judas, how will the scriptures be fulfilled? He is passively accepting what is coming. And again, it's not a case of his hindsight being 20-20, but his perfect foresight. And his perfect restraint because he needed Judas to go do what Judas was going to do. The next morning on Thursday, April 2nd, it's 14 to 16 hours before the confrontation with which we opened. in which Peter cut off the man's ear. Jesus had made arrangements with someone in Jerusalem so that he might eat the Passover with his disciples. Now remember, Jesus and his disciples they live up in Galilee, up in the northern part of Israel They've come down to Jerusalem for the Holy Week, for the Passover, to celebrate. They need a place to have the Passover meal. And Jesus, we find out, he dispatches Peter and John says, hey, get into the city, go here, turn there, find this person, and tell them uh the master has need of your upper room and the preparations, then make the preparations. Jesus had already arranged with somebody. History doesn't record who. But many scholars over the centuries have pointed out that the only follower of Jesus we know for sure was rich enough to have that kind of space in their home were the parents of John Mark. the the author of the gospel that bears his name. So it's interesting to think about the fact that a young Mark might have actually been in attendance and been a helper getting that Passover ready. We have reason to think he was present later that night at the garden. Anyway, no matter where they met, the Passover was prepared. And Jesus gathers in the upper room, and a whole host of important events take place that afternoon and evening. You'll recall that Jesus washed the disciples' feet, and that as he did so, He said this. The Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. How sad that many of us end it right there. How sad that we look at that and say, oh look, Christians are supposed to be servants. That's the point of Christianity. Jesus, the founder of Christianity, he himself did not come to serve but to be served but to serve. All of that's true. But it's not where Jesus stopped. That night, as he's walk that afternoon, as he's washing the disciples' feet, the Son of Man did not come to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. His purpose was death. Death was the goal, the conclusion, the mission he was on, and he knew it. After the footwashing, they sat down to dinner, and as they ate, Jesus foretold how all of them would abandon him that very night, and how Peter would actually deny even knowing him. Of course they they all said, no, it's not going to happen. Never happen, Jesus. We got you back. And of course they all denied him. That is a startling act. Jesus predicted the disciple who would betray him. And Jesus did it by saying, the one who dips his bread in the sauce, in the bowl, with me. That's the one who's going to betray me. And there's this bizarre little statement. And he handed a piece of bread to Judas. Judas didn't even have bread in his hand. It wasn't like Jesus waited for this to happen. No, Jesus knows who's going to betray him, and he wants everybody else to know that he knows. And he says, listen, the one who is eating bread with me right now, oh by the way, Judas, for this to work, you need a piece of bread. And he foretells the dis the betrayal. Which means he let it happen. Once again he had every opportunity. The room was an upper room. It's not like Judas could escape out a window. There was one door and we know it was locked. There were eleven other disciples there. They could have tackled Judas right in that moment. Not only that, while we know Judas storms out, he doesn't storm out right now. I don't know if it's for decorum's sake. I don't know if he thinks he's going to avoid. I'm not sure why, but he stays at least through the dinner. And Jesus hands him the bread and says, what you are about to do, do quickly. Had Jesus detained Judas, had the disciples grabbed him and held him, Jesus' life would have been saved and ours lost. For how then should the scriptures be fulfilled? The main event of this evening, of course, this Thursday of Holy Week, was the institution of the Lord's Supper. You see, following the meal, Jesus He took bread and he broke it. He took wine and he poured it out and he pointed to them and he said, This is my body broken for you. This is my blood spilled for you. It's one of the many reasons that we reject the idea that the elements of the communion are literally his body and blood, because he was literally standing in his body with his blood in his veins when he said these things. It was a symbol, a sign. He was pointing to them. And yet, we do not reject the idea that he is present in the meal. Even if it is spiritually so. And so when we partake of this meal later, we are ushered into that room. We are partakers of that event. Just as the Passover of which they were celebrating that night made them a part of what had happened in Egypt, so this makes us a part of what happened. in that upper room. After supper, John tells us that Jesus taught them at some length and that he prayed for them at some length. It's often what's known as the farewell discourse. John chapters 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17. Every word of those chapters, five chapters, is preparation. It's getting them ready for their life without Him. He told them about the coming of the Holy Spirit, about the Spirit's ministry among them. He taught them the importance of their unity as his followers. He famously offered the comforting words, if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself. so that where I am you may also be. He encouraged them, saying, Do not be afraid. Believe in God. Believe also in me. He stressed endurance. He said, I am the vine and you are the branches. Whoever remains in me will bear much fruit. But most of all, in his teaching and in his prayer, he stressed his love for them Saying, among other things, there is no greater love than to lay down one's life for one's friends. The disciples were, by their own account, slow to believe all that Jesus had taught them. Yet we have to hope that maybe on this evening When he had just broken bread and said it was his body, he poured out wine and said it was his blood, when he had said as he was washing their feet that I'm giving my life as a ransom for many, that maybe a few light bulbs were going in on going on in that room. And when he said I lay down my life for my friends, they recognized what he was doing. Perhaps more importantly is do we? Do we recognize what Jesus did? That he took our place if we will receive it by faith. And having nudged events toward his demise, he would now show continued great restraint in the hours that would come. For how else should the scriptures be fulfilled? We're told that after the dinner they sang a hymn and they went back out to the Mount of Olives where they had been on Tuesday evening, 48 hours earlier. And we're told that Jesus breaks down in anxiety. Maybe it was the hymn they sang. Music has a way of moving us. Probably mostly it was just knowing what was coming. And he's deeply saddened and profoundly agitated. And he decides he needs to pray And initially he prays a little bit like you and I do in these moments. God make it go away I don't want to go through this. Father, if there's any other way, please take this cup from me. And then he says something. Something we often say. I doubt we get it the way he did. He said, but not my will, but yours be done. I will do whatever you want from me. I will go along the path that you have carved out for me. It was a short time after this that we entered the story. That we saw Jesus, Judas, walking up to Jesus, kissing him and betraying him In this very location, this garden where Jesus is praying. We saw Peter trying to cut off the ear to protect Jesus, and Jesus saying, no, no, no, put the sword away. This is the path I need to be on. And he did not call down twelve legions of angels, 60,000 angels. Instead, he went along, how does Isaiah say it? Like a sheep led to the slaughter. Passively, gently, easily, almost as if he was too stupid to understand what was happening. It's now around 1 a. m. All the leadership in Jerusalem is awake, and this really shouldn't surprise us. For they have been out to get Jesus for at least a year now. And over the last couple of days, he has really stirred up their ire. They were outraged at him. And in the last 24 hours, one of his own, an inside man, has come to them and said, I will deliver him to you. They're not going to be asleep. We shouldn't be stunned at all that they're all awake and ready to go at one o'clock in the morning. And as Judas delivers up Jesus, They begin to question him. They begin to hold a court of sorts. I suppose they're trying to make it look good? I suppose they're trying to give it a veneer of respectability and of propriety and of justice. And so they begin to question him. The twelve, for their part, did exactly as Jesus predicted, and they fled into the night, leaving him alone to walk this path. And as the questions are poured out, initially at the home of Annas, later at the home of Caiaphas, as the questions begin to pour out, he refuses to answer them. And an interesting pattern develops. If you go back and read through the trials of Jesus, an interesting thing develops. Every time he's falsely accused, he says nothing. Every time the accusation is accurate, he owns it. At no point does he ever deny anything For he does not want to risk him being declared innocent. He cannot accidentally create a situation where this trial would come to any conclusion other than his death. They ask him. Initially the charges are trumped up. I don't know. In today's lingo, they'd probably be something akin to conspiracy to commit terrorism. They say, hey, we heard he was going to destroy the temple. The temple's a big deal in Judaism, right? Big deal in Jerusalem. You're going to bomb the temple. That's terrorism. All right? We heard him say he was going to destroy the temple. Those charges collapse almost immediately. They're so absurd. They're so outlandish. And even in this kangaroo court, they don't stand up And Caiaphas, the high priest, I don't know, maybe just kind of shooting, uh taking a swing at the fences? In his desperation, he abandons the pretense and just goes after Jesus on the grounds that really annoyed him. And he asked point blank, are you the Christ, the son of the blessed? That is, the son of God. This was why they really hated Jesus. He had a religious stance, a spiritual position. He was claiming certain things and saying certain things and doing certain things and the crowds were beginning to tune in and the crowds were beginning to go, this could be the guy. We've been waiting for centuries And he could be the man. But if he's not, and he claims to be, then we have reason to kill him. And so he comes at him in this direct, simple way. Are you the Christ, the Son of God? You see, if he says yes, that's blasphemy. A capital offense in Judaism. You have to ask yourself, why didn't they start with this? Why wasn't this the first tactic right out of the gate? And the only thing I can come up with, well a couple things, but the the main thing I can come up with is this, and I and actually before I explain I've got to back up a notch. We've got to be sure we understand how the blasphemy is connected to this. You see, we have to understand what they understood. That to be the Messiah was to be God. Jesus has already, back on Tuesday in the temple, pointed out to them that the Messiah must necessarily be God But that wasn't new with Jesus. For 200 plus years, rabbis and scholars of the Old Testament had recognized that all the prophecies in the Old Testament could not be fulfilled by a mere man. They knew that the promised one had to be both man and God. So if you say you are the Messiah, then you are saying you are God. So why didn't they just go after him in that way? Why didn't they just start this as their first question? Well, first of all, it's a little tricky, right? Jesus has not to this point ever publicly admitted this. Think about that. If you're a student of the gospels, To this point in his three-year ministry, he has privately, he said to the twelve, who do you say that I am? They said, you are the Christ, the Son of God, and he said, yes, that's correct. But what does he do then? He shushes them. He swears them to silence. Tell no one He has healed people and some of them have talked about, well, the Messiah is supposed to be a healer, and what does he do every time he commits a mirac uh does a miracle? Shhh, don't tell anybody. Keep it to yourself He heals the leper. Don't go back through the city. Take the roundabout way to go home. Don't talk about it. And when his teaching begins to stir up messianic talk, When they begin to go, maybe this guy is the king, maybe he's the revolutionary that can free us from Rome. Maybe he's the one that can sit on the throne of David. What does he do? Every time there is momentum toward his messiahship and his kingship, he slips away He goes out into the wilderness and prays for a time, and the fevered pitch of momentum and the momentum for his revolution dies. He has studiously avoided making any public claim to be the Messiah. And you gotta believe the Kai of his didn't ask this question because he just thought there's no way he's gonna own up to it in court. If he's not gonna say it on the campaign trail, he's not gonna say it under oath. If he's not going to say it in the wilderness, he's not going to sing it in a court where all these witnesses, all these respected members of society are going to hear him. There's no way he's going to own up to this. But Caiaphas was, like I said, I think swinging for the fences. Maybe he won't up to it, but he'll say something stupid. We can get at him and we can find some way to judge him. So are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am I gotta believe he just knocked their socks off for a moment. Did I hear that correctly? Did he just, under oath, in front of all of us, admit that he believes himself to be the Messiah, to be God? But Jesus didn't stop And he begins to speak again. You've got to think they're thinking to themselves, aha, here comes. He's going to begin backpedaling. Well, let me explain by what I mean by that is this. That's not what Jesus does. Caiaphas says, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am. And you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming with clouds of heaven. Jesus doubled down. He said, let's be clear what I'm saying. I'm not saying I'm the Messiah, but I think the Messiah isn't God. I'm saying I'm the Messiah and I'm the one the Prophet Daniel saw in the clouds of heaven Approaching the throne of the Almighty, taking from him authority and power and glory and honor and a right to rule over the nations. I'm that guy. I hope you know that scenes like this play out even today. We don't hear about them. Why not? Because when some poor wandering vagrant, somebody who has been living out in the open and and wandering from town to town for the last three years, like Jesus, When they get pulled into court for, I don't know, disturbing the peace like Jesus And when it's put to them, what is going on? What do you have to say for yourself? And that guy stands in court and says, I'm the Messiah The judge immediately has compassion on him. She recognizes that he's insane. He's lost his mind, and we've got to get him some mental health care. That's why we don't hear about it. Nobody thought he was insane. Oh, three years earlier his family had wondered about it. You'll recall there's the account in Mark where his family said, the guy is cuckoo, he's off his rocker, we gotta reel him in. But it's three years later that just is not going to stick. And nobody in that courtroom reacts that way. If you've been reading along during the week, you know that not one person looked at this guy and said he's nuts And nobody today says that. Oh, I hear a lot of critics of Christianity say we're nuts for following him, but I don't think I've ever heard anybody try to make the argument that Jesus was insane. So, where does that leave us? The court has to make a ruling. If he's not insane, and clearly he's not Then he is evil. Think about it. What would you conclude? When a cult leader gets a bunch of people to follow him and he misleads them, perhaps leading them to their deaths, maybe just fleecing them and taking their money. Whatever the case, what do you judge that cult leader to be? Evil, corrupt, wicked And the court comes to the only conclusion they can imagine. He's clearly not insane. So he must be wicked And he needs to die. Are you the Christ, the Son of the Beloved? Yes, I am. And I you will see me seated at the right hand of power and coming in the clouds. And the high priest reached the only conclusion he could imagine. And he tore his robes and he shouted, What further witnesses do we need? We have heard his blasphemy. What is your ruling? And the rum came to the only conclusion they could imagine What conclusions can you imagine? Can you see another way to account for this guy? Do you perceive him as genuinely wicked? Then stop saying nice things about him and call him out as a wicked man. But if you don't, if you look at the record of his life and you're forced to go, he's not wicked. He's not evil And I can only find one other explanation. He is who he said he was. Why do you think he waited? Three years before he makes a public claim to be God. By the way, by the way, this is one of the reasons a lot of people will say, look at the Bible, oh, you know, I've read the gospels and and Jesus never actually claims to be God. Almost never actually claims to be God. He waits until this moment. I think it's so that we're forced to come to terms with this question. Liars don't keep lying when the stakes get raised. When they're on the hook, when they've got to swear uh under oath, when they're risking perjuring themselves, when they're gonna be in front of the court, when there's gonna be a record, when there's gonna be witnesses, when there's gonna be accountability. At that point, most liars at at best They're going to just bail and go, I was lying, nope, none of it's true. At worst, they're going to hum and haw and try to fudge away around their lives and around, but not tell them in court. But this this man does the opposite. He's never made any of these claims and in this moment says, yes, I'm God Earlier in his ministry, Jesus once said, Do you think that I have come to bring peace on the earth? No, I came to divide people. Each against the other. By making this claim under oath in the court, in the way that he did, He divides us. He forces us to pick a side. He is a wicked man who deserved death. Or he was who he said he was. Outside, Peter is denying Jesus, and Judas is hanging himself. And Jesus' opponents, they're strategizing as what to do next. And around dawn of that Friday, April 3rd, A. D. 33, the rooster crowed and that convicted Peter. And they formally charged and condemned Jesus. And they whisked him off to Pilate, the Roman governor. Why? Because they were not empowered, their autonomy was limited, they were not empowered to execute a capital sentence. They needed Rome's authority to do that. So they take him to Pilate. Pilate famously questions him, are you the king of the Jews? And again, Jesus accepts that accusation. He does, however, explain to Pilate, he qualifies it, my kingdom is not of this world. But I am a king. Pilate declares him innocent, saying he can find no fault in this man The priests, they've stirred up what a little bit of a mob is beginning to gather there. Dawn is breaking, people are going to the market, they're hearing the rumors of what's happening, and people are starting to gather. And refining their charges They they start to go more political. Pilate, he's deserving the peace. Pilate, it's your job as the Roman governor to keep an eye on Jerusalem, and this guy is going to upset the apple cart. Pilate, he claims to be a king. You're supposed to serve Caesar. How can you be a friend of Caesar and let this guy live? Pilate wants to know part of this mess. Knows that Herod is in town. Herod's from Galilee up in the north where Jesus lives and thinking to himself, I got a way out. He's a Galilean. Herod's a Galilean in charge of Galilee. I'll send him over to Herod because he's a Jew and he's in town for Passover as well. Goes over there, Herod is just going, hey, show me a miracle. Herod's just in it for the show, like his grandfather was. Father. Just wants to see a miracle. Just want to see a show. Jesus won't work a miracle. Jesus doesn't talk to him. Herod, yeah, I don't have time for this, and send it back to Pilate. And Pilate began to explain to the leadership that they can he can find nothing wrong with Jesus. They press him. They they uh Pilate thinks he's found him out. He says, hey, there's this tradition that During Passover week, we Roman governors, we free a convicted man. You get to pick who you want. And he picks this rotten, horrible, terrible, no-good, very bad guy named Barabbas. Because he's hoping that the people are going to go, Barabbas or Jesus? I may not love Jesus, but he's a whole lot easier to live with than Barabbas. Give us Jesus. And Pilate is hoping he can let Jesus off the hook through this mechanism. And the priests stir up the crowd and they say, Demand Barabbas, call for Barabbas, ask for Barabbas. And so Barabbas is the one who is freed, and Pilate is bewildered. And the people begin, and Pilot's going to say, What do you want to do with him then? And they yell, crucify him! And they keep putting the political pressure on him. Pilate finally finally relents. You'll recall the famous scene. Pilate comes out, publicly washes his hands, symbolically saying, I have nothing to do with this. It's on y'all. But then he gives them the authority to kill Jesus. There was in between there a couple of things that I have skipped over. One of those was a little interesting conversation between Pilate and Jesus. Pilate says, Do you not understand I have the authority to set you free? Why would you talk to me? Come on, I'm the guy who can get you out of all of this. And Jesus very tellingly says, yeah, that's not how it works. Whatever authority you have as a derived authority that came from my Father in heaven, he has put you here exactly for the purpose. of leading to my death. And once again Jesus does nothing to prevent the inevitable. And there's also that moment in there where Pilate, frustrated, orders Jesus to be beaten. The thirty-nine lashes of which the offertory referenced The custom being that 40 would kill a man, so you stop at 39. These were brutal. And it matters in part because of the suffering that Jesus went through, but it also matters because it helps us understand what happens on the cross a little later. And so Jesus is beaten and he's bloodied, and he's turned over to the soldiers and to the will of the high priest. The soldiers, they had already dressed him up in Herod's place, some of Herod's old clothes. They don't really dress him up to look like a king. He claims to be a king. He ought to look like one. Now they make a thr uh uh uh a crown for him, right? They weave together some branches, got these big old long thorns, and they give him a crown And the soldiers are having fun at his expense and they're they're punching him, they're beating him. They're punching him in the face, they're punching him in the mouth, and they're saying, and they blindfold him and they Say hey, I just punched you, you're accepting your prophet, your God, you claim to be God, why don't you tell me who punched you? What's my name? And they come on. So at this point, he's being repeatedly punched by big strong men with gloves His eyes are swollen, his nose and lips are bloodied, the thorns on the crown have undoubtedly dug into his forehead, to his ears, maybe even his eyes, into his scalp. And he's been whipped 39 times to the point that, in all likelihood, his back is bare to the point that his shoulder blades, the actual bones, are exposed. He's given a cross and he's told to drag it down the cobblestone streets through the town. People are spitting on him, y yelling at him, mocking him. The soldiers continue to whip him along the way, and he stumbles and he falls, and he's unable to get back up. Not because of stubbornness, not because he's refusing. No amount of whipping at this point is gonna motivate him So they grab a man out of the crowd, they say, you carry his cross, and they finish their way outside the city to where the executions occurred And he is laid, the cross is laid down and he is laid on it. And nails are driven through his hands and feet and he is lifted upright. And as the cross is dropped into the ground, into the hole that was prepared for, undoubtedly it jarred all of him. And we see the psalm beginning to be fulfilled. Each one of my bones is separated from all of the others. Crucifixions could take up to take days in some cases if the condemned man was in good health and in good condition, Jesus was not. But it wasn't just the physical ailments. For sure, there continued to be these outward interactions as he hung on the cross. He has the interaction with the thieves next to him on either side. He has the interaction with some of the soldiers down below him. He has the interaction with John saying, Hey, can you take care of my mother Mary? His brothers are not yet believers at this point. If you're wondering why he doesn't have his brothers take care of his mother, they don't become believers till later. But while all this is going on the outside, there's something going on on the inside. One, there's that struggle to keep on this path. The soldiers are taunting him saying, why don't you come down? You're supposed to be all that. You're the guy who walks on water and cures blind people and makes the land a walk. Why don't you get yourself off that cross? We'll believe you then. Never forget that Jesus was a human being. He had to be Do you not think there was some temptation there? He's pretty miserable at this point. And though he is a human, he has in him the power of God also. And he could have freed himself. But he stays there. Behind the scenes, though, there's something else going on. You see, Jesus understood That ultimately what was happening was God's by God's design, that he was the sacrifice. There's a reason all this goes down at Passover. So we would associate his death with the death of the sacrifice, the one that takes the place of another. But he from eternity past had been in agreement with his father that he would be the sacrifice, that he would take the place, that rather than the Lamb whose blood had saved the Israelites in Egypt all those centuries before That it would be his blood, that if people would trust it, if they would believe it, if they would just hope that it will work It would work. And so all the justice, all the penalty which sin deserved, it had to be poured out on him. God's justice demands that there be a penalty for sin, so he had to bear it. Which is why Paul could say he who knew no sin became sin for us. In this moment, while he's hanging on the cross, every sin I've ever committed or ever will commit, every sin you, dear believer, have ever committed or ever will commit. is being punished in him because your sin was applied to him. Your extramarital affair was now his, and he was an adulterer. Your interpersonal hatred was now his, and he was a murderer according to the law. Has there ever been, ever, in the history of Christianity, been a single child molester? Who repented and came to faith in Jesus Christ and is saved, then Jesus was that child molester that day on that cross. He was a bigot, a god hater. He was insolent. He was boastful. And in his pride, and in my pride He became a god defier, shaking his fist at the Almighty, a stiff-necked brat. One of us. And he understood in his human nature that this was necessary, but that doesn't make it fun. Doesn't make it easy. But he understood something that we sometimes forget. He alone had enjoyed perfect fellowship with God for 33 odd years. He alone in the history of humanity had had a perfect relationship with the Almighty. But God is holy. He's pure. He's upright. He cannot maintain a relationship with somebody like this. And the intimacy that Jesus had enjoyed was broken. Because Jesus was sin for us. And in the unimaginable intensity of those hours hanging there, Jesus did not cry out My God, it wasn't me. I didn't actually do these things. I have never molested a child. I have never cheated on a woman. I've never cheated on my taxes. I have never stolen, lied, or hated. I never gossiped. I never defied you It's not what he yells. Instead, he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It's not because he didn't know. It's because he's referencing the psalm with which we opened. He's tying himself to it so that we would tie it to him. So that we would see when that psalm concludes the idea that it is finished, it's been accomplished, it's all been done, we would understand that Jesus was saying the same thing. Pilate was surprised that Jesus died so quickly, because that was just not normal But the inward struggle, the spiritual dynamics which were taking place on that cross had sapped whatever strength remained in him. And so he was dead. His body was buried in a grave nearby, and everyone made it home before sunset, you know, because that's important on the eve of the Sabbath. In our look at Sunday and Monday of these eight days, we saw the things Jesus did, the provocations of the parade and of the temple tantrum in his In this look at Thursday and Friday, our focus has been on what was done to him, but with an eye toward how he has let it happen. How Jesus passively bore the wrath of God, paying the necessary penalty for sin so that we could be saved. Jesus allowed Judas to escape twice so that he would be betrayed. He allowed himself to be arrested. so that he would die. He allowed Pilate to exercise authority over him so that he would go to this cross. He did not lift up his voice to call for myriad angels to save him. He did not refute the bogus charges. And he owned up to the very things he knew would convict him. There's one little detail I've skipped. For years and years and years and years I never understood it. But some time ago somebody explained it to me and it has been so impactful. Shortly after they got out of the city with the cross. As the cross was being laid on the ground, remember the man who carried it for him is laying it on the ground, as they're stripping Jesus and getting him ready to put him on the cross. They offer him a drink. Matthew and Mark tell us that the drink was wine mixed with myrrh. And Jesus refuses. And I never understood why. Because at the very end, we see Jesus purposely asking for a drink. So that the scriptures might be fulfilled. So why does he take the one and refuse the other? Wine mixed with myrrh is an analgesic. It was known in antiquity to be a pain reliever. I think every child who has been spanked has thought about, or many have tried, at one time or another to dodge the pain of that spanking. Putting on an extra pair of jeans. Slipping a towel back there. Maybe a magazine But for penalties to be penalties, they have to be felt. For punishment to be punishment, it has to hurt. When they offered Jesus the wine mixed with myrrh, he said no. Because if he didn't feel every bit of God's wrath, we aren't saved. If he badges a single lash, then justice is not met. If he is freed even a little bit from the agony, then there's still a price we might have to pay. It was customary to offer this painkiller to the convicted. It was a guilt offering on behalf of the soldier. Yeah, we've tortured you. Yeah, we're going to torture you some more, but we're good guys, so we'll give you some aspirin. And Jesus won't accept it. Everything that's going to happen to Jesus on the cross was going to happen to him anyway, whether he felt it or not. But if he didn't feel it, it wouldn't count. Toward our accord, toward our bank to our toward our standing with God. If the pain did not fall on him, then how should the scriptures be fulfilled? God's justice had to be met. The price had to be paid. It's either us or him. He offers himself in your place. Such was his commitment to taking the wrath of God on behalf of all those who would believe in him Who would hide under his blood