Romans 4, uh chapter uh Romans chapter 4, verses 13 to 25. Romans 4, 13 to 25 If you're using that Pew Bible in front of you, I believe it's page 1119. Romans 4, 13 to 25, page 1119 of the Pew Bible. It's interesting that there are certain phrases that we know best in another language, Latin being a very common one. E puribus uno from many. One Carpe Diem sees the day. We have immortalized these thoughts, these ideas in Latin, and that makes them a little more memorable. When I was looking for different phrases that we might know in Latin, I discovered something I did not know. Did you know that John Wilkes Booth When he assassinated President Lincoln, when he leapt onto that stage, he shouted two things. One of them was in Latin. That's the one I remember. You know, Sixth Semper Tyrannus, thus always the tyrant. He actually shouted another phrase in English. I never knew he did Because it wasn't memorable. When we put these things in those sorts, in those other languages, sometimes they stick in our heads in ways they would not otherwise do. Sola fede. Faith alone. Sola, Latin, for alone, by yourself. Side meaning faith Sola Fede, faith alone, is one of the key doctrines of the Protestant Reformation. In fact, many scholars would look at the Protestant Reformation and argue that the doctrine of justification by faith alone Soul of the day was the very hinge on which the entire Protestant Reformation swung. That it was the key to everything. And while there are many texts that point to this doctrine that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Sola Fidei, Sola Pratia, Sola Crispus. Many texts would support those, but this is one of the key ones that we arrive at today. And of course, here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe in one other of the Latin phrases that came out of the Reformation. We believe in sola scriptura. That scripture alone is the infallible rule for faith and for practice. That it is what we must know if we are going to understand all of these other things. So let's begin in verse 13 of Romans 4, considering what Paul says on this important topic. For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs, faith is null, and promise is the week. For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law, there is no transgression. We recall that Paul's extended argument has been that all people, regardless of their race, their ethnicity, their social standing, they are all unrighteous before God. How do you say in chapter 3, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God? And he has argued that any who are saved from that sin are saved all in the same way. By a gift of righteousness from God. All have sinned fall short of the glory of God and are justified by His grace as a gift through whoops. Through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, which was a propitiation put forth by God. Propitiation we saw was the sum of Christ's work. It paid for our sins. And it provided a righteousness that pleased God. The propitiation is the summary of Christ making us right with God. We saw last week that Paul argued on that basis, since we are all sinners and all saved in the same way, and all saved by the righteousness of Christ and not of ourselves, Paul concluded there was simply no place for boasting. There is no way that one Christian can hold themselves above another. For to do so is to imagine that they played some role in their salvation. Now, Paul has argued that all y'all are in this together and all y'all are going to get out of this situation together through Christ Jesus. And that there should be no boasting. And thus he transitions very naturally to verse 16. That is why salvation depends on faith. In order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his Abraham's offspring, not only to the adherent of the law, but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made you father of many nations. In the presence of the God in whom he believes, who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist. Paul basically is arguing to any Jew in his audience who would be proud of the fact that he was a Jew, he is saying to them If you are proud of your Judaism, if your Judaism saves you, then your Judaism undoes the promise to Abraham Now, no good Jew would want to be responsible for undoing what was promised to Abraham, because Abraham was the father of the Jews. And so Paul has put any braggadocious Jew into a conundrum, a logical problematic situation, where if they boast into Judaism, they're undoing Abraham. How? Well he says the promise to Abraham was that he'd be the father of all the nations. He can't be the father of all the nations if salvation is by the law that only the Jews have. You see the problem? Paul is not saying, I am coming to you with a new doctrine that salvation is not by the law of God but by faith. I'm coming to you with the age-old truth. It was always this way. For there is no way Abraham could be the father of all nations if salvation is limited to those who have the law. And he is pointing out to his audience and to us that salvation has always been by faith alone, soul of today. We pick up in verse 18. In hope, Abraham believed against hope, then he should become the father of many nations as he had been told. So shall your offspring be. He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God Now, if you were here for our study of Genesis a couple of years ago, you've got to be hitting the brakes right now. You've got to be going, whoa, wait a second here. How can it be said that Abraham had no wavering? This is not a man of amazing fidelity. He was told to leave Ur and to go with no one except his wife Sarah, and that in this distant land God would make him give him the land and make him a father of many nations. But he took his nephew Lot with him in a sort of adaptive arrangement. And then while he was there, he pointed to Eliezer of Damascus and said, That's my heir And when God rejected Elias of Damascus, he said, okay, I'm going to make him my heir for myself. I'm going to sleep with the slave girl, and her child will be my heir. And then we're tempted to look at Abraham and go, he, his faith, he messed up on every front all the time. How can Paul say there was no wavering with him? But we've got to remind ourselves, while Abraham was wrong in all of those things, he was trying to act in faith. He mistakenly thought he had to accomplish it, and that's going to be part of the ongoing lesson of Romans, that we've got to stop thinking we have to accomplish our salvation. I believe there is a salvation, I just gotta go attain it. That's the mistake Abraham made. I believe the promise of God, now I've got to go fulfill it. God said, I'm going to take over this land and have an heir. I don't have an heir. Sarah, they remember they were already 75 years old when they left her. But he was 75. She joke. Okay? I don't have an heir. My nephew Lot has lost his father. I'm going to take Lot with me. I'm going to adopt him and he will be my heir. That gets rejected. Now I have no heir. So it's going to be Elliot. God rejects that. All these mistakes that Abraham's making are mistakes of faith. He made a good faith effort and ended up doing the wrong things. He lacked understanding. He lacked the clarity that ultimately it was all going to be accomplished by God. And of course that's part of what Paul is going to try to teach us in the book of Romans, that every aspect of our salvation rests with God. But even in his errors, Abraham was still acting out of a confidence that what God said was going to become true. He did not waver. in his faith. How does the verse continue in the middle of 20? But he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. The wording there is incredibly important. We must not miss it. For what did we see back in chapter 1? What was the fundamental problem Paul said in Romans 1? For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God, or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened, claiming to be wise, they became fools. Now listen to the warning and exchange the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal men and birds and animals and creeping things. The fundamental problem back in chapter 1 was mankind worshiping everything and everyone except the true God. And what is the fundamental difference being described of Abraham here? For all his mistakes, for all his miscarriages of God's plan, in the final analysis, he worshipped God. He gave glory to God. And that is a theme we see over and over and over again in the scriptures. David is a pig of a man, but he's a man after God's own heart. Because in every sin, every time, he turned back to God. He said, I have sinned against you, God, and I need you to save me from my sin. Nahum was a pagan. Nahum was an enemy of God's people, a Syrian officer. And he sees the power of Israel as God and he believes. And he goes home worshiping. The true God. Rahab was a prostitute. She was a part of the enemies of God and the people of Jericho in the land of Canaan. But when she saw what God was doing in and through Israel, she believed him and worshipped him. The theme of the scriptures is not the perfection of the people of God in this life. But rather, imperfect people always going back to God, always giving glory to God, always worshiping the one true God. And that's the contrast that Paul makes with Abraham here versus the people back in chapter 1. They did not glorify God. Abraham gives glory to God. Verse 22, that is why his faith was counted to him with righteousness. Not because he just simply had faith. It's not a vague idea that if you just believe it's all going to work out okay. It's not any faith that you hold sincerely will get you to God. No He gave glory to the one true God because he was pointed in the right direction with his faith. That's why it was counted to him as righteousness. We cannot say that if you sincerely hold to your false religion, well God's going to honor that. That's not what the Bible says. Paul is very clear here. Abraham gave glory to God, and that's why his faith was counted in his righteousness. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. If Abraham was saved by faith, who are we to think we're saved in any other way? We must have the humility to say that we are not greater than Abraham. If he could do nothing to earn his salvation, then clearly we can do nothing to earn our salvation. And it rests entirely with God. And supplied to us through faith. It will be counted to us who believe in him, who raised from the dead our Lord Jesus, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our trespasses. Justification. Those last two sentences are worthy of a sermon unto themselves, and that's what we're going to do next week. So if you think I'm looking past those important sentences, no. We're going to take them up next week in more detail. Let's pray and ask God to help understanding His Word. Spirit of God, we need your illumination of the text. We need your working in our hearts to humble us. We need you working in our minds that we will accept the absolute logic that Paul applies here. For this is a profoundly simple truth that we struggle. To believe. In our pride, we want our salvation to at least have a little bit of our help in it. But the message here this morning is that your salvation to us is by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ Allah. Help us to lead that, help us to preach that, help us to teach that, help us to share that with everyone else, help us to live in the great confidence of that. We pray this by His name. Amen. Abraham's faith was counted to him as righteousness. His faith alone, back in chapter 3, Paul said, apart from works of the law. Faith alone, sola the day. And if we're going to talk about this, if we're going to say that our salvation comes through faith alone, then we've got to have some understanding of what faith is. What does it look like? How is it defined, biblically speaking? We can't develop this idea of justification through faith alone if we don't clearly understand. Faith. Now besides the book of Romans, there are several other places where faith is taken up in some detail. Galatians, uh Hebrews both jump into mine pretty quickly. There are some other places. James certainly wrestles with what is faith. In Hebrews, so far as I was able to find, in Hebrews we have the only thing that I think that comes close to a definition of faith. Of a biblical author trying to put down exactly what faith means. In Hebrews 11:1, we have the famous sentence. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things unseen. Again, so far as I know, that's the only place where the Bible defines faith. You know, our author of Hebrews, though he defines faith, recognizes that sometimes definitions don't get us very far down the road. We can stick a definition up here, memorize it for the biology quiz, freshman year, high school, and then never actually remember what the word youth means. It's when we begin to incorporate the idea into our heads that it has value. And so what does the author of Hebrews do the moment he's defined faith in Hebrews 11. 1? Is the rest of the chapter an explanation of the definition? It's not It's an illustration of faith. It's the famous hall of faith. He then begins to go through a list of famous people of faith and to put them before us as illustration and examples of faith. Faith is the assurance of things hopeful, the conviction of things unseen. Now let me show you a bunch of people who lived according to faith. That really is the approach of the rest of the Bible, so far as I can tell. Nowhere else is there an attempt to define it, but there are lots and lots of descriptions of it, illustrations of it, pictures of it. And I want to just go through those this morning to help you maybe see yourself in one of them. To go, oh, that's kind of how I think about Jesus. In all my doubts, I'd never really stopped to think about that actually is an expression of faith. This is not a list of things you need to check off, so much as I hope it's an encouragement to you. That as I talk about these, as we flesh some of these out from the scriptures, you're going to go, oh. That's how I approach it. I just never realized that was an okay example of faith. And that you will come away with some assurance of your standing with Christ. So one of the most common ways that we see the Bible illustrate faith is that when it's right here in front of us in Romans chapter 4, it's this idea that faith is taking God at his word. Abraham took God at his word. God said, Get up and go to a land that I will show you. He got up and he went, believing that God would actually show him a land. And he knew everything perfectly along the way, and we already said, no, he did not. But nevertheless, we see him take God at his word. And later in our new in our Old Testament reading, when God comes back around to him, last week we read Genesis 15 The promise of the reiteration of the promise of offspring. Today we read Genesis 17. Now you guys may not be math majors, but you can figure out what comes between those two. Genesis 16 is the story of Hagar and Ishmael, and how Abraham and Sarah take the slave girl and have a child by the slave girl. and to be a surrogate for um Sarah's child, but of course Sarah and Hagar despise one another, and the child never really becomes Sarah's, and now we have tension in the household of Abraham and Sarah. And then in chapter 17, our Old Testament reading this morning, God comes back to Abraham and says, no! Sarah is going to give birth. Sarah is going to bear you a child. It's through Sarah's offspring that I'm going to count your offspring. And Abraham and Sarah, the text tells us they're not idiots. They understood basic human biology. How does the text put it? The way of women. A nice, nice euphemism, but I'm going to stick with it. Those who experience the way of women can bear children. Those who do not cannot. And Sarah could not, so she would not bear a child. She was too old. She had passed that point of life and could not bear a child. Abraham points that out, Sarah points that out to herself. God says, doesn't matter, just believe me. And of course what happens? Sarah gets pregnant, has a child. Are we to think of that child like the Christmas child, like the baby born of the Virgin Mary? Are we to imagine that this child born of Sarah? Was conceived by the Holy Spirit in some miraculous way in her womb? Yes and no, it was miraculous. It was not conceived by the Holy Spirit in the way of the child at Christmas In fact, all the rest of the Bible just assumes that Abraham is the child's father, it's Isaac's father. And one of the things we can easily lose in that is the implication. That Abraham and Sarah looked at each other and scratched their heads and said, okay, let's give this a try. We're going to take God at His Word. And they resumed marital relations, assuming that God would follow through. And he did. And they had a baby. As sin-filled and sin-full as Abraham's walk with God was, at almost every step he was motivated by the assumption that God's word was true. It was a walk of faith. Maybe that's how more walk of faith is. Maybe it's akin to Abraham's. You get a lot of stuff wrong. You do things the wrong way along the way. You lack a wisdom. But in the end, it's motivated by a confidence that God's word is true. Sometimes the picture of faith It's not so much taking God at His Word, but it's pictured as coming to Christ. Jesus Himself said in Matthew 11, come to me, and I will give you rest. Do you see your daily life as one with you moving toward Jesus? Going to him. Taking your cares to him, taking your doubts to him, taking your sins to him, walking toward him, and then standing there with him. Is that how you picture your relationship? Well the Bible says that's faith. That's a way to think about faith. Going to Jesus. Maybe in the midst of your sin, maybe in weakness, maybe in hope, but going to Jesus. Come to me, Jesus says. That's an act of faith. Sometimes the New Testament pictures faith as receiving Christ. In Colossians 2, Paul speaks of the believer as having received Christ, they let him in. They were hospitable to Jesus, not adversarial. It's not wrong, you know, if somebody knocks on your door, it's not wrong to ask for some ID before you let them in the house. But if you leave them on the porch forevermore, asking forevermore confirmation, forevermore proof, forevermore, if you're doing that to Jesus, you haven't let him in If you're saying, okay, Jesus, I'm on the verge of believing you, but you've got to prove it one more time to me, you haven't let him in. You haven't said, hey, come be part of my life. Receiving Jesus is a picture of faith. And in fact, the Apostle John sets that in direct parallel to faith. How does John say it in the opening of his gospel? He, Jesus, came to his own, and his own people did not receive him, but to all who did receive him. And then there's that parenthetical, who believed in his name. He gave the right to become children of God. John sets uh Paul to the to the Colossians sets faith as receiving Christ. John does the same. If you receive grace, if you let them into your life, then this is what faith looks like for you. Maybe you have a hard time with that definition in Hebrew But you're saying to yourself, boy, every time when I hear Jesus preach, when I hear him speak through his word, when I hear a song, the gives I want it, I let it in, I make it a part of who I am This is a walk of faith. Faith can be imagined as putting on Jesus, a wearing him You know, the Galatians, Paul wrote, as many as have been baptized in Christ Jesus have put on Christ. Or think of the prodigal son when he comes home. What does his father do? Puts a robe on him. Do you wear Jesus? Is he kind of there outside of your life? Do other people around you know that you're a Christian? Is there something very notable about you and noticeable about you? Do you put on Jesus? Do you wear him? And do people notice it? When we got married, Becky put on the name Shaw. Much to her dismay sometimes, it's the way she's known. It's there. It shows that she has joy to become a part of. The people around you know it. If you're wearing Jesus, that phrase we have of wearing it on your sleeve, if you're wearing Jesus, the people say that's what they see about you when they approach you. You're living a life of faith. Sometimes faith is portrayed as robbing a hole of Christ, of clinging to him. You remember the story about Anaiah? Running to the Solomon was going to kill him, and then Abnaiah runs into the temple and he grabs hold of hold of the horns of the altar and he holds on for dear life to find his salvation there That's a picture that's used in other parts of the scripture. When we cling to Christ, we understand that in the final analysis it's Christ clinging to us. But in the moment it's not always what it feels like, is it? And so if you find yourself just clinging to Christ, sometimes out of desperation. We wish it was out of hope, we wish it was out of love, we wish it was motivated by something positive. But sometimes it's just desperation. I've got nothing else to hold on to. And so I hold on to Christ. That's a life of faith. That's a biblical picture of what faith can look like. Isaiah and Hebrews both speak of looking to Christ as a metaphor for faith. Jesus himself spoke this way. Our New Testament reading was the familiar passage of John 3. 16. But if we back up to John the two verses above that, verses 14 and 15, we read this. And as Jesus is speaking, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Remember what happened there? Remember that account in numbers? Snakes got into the camp and snakes bit a bunch of people. People were dying of the poison from the snakes. And Abraham. Abraham. Abraham's the guy with the ark, right? Moses in the camp of the Israelites made a bronze serpent and wrapped it around a pole and stuck it up in the middle of the camp And those who continued to pursue doctors, those who tried the home remedy of biting the wound and sucking out the venom, they died. But those who looked as the serpent lived. And that's the metaphor Jesus points to here. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, verse 15, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. We see an exact parallel there. That if you're looking to Jesus, what are you doing in your day-in-to-day-out life? Are you looking to your own works? Are you hoping that was good enough to finally get you by? Or you're looking at your daily life going, I've got nothing to offer God. And then you turn it to Jesus and look into him. That he is the one that will save you. That's what faith can look like. You see, the Bible is full of these illustrations of what a life of faith looks like. And we need to find ourselves in one of those. We need to find ourselves somewhere in that. And grow it in ourselves, develop it in ourselves. Seek the Bible, the Bible's help in enriching that, and giving us more confidence in that Don't wonder if your faith is falling short because it doesn't look like the person next to you. The Bible says there's a lot of different ways. That life of faith might play out. Faith is defined as the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things unseen. It is illustrative. as taking God at His Word, as coming to Christ, as receiving Christ. Faith can be pictured as putting on Jesus, wearing him as it were Faith is grabbing hold of Jesus and clinging to him. And faith can be looking to Jesus. Each of these is a picture of faith. And perhaps you see your life in one or more of them. We should probably not leave this discussion of faith just yet. Well, we've looked at some of the, we've surveyed some of the illustrations in the Bible of what faith might look like, and there are a few others. I didn't cover them all. We do have to ask ourselves one more thing before we move on. One more thing that's got to be set clear in our minds before we continue in the book of Romans. Is faith then a good work? Is our faith something we do that merits salvation? Now, if we've read carefully in Romans, we have to conclude it's not For if it was, then there would be boasting. There'd be room for us to say, I have faith, she doesn't, I'm better than her. But Paul has been very clear, there's no room for boasting. So how do we think about faith as a necessary thing, an essential part of our salvation, but it doesn't credit me in any way? It's not meritorious. It's not one of my good deeds. Each semester when I teach my chemistry class, I'd like to tell my students, and if they ask a question, if they ask me If I've said if I explained something to them and they didn't understand it, then I will do everything in my power to answer the question in a different way. No point saying the same thing if they didn't understand it the first time if repeating it not a hell. But of course, no sooner do I say that what happens? A couple weeks later, somebody asks a question and I go, huh, I don't know another way to say that. I don't know how to say it any other way. I'm stuck This is that topic. I'm only aware of a couple of illustrations that work well for helping you understand how faith is necessary but not meritorious. I even did a Google AI search and I got back exactly the two illustrations I'd used before. And so I repeat one now this morning. With my apologies to those who have heard it before, but recognize that some of you have not, were not here when this got used. And you know what? Maybe hearing it again will help us. So, how do we think about faith being essential but not meritorious? Well there is the illustration of the impoverished farmer who owes more than he could possibly pay. He's got more than two million dollars of mortgage on his land. He's got another half million dollars he owes on his various equipment His living expenses this past year rose just like everyone else's. There's fuel, there's insurance, there's maintenance, there's upkeep, there are all the issues. He probably needs to sell his crop for something north of $200,000 just to break even on this year But as you know full well, it's been extremely dry here on the eastern shore. And he's looking at about half the yield per acre of what he got last year. Financial ruin is all but certain. And to compound things, there's the shame involved, right? His great-grandfather handed this down to his grandfather who handed it down to his father who handed it down to him, and now he's going to be the one that loses the family farm. Suicide is not out of the question for this desperate farmer. And one day he goes to the mailbox, and there gets a letter there from a known philanthropist. And the letter says that if he just walks down and takes the letter and goes down to a local law firm in town, shows them the letter, they will give him a check from an escrow fund for $5 million. The pay all this debts and have money left over. What is that of money left over? Of course, this former had a good mom, and his mama taught him that if it seems too good to be true, it probably is. So he doesn't go to the law firm. It's got to be some kind of a gimmick. It's got to be a farce. It's got to be a joke. It's got to be a scam. They're going to ask for my bank account information. And the little bit I have left is going to be God also. And he throws the letter at the desk and he goes about his business. But the weeks go by and he becomes more desperate and he pulls the letter back out and he says, Maybe I should just give it a trial. But he knows what's going to happen. I'm going to walk into that law firm and they're just going to lock me right out of there. You've got to be joking. Nobody just hands out five million dollars randomly informers. And so he puts the letter back on the desk and ignores it. A couple more days go by and things are getting bleak, things are getting desperate. He has no hope. And he takes the letter and he gets in his old car and he heads into town. And he pulls over to the side of the road and rereads line and he's like, this is stupid. And he turns around and hits back home. But he's like, I got nothing back. I gotta do these trial. What's the worst? Maybe they laugh at me. So he goes into the law firm and he shows them the letter and they say, oh yeah, we're glad you came in. We've been waiting for you. They said, well, what? Let's get that checked for you. Here it is. And he looks at the check and it looks real and it's drawn on a bank there in town. It's actually his bank. And he's like, wow. So he gets in his car with the letter and the check. And he heads to the bank and he's like, this is crazy. The bank is just going to laugh at me. The check has got to be a forgery. Something is going on. This can't possibly be true. Which of course is what most of us say about salvation by faith. It's too good to be true. I've got to add something to it. But when he gets to the bank, the check clears, and he looks at the app on his phone, and sure enough, his account's got five million dollars in it And he goes home. He's just sitting there at home going, what just happened? And his wife is looking at him and she's like, Honey, what's the one? He's like, I don't even know where to start you. Well we got five million dollars in the account. And of course she asks all the questions and can't believe it, goes through all of her different ownings like the two, and they verify and they ask And he pays off the land, and he pays off the tractors and the harvesters, and he's got money left over. He can retire and set his sum up with a wonderful head start on. the future of the farm. What saved that farm and that that farmer Was it his fate? No, it really wasn't, was it? It wasn't the five million dollars from the philanthropist, correct? That's what saved the farmer He wasn't saved by his faith. And in fact, his faith wasn't all that strong. But when Bush comes to show He walked toward what was offered. He took the philanthropist at his word. He turned away from what he was trying. and look to the philanthropist. Pick whatever metaphor or faith you want to from the sermon and you can apply it to our farmer All the glory goes to the philanthropist. All the money was the philanthropist. The idea was the philanthropist's idea. He set up the law firm. He set up the banking. He set up the escrow account. The philanthropist did it all. And yet it would not have saved the farmer apart from his faith. That is how faith can be both essential for salvation And not meritorious in any way. It is not our good work. God does not save us. The philanthropist did not wait to see if the former had faith and then rewarded him for it. Christ has died and risen again. The price has been paid for the sins of those who will believe. Price is not waiting to see if you will believe that and then it'll go die on your bath. Faith is essential. It is the way, it is the instrument, it is the conduit by which grace comes to us. But it is not meritorious. We get no glory for it. There is no boasting in it. We cannot be proud of our faith. Why is it that tall people will boast about being tall, like they had anything to do with it? Like they made themselves tall. But tall people on a on an NBA basketball team don't have the most about it, do they? Because everybody there is tall. And they all know they got there the same way. By birth, by genetics, not anything to do with themselves. That's Paul's illustration to the church. Y'all got here the same way. A great gift was offered. You received it. You looked to it. You clung to it. You took it at its word. And you are saved. You know it's interesting. In all of those illustrations of faith, there is one that we omitted. Actually several that we omitted. There is one important than one that we omitted. One additional biblical picture of faith is that of eating and drinking Of seeing the Lord Jesus as a necessity for spiritual life in the way that we see food and water as a necessity for physical life. For do we not find Jesus himself saying that about himself? Does he not say, I am the bread of life? Whoever eats of me will never be hungry. Does he not say, I am the living water, whoever drinks of me will never thirst? Jesus portrayed faith like eating. Perhaps that's how you think of your faith in Christ Jesus. As the essential nutrient, the thing you can't live without, the thing you gotta have to keep you alive spiritually. That's a valid biblical picture of faith. And it's why Jesus gave us this table. It's why we call it the Lord's Supper. Because here we take literally and physically elements But it's a means of grace. And how does grace come to us? Through faith. So that this things here Build our faith. Remind us of who Jesus is and what he's done and how it comes to us. Remind us that he is the spiritual nutrients on which we survive. That he is the substance and the flavor, the sustainer, and the deliverer. Of all that is ours by faith. And so we partake of Christ really here. Not of his literal body, but spiritually we partake of him. He's really here by his spirit. He is really among us today, offering these things to us, so that we will grow in faith like a Abraham, so that we will glorify God like Abraham, so that we will take it down his word, look to him, cling to him, pick your metaphor. We will feed on him.