We continue in Romans chapter 8 again this week. Romans 8, we'll pick up in verse 31 in just a moment, and we'll be reading through the end of the chapter as we close out. Romans 8 this week. Romans 8, beginning in verse 31 in just a moment. Most pilots I've ever known fly out of a love for flying. It is out of their heart that they do what they do, that sense of soaring, of freedom, of rising above the earth, and of freeing oneself from it. Pilots soar because it's what's in their heart. Not so with me. I fly out of a cold logic. I fly because the Bernoulli principle makes sense to me I fly because the statistics on flight are overwhelming. I fly sometimes because it's simply the fastest, cheapest way to get from point A to point B. I fly for reasons of the mind and not of the heart. It's a wonderful thing when those two merge. When both of those come together, when your heart and your mind are in the same place with the same goal, my heart would always rather be on the ground than in the air. Wouldn't it be more much more fun for me? Wouldn't it be a much more wonderful thing if my heart could join my mind? Paul this morning, as he concludes Romans 8 is going to try to bring that to a reality for us as Christians. He is going to apply some splendid logic, some irrefutable conclusions. but not with the goal of getting us on board the Christian plane out of just cold-hard logic, but rather out of a desire to inspire our hearts. That we would understand our faith with a warmth and a depth that is rooted not merely in feelings, but in rigorous logic But which does not end with the logic, yet continues on to our emotions. He wants the whole of our person to be pulled in by the truth that he is presenting here. Romans 8 is regarded by many, many who have read the Bible, who have studied the Bible, who have considered the Bible, would regard Romans 8 as the high water mark. Of the Bible. It is the zenith, the apex, the Acropolis of the good news of Jesus Christ. Particularly as it closes out here. It puts on display the very best of the Christian faith with a clarity that is just profound. And it's here we find that logic, which is both irrefutable in our minds and also moves our hearts. This is a most splendid logic, indeed. Let's pray and ask help understanding it. Lord, it is easy for us to be dismissive of logic and want only to feel things. And it is easy for us to want to grasp the logic and be dismissive of feelings. And yet Paul weds the two here. He brings together. a series of arguments that lead to unavoidable, inevitable, necessary conclusions, but out of those conclusions. His thoughts soar, his emotions fly, his joy overwhelms. We ask for that grace to us today. Let me be both the voice of reason and the impetus within us to rejoice in those reasons. We ask, Lord, a great deal of you, for on our own we cannot achieve these heights Help us. Take us to where we need to go. Raise us up that we might see the view from this high point. Of your word. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen We will, as we have and sometimes in the past, be considering the logic of this passage with each statement as we go through. So we will be reading and then thinking and talking and considering and then reading some more and work our way through the text in that manner. So we begin here in verse 31. What then shall we say to these things? This is the fourth time that Paul has used that phrase in the book of Romans. What then shall we say? He asked back in chapter 4, verse 1, what shall we say then was gained by our father Abraham? And from that he launched into his famous uh uh uh teaching on salvation by faith alone. What shall we say then became the pivoting point of his argument He said in chapter 6, verse 1, what shall we say then? Shall we go on sinning that grace may increase? And he went on to explain, no, absolutely not. We must be sanctified. run away and flee from sin, the question became another turning point in his argument. In chapter 7, what shall we say then is the law of sin? And he says, of course it's not. And it becomes again a turning point in his argument. And it is for us today the same thing. Paul has laid down some logic. And he says, what then shall we say in response to this? And in each of the previous examples The things he's looking at, the basis for where he goes next, is in the immediate preceding verses. And I think that's true here. Many preachers will say that he is looking at all of Romans. I'm not convinced he is. I think he's looking back at just the golden chain that we saw last week. What shall we say about that About that golden chain. What shall we say if God for loved us and predestined us and called us and justified us and glorifies us? What are the implications of that? And he answers that with the rhetorical question, if God is for us, who can be against us? First of all, just stop and bask in the implication of that question. God is for you. For you. Now, some might want to reject our interpretation of the golden chain that we saw last week, but what comfort are we to take in that? Are we really to imagine that God is just passively waiting for us to choose Him? I suppose a husband might take a modicum of pleasure in knowing that his wife, if he initiates, well, she'll receive him. But does he not find so much more joy and satisfaction when his wife takes the initiative? Is her love not more profoundly expressed in her movement toward him and whatever that might be when she is for him? God did not wait for you to come to him, Paul has argued. He loved you first. What did he say back in chapter 5? While we were yet sinners. He predestined your life. He called you. He justified you. He is glorifying you. God is for you actively. If you would explain away the golden chain to give yourself, I don't know, a little philosophical wiggle room so you have some choice, I don't know why, you are undermining the very idea that God is for you. And you paint a picture of a God who, well, maybe you'll come to me, maybe you won't, I hope you do. But I'm not going to do anything about it. No, the picture we have in Romans is that God is for you. And it's not the idea of spectatorship in sports. I am for the Baltimore Ravens. But my being for them is meaningless. And it certainly doesn't compare to the way that Lamar Jackson is for them, for he is actually on the field making the plays that helped them win. That's the picture here. God is not cheering for you from the sidelines. No, what Paul is going to lay before us now is the active way that God is actually working on your behalf He's not merely rooting for you. He's not for you in that sense. He is active on the field. He is for you in concrete ways. Paul is a master of rhetoric, and he rises to new heights here in chapter 8. And his rhetorical brilliance continues in the next statement. Obviously, a billion people and countless demons and Satan himself could all be said to be arrayed against us. And yet he asks the question, who can be against us? And his point is a simple one. It doesn't matter who's against you. All of humanity can be arrayed against you. All of the powers of hell can be arrayed against you. Satan himself can be arrayed against you. So what? God is for you. How does any of that matter if God is for you? If God is for us, who cares who's against us? Is there a family member who is against you because of your testimony? God is for you. He's your business partner against you because of your integrity. God is for you. Whoever or whatever would seem to be in opposition to you is nothing. God is for you. Now, somebody I'd ask, how can I know that, Pastor? How can I be sure of that? Everything around me seems to scream that God is against me. My bills are stacking up. My sins are as well. My relationships are falling apart, and so is my car. There is little, Pastor, in my life which points to the idea that God is for me. It's amazing how petty I can become and how quickly so. Becky made a meal I didn't like. She didn't love me. Never mind the fact that she stayed with me when I lost my job, and there was all of that scary uncertainty. Becky didn't snuggle me on a cold nut winter's night. She doesn't love me. Never mind the fact that she moved with me halfway across the country, the only one in her family to leave her childhood church and the To be with me. I look at the little petty things in the moment and lose sight of the bigger picture, of the things of substance that really matter. Where is the proof of God's love for you? Are you looking at your bills? Are you looking at the moments? Are you looking at your job and your relationship and your family and your house and your situation? Look at verse 32. Instead. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? You see, Paul is arguing here that if the golden chain is not persuasive, then perhaps the cross will be. If the logic of God's election and predestination and calling are, I don't know, too esoteric, too abstract The blood of Christ is not. It is real and it is concrete and it moves the heart. It is one thing to be told that the following things show God to be for you. It's another thing to see it in a concrete way. This is why I said that Paul is after both our mind and our heart. He has both the logic and the feeling here. Every time I am inclined to think God hates me Need to run to the cross. He did not spare his own son. He is for you. If you remember some years back that TV show, I think it was called Fear Factor. It did all these weird stunts and goofy things, uh a combination of these terrifying stunts, but there was always mixed in there something they had to eat. Something gross, something freaky, something weird. Whenever I watched that show, once they got past the eating, I was like, this contestant will do anything at this point. Right? I mean what is it to jump across a gorge when you've got a safety harness on after you've eaten live spiders? Yeah. Once you cross that threshold, it's clear you'll do anything That's Paul's point. Look at what God has done. He's crossed the threshold of sacrificing his own son. What can you come up with that he wouldn't do from this point forward? He's clearly going to bring it home. He's clearly going to bring it to completion. How could he not? It's just illogical to imagine that he killed Jesus. But then we'll let that be meaningless. And just, uh, forget it. I'm not interested in saving these people anymore. It's just not going to happen that way. If God has given his son, he will most certainly also graciously give us all that goes with that. The glory, the wealth, the friendship, the warmth of the relationship, all of it will be ours. Nor should we imagine that somehow we're going to be disqualified from it. I suspect that many of us live in fear. Of what might be exposed about us. Oh, sure, Pastor, you can say that God will bring that to fulfillment for them, for Paul. But you don't really know what I've done. We are like that politician. who seems to have this great career going along, and then all of a sudden somebody turns up that video of the incredibly stupid thing he did in college And his whole career is ruined for one moment's lap of lapse in judgment. We live in that fear. Sure, Pastor, you can say God is for me because you don't really know me You don't understand what I'm looking forward to on the Day of Judgment. You don't realize how sick it's going to be when all of my inward thoughts are put out there for everybody to see. When I am called to account for all the ugliness in me, it's going to come to an end. There is no way God is going to stand up for me on that day. There is no way when it's publicly known how sick I am inside that he is going to call me his and be for me. So you can go ahead and say that, but I don't think it's going to play out that way. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. God is the judge. He's the one that has the authority and the right to condemn. And Paul is saying, he's anticipating the fear that lives inside of the Roman church and lives inside of us. He says, I know you are more sinful than you let on. I know that you're wrestling with doubt and fear of the judgment day. But don't forget this. God is the judge. And he's justified you. Who's left to condemn you? Where is condemnation going to come from? It's not even imaginable at this point. And this is why we need both sides of it, because our heart, the feelings, get caught up in the reality of our sin, and we need our minds sometimes to put us on that plane. So look at the logic and go, that's right. That's a good point. I don't always remember that. I don't always live in light of that, but it's true nevertheless. Who shall bring any charge against you? It's God who justifies And in English, some of the beauty of this is lost, for our words don't ring the way they do in the Greek. For in the Greek, these this sentence Harkens back precisely, almost almost word for word, back to verse 30. Remember back in verse 30, those whom he calls, he also justifies Well, here, that Greek word for call and the Greek word for charge, they're the same Greek word, just a slight difference in the ending. They're the same root word. Think of it this way. This charging here, think of it as being called a name. You're called a thief. You're called a murderer. You're called a liar. You're being charged with those offenses. You're c All these things And Paul is saying, you've already been called by God. You've been called his child. What you are called on the judgment day by any who would dare to accuse you is irrelevant compared to the calling of God on your life. Same word in the Greek, same idea being overlapped in these two verses. Back up in verse 30 and here in verse 33. And he follows it up with the inevitability of the next question. Who is to condemn? And I think I already touched on this one. And the obvious answer is nobody. There's just nobody left to condemn you. God has justified you. There's nobody out there. Remember the great scene in Zechariah chapter 3, where the representative of God's people, Joshua the high priest, is wearing filthy robes in the presence of the angel of the Lord. Now the angel of the Lord is the pre-incarnate Christ. This is God the Son. He would the one who would become known as Jesus is appearing, and Joshua the high priest is appearing in front of him, God the Son, with what is euphemistically called filthy robes in English. That word filth is dung. Feces. It's about as disgusting as you can imagine. And Satan, who is in the text called the accuser, is pointing at the representative of the people and going, This is what your people are, filth-covered. What does God the Son say to him? Is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Yeah, they were destined to be burned up, and I pulled them out. I saved them. And that's it. Satan is shut down. When God makes a decision, it doesn't matter what the earthly reality is. Because he's then going to fix it. And the rest of that picture is the angel of the Lord gives new robes to Joshua. Giving him the cleanliness that he needs, so that the accusation falls by the wayside. Who is to condemn? Nobody Not even Satan is going to be able to stand in God's presence and lay a charge against you. So if you are living in fear, That there is something that is going to disqualify you on that day. Stop. Stop. Let it go It's already been paid for, it's already been dealt with, it's already been addressed, and there is nobody left to put a finger at you and charge you with guilt And it's not as though God is an unjust judge. It's not as though he's just sweeping things under the rug. Look at how Paul continues in verse 34. Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, in other words, he didn't just merely die. He was raised And he wasn't just raised in the manner of Lazarus to die again. No, he was raised, and what does he say? Sits at the right hand of God. And Jesus is not sitting at the right hand of God for his own sake. He's not there for the view, or for the food, or even for the company, as great as all of that would be. What is he doing there, Paul says? Interceding for us. It's kind of astounding to me how many people think well of Jesus, but think poorly of the one who sent him. They like the son, they don't like the father so much. And in some way, Paul almost seems to be accommodating that here, briefly. He has no in the look-big picture, he's got no room for that. But briefly for a moment he says, fine, fine. You don't like God the Father? Fine. You don't trust God the Father? Fine. You think he's judgmental? Fine. You think he's uh uh gonna come down harsh and he likes to throw lightning bolts and just go out out to get people for no reason. Fine. You want to think that way about the father? Look at the son. Look what he's doing. He didn't just go to heaven to kick up his feet and do nothing on your behalf. He's there interceding for you. Jesus is standing by the Father's side, pleading your case. This is legal language. This is attorney language. This is the best defense attorney in all the universe. Making your case on your behalf before the judge, who by the way is his father It's almost like Paul is begging us to dislike God the Father, to think little of him. It's almost like he's baiting us into it. You think he's not trustworthy? He's gonna zap you at some point? You think he's uh uh uh given to cronyism? Well then you must think that he is going to listen to his son, don't you? Such a person would certainly play nepotism, wouldn't he? Of course, Paul doesn't really have that view of God the Father. But it it it's almost like he's kind of inviting us. You think that way? Yes, still can't get out of this logic Because the Son is there fighting for you. And he's already said back in verse 26 that the Spirit is praying for you. And so we really have this picture of the entire triune God working in a unison with one another to bring you home. To get you safely to the other shore. To be sure that all the benefits that belong to Christ are given to you as well. And he goes on. Verse 35. Now, if all of that is true, then who shall separate us from the love of Christ? What would separate you from a loved one, a spouse or a sibling or a parent or a child? There's the whipping debris of the storm that somehow manages to leave Dad and the two little girls alone and yet kills mom. And separates that family from one another's love. There is the famine that steals one child when the other has just enough strength to hold on, and it separates that family from the love of one another. There's the disease that strikes the the young husband and wife in the young household, the newly married couple, and takes him and leaves her a young widow All of these things separate us from loved ones. And of course, in the final analysis, in the end of it, no one escapes old age. And even those who have been together for decade upon decade upon decade will be separated from one another. But Paul says, will any of those things separate you from the love of God? Given all that I've told you about how God is for you and what he did in his son Christ, can you really imagine that anything is going to separate you from the love of God? This is all the more powerful because of the way he asks it rhetorically. We're forced to come up to the conclusion he wants us to And now he begins to actually lay some things out. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? Unlike most of us, Paul had actually experienced six out of those seven by the time he wrote Romans. The seventh, the sword, was in his future. And he'd already had some close calls with that Paul is not writing in the abstract. He is not talking about things that could maybe happen. He's talking about things that actually did happen to him, and what happened to many in the church in Rome, and will happen to some of us. Paul understood in an experiential way what it meant to face persecution and danger and to have it drive him apart. If not in heart, at least in body, drive him apart from those whom he loved. Fellow workers in the gospel. He understood what he was writing about. It's interesting. Did you catch the disconnect between the question and the answer? Look back at the question. Who? It's a personal pronoun. Look at the rhetorical answer. Is there a person on the list? Isn't that interesting? He says, Who shall separate you from the love of God? And the seven things he lists are what's. They're not whose. I don't know that I can say for certain why this is, but I have a suspicion. Because we all attribute things that happened to us to somebody. Even the ardent atheist, what do they do? They anthropomorphize the universe. The universe is out to get me today. The astrologer assigns volition to the constellations. The stars had it in for me. We all assign a who to the what in our lives And I think Paul is asking you, who do you see behind these things? Who do you see in control of them? Do you imagine that the demons in hell have free range over all of these things? Do you not also imagine that they are inferior to your God? And do you imagine that God is in control of all these things? Then do you not trust Him? To bring them all to a good conclusion. Behind every one of the what's in our lives, we assign a who. And I think Paul is asking us Who do you see behind all these things? And given what you see or who you see behind these things, what do you conclude about their outcome? It's Paul's implicit challenge to us as Christians. It's his question to us. Do you have tribulation? Well, God brings trials into the lives of those who are His. Do you believe that God is in control of all these things? Then that tribulation is actually for you. Is there distress, is there persecution? If you do not believe that God is in control of these things, then just get out of it and stop worrying about the persecution. Why be persecuted for a faith when you don't even know for sure if your God is in control of it? But if you are genuine in your faith and you do believe God is in control of it, then you know it's for your good There's a reason Paul could say elsewhere that we thank God for the trials in our lives. Because we see the who behind every what. God is for you. And God is behind every want in your life. Paul continues now by going to Scripture, which we learn need to learn to do more often when we're having a tough time, when we're doubting our salvation, when we wonder if God is for us. We need to turn to the Bible as Paul does. He turns to Psalm 44 as it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Now Psalm 44 is a lengthy Psalm. We're not going to dive into all of it It is a psalm in which the psalmist is pleading with God, why did this happen? But what's different and interesting about this psalm, unlike much of the Old Testament, where it was easy, where the prophets could point to God did this to you. God brought the Assyrians to wipe you out because of this sin in your life. Because of this sin in Israel, because of this unfaithfulness in Judah. But in Psalm 44, the psalmist says, no, no, no, no. We didn't deserve to be punished. We were actually keeping the covenant. We were actually living godly lives. We were upright and doing what we were supposed to do. We were practicing the faith we were supposed to practice, and yet we lost to our enemy. How can that be? It's really awesome how Paul uses this verse. For you see, in the mouth of the psalmist, it's a legitimate question. For the Psalmists actually had legitimate grounds to wonder if God had abandoned them. For he lived on that side of the cross. He hadn't yet seen God's love poured out in that profound way. Paul takes it and on this side of the cross turns it into a rhetorical question. Turns it into a rhetorical device to say, dear believer, you might call out like the psalmist calls out. But don't ever let it be for you a real question of doubt. You have the cross. You know that your God has not abandoned you. You know that he is not leading you to your own devices. No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. This is risky right here, what I'm about to do. Verse 37 is a much-loved verse, a much quoted verse, a very familiar verse. When you tamper with people's favorite verses, you can get yourself in some trouble I don't know about you though, I have often wondered what does it mean more than conquerors And most of the time when Paul says things like this, he gives us clues in the context. But this time he really kind of doesn't. And it leaves us to speculate. And boy, there has been an awful lot of speculation over the years on what this means An awful lot of preachers have come up with an awful lot of things that since we are more than conquerors, it means, and the list goes on and on and on. But as we wrestle with these ancient languages more and more, we begin to realize that as new clues of understanding come to light, what we find are some of the newer translations. The recent revision of the National of the New American Standard Bible, the recent revision of the New English translation. They have begun to offer things like this. I lost my place. Oh, there. Um, we are overwhelmingly conquerors. We have a complete victory. One translation put it this way: we have a sweeping victory. It's not that we are more than conquerors as much as it is that it was more than merely a conquest. This wasn't merely a victory. This isn't Hezekiah standing up to Sennacherib in Assyria. Remember that story? You know the the uh the Assyrians Uh the Assyrians, sorry. The Assyrians surround Jerusalem, and it sound it looks like they're going to just take Jerusalem, and then God sends uh uh uh uh something into the camp of the Assyrians and wipes them out, and Sennacherib is forced to retreat, and Hezekiah wins the day. But what he won was the preservation of one city. According to the Bible, not according to the Assyrian records, according to the Bible Fifty-seven fortified cities fell to the Assyrians. And every village along the way. All of Judah is wiped out except for Jerusalem. There's a victory for you. That's not the picture here. We don't just get by by the skin of our teeth. We don't just barely hang on. In the final analysis. Now the picture here is of Abraham chasing down the five kings who took his nephew Lot. You remember what happened? Abraham catches up to them And he routes their armies. He takes all of the booty that they had captured. He takes all of the goods. He wins a an amazing victory. And when he comes back into Canaan, he is regarded as a king and a prince. He's this mighty warrior in the eyes of the people around him. It is a glorious victory. He is honored for it, and he is phenomenally wealthy out of it. That's the picture. That's the victory that's being shown here. This is an overwhelming, utter defeat of our enemies through Jesus Christ. We do not merely survive against those things which would separate us from the love of Christ. We win a decisive and glorious victory We crush all the things that would steal us away from the love of Christ. It does mean, though, it does remind the reader, and I think Paul intends to remind us as readers. That the path to glory and to wealth and to honor and to praise and to a great life is a path through suffering. The victory over these things comes after we've experienced these things. Those seven things that he's listed out there. In order to overcome them, we must face them. Now why does the movie or the TV show, why does all this extreme drama happen before the rescue? Well, because the darker the scene, the more glorious the hero. That really is part of what's happening here. The world is going to send everything against you so that Christ's victory is more glorious So that his win through you and with you is more praiseworthy. So that the proverbial minstrels of eternity will sing songs forevermore About the victory of Christ over your enemies and his. And so he concludes My version says, I am sure. Some of your versions say I am convinced. Perhaps most famously the King James says, I am persuaded. That persuaded is probably a pretty good translation, actually. For there is the sense here of giving in to the evidence of an argument. I have been overcome by the facts. I can no longer doubt this. I am persuaded That neither life, nor death, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Obviously, Paul has not tried to be give an exhaustive list. There's not a comprehensive list. But rather his point has been to try to paint this picture of the extreme things that we might be able to picture. Surely death brings to an end any hope. Of the love of God, right? I mean come on, death is the end of it, right? And Paul says, No. And life, there's all the distractions and all the things that get in our way and that clutter up our mind. Maybe one of those will yank us away from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. And Paul says no. Neither death nor life. Angels, they're the most powerful beings, apart from God Himself. Nope. Rulers, they're the most powerful people on the earth. Nope. What about something to come? What about something we haven't imagined yet? What about an invention in the future? Imagine the ancients seeing a nuclear bomb going off. Surely that puts our relationship to God at risk. And he says, no, not the things to come. Maybe there's a power out there we haven't even thought of. Nope. Heights. There are mountains that we cannot overcome. We cannot cross them. They are simply too high. Paul says no. There are depths we cannot traverse. And Paul says no. There's simply nothing. Nothing you can imagine that's going to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Our Lord. All of these things which seem like barriers to us are nothing to him. Which brings us back around to where this began, back in the golden chain. For if we have to go to God, if we have to get Him, if we have to be for Him, then every single one of these is a barrier. But it is God who is for us. And not any of those are a barrier to him. The height of the gospel The height of the good news which is revealed to us is here in this splendid logic of Romans 8. It is a look at what God has done in Christ Jesus. How he is for you. Because he is for you, you will absolutely be assured of reaping all the benefits that are his. Let's just go back now, without interruption, and soak it in from top to bottom and hear the good news of Jesus Christ What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us, for I am sure that neither death nor nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. Will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Lord, these are amazing truths, just profound logic That has a depth of richness, of emotion, of passion. Suck us into it. Pull us in. to the great truths that have been proclaimed here, that we will be a people who understand and are persuaded by the reasons, but who are also just overcome. By the picture of our Savior dying on the cross in our place. Subdue both our mind and heart to the glorious things we find here. And let them work their wonders in us. We ask for this in Jesus' name. Amen.