I invite you to turn in your copy of God's Word to Psalm 138, the 138th Psalm, as we continue our summer series, considering God's hymn book. The Psalms we are going to be looking this morning at a psalm of thanksgiving. We have been considering various genres of psalms and Some would classify Thanksgiving as a subcategory of hymns, Psalms of Praise, and certainly that's a justifiable position, but we're going to consider uh. . the Psalm of Thanksgiving this morning as its own category. Before we do so, I'm going to uh ask God to uh guide us into an understanding of His Word. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, lead us into a right understanding of this text, and through the text, a right understanding of thanksgiving. That we would be a people who proclaim, who express thanks to you, who pursue an expansion of thanks. to you and who because of our expectation of your faithfulness give thanks even for what is to come in the future Let us hear you. By your grace, because of our Savior, we pray. Amen. Join me now, follow along as I read Psalm 138, a Psalm of David. I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart. Before the gods I sing your praise. I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. For you have exalted above all things your name and your word. On the day I called, you answered me. I'm sorry. On the day I called, you answered me. My strength of soul you increased. All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord. For they have heard the words of your mouth, and they shall sing of the ways of the Lord. For great is the glory of the Lord. For though the Lord is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life. You stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies. And your right hand delivers me. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. As we consider Psalm 138 this morning, I want us to recognize the flow of this passage, and it's outlined for you in the bulletin there, the sermon uh outline. The flow of this passage is that begins with uh an expression of thanks, um, and and specifically, interestingly enough, we'll talk more about this in a moment, an expression of thanks before the gods. Which then causes an expansion of thanks among Earth's kings. And finally, the psalmist concludes with the expectation of thanks within ourselves. The expression of thanks before the gods causes the expansion of thanks among Earth's kings and an expectation of thanks within ourselves. That is the thrust of Psalm 138. Let's consider it and break it down piece by piece. Verses 1 through 3, the expression of thanks. The first thing we see there is that the expression of thanks is wholehearted. The expression of thanks is wholehearted. It is to be done with the fullness of who we are. It is to be done joyfully, willingly, gladly. With every part of our being. Now, I already alluded to the work that was done this past week as Camp Ezra was here. But if you can imagine when you put 30 people in close proximity to one another for a week, and you wake them up early every day and you tell them to go out and work in the hot sun, not every job was done wholeheartedly. Many of them were. There were many times the kids were eager and they jumped on whatever project, but there were a few projects that were done with less than the whole heart. A little begrudgingly, a little forced, a little manipulated, and perhaps not brought to completion. That's not an acceptable way to thank God. It's not appropriate, the psalmist says, to come to God begrudgingly. For it doesn't matter at that point what words come out of your mouth if your spirit is one of uh dis- uh Disheartedness, you don't have a desire to be here. If your spirit would rather be doing something else, then no matter what words you say, you really aren't thankful. And you really aren't expressing thanks. One of the many, many things that I'm not good at is acting. As a general rule, that's an okay thing. But there were a few father's days where it would have been good if I had been able to be a better actor. For my expression of thanks for the tie was less than genuine. And it shows through. Oh, nice tie, kids. Thanks That's how we act toward our Heavenly Father, ungrateful for what He's given us, not understanding that He's given it to us out of His generosity and for our own good. We must express thanks wholeheartedly. The expression of thanks is to be done before or in front of the gods. Before or in front of the the gods. Now I'm not gonna I'm gonna bring that one up in just a second because we're gonna go on this the second half of verse one. Let's look at the first half of verse two The expression of thanks is to be directed to God. Now notice how verse 2 says, I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name. I think the second half of one makes more sense if we take it in conjunction with the first half of two. So that the expression of thanks is to be done before or in front of the gods. But it's to be directed to God, to his temple and to his name. What's going on there? Well, we realize that thanksgiving is one of those verbs that requires an object You can't just be thankful. You have to be thankful to someone. Thanks doesn't exist apart from a recipient of those thanks. Now we often speak that way, but when we really stop to analyze it, it's ridiculous Thanks apart from an uh for from an object is just silly. It's just crazy And by the way, we all know that in the silence of our own hearts. None of us, you know, walk through, we don't none of us open a door for ourselves and then turn and thank the door for opening It's just, it's crazy. But our world has begun to convince us that you can just be thankful with no object. Doesn't work that way. And so David says that before the gods of this earth, before the idols, before the death, dumb, made-up, non-living gods. We're going to proclaim the thanksgiving to the true God. You say, how does that work out in my life today, Pastor? Well, when all are gathered at work, and are thankful for their job, but not thankful to anyone for it, do you, in the company of the others In the company of the gods of this world, thank the one true God for the job you have When others are hoping in and thankful to their wealth, do you thank the God who provides the wealth? when others articulate a thanks to uh their good luck or their lucky stars. Or fate. Do you thank God? We were Friday, we were with the kids at Acateague, and we watched a short video about the history of Actigue Island. And like twice the film made reference to uh Mother Nature's hand at work. And to be a leaders, I could see the leaders and we were among the kids whispering, God, God, not Mother Nature, God Do you take the opportunity to express among the gods of this world, when Mother Nature is being discussed, are you thanking God? When fate is being talked about, are you thanking God? When lucky stars are mentioned, do you thank the God who created those stars and does not work through their alignment? That's how we thank God before the gods. That's how we thank Yahweh before the gods. And that's how the second half of one and the first half of two go together. We thank him before the gods, and we thank him. We declare him as the object, his temple, his name, as the object of our thanksgiving. Finally, in the second half of two and into three, we see the expression of thanks is offered because God has exalted his name and his word. This is an interesting verse, this uh uh uh second half of verse 2 here, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word. Typically when I'm prepping a sermon, I've got the Hebrew, in the old case of the Old Testament, the Hebrew version there at the top of my computer screen, and I've got six different English translations that I regularly look at. Those six English translations offered five different renderings of this verse. It's a troublesome verse. But not because the Hebrew is not clear, but because in its clarity it throws us. Literally, what the Hebrew says here is this: that God has exalted His name. I'm sorry, his word over his name. God has exalted his word over his name. That's the literal rendering of what is here. God has exalted his word. over his name. And that bothers a lot of us. That throws us. We're like, wait a second, the scriptures constantly talk about the fact that the name of God will be above all things. And now here it says that he exalts his word above his name. One of the things that we have to be reminded of is that the it is by and through the Word of God that we even know His name. It is because of his word that we are aware of him, that we know who the true God is. It is because of his word that we do not worship other gods. It's because of his word that we know the glory of his name. How does David then affirm this in verse 3? Look at the second half of two. For you have exalted your word above your name. And then he says this in verse 3, On the day I called, you answered me, my strength of soul you increased. He gives testimony to the word of God and its reliability. I trusted in you and you delivered. Your word is excellent. Your word is to be exalted. Your word is to be held up. And the psalmist expresses the importance of God's word by saying even God Himself has exalted it to a high, high place. Verses 1 through 3 are concerned with the expression of thanks. Verses 4 through 6 look at the expansion of thanks. Let's take a look at this And again, there's some some challenges here, nothing wrong with the translation of the ESV that I've read, but but it's we can tweak it a hair to make it just a little more clear, I think. So verse 4, all the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord. for they have heard the words of your mouth. That that's certainly proper, but it requires us to shift gears and think about different ways of future tense and all this stuff. I think if we just put the word when in there And a lot of translations do. All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O Lord, when they have heard the words of your mouth. And sure, it is future tense, for they have heard. It's looking into the future and assuming that they have heard. But if we just put the word when there, it becomes much more clear So note here the necessity that God's word be exalted. And this now ties back to the previous challenge. Why has God's word been exalted above his name? Because God's word has to be proclaimed for his name to mean anything. We've got a real problem in our culture today The name of God has been so profaned and so misused and so uh watered down That if we simply proclaim God, apart from the definition found in his word, it's not clear at all who we're proclaiming. I probably shouldn't say this. You don't want to hear this about your pastor, but I got pulled over by the cops the other night. Not only was I going a little too fast for the area, then they asked for my identification, and I didn't have it with me. And I kept trying to say, I'm me. And that wasn't enough for them. You've got to be able to pull that thing out that says with some authority Who you are. This is that identification, that authoritative identification. What God are we talking about? The God described here in the Bible Who do we mean by when we say Jesus? We mean the one described here who came and lived a perfect life, who died a substitutionary atoning death, who rose in power over the grave, and who ascended to the throne in heaven That's the Jesus we're talking about. We must, if we're going to expand Thanksgiving If the kings of this earth are going to praise and thank God, it's going to be according to verse 4 when they have heard the words of God's mouth. You know, we often speak of Jesus as the foundation of the church, but that's not really the role he's given in the scriptures. Flip with me to Ephesians. Turn over to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to look at verse 19. Ephesians 2, starting in verse 19. Ephesians two nineteen, and listen to what is the foundation of the church. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. So there's the church. You, me, the saints, members of the household of God together, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. What is that referring to? That's the Bible. The Old Testament written by prophets, the New Testament written by the Apostles and approved by the Apostles built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. Now is Jesus essential? Absolutely essential. You cannot build the building without him. But the foundation is ascribed to the Bible. And from the Bible, we understand who Jesus is. And when we have a right Christology, then he becomes the cornerstone, which everything else is then aligned to. And then we build a proper building. The psalmist says that the expansion of thanks will happen when the kings of the earth have heard the word of God. You know, he goes on in verse 5 and says this, and they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. The expansion of thanks will happen because the glory of the Lord is great. The expansion of thanks will happen when the word goes forth. The expansion of thanks will happen because of the great glory of the Lord. As scientists begin to realize that what they're studying is the handiwork of God, then they will give thanks. As people begin to recognize because the word has gone forward, the glory of God, they will give thanks. When we truly believe the word of God to be true. How can we help but give thanks for all of the amazing things that it records? The expansion of thanks will happen when The kings of the world have heard the Word of God. The expansion of thanks will happen because of the glory, the great glory of the Lord. And the expansion of thanks occurs when the lowly realize the Almighty cares about them. You see that amazing statement in verse 6? For though the Lord is high, he regards the lowly. You know, in our Camp Ezra this week and our outreach to the softball league and to the community that comes through that league, we did a couple of skits, one of which was based on Nebuchadnezzar in the fiery furnace, one of which was based on on Acts 17, Paul in Athens. And both had a common thread of dealing with the many false gods of this world. If you've ever studied Greek mythology or Norse mythology or any of the other pagan mythologies, you'll recognize that there's not a thread among any of their gods that they care about people. People are just tools to be used for those gods' own pleasures. Our God, though he is high, though he is above all other gods, though he is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, cares for the lowly. That's a message that'll sell if we proclaim it. That's a message that'll be heard and received, and about which people will be excited. The expansion of thanks occurs when the lowly realize the Almighty cares about them. You know, if you take this section of verses 4 through 6 and sum it up, here's the summary of this second portion. The expansion of thanks accompanies the expansion of the gospel. The expansion of thanks accompanies the expansion of the gospel. If we want public officials who will direct their thanks to God and not to Mother Nature. We must share the gospel with them. If we want corporate leaders, the kings of this world, to thank God for their economic blessing, And not their own business acumen, then we must share the gospel with them. If we want celebrities who will glorify God and not themselves, then we must share the gospel with them. And if we simply want to fill the pews of this sanctuary with those who will thank God alongside of us, Then we need to share the gospel with our neighbors and our loved ones and our coworkers. The expansion of thanks, accompanies the expansion of the gospel according to verses 4, 5, and 6. The psalmist closes out in verses 7 and 8 with the expectation of thanks. Now I tied these three together earlier at the beginning by saying it this way. The expression of thanks, verses 1 through 3, before the gods, causes the expansion of thanks among earth's kings. And the expectation of thanks within ourselves. What we have here is a reminder that when we practice thankfulness, it fosters in us faith. So that in the next time of trial, faith comes more naturally and more quickly to us because we've been expressing thanks to God for his previous commitment to us, his previous fulfillment of his word in our lives. So that in verses 7 and 8, that's what we see David doing And all of a sudden, in the middle of a psalm of thanks, we get a little glimpse as to what was going on in David's life when he wrote this. Look at the tense of the verbs. Though I walk, present tense. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life. Now that throws us for a bit. We tend to be people who give thanks when things are going well. We tend to thank God for the things that we count as blessings, not as trials. And now all of a sudden, when we slow down and read this psalm more carefully, we recognize David was not in a time of blessedness. This was not a happy time in his life. This was not a time where things were going well. But rather, we catch a little glimpse here, though I walk in the midst of trouble. You preserve my life. You stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me. But David had an expectation that he was going to be able to give thanks even in this time. I'm in the middle of a trouble. But I know what you've done in the past, and I know what to expect out of you in the future, and so I'm going to go ahead and give thanks for what is to come. And now he turns in verse 8 to that future tense. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. David and his ministry being the work of the Lord's hands. The expectation of thanks flows out of the previous expression of thanks. It flows out of the previous reasons for thanks. It flows out of a life of thanksgiving. So that in the middle of his trouble, this is not a psalm of lament. Many of us think the laments are the place to go, the only place to go when we're having difficulty. This is a psalm of thanksgiving offered up in the midst of a time of trial. Because David had experienced God so many times in the past that he was able to give thanks so many times in the past that he looked forward to a day when other kings would hear that and give thanks because they'll be as amazed as he is. And then he realizes in the midst of this trouble I know you're going to resolve it. He has an expectation that one day he will again give thanks. The expression of thanks before the gods causes the expansion of thanks among earth kings and the expectation of thanks within ourselves. Let's pray. Lord, teach us to give thanks. Even in times of trial, let us be a people who praise you. who thank you before the gods of this earth. Let us turn away from lucky stars and mother nature and fate. And proclaim thanks to you, the living God, the only object worthy of our thanks. And as we do so, let your let the uh let Thanksgiving expand into all who we know. That they will come to know you as we share the gospel, as we tell them about you, as we thank you in front of them. And as they hear your word, let them join us in giving thanks. And let us all be a people who are so rooted in you and your word and your past great deeds. And in the midst of trouble, we look forward to giving you thanks again and expect future thanks to be offered up to you We lift up this prayer in Christ's name, thanking you for him. Amen. We're going to continue now by singing together verses 1 and 2 of Now Thank We All Our God on page 6 of the Bulletin.