I invite you to open your Bibles to the Gospel of Mark, the second book of the New Testament. We'll be looking at Mark chapter 7 today. Mark 7, verses 1 through 23. We continue in our sermon series through the Gospel of Mark. Mark is a call to confess Christ, to confess him. both as the Lord and Savior of mankind and to confess him as Son of God who came to earth to save sinners. And so we hear from Mark this week about how Jesus reveals to us our need for that Savior. I will remind us, as I do each week, that here at the Short Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe that the Bible is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice That if we want to know the truth of the human condition, of who we really are as human beings, and what God really has done for us, we must know His Word. So I invite you now to hear the Word of God from the Gospel of Mark, chapter 7. Now when the Pharisees gathered to him with some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem, They saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands properly, holding to the tradition of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other traditions that they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots, and copper vessels and dining couches. And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands? And he said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men. And he said to them, You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition. For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and whoever reviles father or mother must surely die. But you say, if a man tells his father or his mother, Whatever you would have gained from me is Corbin, that is, given to God, Then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother, thus making the vo making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And many such things you do And he called the people to him again and said to them, Hear me, all of you, and understand. There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him. But the things that come out of a person are what? Defile him. And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable. And he said to them, Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him? Since it enters not into his heart, but into his stomach and is expelled Thus he declared all foods clean. And he said, What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery Coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person. Let's pray. Spirit of God, give us ears to hear this your word, and the humility to accept what it says about us. And the faith to believe that one has come to save us despite who we are. We pray this in His precious name. Amen. In the English language, we affix endings to words to alter their meaning, and one of those that we use is the E-R ending to indicate that someone is a doer of an action. So that if you bake, you are a baker. If you run, you are a runner. If, like our teams yesterday, you clean, you are a cleaner. That ending indicates that you participate in that action. But it's interesting how we handle those words. We are careful how we think about whether or not it applies to us. So that I might go to someone and say, so you're a singer, and they will go, oh, oh, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not a singer. I'll say, yeah, but I saw you singing in church the other day. Well, yeah, okay, sure. I may sing in the shower occasionally, and I'll sing in the congregation, but I I'm not a singer Some will find out that I will jog around the neighborhood occasionally. They'll come to say, oh Scott, you're a runner. Oh no, no, no, no, no. I I'm not a runner. I'm just an old guy trying to stay in shape a little bit here. You know, Caleb, he's the runner. He's the one with the long legs and the the big powerful stride. He's the run. I just run. And we make this distinction between those people who are that thing and those who simply do that thing. And the question before us in the text today is this. Are we those who, oh yeah, occasionally I sin? Sure, in the hypothetical I get the idea that I do things wrong once in a while. Or are we sinners? Is sin a little something that's a part of our lives over here to the side? Yeah, I sing in the shower, but I'm not a singer. Sure, I sin once in a while, but I'm not a sinner. Or is sin who we are? Does he just flow out of our being? Like the person who can't help but sing because they are singers The one who cannot help but run because he simply is a runner? Are we those who simply cannot help but sin because we really are sinners? That's the question that's in the text before us today. That's what Jesus is going to answer for us. The text opens up with the Pharisees confronting Jesus and doing so in a rather public format. Now, Mark, we said before, there is no reason we have to read Mark and assume that everything is chronological. And yet he does arrange this to immediately follow the feeding of the 5,000. And so it seems that the Pharisees pick up this question of eating. Because they've been spurred on to do so by Jesus' most recent public activity. He has publicly fed this crowd And the crowd, he did not admonish the crowd to figure out some way to clean their hands before they ate. And the Pharisees jump on this and recognize, you know, he's really leading these people astray. And I want to stop right there and and recognize I'm sorry, I'm a little hoarse here this morning. Uh I want to recognize that that what spurred Jesus In chapter 6. Do you recall what we heard last week? He got out of the boat and he saw this crowd gathered on the shore. He was headed across the lake in order to get some rest, but he doesn't rest. Why? The text tells us because he had compassion on them. Why? Because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And so he taught them many things. So Jesus has taken compassion on these people and has begun to become for them a new shepherd. And now the shepherds of Israel, the Pharisees, come and confront him for doing so. And so what we have here is a very public, very real showdown. Between those who review regard themselves as the shepherds, the rightful shepherds of Israel, but whom Jesus has now at least inwardly considered as not doing their job. The people have no shepherds, and so therefore he has to teach the people. And so the Pharisees are confronting Jesus publicly on his right, his worthiness to be this teacher. You see, his disciples are calling him rabbi. They're calling him teacher. And the one who teaches is accountable for what is taught and for their students. I was a high school chemistry teacher. And if students were to blow up the chem lab, guess who's going to be held accountable for that? It's going to come back to me. I'm the one who taught them to mix those chemicals or did not properly teach them to not mix those chemicals. What my students do falls on me. And what the Twelve do falls on Jesus. And so the Pharisees say, hey, we are watching what's going on. And sure, maybe a crowd of 5,000, they can be excused for not washing their hands. But we've watched the twelve eat in other circumstances. They're very casual about this. They regularly eat without washing their hands. And so we have this showdown between the Pharisees and Jesus. Now I want us to understand a little bit about this. question of washing that's at play here. And the the word that's there behind in the Greek behind this word washing is a Greek word that'll sound familiar to you. It is baptizo. From which we get our word baptism. Baptize. And I point that out to say this: that it is not merely any old washing. This is not washing for the sake of hygiene. This is not about your mom calling you in on a summer's evening and you've been out playing baseball with your friends and she you come and running into the kit the dining room table and she says, No, no, no, young man, go down and wash your hands. That's not what this is about In fact, if you look up baptizo in the standard Greek lexicon, it will tell you, it will define it as a ceremonial washing. We also see this in the word that's used to speak of the opposite. So they have not washed, they have not done the baptizo, they have not done the ceremonial washing, and therefore they are defiled. Again, that's not they're simply dirty. They simply have a little stuff on their hands. Defilement is to speak of being unfit For worship, unfit to come before God, unfit to be involved in the religious practice. So we've got a question of religious practice in front of us, not a question of hygiene. That's not what they're all about. And by the way, before we go on, and this is certainly not the main point of the sermon, but I do want to point this out. And with all due respect and love for our Baptist brethren, I grew up myself a Baptist. But when the Baptist, when we're told that baptizo has to mean full immersion, I would like to point out the fact that the dining couches are being baptized. I'm having a hard time picturing dining couches being fully immersed. I think we Presbyterians are okay with our sprinkling. I think it's fitting and appropriate, okay? So moving on. So Jesus, we've got a question here about religion, not a question about hygiene. And the g the the the the the the the the Pharisees are pointing to the twelve and are saying they don't practice religion properly They don't practice the ceremonial things properly. They don't do what they've been taught by the tradition of the elders. And if I'm going to pick on the Baptists, I should probably pick on the Presbyterians. That word elder there is presbyteros. It's, you know, Presbyter. It's you know, the leaders. And so here they now the out now the Presbyterians are getting in a little trouble in the text also. They don't follow the traditions that have been handed down by the elders. Jesus turns to them and he says You guys have a fine way of disobeying God. A fine way of disobeying God. It's actually an interesting statement Jesus makes He says, you guys have gotten really good at distracting people from the truth. You've gotten really good at doing the wrong thing and making it sound pretty nice. You have a fine way of dis of of ignoring the law of God And he lifts up for them an example. He says, you are clinging to your tradition. But you ignore the commandments of God. And he quotes for them the fifth commandment. The first of the commandments that talks about loving our neighbors talks about loving our parents, honoring our father and our mother. And Jesus points out how they break the fifth commandment. And not only do they break it, but they encourage everyone else to break it. Now let's explain a little bit. He makes reference to this word Corbin. Corbin is a Hebrew word that's transliterated into the Greek and then transliterated into English. And this Hebrew word speaks of a sacrifice, of something being completely turned over to God, usually an animal sacrifice, usually so that the animal was completely burned up on the altar, all the entirety of the animal. was burned up completely, so that no portion of it was used by the priest, no portion of it was used for the family by the family. All of it was turned over to God on the flames of the altar. And what he illustrates is this. So you have planned in your heart, maybe you have spoken out loud, the vow to give that particular lamb over as Corbin. A sacrifice to God, completely given over to God. But since the time of that vow, and you're actually able to get to the temple and execute the vow, something tragic has happened. Your parents now have need Dad has lost his job or he has grown ill, they're elderly, and they can no longer work. And your parents have need. And you have this sheep, this lamb that you could slaughter and feed mom and dad. But instead of that you say, well, you know, I you know, you tell these people, nope, nope, nope, you promise that, you promise that as an offering as Corbin. You gotta give it. Mom and I go hungry, Mom and I go hungry. You know, after all, you're doing something more important by giving that over as Corbin. The Pharisees say, yeah, it's okay to neglect your parents. So long as the money that should have been supporting them goes to the church. It's okay to sin so long as you make that sin look like something good. And Jesus says, and it's not just this one thing, what does he say in the text? Many such things you do. So they have confronted Jesus and said, you don't follow the traditions of the elders. He fights back and says, you don't follow the law of God. And there is this showdown going on between the two. Each is wrestling for the hearts of the crowd. Now to understand a little bit about why this is such a big deal We've got to back up to chapter 4 of Mark and be reminded that back in chapter 4, when Jesus spoke in parables, the first time that Mark records him speaking in parables, In the midst of chapter 4, we read that the Pharisees left the teaching of Jesus and began to conspire with a group known as the Herodians. And the two begin to conspire together how it is that they would that they would uh destroy Jesus. That's the word that's used in Mark. Destroy Jesus. Whether or not at this point they were actually conspiring to to physically murder him, to kill him, or whether they were simply trying to undermine him publicly and destroy his ministry is not yet clear in the Gospel of Mark. Later we will see they're clearly trying to kill him. But at this point, they're conspiring to destroy him. And it appears that what we've got going on here in this first public showdown between them, up until now, the Pharisees have been grumbling amongst themselves about Jesus. But they haven't taken him on in public. Now they are. And it appears that what's happened is they have seized upon this opportunity. They have said to themselves, aha, here is the moment we were waiting for. Here is the chance to take this guy down. If disciples don't wash their hands. Now we might scoff at that and go, really? That's the big bullet in your gun? That's where you're going to go after Jesus as the disciples don't wash their hands? Of all of the things you're going to do to attack this guy, you've conspired with the Herodians, and this is the best you guys can come up with. But the fact that this is what they come up with reveals something about their hearts. It tells us a little something of how important this was to them. This ceremonial washing was everything to them. It was such a big deal that they absolutely believed that this is where they could get Jesus. He's not adhering to the ceremonial washings. What bigger deal could there be out there? For this is how we know we're right with God. This is how we make ourselves right. We do these things We sprinkle a little water over here on the dining couch. We dip our cups over here and let them air dry a little bit. We follow the health department's code for how much bleach to put in the water. And we know we're clean. We know that we can go before God. We've been made right with Him because of the things we've done. And there it is. There's the crux of the matter. That's why this is such a big deal. Because the one group, the Pharisees, on the one hand, are saying, these are the things we do to make ourselves right with God, and Jesus is saying, no. What goes on in the outside of you is not the issue. God didn't give you ceremonial washings so that you could be made right. He gave you ceremonial washings so that you were being constantly reminded of the washing. Of how filthy you are. So that you would be constantly reminded of how dirty you are. That even though you look clean, you had still better dip those hands because you are not clean. The ceremonial washings were never meant to make us clean. They were meant to remind us of how dirty we are. To be a constant nagging reminder that on our own we cannot come into the presence of God. That's why this is a big deal. Because what is at stake is nothing less than salvation. Nothing less than being ripe with God. The one group saying, this is how we get it done, the other group saying, no, no, no, no, you've misunderstood completely The gospel of works versus the gospel of the good news of the salvation of Jesus Christ. That's what is at stake here Jesus does something interesting. They have taken him on publicly and he decides to take the fight to the people He calls the crowd back. Did you sketch that in verse 14? And he called the people to him again and said to them, the crowds began to disperse. And he says, no, no, no. If we're going to have a dispute about who's the rightful shepherd of these people, then I'm going to take the truth to these people. And he calls them back and he tells them. It's not about what's happening on the outside. It's not about what you eat or how you wash. It's about what's on the inside. Now let's stop and just be very careful here. One of the things that happens when we emphasize grace is we become abusers of grace. We become antinomian. It means against the law. We become those who say, well, we can just do anything we want. And there are some who take great pride in flaunting all of their sin because I'm not resting on my works, I'm resting on grace. Yeah, of course I do these things that are sinful. So what? That's not what Jesus is arguing here. He's not saying it's okay to go and watch every movie with gratuitous sex and violence in it because what comes into you doesn't hurt you Stop saying that. In fact, he's upholding the law. He's just quoted the fifth commandment and said you better follow it. Jesus is not doing away with the law. But he is doing away with any sense that the law saves. The law shows us how dirty we are. How filthy we are. And he gets into the room with the 12, and the 12 turn turn to him, and they're not sure what's going on. They're a little confused about this teaching. They're saying, you know, Jesus, we kind of grew up with this. What the Pharisees are saying is kind of what we're used to. That's what we know. That's how we were raised, and it makes sense to us. We probably we're feeling kind of we probably should have washed our hands. a little guilty about that. What do you mean by all of this? And Jesus says, guys This is not the world corrupting you. You aren't sinners because the world has influenced you. You aren't violent because you watched too many Roadrunner cartoons and the coyote hit too many walls and too many anvils fell on his head, and so you thought violence was okay. You don't hate your parents because mommy potty trained you incorrectly. You are not corrupt because something has come in from the outside and corrupted you. He says, guys, you've got to understand you're corrupt. Because that's who you are. That's what flows naturally out of you. That's what comes from within. And look at the list he gives. Out of the heart of man. Come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness All these evil things come from a society who does not recycle and is not tolerant enough. No. All these evil things come from inside of us. It was absolutely essential that the twelve understood the degree to which they were sinners, not people who occasionally sinned. They were sinners. And they could not help but sin. For that is who they are. And why did the twelve have to know that? So that they could preach it to you and to me. So that we could hear this morning, we are sinners. Not good people who occasionally do sinful things. We are sinners. And that is not in and of itself good news. But it ought to cause us to cast around looking for some good news. It ought to make us realize that we cannot Strive against the wind in our own strength to accomplish what is needed. We cannot Cast out our own sin. There are not reservoirs of goodness within us which we're going to reach out to God and compel Him to like us. We are sinners. And what flows out of you and what flows out of me are these things right here. And if we're honest about it, it hurts. And if we're honest about it, it's embarrassing. And we're ashamed of it. And we want to hide it. And we want to bury it. And pretend it isn't there. The good news is, and we're just a few verses away. A couple weeks of sermons. Jesus is going to turn to the 12 and he's going to say, but who do you say that I am? And Peter's going to say, you are the Christ. And the good news begins to unfold before the 12. There is a promised one. There is one who came. There is one. And then Jesus is going to begin to reveal to them how he's going to die and be raised again so that the sacrifice for sin can be made. The good news is not that we are sinners But knowing our condition makes the good news all that much better. The one who has been forgiven much will love much. Much. You have been forgiven everything. I have been forgiven everything. And we ought To love all the more for understanding the horrible condition in which Jesus found us. And out of which he Saved us for the praise of His glorious grace. What did we read in the New Testament reading? So that the wonders of His mercy might be demonstrated. Because we are sinful people. And He saved us anyway. Let's pray. Father That you would care about sinners is an amazing thing. That out of our evil hearts flow every manner of wickedness, and yet you still sought us out. At an immense cost. Teach us to understand who we really are. And when we are down, when we are depressed, when we are sad, when we are wrought with grief and shame and anger and guilt because of who we really are, show us again the Christ. And all that He has done for us, so that we might sing anew the glories of His wonderful grace. We pray this in his name. Amen.