Please turn your Bibles to Zechariah. We're going to be looking at Zechariah chapter 3. A reminder, Zechariah is the second to last book of the Old Testament, so you find Matthew a little more familiar. Back up to Malachi before that is Zechariah. Zechariah 3. Zechariah has been recounting eight visions that he saw in one sleepless night, visions that were shown to him by a guiding angel. The first of those visions, you may recall, recounted in unholy peace. It was a world at rest while the people of God were oppressed and marginalized and powerless. But there was hope because God's horseman, his cavalry reconnaissance unit, had ridden out to take Take stock of the situation. God was aware of the hopelessness of the people, and that provided hope The second vision showed four horns, symbolic of any and all the powers of this earth which oppose God and his people. And in that vision there were four craftsmen that were sent out to destroy the horns. And again, there was a message of hope that God is going to obliterate his enemies and ours. The third vision was one of Jerusalem being rebuilt, but not rebuilt in the traditional way. Not with a stone wall, but rather that God Himself would be a ring of fire, a defense around his people. And that he would be the glory in their midst. Vision one was God was a vision of hope because God sees what is happening to his people. Vision two was a vision of hope because God is setting about destroying his enemies In vision three, a vision of hope, because God will become our defense and the glory in our midst through His word Last week we saw kind of an interlude between these visions in which Zechariah prophetically calls upon the people who had stayed behind in Babylon to come out of the comfort and security of Babylon and to come back to Jerusalem. Jerusalem to Zion. And though everything by this world standards would suggest that Babylon was the better neighborhood to live in. Nevertheless, Zacharias says, let's act on the hope of these visions. And let's run to Zion. Let's run to be among the people of God. Zechariah now is going to resume his account of the eight visions. This is the fourth. And in this vision, what we're about to read We're going to see in this vision where Zechariah outlines beautifully the gospel. In fact, there's an outline on page 8 of your bulletin if you wish to follow along. And Zechariah is going to show us the essence of the gospel. What is the gospel at its core? He's going to show us the execution of the gospel. How is it actually carried out? He's going to show us the edict of the gospel through an illustration. What should we do in response? What is the command of us? And he's finally going to show us the executor of the gospel, who is authorized to bring it about. The essence of the gospel, the execution of the gospel, the edict of the gospel, and the executor of the gospel. Before we read the text, let's pray and ask the Spirit to guide our understanding of this vision. Spirit of God, you showed these things to your prophet Zechariah. You sent an angel guide to reveal their meaning to him. And so we ask the same of you. Let us see what he saw. Let us understand its message so that we might know you more fully. And the gospel. the good news of all that you have done on our behalf. We lift this up in Christ's name. Amen. Hear now the infallible, inerrant, and inspired word of Almighty God from Zechariah three Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him, and to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by, and the angel of the Lord Solemnly assured Joshua, thus says the Lord of hosts, You will walk in my ways and keep if you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the High Priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts. And I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. This vision, this fourth vision, is an amazing portrayal of the gospel. It opens with an interesting scene. Which depicts the essence of the gospel in verses 1 through 3. Verses 1 through 3, we see the essence of the gospel. And it begins this way. Then he, and this is a reference to Zach's angelic tour guide, then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. All that follows will not make sense if we don't first understand these two persons. Who is Joshua? Who is the angel of the Lord? Nothing else is going to fall into place if we don't understand that. So first of all, let's consider Joshua the high priest. It was the duty of priests to know what God demanded. And to come to God, meeting those demands, so that those whom they represented would be found acceptable in God's sight. After all, ordinary citizens couldn't be expected to know what God required of them. They didn't meet with God, nor did they have access to God's word, so they did not know how to go to God. So they went to the priest, who then took the offering on their behalf into the presence of God. The priest was to understand and to know all the requirements to go meet with God. So you would take your offering to the priest. The priest would then get dressed the right way, pray the right prayers, do the right things, do all the things that were required to go into the presence of God and take your offering to God on your behalf. The priest is the representative of the people to God. As the high priest, Joshua was the definitive representative, not just of you on your way to the temple. or of your family or of your clan or even of your tribe, he was the definitive representative of all the people who called Yahweh their God. That's who this is. This is the representative of the people standing there. So as we see the rest of this vision We need to see not just Joshua, but the people whom he represents. He's there on their behalf. This is not a vision of just Joshua. This is a vision of all the people of God. The second person we see there is the Angel of the Lord. We have seen the angel of the Lord previously. We saw him in chapter 1. He was the rider of the red horse. He was the one to whom the cavalry of God, the reconnaissance unit of God, to whom they gave their report In chapter 2, he is the one that claimed to be the ring of fire around Jerusalem and the glory in her midst. And now we see the high priest reporting to him. I want to stop right there. There's a a uh a handout in your bulletin that gives you some more information about the angel of the Lord, and I encourage you to take a look at some of those verses and see if you don't come to the same conclusion that many before you have come to. But I'm going to suggest that if we had no other reference to the angel of the Lord anywhere in the scriptures, then on the basis of the first three chapters of Zechariah, we would have to conclude that the angel of the Lord is God Himself. He is divine. God's horsemen give an account to the angel of the Lord. They don't report back to God, they report to the angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord claims to be the defender of God's people. The angelic tour guide of Zechariah defers to the angel of the Lord. The horsemen of heaven see him as an authoritative figure. The angels from heaven see him as an authoritative figure. He claims the glory of God Almighty in the midst of God's people. And now the people of God, the high priest, give an account to the angel of the Lord. Romans 14 is clear. We are answerable only to our master and to none other. This is God. But because he is clearly separate from God We realize in the clearer light of the revelation of the New Testament that in the Trinitarian doctrine that unfolds more fully there, this is God the The Sun, the second member of the Deity, the second member of the Holy Trinity, the Word of God who comes to man And angel means messenger, just as word means message. This is God the Son, the pre-incarnate Christ. So the sentence we've read says this. Then, he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord. A part of me really wishes that that was punctuated as its own sentence, and I I think there's justification, both from the narrative context and from the uh he uh Hebrew grammar to do it that way. You see, I think as this was being read out, remember Zachariah sees these visions, but then he retells them to the people. He's now preaching a sermon and telling the people what he saw And I think we need to put ourselves in the place of those people to understand what he's telling them. Zachariah's original audience, this sentence would have been familiar to them. You see, this is an account of the Day of Atonement, when the high priest would, on behalf of the people, go into the presence of God once a year, what Jews today call Yom Kippur Day of Atonement, to go into the presence of God and to seek atonement for their sins. The Day of Atonement was the high holy day of the Jewish calendar. It was also the most terrifying day of their lives. For when you walk into the presence of God, all of his righteousness, all of his justice, all of his purity, all of his holiness Becomes a terrifying thing. What will he do? How will he respond? Will he accept our offerings and our prayers for asking for forgiveness? Or will he reject us? Whatever nervousness you've ever felt walking into the principal's office or the boss's office is magnified a hundred, a thousand, a million times more here. This is terrifying And the original hearers, when this sentence was read out, and then I saw the high priest Joshua in the presence of the angel of the Lord, when this was told to them, they would also be going, wait a second, it's not Yom Kippur It's not the scheduled Day of Atonement. What's going on? Why have we been called to give an account on this unscheduled occasion? Imagine being called in the principal's office unexpectedly, the boss's office unexpectedly. That's why this sentence should stand alone. It paints a terrible and wonderful picture filled with tension and apprehension and Oh. Joshua, the high priest, is standing before the angel of the Lord. Picture that. Comprehend that. Our representative as the original hearers of this vision Our representative is going in on our behalf before God. But it gets worse. Now imagine that you get called to the principal's office and you walk in not knowing why exactly. You got you've done a few things wrong. You know, I wonder which one he's got me for. You walk in and there's the English teacher, and she's holding the exam for which you use crib notes. Imagine getting called into dad's room. You walk in and there's your sister. She's holding the doll that your G. I. Joe just attacked. Imagine getting called into the human resources department and there's the coworker that you blew up at in your frustration and your anger yesterday. Being called to give an account is bad. Being called to give an account and then finding that there's an accuser standing there is far And that's how Zechariah unfolds this retelling of the vision. He first says, You've been called to give an account Joshua's in the presence of the high priest. And then he says, Oh yeah, and the Satan was standing there also. Satan is not a translation, it is a transliteration. This is actually the word that's in the Hebrew, Satan. It means accuser. And the word the is there in Hebrew. It is the Satan. The accuser is standing there to accuse. The Satan is standing there to Satanize. Satan's due. The Satan is standing there. God's the representative of God's people is immediately Meeting with God, called to give an account on an unscheduled day. That's nerve-wracking. And now they walk in, and the accuser is there. That's the picture that we we have to understand if we're gonna understand this text. Those are the people, the persons that are there if we're gonna and we have to comprehend why they're there and what their role is if we're gonna understand this And having set that scene, having told us who's there, having built all the tension of The people of God represented before God, and the accusers standing ready to say they're guilty of this, that, and the other thing. The judgment of God is now pronounced in verse 2. But it comes in an unexpected way. The Lord rebuke you, Joshua. No. The Lord rebuke you, O people represented by the high priest. No. The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? The rebuke of Yahweh falls not on Joshua and the people, but on the accuser himself. Satan is rebuked, not Joshua. Satan is called to task, not the people. And why? Why does the angel of the Lord, the preincarnate Christ, rebuke Satan? Because Joshua is a brand plucked from the fire. The Lord who chose Jerusalem has chosen to pull Joshua out of the fire and save him. Now think about it. Is it not the prerogative of the Boy Scout to pull out of his campfire any stick he wants to pull out of it? Doesn't that right belong to him? And if I say to the Boy Scout, that log should be burned, well, he has the right to say to me, no, I have my reasons. It's my fire and I'll burn the sticks I want to burn and I'll pull out the sticks I want to pull out. Doesn't the Boy Scout have that right with his fire? Do not I, God Almighty, have the right to pull anyone I choose out of the fire of judgment? God's freedom to choose is the ground on which Satan is rebuked. Satan cannot accuse those whom God chooses because God has chosen them. Isn't that not exactly what Paul reasoned in our New Testament reading? If God is for us, who can be against us? It is God alone who makes these choices. And if He has made a choice for us, then we're good to go. We're set. We're home free. We're golden. For there is only one judge, and the judge has said that we're okay. And the accuser is online to accuse those whom God has chosen. Satan is shut down simply because of God's sovereign choice, to save people out of the fire of judgment as a brand plucked from the fire. The essence of the gospel is God choosing And verse three drives the point home even more strongly. The temptation of Zechariah and his original hearers, and too often of us is to say this. Well there must be something wonderful about that stick. The Boy Scout recognized that that stick would be perfect for roasting marshmallows, and that's why he pulled it out of the fire. God saved Joshua because he wasn't worthy of any accusation. Satan had no ground on which to accuse him He's plucked out of the fire because, you know, he's worth being saved. I think this is why Zechariah unfolds this text in the way he does. In verse 3, Zechariah comes back around to a detail that he could have said right up front. When he introduced Joshua in verse 1, he could have told us this, but he didn't. back around to it. Oh yeah. And the high priest is there, covered in filth. Covered in excrement. Stinking the place up. Talk about stinking to high heaven. He's in high heaven and he stinks. He is covered with filth. He was not plucked out of the fire because he was some desirable. He was not plucked out of the fire because there was something wonderful about him. He stinks. His sin is disgusting. He's covered in filth. The high priest who's supposed to know that he puts on clean robes to go meet Almighty God. Has walked into God's presence, covered in all the filth of this world That is the essence of the gospel. God choosing to justify and to defend those whom he is pleased to pluck from the fires of judgment. Dead, fruitless, worthless sticks, which deserve to be burned up. It is these which God chooses to save Every believer is a brand plucked from the fire. Every believer is defended by Christ against the accuser, and that is the essence of the gospel. But if you're here this morning you're thinking to yourself, I I want to be that stick. I want to be the one saved. I want to be the one plucked out of the fire. But if you're telling me God chooses to pull Well, I can't influence God's choice. I can't make him choose me. So what do I do? I'm stuck. No, you're not. The real question is this, not how do I influence God's choice? The real question is this. Is God's choice revealing itself in my very desire? You see, the very fact that you want to be that brand is the proof that you have been chosen That's what we read in our uh well that's what Paul when Paul summarizes Ephesians 2 and the gospel so beautifully, he says, For it if by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourself, it is the gift of God. I appreciate Bill praying about that earlier. We are given that. Don't sit there going, I don't know how to influence God's choice. If you want If you want to be saved, if you want to be plucked out of the fire, if you want to be defended by the angel of the Lord, you are his choice. That's why you want it. And that means you have it. And that means you can relax. The essence of the gospel is salvation given freely to all who want it. And all who appropriate it by believe appropriate it by believing it is theirs. There is no conflict. There cannot be a conflict between God's sovereign choice and your free will. The former establishes the latter and the latter reveals the former. They go together. How did Jesus say it? He said, those who are not against us are with us. The fact that you want it means you're not against him. You're with him. If you're here today and you've been wondering and you know seeking for what it is, you found it. It's salvation from the fire, so you're not burned up in judgment. It's God saying, You are mine, and I'm going to defend you against the accuser. Believe it. Seeker, stop seeking. Doubt her. Doubt no more. All of us are called to believe this wonderful message. God plucks filth-covered sinners out of the fires of judgment and saves them. That's good news. That's the essence of the gospel. Now, verses four and five explain the execution of the gospel. How can the salvation actually happen? After all, Joshua really is filthy, and God really is holy. So how can the Holy One allow the presence of the filthy one? The execution of the gospel is essential to rightly knowing God. God does not sweep our sin under the rug and pretend it's not there. Now, I will withhold the name so as not to get any one child in trouble. But one of our children, uh, he was supposed to have cleaned his room, he or she was supposed to have cleaned his room. And this just happened this week, why it's familiar in my head. And then then he or she asked me to go into his or her room and to find something out of the closet. And I opened the closet. It appears that the mess had just been pushed into the closet, and the closet door pulled shut. That is not how our God operates. He does not push sin aside and hide it. He is truly holy and truly righteous and truly pure. And therefore the sin has to be dealt with. And that's the execution of the gospel that we see here Here that sin truly being removed. The execution of the gospel says this. And the angel said to those who were standing before him Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him, to Joshua, he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure value. The impure and unholy and filthy Joshua can stand in God's presence because the angel of the Lord, Christ, swaps his own clean robes For Joshua's filthy ones. Those filthy robes now being worn by Jesus at the cross are burned up when God's wrath is poured out on him. Had his wrath been poured out on us while we were wearing our filthy robes, we'd have been burned up also. It's why the Redeemer had to be both man and God, so that he could withstand the wrath of God. So that the robes could be burned up in God's wrath, but not him. The robes are gone. They're not pushed in the closet. They're not shoved out of sight. We're not going to one day find an ant infestation because you pushed it under the couch and didn't actually clean it up. It's gone. His robes for mine. That's the execution of the gospel. Christ has truly taken these things away It goes on, he doesn't just take him away, he doesn't stop there. For if all that happened was our filthy robes were taken away, we would still not be presentable before God because we'd be naked And that's not what Leviticus calls for either to be presented before God. He doesn't just take our filthy robes, he gives us his clean ones. He gives us his pure robes. He gives us the righteousness that he actually earned. The law he actually kept. The goodness he actually performed. Is now draped over us. My filth removed. His righteousness put on. The execution of the gospel. That's how it becomes possible for filthy ones to stand in the presence of the Holy One and to be made acceptable. Before we leave behind this question of the execution of the gospel, I want you to note verse 5. Did you see Zachariah's gleeful and joyful response to the gospel? Our daughter Jackie has a what I'll call an effervescent excitement about her and it sometimes kind of just spills out. And when she was younger, it would spill out even more readily. And we'd be uh watching a a a movie and we'd be one of those kind of tense movies where you weren't sure what's gonna happen and she'd be under the covers of the other end of the couch. And when it would find what the plot line would resolve itself in favor of the protagonist, gleeful excitement would just pour out of that blanket where she was hiding herself. She couldn't control herself. She was so glad it came out that way That's the picture of Zechariah. He can't contain himself. The excitement is is overwhelming. He can't stand still. Don't quit with the robes. If you're gonna make him clean, make him clean Make him completely clean. You may not recall, but in Leviticus, when the robes were Leviticus, when they were described for the high priest on his head sat a turban. On the turban was a gold plate. On the gold plate were inscribed the words, holy to the Lord. And Zachariah says, let's make it a reality again. Don't take his filthy robes and leave the yucky old turban. If he's going to be holy to the Lord, let's make him holy to the Lord. This is exciting. This is amazing. This is cool. He gets to be clean. Well, let's not go part way. Let's go all the way. Now I suspect the angel lord was going to get there, but Zachariah in his excitement can't wait. Do determine, be determined also. If you're here today and you're a believer, do you have that kind of excitement By what Jesus is doing in your life. As he's making you clean, are you saying to him in your prayer life, going, Lord, don't quit? Don't quit. Get the next sin also. Yeah, I see you've made progress in my life, you've moved me from there to here, but don't quit. Take my lust and swap it out for a right understanding of love. Take my anger and replace it with compassion and gentleness. Take my self-centeredness, rip it off my head, and put on a head, a hat, and a heart that cares about other people. Oh Lord, don't quit. You took my rose, thank you. Don't quit Do you have that kind of excitement about what Jesus is doing for you? That's what's spilling out of Zachariah. The essence of the gospel is God plucking sinners out of the fire of judgment and saving them. them. The execution of the gospel is the angel of the Lord, Christ Jesus himself, swapping and taking your filthy sin and putting his word righteous works on you. Now we come to the edict of the gospel. What does the gospel require? What does it demand of us? The edict of the gospel is outlined in verses 6 and 7 and it says this, walk in my way. That has always been the edict of the gospel. When the good news came to Abram that he had been chosen by God to be God's follower, what was he told? Walk before me and be blameless. Walk in my ways. Walk righteously. Walk purely. Walk obediently When the people were pulled out of Egypt, when the good news came to them that they had been set free from slavery in Egypt, what happened next? They went to the Mount of Sinai and said, Here are the ten laws you need to follow. Walk this way. The edict of the gospel has always been, now go obey. Even Paul, in the summary we quoted earlier, I would quote it only part of it. He says, It is by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourself. It is a gift of God, not of works, so that no one can boast. For we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works. The edict of the gospel has always been now go obey Now go walk in my ways. But note that it comes after the robes have been swapped out. Obedience is never a way to get clean. It is now a desire to stay clean, to keep it neat and organized, to stay on top of it. And look at the reward that is offered. What is given there? If you walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts. And I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Obedience is not the way to get right with God. But having been made right by God, obedience is the way to continue Continue in fellowship with him. It's the way to continue to go into his courts and to be close to him and to be in his presence and to know him more fully The edict of the gospel is always about a relationship with the one who has saved us. The essence of the gospel is God plucking sinners out of the fire. The execution of the gospel is Christ taking his righteousness pulling our filth off, putting it on himself, taking his righteousness, his robes for mine. That's the execution of the gospel. And the edict of the gospel is a call to revel in and to maximize the relationship we now have with With God. Zachariah's fourth vision closes by pointing toward the promised one, the executor of the gospel. An executor is one empowered to carry out the will of another. A person's will will detail all the things they want done with all the things that are theirs. It also usually names one who is authorized and empowered to make it happen. The executor of the will. It is God's will to save sinners out of the fires of judgment. And he now reveals to Joshua and Zechariah, the one authorized to do so, the executor of the gospel. Recall that we are reading this backwards. We know that Jesus of Nazareth is the executor of the gospel, but Zechariah and Joshua and all the friends with them, they didn't know that. And that's the point of verses 8 through 10. Joshua and those standing around are assured that salvation is the salvation portrayed in this Really will come about. Jesus, the executor of the gospel, is certainly coming. Do not despair. Let's take a moment to understand this. By this point in redemptive history, the branch, you see that reference there, was a well-established reference to the Messiah. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel have all made references to the branch. And the branch was something that was going to grow up out of the stump of the Davidic kingship. So a year ago we uh spring broke, we were here, I started cutting down, hacking down a bunch of stuff in my yard. Well I hacked a lot of it down without pulling all the stumps out. And by the end of this summer I had a whole new holly bush growing where I didn't want a hollybush growing. Because the stump shot out new branches and they came up. It's kind of the picture here. The Davidic kingship has collapsed. It has fallen by the wayside. There is no one on the throne of David. But the branch is going to sprout out of that apparently dead stump. And is going to flourish and grow into an even more amazing tree. That's the born promised here, the branch. And he goes on to say he makes a reference to the stone with seven eyes. Seven is complete or perfection in the scriptures. Seven eyes, complete and perfect seeing. God sees everything. He knows everything. And the assurance to Zechariah and to Joshua and to you and to me is that nothing will surprise him. Nothing will sneak up on God. Nothing will come out of the blue and foil his plans. He will not ever be stinied. So he will accomplish that. Yes. The executor will come from the day of the perspective of the day of Zechariah, and from our perspective has come and will come again. It will happen. It is a sure thing And then he makes reference to the Day of Atonement again. And in a single day, I will remove all iniquity. The Day of Atonement. The day when Christ That's what's pictured here. The angel of the Lord coming to earth as Jesus of Nazareth That's the executor of the gospel. Maximizing our relationship that we now have through obedience. That's the edict of the gospel. His robes for mine. That's the execution of the gospel. And God plucking sinners out of the fire, that's the essence of the gospel We think of the gospel as some kind of New Testament thing. But clearly it is not. It is so plainly here in Zechariah God has always made a way for people to come to Him. And sinner, that way is still open this morning. God offers right now to snatch you from the fire. Believe it. He will do so by swapping Christ's righteous robes for your sin-covered life. And then you get to go and live a life where you know him better and learn more about him and build a relationship with him. That's the gospel according to St. Zechariah. That's the gospel. Period. Let's believe it. Let's rejoice in it. Let's proclaim it. Let's celebrate it. Let's worship because of it. Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, thank you for revealing yourself to Zechariah. Thank you for revealing yourself as the one who swaps out filth for cleanness. As the one who accomplished, as the executor of God's will to save us, that you accomplished these things on the cross. Thank you for this beautiful picture. For the excitement we see in Zechariah, Lord, we ask for that same excitement in our own lives. And if we understand what has been done for us, we would, like him, respond with enthusiasm. Desire to be even more clean. Help us to realize that the essence of the gospel is that you save sinners. That its execution is through Christ giving us his righteousness and taking our filth. That its edict is for us to now live in joyful obedience. And that the execu uh the executor was Jesus himself, whom you f uh foretold then, and who has now come. As we turn to his table. Let that faith be made even more real for us. We pray all of this in his wonderful name. Amen.