This morning we're going to continue in the book of Hebrews and specifically in Hebrews chapter 10 If you would like to open to Hebrews 10, please do so. But we are going to actually begin by looking back at where we've been in the book of Hebrews and then moving forward into Hebrews 10. I will remind you that one of the reasons we have slowed down and spent so much time here in Hebrews 10 is that there is so much here. This chapter is heavily used in systematic theology textbooks to establish any number of important doctrines. And I will admit that this morning we're going to be looking at one that does not at first seem obviously there. We're going to be looking at the doctrine of the Lord's table, and yet I think as we read and develop this, we are going to see how it underlies what our author has uh written here. So before we jump into Hebrews 10, let's back up in your Bibles kind of keep a piece of paper or a thumb there in Hebrews 10 and jump back to Hebrews chapter 4. Hebrews 4, we're going to be kind of hopping back and forth between these two a few times. So if you're able to mark them in some way, that might be helpful. Hebrews four, I'm gonna be beginning verses one, two, and three. Therefore While the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us just as to them. And since we are jumping into this, let me remind us, them in the context. are the people who were following Moses in the wilderness after leaving Egypt. Okay? So that's who them are. Good news, that is the gospel, came to us just as to them But the message they heard did not benefit them. Why not? Because they were not united by faith with those who listened. For we who have believed enter that rest. We see in these verses A most important and an absolutely essential element of true religion. And that is the idea of faith. Or of belief. The element of faith, there is no benefit to our religion, at least not as it pertains to our reconciliation with God. Apart from faith The best that Christianity can offer is maybe a little ethical refinement, perhaps some cultural identity, perhaps a sense of belonging. But it cannot make us right with God. And those other things are not going to matter in eternity when we stand before the judgment throne And have to give an account for all that we have done. This is why the author says the message they heard did not benefit them because they were not united by faith with those who listened. Now, listening here, as it often does, listening means more than merely hearing. It means hearing and responding affirmatively. It means hearing and adhearing. Hearing it and holding to it. They believed, and so they benefited from the good news of the gospel. But if we continue in the book of Hebrews, one of the things we learn is that faith, properly speaking, despite what I have just said, faith by itself Is not salvific. It does not bring true salvation. Now it may seem at first glance like I'm contradicting myself and like I'm contradicting the book of Hebrews. But let's now go back over to chapter 10, keeping a finger or a paper in chapter 4. Let's now move to chapter 10, and not yet to the main sermon text. We're still kind of setting the stage, beginning in Hebrews 10, 1. For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year make perfect those who draw near. Let me remind you that the thrust of the book of Hebrews, the purpose for which it was written, Was to keep Jewish believers from falling back into Judaism. Our author did not want these converts to Christianity to go back to their old way of life. You see, they believed in the sacrificial system. They had faith. That a sacrificed bull might actually reconcile them to God. And our author's point has been, as we've moved through Hebrews, That may be faith, it may be belief, but it's faith in the wrong thing. If in and of itself Does not save. Our faith has to be properly placed. You see, the proper subject of salvation is not our faith, but the object of our faith. You see what he says there, that faith in the sacrifices of bulls and goats and sheep is a misplaced faith For if they could truly say, they would not have had to be repeated. The repetition of that system was the evidence that that system was but a mere shadow of the truth. And he has in the intervening chapters between four and ten talked about how David looked forward to an alternative to the sacrificial system, how Moses looked forward to an alternative to the sacrificial system, how the founders of the Jewish faith themselves knew that it was not what actually saved them. So now jump back to chapter 4. Jump back to chapter 4. We left off in verse 3, noting that we have that we who have believed enter that rest. You know, the rest that the wilderness wanderers were looking for, they did not find it for lack of faith. We find it through faith. Now skip down to verse 11. Hebrews 4, verse 11. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. That is the disobedience of lacking faith in Christ, of putting your faith in anything other than the one to whom the sacrifice is pointed. Verse 12 For the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. In context, what does it mean? It means that our faith, true faith, saving faith, can be sorted out, can be figured out, can be clarified through an understanding of the Bible. It is the Bible, it is the Word of God which is sharp enough to divide between true faith and false faith So if we're sitting here today going, do I really believe? Do I really believe in the right thing? Do I have true salvation? Then we have to adhere to God's word If we want to distinguish between the true and the false. Picking up in verse 13, no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. Why does he say this? Well basically to say, isn't it great that we have the Word of God? We're all going to be laid naked at the judgment seat someday. We're all going to be laid bare before Him. If we only find out on that day the true nature of our heart, we are in deep trouble. But praise God, he didn't leave it to that day. He gave us his word by which we might distinguish what is true faith and false faith. Picking up in verse 14. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession. And there it is, the theme of the book of Hebrews. Hold fast our confession, our confession, not any old religion, not just any faith But the confession that Jesus Christ is Lord, that He died for sins, that God raised him from the dead, that He has ascended to the right hand of the Father above, and that He reigns over all the universe That's what we must hold to our author is telling us. Verse 15, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without Sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace so that we might receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Our author has told us all of this, warned us that we fear lest we fail, fall short of the rest. He told us to strive after that rest, but he concludes with this wonderful word of hope. We can come to the situation with confidence. And we can come and draw near to the throne of grace. Isn't it interesting Do we draw near to the throne of grace because we have mastered it? Because we fully understand it? Because we lack all doubt? Because we are absolutely confident No. We draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace. Isn't that interesting that even in the midst of our doubts, we come to have those doubts alleviated? That we go to God for the assurance that we have, in fact, possessed God. And so you see the essence of what's being unfolded in the book of Hebrews is that faith in and of itself, yes, faith is important, yes, faith is essential But it must be placed in the right thing, in the right place. Faith in the sacrifices did not save. Faith in the signs. Remember what he told us That those Old Testament sacrifices were reminders of sin and reminders of a need for salvation, that they pointed to these things we saw two weeks ago. So we have a discussion of blood and of sacrifices, of signs pointing to the true Savior. Now, even a very casual, someone one who is very casually familiar with the church, when you begin to talk about blood and sacrifice and signs. They're going to begin to connect it to the Lord's table. And our author is as well. Before I actually read chapter 10, the portion that we're going to look at in the sermon, and by the way, the the the bulletin text is not quite right. That's not because leads anything wrong, it's because once again I changed things after bulletin text. printed, so my apologies. But um I will tell you in a moment exactly what we're going to read. So look down into chapter 10. We're back in 10 now and I think we're done in four so you can kind of let that one go. Look down at verse 16. In that verse, our author, and we're going to read it through in a moment, our author quotes the New Covenant language from the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter 31. This is language that we've heard twice already today. This is the language of covenant that was in the Old Testament reading, that Moses read the book of the covenant, that he sprinkled them with the blood of the covenant to make them clean. And then Jesus stood up at the Last Supper And said, This cup is the covenant in my blood for the remission of sins. And now our author here is writing and talking using covenant language in the midst of talking about blood and sacrifices. And in verses 19 and 20. He makes um this interesting verse 19, it is, we can enter into the holy places by the blood of Jesus. Verse 20, that we can pass through the veil that once kept us out of God's presence. We can pass through how? Through his flesh. Again, even if you are only casually connected to the Christian religion, when you begin to hear about the blood and flesh of Jesus, Your mind goes to the Lord's table, to communion, to the breaking of bread, to the Holy Eucharist It's clear what this is pointing to. Then in 22 he references sprinkled by the blood, and he includes the mention of being washed clean with water. You see, it's not just the Lord's table that's in his mind, but also baptism. The sacraments are underlying what he's teaching us in Hebrews Chapter ten. Sadly, we do not have time to take up both sacraments this morning. We will be looking only at the Lord's table. Finally, Not only does this text lean heavily on all the imagery surrounding the Lord's table, but in a proper understanding of the meaning of the Lord's table, this text becomes central. That when we think about what really happens at communion, we find ourselves frequently coming back to Hebrews chapter 10. Let's now read Hebrews ten. I'll begin in verse ten and read through verse twenty five. And by that will, and again we're jumping in the middle, so let me make the comment, that will is actually the last will and testament that was enacted at the death of Jesus, if we were to put it back in context. By that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. his work being completed. Waiting from that time until his enemy should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us For after saying, and this is the quote of Jeremiah 31, the new covenant, this is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord, I will put my laws on their hearts and write them on their minds. Then he adds, I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, that is, the sins and lawless deeds There is no longer any offering for sin. See a bit of a theme? Once for all, a single sacrifice, one time, no longer any offering. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. There's that same theme we saw back in chapter 4. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, send us your Spirit that by your power and in your name I will present you properly, as you are in your word, as you are at your table. And as we see you, give us faith to hold to you. To hold to our confession and to receive in ourselves the benefits offered in your gospel. Give us a true and proper faith That we might be united to those who listen and believe, who hear and add here, so that we might enter your rest by your grace. We pray. Amen. I don't use props very often, but whether you can see it or not, this is me and Becky. This is Becky and me. Now why would I do that? Why would I turn to a prop in a sermon when it's not something I routinely do. It's because I couldn't think of a to illustrate an important point. File that away in the back of your head for we will come back around to it. This is Becky and me. You know, in our New Testament reading at the institution of the Lord's table, we read the following Jesus took bread and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat. This is my body. Few things have caused as much upheaval during the Protestant Reformation as those four words. This is my body. To be sure, it was the doctrine of justification that was the main contention between Protestants and Catholics during the Reformation. But the doctrine of the Lord's table, of communion, of the supper of the Lord, was not only a contention between Protestant and Catholics, but also within Protestants. There was disagreement between the Anabaptists and the Reformed and the Lutherans as to what was the meaning of the Lord's table and what was the manner of his presence at it. This is my body was the single issue that kept Lutherans and the Reform from uniting. There was an attempt. To bring together the Protestant Reformation from Germany and that from Switzerland and to unite them into one church and one movement. And it failed over those four words. This is my body. Communion caused as much disunion as anything else. And yet for all the fur over the Lord's Supper during the time of the Protestant Reformation. Many churches seem to care very little about it today. Many of the so-called seeker-sensitive churches don't even practice the Lord's table. For it is exclusionary. For it puts visitors on the outside and does not include them. For it makes them feel like they're not one of us. Even our systematic theologies, where Kelvin in his Institutes wrote 100 pages on the Lord's Supper. Most systematic theologies today, even among very conservative reformed writers, take maybe 10 pages, 12 pages. We simply do not give it the attention we once gave it. I want us to look more closely at the Lord's table and how we understand it in light of Hebrews 10. First, we need to deal at least briefly with the proper name of the sacrament that we are discussing. I have already referred to it as breaking bread, as the Lord's table, as the Lord's Supper, as the Eucharist. Have I missed any? Did I say any others? I said at least those four already this morning. Oh, communion. I called it communion. Which of those is biblical and is one of them best? Turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And we are going to spend some time in 1 Corinthians 10. So perhaps keep Hebrews 10 open and 1 Corinthians 10. Look over at 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Right now, I'm going to look at verse 21. 1 Corinthians 10, 21. And we're going to move through this kind of quickly. If you're a note-taker, I'll try to say it enough times that you can take the notes, but we're not going to spend a lot of time in each one. 1 Corinthians 10, 21. You cannot partake in the Lord's table and the table of demons. You cannot partake in the Lord's table. In the wider context, as we're going to see in a few minutes, he's clearly talking about the sacrament before us. And so we see that calling it the Lord's Table or the Table of the Lord is a biblically valid title for it. Skipping over one chapter into 1 Corinthians 11, verse 20, if you want to turn over, you may. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 20 says, When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat. So we see the Lord's table is a biblically valid title, and the Lord's Supper is a biblically valid title. Back in Acts 2. 42, and I'm not going to ask you to turn there, in Acts 2. 42, we read the following. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. Now there is nobody who has thought closely about this that thinks breaking of bread is merely having a meal. For one does not need to devote himself to breathing, to drinking, and to eating. Physical sustenance is not something we have to be devoted to. Clearly, it is pointing to the breaking of bread. at the Lord's table. And so we see breaking of bread is a term used for the Lord's table. By the way, that occurs again in Acts 20 verse 7. Luke refers to it that way twice in the book of Acts. Breaking of bread is a biblically appropriate title for the sacrament we are discussing. That leaves us with communion and Eucharist. Eucharist must be wrong because that's what the Catholics call it, right? Hmm. We are going to have some trouble with that one. You see that while the word Eucharist is not applied as a title to the sacrament, It is nevertheless closely associated with the sacrament in the Bible. Eucharist comes from the Greek word Eucharisteo, meaning to give thanks. And in fact, the account of Luke in his gospel and the account in 1 Corinthians 11 both reference how the Lord gave thanks and broke the bread. Eucharisteo, to give thanks, Eucharist. And by the end of the first century A. D. , there is this Christian manual of instruction called the Didiche, which refers to it as the Eucharist. And so we see immediately in the aftermath of the New Testament that this idea of calling it the Thanksgiving was closely associated with the sacrament. If you're coming out of a Catholic or Anglican background and you're a little uncomfortable calling it the Eucharist, then just call it the Thanksgiving. It is an appropriate title. Now back to 1 Corinthians 10. Go back to that 1 Corinthians 10, but we're looking this time at verse 16. Please look at me with 1 Corinthians 10, verse 16. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? You don't see or here, I imagine, any one of the possible titles for the Lord's table. But let me reread that verse And I'm going to pull out a single English word and insert a single Greek word. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a koinonia in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a koinonia in the body of Christ? Now many of you have heard sermons on the Greek word koinonia. There are agencies and parachurch organizations out there that refer to themselves by that word, koinania. It means fellowship. But it does not mean a mere social gathering. When we gather in the Pullman Hall and have a meal together, We might be celebrating our koinonia, but that is not in and of itself our koinonia. You see, we have reduced this word fellowship to the idea of mere acquaintance, of spending a little time together. That is not the biblical concept. Think instead of Tolkien's book, The Fellowship of the Ring, of the movie based on it, The Fellowship of the Ring. That's the essence of the Greek word fellowship, koinania. That we are in this together. That our fates are bound up with one another. That what happens to you is going to impact me, and vice versa. And that your successes depended on me doing my job, and my success is dependent on you doing your job The fellowship of the ring, that we are bound to one another, that our outcome depends on one another. That the only way we're going to succeed in our task Is together. That's a better picture of the biblical word fellowship. That's a better sense of that word koinania. And that's why We see it translated there not as fellowship, but as participation, is not the cup of blessing that we bless, our participation in the blood of Christ. That is the table, that at the sacrament, that in it, we are united to him. We are bound up with him. We are connected in a very real and meaningful way. To be united with in Latin is come union Hence the title, communion. To call this communion, the Bible never actually calls it by that title. But that sense is absolutely central to our understanding of the sacrament. Come union. In union with, partakers of, participants in, the event set forward at that table. Perhaps we should just call it the participation. Which brings us back around To our question of the dispute over the Lord's table. What did Christ mean when he said, This is my body? Interestingly, the Catholic doctrine of the Lord's Table did not become official until after the Protestant Reformation. Do you remember your church history that after the Protestant Reformation there was something called the Counter-Reformation, an effort by Rome to articulate where it stood on the issues that were in debate and dispute? And it was in the Counter-Reformation, after the Protestant Reformation, that Rome finally laid forth plainly what it believed about the sacrament of the Lord's table. So in the aftermath of the Reformation, many Protestants, you see, particularly the Anabaptists, they had adopted a view known as the Memorial View. The memorial view of the Lord's table. That view focuses on the line that Jesus used at the table. Do this in remembrance of me. Memorialize me. Now Jesus' words are plain. There is a memorial aspect to the Lord's table. At the Lord's Supper, we certainly do remember him, and we should. But that's not communion. That's not a participation with Christ. That is not pointsia, as Paul assumes it is taking place in 1 Corinthians 16, 10. You see, the Catholics and most of the other Protestants rightly objected to the memorial view. Not that it says anything technically wrong, but it simply leaves out something incredibly important. It is the truth. It is nothing but the truth, but it's not the whole truth. And that matters. We would reject the memorial view that all we do at the table is remember Jesus More than that is happening. Martin Luther, for his part, he knew that there was a deeper communion, a deeper participation. at the table, which needed to be articulated and explained. He looked at Jesus' words, this is my body. And he concluded that wherever the elements are, Jesus' body was He was not saying the elements were Jesus' body, only that Jesus' body was present, literally, physically, wherever the Lord's Supper was celebrated. Luther's view is often called consubstantiation, though Lutherans themselves don't love that term. His view is often called consubstantiation and summarized as Jesus' body being in with and under the elements, connected to them in a real, physical, literal way. So in this way, he argued we truly communed with Jesus because his body was literally physically present. At the Lord's table. Luther was trying to take seriously what Jesus said. This is my body And he was trying to take seriously what Paul said. In it, we participate with Christ. But perhaps he did not take seriously enough the doctrine of the humanity of Jesus. For we believe the Bible teaches quite clearly that Jesus was fully human. And as you know, a human cannot be in more than one place at one time. Human beings are localized beings. The body of Jesus is at the right hand of the Majesty on high, sat down, the book of Hebrews reminds us. With a finished-completed work. And if he is truly human, then his body cannot be both there and at a hundred thousand churches every Sunday morning celebrating the supper. That brings us back around to the Catholic view into Hebrews ten You see, the Reformation forced the Catholics to formalize and officially state what they believed and what kind of a belief that had been evolving for centuries. That somehow, in some way, the bread of communion must actually literally be the body of Jesus. Now let's be clear. They never denied that it remained and sustained its Taste, feel, smell, texture. It continued to always have the outward properties of bread. They knew that. But rather they were using uh uh uh uh uh Aristilian categories of of philosophical thinking. Think back to Aristotle. Aristotle had said that there was the the essence of something, and then it's incidents or accidents. There was the substance of what it really was, and then there were the outward manifestations of how it appeared. And Aristotle said those two things can be divided from one another. And thus the Catholic Church taught that the elements of communion took on the substance. Oh, the incidental outward things remained bread and wine. But the inner being, the essence of what they were, the substance of it was changed, was transmuted. And this became known as the doctrine of transubstantiation. Its substance changed. And thus it became for Catholics a way around this problem of Lutheranism. That while Jesus' body is localized there in heaven at the right hand of the Father Nevertheless, the elements at the churches around the world can become the same substance. Become essentially the same thing. Become, for all intents and purposes, another manifestation of the body of Jesus. The substance transmuted transubstantiation. You know, the synoptic gospels detail How in the preparation for Passover, we're going to come back around in a moment here, in the preparation for Passover, this is not the gospel's detail, how Jesus said some disciples into Jerusalem. Remember all this? He sent them in, he said, You're going to find a man with a donkey by the side of the road when you get past the gate. You're going to turn to him and say, the master wants to prepare for the Passover. He's going to tell you he has a roof. Remember all that? What was going on with all of that Was this a manifestation of the deity of Christ? Did he divinely know that all this was going to happen? Was it the foreknowledge of God? No. This was not a manifestation of Christ's deity, but a manifestation of his humanity. He had already all the preparations. He had already made the arrangements. He had already gone and talked to this man so that there would be a room available, so that the food would be there, so that everything they would need for the Passover would be there. Why Because we were to see clearly that the host of the meal was none other than Jesus. Traditionally, it was the head of the household that was the host of the Passover. But Jesus doesn't want there to be any mistake at that Last Supper about who is hosting Passover. He is hosting it. Now we're going to come back to that. That's going to be important. But I said it now to connect it to the Catholic view. This is why they refer to the bread as the host. For if the bread is really Jesus, and if Jesus is really the host, then the bread is rightly called the host. And this is why. That after the pronouncement of the formula of the liturgy that leads up to the communion The bread is paraded around the room, held up, and everyone bows to it and worships it. Catholic writers, not Protestant writers, Catholic writers, have written how if that is not The actual, literal, physical body of Jesus, then parading it around the sanctuary and bowing to it is an abominable idolatry. Of course, they believe that it is. But we would agree with that. If that is not the actual body of Jesus, then that is a tremendous mistake, a horrible idolatry. And so we find ourselves back in wrestling with what's really going on there. And we come back around to Hebrews chapter 10, particularly verse 10, we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus once for all. Verse 12. But when Christ hath offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, verse 14, for by a single offering he hath perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Verse 18 Where there is forgiveness of sins and lawless deeds, there is no longer any offering for sin. If the bread and wine are truly the body and blood Then there can be no doubt but that Christ is slain again, a repeated offering. Not once for all, but like the sheep and the bulls and the rams of old Which by the force of their repetition were proven ineffective, so now the Christ is said to be sacrificed over and over and over again That this is their view is affirmed by the very language they use of the sanctuary. We would say that I stand at the chancel or the nave of our sanctuary. But how would they describe it? Think about how we sometimes flip into describing it. When the bride and the groom take their vows, they are said to stand at the altar. Why would you call the front of your sanctuary the altar except that there is a sacrifice occurring there? We must be careful with this kind of language. We do not re-sacrifice the Christ. We affirm the doctrine taught in Hebrews 10, that he was sacrificed one time, not repeatedly, that his sacrifice is not needed over and over again. You see, we do not need a weekly remedy for sin. We have a remedy for sin. He is sufficient for all time. You see, the memorial view of the Baptist falls short in taking seriously our participation with the Christ at the table. which Paul described in in 1 Corinthians 1016. The Lutheran view has a the the real humanity of Jesus in doubt, with his body being in with and under the elements everywhere. And transubstantiation leads to a re-sacrifice of the Christ, ignoring the pleading of our author in Hebrews 10 that Jesus' death was sufficient once for all. And so it moves our faith. When we look at the Lord's table wrongly, it moves our faith off from the real object of faith back to the signs. And that brings us back around to where we began. This is my body. What did Jesus mean? What was being taught? What is really happening at the Lord's table? A good rule of hermeneutics, a good concept to keep in your back pocket, is that no message of the Bible can mean to you or me what it would not have meant To the original speaker and audience. When I held up my phone, the picture's timed out, when I held up my phone and said, This is Becky and me Not a one of you would have understood that to mean that our bodies are in with and under this photo. Not a one of you would have imagined. That this photo somehow became the essence of us, the substance of us. It is the plain and simple, clear, normal use of human language for you to understand. Now when I say this is Becky and me, I mean for you to understand what's in the picture, what the picture is about. If it wasn't clear who was telling you, yeah, it was a train or something we were standing in front of there. If it wasn't clear who was standing in front of the train, now you know it's clear. It's Becky and me, me and Becky. That's the essence of what Jesus is doing when he says, This is my body. And how do we know that? Because of the context. It's in the Passover meal, and he's the host. You see, this is how the Passover would have ordinarily gone In an ordinary Jewish satyr, the head of the household stands up at the beginning, when everything is set, when everyone has gathered the table, stands up at the beginning, takes the matzah, and holds it up and says, This is the bread of the affliction. Which our fathers ate in the land of Egypt. Now, would anyone at that meal, would any of the disciples, if Jesus had stood up and done that, would any of the disciples have imagined themselves, wow, that bread is 1,500 years old? It's the actual bread of the affliction. No. Would any of them have imagined? It's somehow been transmuted, transubstantiated, it has taken on the essence of the bread of the affliction. No. What's going on at that moment? What's happening in the Hagara? I'm going to read for you some writing by Rabbi Jonathan Sachs. He is the former chief rabbi of the United Kingdom. In other words, this is a Jew describing the Seder. Passover, the Jewish Festival of Freedom, is an extraordinary testimony of the power of ritual to keep ideals and identity alive across the centuries. On Passover, we relive the story of our people sitting together at home as an extended family, as if we were back in the Egypt of the Pharaohs on the night before we are about to go free from long exile and harsh enslavement. We begin the drama by holding up a batza, the dry and leavened bread that is one of the key symbols of the festival, and saying, This is the bread of the affliction our ancestors ate in the land of Egypt. I'm skipping down his writing, but I'm still quoting Rabbi Sachs. It is history made memory by reenactment. For most Jews, it is the way we learned when we were young who we are and why. That is why Paul uses the language of participation in 1 Corinthians 10, 16 That is why he says the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a koinonia in the blood of Christ? We do not merely remember what happened, we participate in it The matzah is said to be the bread of affliction, which the fathers ate in Egypt, so as to transport the partaker back to Egypt, making him or her functionally and effectively a participant. Not merely a remember it. And this brings us back to why it's critical that we understand that Jesus was the host that night. And he is the host every time we partake. Jesus would have been leading the Haggadh that night He would have lifted up the bread. He would have held forth the matzah, and everyone in the room was expecting to him to say, This is the bread of affliction which our fathers ate in Egypt. And instead he said, This is my body And in that context, even if in that moment they were a tad bewildered, even if in that moment they did not yet understand what was going to happen to his body, they did not understand the fate of his blood yet. Nevertheless, in that moment when they reflected on it, they would have gone to identity, they would have gone to connection, they would have gone to communion, they would have gone to participation, that just as in the Passover We were taken back to Egypt. We were set free by God from this enslavement. We were part of that, even though we weren't actually there. That the context in which Jesus says, This is my body. That's the sense that those Jews in that room that night would have understood that language. It's why Paul in Romans 6 and in Colossians 2 could speak of believers as dying with Jesus, as being raised in him. At the table of the Lord, the Lord brings us into koinania with him, into fellowship with him, into the bonds of communion, into participation. And this is why it is once for all, as Hebrews 10 says. We do not need Christ re-sacrificed for us. We do not need him to die again in our place. This is not a sacrifice. And perhaps, honestly, perhaps we should not have the trappings of sacrifice on the table Perhaps there are appropriate prices for the cross, but maybe not at this table. For it is not an altar It is not a place of Christ dying again. It's a place where we are brought in to the established reality of what He did for us. Where we are made partakers of, where we become functionally and effectively one of. Belonging to him, being in him, being his. My senior year in high school I had reasons there were two nights a week that I was up at the churches and Thursday nights for different reasons. My high school was on the far side of town from where I lived, and our church was on that far side of town And so I did not have time to drive home, have dinner with my family, drive back to church. So I would go to the pastor's house and hang out, he was usually already at the church, but I'd hang out with his wife and children They would feed me dinner, I would hang out there for a while, and then go into the church with them. And over the course of the year we began to laugh, and I had become part of the Kemp family. That I was beginning to be associated with them, beginning to have a inside look at their, you know, their inside jokes and all the little quirks. What happens if you spend think about that if you were to eat dinner two nights a week for an entire year with another family, you'd begin to get some insight into them, wouldn't you? They couldn't hide all their blemishes from me anymore, could they? Nor could I hide mine from them. I was part of their family. Because I ate with them. I participated with them. I was essentially one of them for that year. That's the sense of this table. When we speak of communion, We are speaking of being united with Christ. So that when the bread is broken, when we are reminded that his body was broken, we are also participating with it. And functionally before God with regard to our sin, we are slain. This is why Paul can say we are dead to sin, but alive in Christ. The Heidelberg Catechism, one of the great documents that came out of the Protestant Reformation, puts it this way. Question 76: What does it mean to eat the crucified body of Christ and to drink his shed blood? First, it is to accept with the believing heart all the suffering and the death of Christ. So we see the importance of faith. To accept with the believing heart all the suffering and the death of Christ, and to receive forgiveness of sins and of life eternal. Second to be united more and more to his sacred body through the Holy Spirit, who lives both in Christ and in us. Therefore, although Christ is in heaven and we are on earth, yet we are flesh of his flesh and bone of his bones. And we forever live and are governed by one Spirit, as the members of our body are by one Spirit. Soul. Christ is truly present at our table His body stays at the right hand of the throne in heaven. His humanity limits his physicalness to that place. But just as he didn't, just as he was fully human, and therefore his body must stay there, he is still fully divine. And the divine spirit can be omnipresent And so Christ comes at the table and is still the host of it. He is still the one that says, Take and eat, this is my body. He is still the one that says, This is my blood, shed for many for the forgiveness of sins. He is really there. Calling us to participate with him in his death. Why did Paul say? What was the great joy and the benefit of it? So that we declare his death Until he comes. It is the great encourager of our faith that if we have participated in his death, then our sins are paid for. Which means when he comes back, we're good to go. We don't need that to be a sacrifice. We need it to build our faith. To reassure us of what we have in our Savior, that we are united to Him, that we commune with Him, that we have participated with Him. In his death and his resurrection. And so it is not a place that we go when we are sure of everything. It's a place where we go when we are in desperate need. When our faith is broken and our hearts are weak, when our flesh has betrayed us, when we have fallen back into sin, when we have every reason to doubt. He stands before us and says, Come and eat. Be united to me. Join me in my death. Be reminded. That your price, your sin has been paid, and that you can look forward to the day I come back. Let's pray. Lord, there is a mystery to this doctrine. There is a an aspect to participation and connection to things long ago that kind of foreign to us as Americans, as rugged individualists. Help us to see it. Help us to believe it. Help us to grow in an understanding of it. Pull us to yourself through it, that as we rejoice in your table, as we celebrate your table, that we would recognize that it is not a re-sacrifice. Of you, for your sacrifice was once for all, sufficient, adequate, more than enough. Remind us that we've become participants in. And that begins to mark our identity. That at the table we are reminded that we are yours, part of your family. A Shah, but also a Christian. And someday not a Shah and just a Christian. One with you. Truly yours. And you are truly ours. Thank you for such a beautiful visual sign. Thank you for something so tactile and concrete, which teaches us the truth of your word. Let us not fall into the mistake of those in the book of Hebrews. Let us not trust in the sign itself, but always cling to him to whom it points. We pray this in his name. Amen.