As we prepare to read Mark 3, I want to remind you, here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and practice. That if we want to know what it is we are to believe and how it is that we are to live, if we want to know what it is that we are to confess about the one called the Christ then we must know his word. So I invite you now to hear the word of God from Mark chapter 3 Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed from Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem and Edomiah and from beyond the Jordan and from around Tyre and Sidon When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him, and he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crush him For he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch him. And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God And he strictly ordered them not to make him known. And he went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him. And he appointed twelve, whom he also named apostles, so that they might be with him and he might send them out to preach, and have authority to cast out demons. He appointed the twelve, Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter, James, the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, to whom he gave the names Bonerges, that is, sons of thunder. Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son of Alpheus, and Thaddeus and Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. Then he went home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat. And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, he is out of his mind. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, He is possessed by Beelzebub, and by the Prince of Demons he cast out the demons. And he called them to him, and he said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, the house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house. Truly I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter. But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin. for they were saying, He has an unclean spirit. And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him and called him And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother and my brothers? And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Spirit of God, speak to us through this your word. That we might hear all the various things that are said about Jesus in this text. And that through this we might understand the declaration to which you have called us. The confession that Jesus is Lord and that He is the Messiah We ask that you would allow us to hear that message, that it would be renewed in us and driven home for us. We pray this in His name. Amen. Well, it is football season again. The weather certainly confirms that, the chill in the air and all that we enjoy. And so I've been watching a few college football games on Saturday afternoons And it's uh part of football seems to be something we refer to as the shout-out. The camera gets put in a young man's face and he feels the need to say hi to the camera. Very often it's the, hi mom! Hey mom, hey, we're number one. You put the camera up in somebody's face and they have that need to acknowledge somebody else. One of the channels I was watching seems to be doing a special this month or this season maybe, I don't know, on teachers. And so they've been doing interviews with these college players and asking them, and the and the college player will talk about some teacher. Some previous person who's had an influence in their life, and they'll mention Mr. Jones or Mrs. Smith and acknowledge their work. I was in a small High school, uh a little country rural school. They'd only graduate 35 to 40 students per year, so they had time at the graduation ceremony. to make uh little personal comments about each of the graduates. And one of the things they would do would be allow, they would say who that student had identified as the most influential teacher in their time in that school district. It was a little shout-out to that teacher, a little nice comment. And when when somebody going across their high school graduation stage would say, I'm thinking about becoming a teacher because of the influence of Mrs. Smith in third grade, it made Mrs. Smith feel good. This morning our text takes a look at a shout-out, at somebody saying something nice about somebody else in a public way. It actually concludes with that. I don't know if you caught it. It concludes with Jesus saying something about others. A shout-out of sorts. And yet, before we get to the point where Jesus makes a declaration, where he makes a confession about others, we have a whole series of texts in which others are making confessions about Jesus. And what ties this all together are these series of confessions, these series of statements of what it is that people believe and what it is they think. Now, certainly several of these texts can and maybe should at another time stand alone as sermons, for they could be delved into more deeply. And yet I want us to see the overarching theme that holds them together. You may recall that one of the theses that I've put forward for the book of Mark is that it is driving toward getting us the reader To make the confessions that are central to the book in Mark 8, when Peter confesses, you are the Christ. And in Mark 15, when the centurion stands at the foot of the cross and says, Surely this man was the Son of God. Mark wants us as his reader to make those same confessions. And so to help prompt us to start to think that way, he lays forward a whole series of confessions. So that we might begin to sift through these and to find ourselves in these and to say, yeah, I think I agree with that, or no, I really don't agree with that. Where do I stand on this man Jesus? Let's take a look at those confessions this morning. We're going to look at what the crowds think about Jesus. We're going to look at what the unclean spirits have to say about him. What the scribes have to say about him, what his own family has to say about him. And in looking at all of these, Mark is going to uh push us to stop and to reflect upon the question of what do we have to say about this man Jesus. Are we with the crowds? Are we with the unclean spirits? Are we with the scribe or his family? Or do we have another confession to make about him. Mark's gospel is a call to confess to Christ. And in this passage we see, after having after having heard in the in the in the opening chapter about all those voices validating the ministry of Jesus After seeing in the second half of chapter 1 all the authority of the ministry of Jesus, after seeing in the last chapter all the ways that Jesus upheld and set right the law. We now are called to make a confession about this Jesus. And Mark says, here are what the others believe about him. What do you believe about him? Mark closes this section with two interesting things. Includes in this section two interesting things. One is a text that seems a little out of place. The calling of the twelve apostles. It doesn't seem to fit with the rest of what's going on here. And in fact, and it's interesting, the wording there It doesn't really seem necessary to believe that that's what happened in that chronological order. And in fact, we already know that he called some of the apostles apostles at different times. And yet Mark summarizes all the call right here. Why? I think we're going to take a look at that also. And then we're going to look at an interesting close. So first, the confessions that are made about Jesus in this text. The crowds come up first in verses seven through ten. We see the confessions of the crowds. Now they do not with one voice rise up and say You know, we believe this, that, or the other thing, but rather by their actions, Mark portrays what it is they believe. Certainly Jesus came to fix Everything that ails us. He came to set right all the things that have been made wrong by the fall But when we look at the Gospel of Mark, the summary that Mark has put forward for Jesus' ministry is a summary of things focused on the spiritual. What was the summary of Jesus' preaching back in Mark 1. 15? Jesus said, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the good news. It's a spiritual message. Frequently Mark, even though he does not record the details of what is being said, he frequently points out in verse chapter 1, verse 14, in chapter 1, verse 21, in chapter 1, verse 38 In chapter 2, verse 2, and in chapter 2, verse 13, five times already we've seen Mark talk about how Jesus was preaching and teaching. That the principal thing he was here to do was to communicate a message about spiritual freedom. Yes, Jesus has performed physical healings. Yes, the body matters to our God. He made us both material and immaterial beings, both body and soul. And yes, he cares about our body. And yes, the restoration of our body is part of the glorious message of the gospel. But what do the people declare about the Christ in this passage? Why is it that they are flocking to Jesus? Jesus is in fear for his life. He's afraid he's going to get trampled. The crowd is going to press in on him. And he says, Get me a boat. So they can back up into the water. I can stand and create this moat around me so they can't press up against me. Is that so they could they were pressing up to Jesus so they could get close enough to hear the sermons Were they really eager to know what he was going to say next? Now the text tells us they were doing this because of all the healings he had done. They were flocking to Jesus because they wanted what he offered in this life, with no particular concern for what he might be offering about the next life. It's a very telling thing that we also tend to be very concerned about the body and this life and tend to neglect the aspects of the next life Is physical healing important? Yes. Will there come a time in the next life when our physical bodies will be healed? Yes. But that is done through spiritual healing. Jesus came to offer a spiritual message that we must be made right with God through him. And we tend to set that aside as of lesser importance. And you say, well, Pastor, surely I don't do that, and yet I would challenge you to consider. How far you would drive for good medical attention versus how far you would drive to hear good preaching. I know a lot of people who will put miles on their car to get to the right doctor and won't cross the street to get to the right church. What kind of attention do you pay when it comes time to retire and you're going to move to that ideal retirement location? I'm astounded by the number of people I've heard over as a over the years as a pastor who will pay attention to, you know, I'm gonna we're gonna return the city because it's close to family and it's got great medical care and and later on when the time comes we'll be able to move into an assisted living facility and they they Pay attention to all these things. They even worry about things like the golf courses. It's got some nice golf courses nearby. And they move there and a year later they're back visiting the church and I say, so you have you found a new church home? No, there's not a good church in town. Really? You looked into the medical facilities before you moved there. You looked into the golf courses before you moved there, but you didn't consider whether or not there was a place to feed your soul before you moved there. We make decisions all the time. We spend far more money, most of us, on our physical well-being than we do on our spiritual well-being. We go to great lengths to be sure that those things are taken care of, but we do not look out for our souls. The crowds are pressing in on Jesus because they want the physical things he offers. There's nothing wrong with that. But they don't seem to care about the spiritual things he's offering. What they confess about Jesus is he has a means to make life feel good now. But they care nothing about the message of being made right with God. In verses 11 and 12, we see the confession of the unclean spirits. They are calling out, you are the Son of God. They are rightly identifying him. They have rightly picked out a care key characteristic of who he is. But let's consider why they're doing it. Names give us an interesting control over situations. We all know this. There are names that your mother used. Scott Lee Shaw, uh-oh, versus Saki. That's my nickname and my family. The two mean something very, very different about what's going on. And by the use of them, my mom controlled the situation. My wife has certain names that she can use that'll get me to do what she wants me to do. We have control over other people by the names we use. We know this, by the way, from the school playground. Some very mean names get thrown around. in order to control other people. Most biblical scholars believe that that is what the demons are trying to do here. That they're trying to manipulate the situation and take control of it by naming him the way they name him. And that Jesus recaptures the control and takes charge of what's going on. But the question becomes this Do we name Jesus? Do we confess things about him only when it serves our purposes? Only when we want to get control over him? Do we do we manipulate our relationship with Jesus so that we can control it the way the demons were trying to do? They confessed a truth about Jesus, but not for the purpose of arriving at ultimate truth, but for the purpose of having some control over him. There are many of us who pray that way. We don't really pray, Thy will be done. We don't really want God to have the freedom to do whatever it is that he feels is best. We really want God to do what we want him to do. We want him to be our big cosmic genie who's going to fulfill our wishes. We want to control him when we pray in his name. rather than submit to him because of the glory of his name. The crowds have confessed that he is wonderful for making life feel good now. The demons have confessed that he is, in fact, the Son of God, but they're not about to willingly submit to him. And now in verse 13, we read of the call of the confessors. This interlude that seems a little out of place at first. Why is the ordination of the twelve in the middle of the section? Why is it put here? Why does Mark sum up this here and now? And I think quite simply it's Mark's testimony to God's sovereign grace. Those who will eventually confess Jesus as Messiah and Lord, even in the one who would betray Him. All those who would be used by God to accomplish the work of the crucifixion and then also to spread the word about that work. are gathered here in the midst of this section. And Mark reminds us that any anyone who rightly identifies who he is, anyone who calls him, calls on his name not to control him, but to glorify him. Any of those who confess him not merely for the well-being of this life, but for well-being in the next life, do so because they've been called by God. Set apart by him, chosen by him, in the midst of all of these very flawed confessions about Jesus. We have the twelve called. Those who would become the confessors, those who would become the true believers. And yet ironically in this text they don't confess anything. They're silent in the midst of all of this. And Mark is portraying for us a picture. And reminding us. He's reminding his original audience in first century Rome that there was a time when even the twelve struggled to confess. If you're going through doubts, if you're wrestling with this, don't worry. Stick with it. Keep hearing. Keep reading. Keep marching through the text. And just as the the the twelve came to a point of understanding, so will you. If you have been called by God to be one of the true confessors, you will arrive at that point. Now Mark picks up in verse 20 verse 20 and 21 with an interesting comment from about Jesus' family. And then he, Jesus, went home, and the crowd gathered again so that he could not even eat. And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, he is out of his mind. It's an interesting comment they make. There's actually a lot of stuff that's interesting here. First of all, you've got to remind ourselves that two of those who are standing there saying, This guy is crazy, went on to write books of the New Testament. James and Jude. So there was a time even for them where they weren't able to embrace all that Jesus taught. And they say he's out of his mind, and you have to ask yourself why? What are they rebelling against? Is that he's healing people really that terrible? Is it really that outrageous that he's making sick people well? No, that's not what they're rebelling against. What are they rebelling against? It is the content of his message. It is the content of his preaching and teaching. They have heard what he has to say when the crowds gather and they say, this guy's crazy. He's out of his mind. You know, there are some today who will make that same confession. They're not going to deny that Jesus actually lived. history attests to the fact that Jesus of Nazareth lived and these things basically, you know, these happened in his life. But they say it wasn't really who he claimed to be. He was just a crazy man who got some people to follow him. Because crazy people can do that. And Mark says, if that's what you're thinking, if that's where you're leaning on this man Jesus, recognize that his own family once thought that about him. But that's not where they ended up. James once said he's out of his mind and then wrote a book encouraging us to follow him. Jude once said he's out of his mind, and then wrote a letter to the Christian saying, you must hold to the faith delivered once for all to the saints. Others have thought he's out of his mind, but those who knew him best did not stay with that opinion of him. The crowds have confessed that they hope in Jesus' healing for this life. The demons have confessed that he is the Son of God, but they do so to manipulate him. His uh disciples have confessed nothing at this point But there they are called by him to become confessors. And his family is confessed, they think he's crazy. And in verse 22, we hear from the scribes. The scribes were basically a group that amounted to the legal experts. They were experts in the law of God. They were lawyers and really good ones. And what do they have to say about him there in verse 22? The scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, he is possessed by Beelzebub. By the prince of demons he cast out demons You know, there are others who will say Jesus, no, he wasn't crazy. He was just a really bad guy who knowingly misled a lot of people. He was a liar and a deceiver. And that's what the scribes are saying about him here. It's trickery. He's not from God. He's of he's of the devil. And they're in league together. They've set this all up. You got demons possessing people and he comes and they've got already planned beforehand, okay? Let's make sure it's dramatic. You gotta throw this guy down and really roll him around the dirt really well, make a big deal out of it, and then I'll cast you out and you'll get out. Everybody will think I'm from God. We'll trick everybody. That's what the scribes are saying. Something interesting happens in response. We now hear Jesus' confession about himself What does Jesus confess about himself? He said, the only way that you're going to drive out a demon Is to be stronger than the demon. The only way that you can rob a man's house is that you be stronger than that man. You must be able to bind him. You're gonna have to wrestle him to the ground and hogtie him before you can clean out his house of all of his possessions. And if I am taking the house away from demons, if I'm taking away the place where they live inside these people. The only way I can do that is if I am stronger than their master. And Jesus begins to reveal what he believes about himself. What he confesses about himself. And he says, I am stronger than that Prince of Demons to whom you just alluded. I am more powerful than the one you fear in Satan The crowds have confessed some things about Jesus. He's pretty good for making your life go better right now. The demons have confessed some things about Jesus. The scribes have confessed some things about Jesus. His family has confessed some things about Jesus. And now Jesus confesses some things about himself. I am the one strong enough to do what has to be done. To bind the evil forces of this earth Mark throughout this entire passage is laying the groundwork for the looming question. In Mark 8, we're going to see Jesus put this question to the twelve, to those whom he has just called here and set aside. He is going to turn to them in Mark 8 and say, But who do you say that I am? That's the question that's coming And it's the question that was being put forward to Mark's first audience back in 65 A. D. For the officials of Rome, we're gathering them up, and we're taking them into custody, and we're taking them into the courts of Rome, and taking them into the Colosseum, and taking them in and saying, What do you believe? Who do you say that Jesus of Nazareth is? And if they had said He is Lord, then they were condemned. You ever stop to think about why we make a confession of faith? Why we have the Westminster confession of faith? Ordinarily a confession is a negative thing. You fess up to something bad. Pro is positive, con is negative. Pro means with, con means against. Why don't we have the Westminster profession of faith? Because in the early days of the church, the world judged That you were making a confession. You were admitting to something really bad. You were owning up to the fact that you had followed this deceiver, this liar, this no-account carpenter named Jesus. And Mark's original audience is being is being confronted with the question that we're being confronted with right now. Who do you say that he is? What do you confess about him? Are you going to own up to the fact that you're following this man Jesus? It's interesting how Mark ends the passage. If we were standing and our lives were on the line, we were standing in a Roman court. We'd have to wonder, are we really going to own up? Are we really going to admit that he is ours? And to help us do that, Mark ends the passage in a really interesting way, for he offers a confession that Jesus makes about those who believe Did you catch how it ended? And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him and called him, and a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother, your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother? And my brothers? And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of God. He is my brother and sister and mother. Jesus said, those who believe. For another place he reminds us, what is the will of God? Remember the Farad, they come to him and say, what should we do? And he says, the work of God is this, to believe on the one whom he has sent. And he says, those who believe that, they are my family. This is why we have this table. Because we're frail and weak in our willingness to confess him as Lord and Savior. But he confesses us as a part of his family. He names us publicly. He says they are mine, so that we will be encouraged to say he is ours. I hold to him because he's held on to me. The confession of Jesus is that those whom he has called, those who believe on his name, are his family. What a wonderful reminder of the joy that is ours to be with this man, to be one of his.