Open your Bibles if you would to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews 11. We come this morning to what is easily the best known and most beloved chapter of the book of Hebrews. It is arguably one of the most beloved chapters in all the Bible. Hebrews 11, though a much loved chapter, does not lend itself to the type of I'll say cherry picking that's common to other well-known passages. Honestly, aside from the first verse Not much else in this passage truly stands alone. And so Hebrews 11 does not make it onto things like refrigerator magnets and throw pillows and wall hangings because you'd kind of have to put the whole chapter there. So we are going to take it in a fairly large chunk this morning, looking at quite a bit of it One of the reasons that this passage hangs together as a whole and does not lend itself to being taken apart verse by verse is really because it's in the midst of a sermon. We have pointed out several times that the book of Hebrews is not a typical letter, but it is rather a sermon, probably one that was preached and transcribed and then sent. and mailed out. And sermons, generally, most sermons have three main parts to them. There is the explanation of skirt We have seen that over and over and over again in the book of Hebrews as he quotes the Old Testament on page after page after page, the explanation of Scripture. A second important component of sermons is the application of scripture, not always in this order, the application of scripture. How do we live in light of the scripture? Largely that was what we saw in chapter 10, particularly toward the end of chapter 10. The warning that if you were to apostatize, if you were to turn away from the faith, if you were to let go of our confession That you would risk the fury of fire. And he said, having come so far, and having, and knowing what the alternative is, continue Persevere. Hang on. Keep going. The application. A third part of a sermon tends to be illustration. Give us a picture. Show us what it looks like. in the real world. This chapter is largely that. It is a chapter of illustrations. The preacher has come to a point where he is going to turn to Stories perhaps more familiar to them than maybe they are to us today, but stories that he points to to illustrate his point. And so we're going to kind of more or less follow the way that he takes. He really, verse one is kind of a brief explanation. And then the rest of it is illustration. And so I'm going to take it kind of in that way. We're going to read verse 1. And then pray, and we'll consider the rest of the chapter as we move through our sermon and point to these as illustrations. Join me now in reading Hebrews 11, verse 1. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. Let me read that again. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for. The conviction of things not seen. Let's pray. Lord, help us to grasp the importance of this kind of faith. of this assurance of the things that we hope for, of this concrete conviction of that which you have promised And as we consider the illustration of the saints who have gone before us, we ask that you would work through these to move us toward this kind of saving faith. We pray this in Christ's name and for the sake of His glory. Amen. Biblical faith is not an emotion. I want to say that again because it flies in the face of so much that is being taught right now in the American Church. Biblical faith is not an emotion. Christian belief is not about attitude or disposition. It is an action or a set of actions based on the acceptance of certain propositions. Faith is acting on the basis of propositions. Sadly, we have largely, as of a church in North America, allowed a worldly view of faith and belief to creep into our hearts and minds. Let me go back to a time and a place that probably very few of you are familiar with, but I think it'll still work as an illustration. In 1997, following a near 40-year drought The Detroit Red Wings won the Stanley Cup Trophy, the NHL Championship, the National Hockey League Championship Six days later, they had a teen dinner and gration over their new victory, their new championship. And after that, on the way home that night, These celebrants, from a worldly perspective, they did all the right things. They knew they were going to be celebrating, so they hired a limo service to take them home. And there was a tragic accident. The limousine crashed, and several of the members of the Detroit Red Wings Championship team were badly injured Including one of them, their star defenseman, Vladimir Konstantinov. He was paralyzed and would never skate again. To my understanding, I don't think he's ever walked again. He was horribly injured in the aftermath of that victory. Well, in the year that followed, all of Metro Detroit was emblazoned with a single word always printed in Red Wings red, and it was the word believe For the next calendar year, that was everywhere. You couldn't drive anywhere in Metro Detroit without seeing the word believe. everywhere. And what was the point of it? Well the point was to stir up this this excitement, this hope, this energy, this this fan-based enthusiasm that would hopefully bring about the desired outcome In part, they wanted the fans to believe, and in so believing, they wanted the fans to actualize and realize Both the return of these injured players, but also the return of the team to the top of the NHL heap. Fast forward a year. And the Detroit Red Wings did repeat as Stanley Cup champions. And of course, the the institution, the the organization, the business of the Red Wings wanting to keep its fan base engaged and connected Told us all that we had brought them that championship, that our collective belief had made that a reality Now, in the world of sports, there's actually some possibility that that's true. Emotion plays a lot have a lot to do with the way sports play out, how performers perform. So the collective enthusiasm, the collective energy, the collective hope, the collective excitement of the fan base may vary well. Have motivated those players to practice a little longer, to spend just a few more minutes in the weight room, to try a little harder on the ice. Maybe, maybe. The collective believing of all of Southeast Michigan ushered in the second championship. But that's not how Christian faith works. That's not what the Bible means by belief. And yet we have allowed some of that to seep into our thinking. You see, in our understanding of faith, in the Bible's description of Christian faith. It is not that faith ushers in an outcome. Belief does not bring about a certain set of truths. Rather, belief is based on a certain set of truth. Belief is founded on truth. It is not the producer of truth. Look again at verse 1. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for. And then that statement, if we stop there, that would have the risk of sounding a little bit like that Red Wings version of belief. And he goes on to clarify his thinking. It is the conviction of things not seen. It is an absolute assurance of that which we cannot see and be sure of in that concrete. uh uh prove it mathematically sense, but which nevertheless we hold to be true. Very briefly, I want to comment. Why does he open up with the word now? Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for? I'll remind you that he's preaching a sermon. This sermon did not have chapter markers and verse markers. He has flowed right into this, right out of the close of chapter 10. So look back up to that last verse of chapter 10. Remember, he was giving them a warning. If you apostasize, if you turn away from the faith, you risk the wrath of God, you risk the fury of fire, was the warning he used. And they gave that encouragement, but you've come so far, you are so close, why would you quit now? And he closes chapter 10 with these words. But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls. And having said that we are a people of faith, he now explains what faith is. It's not some warm, fuzzy feeling. It's not some inexplicable welling up of exuberance inside of us. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. Now he's going to give us some illustrations, but before we bring out his illustrations, let me try one of my own I hate flying. I do not like it at all. Now from the ground, I get it. I get why other people like it. I can admire and respect the freedom, the glory, the excitement of flight. I get it. I like it. It baffles my brain that an object, and by the way, I looked this up, a 747, unloaded, empty, weighs in at 450 tons. It's bewildering that something that heavy can be airborne, but I still fly. Because faith is not about my feelings. It's not about my emotion with regard to flying. It's rooted in objective truth. It's rooted in reality. The Bernoulli principle is a real thing. And though I cannot see air molecules, there are a gazillion of them out there lifting that plane off the ground. There are objective mathematical, engineering, scientific principles that explain flight. And so I fly. It's not about how I feel, it's about truth. And not for nothing. This is one of the reasons Jesus makes that famous line. The truth will set you free. When we hold to what is true, not what we feel, then all kinds of things are opened up to us. And so I rejoice in the benefits of flight, even though I don't like flying. You see, that's been our author's point all along. Hold fast the confession of our faith. Cling to the truths that we state, that we know objectively. You see, these things are not true because you believe them, which also means they're not going to go away because you don't believe them. Christ is coming back. God will judge the world. Believers will spend eternity in heaven and the reprobate will go to hell. And how you feel about that is irrelevant. Because they're objective truths. There was a Christian hymn which was popular quite a while ago, predates many of you, and included this line You ask me how I know he lives, he lives within my heart. That is subjective Christianity That's a Christianity that says it's true because I believe it. It's about what happens here and that establishes what is real About the same time that that hymn was popular, there was a bumper sticker that one could routinely see in American roads that said the following: God said it, I believe it, that settles it. The problem there is that middle line. What I believe about something has nothing to do with what settles it. Our faith is not a subjective faith. It's not rooted in us, and that produces reality. Rather, there is a truth to which we hold, not which we produce, not which is the outcome of what we believe We believe it because it is true independently of us. That's what our preacher is saying there in verse 1. That faith is the assurance of things hoped for. It is the certainty of things not seen. And now he begins to illustrate it. So let's walk with him through the rest of these verses. Verse 2: For by it, that is, by faith, the people of old received their commendation. Okay, so faith isn't going to change the reality, but rather faith is going to change how the people are treated. They're going to be commended Now it's interesting, he doesn't begin actually with the people of old, does he? Verse 3, he begins with himself and his audience and us. By faith We understand that the universe was created by the Word of God so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. Now there's a great deal that could be said about this. We could spend a long time just on these few verses. But his point really is fairly simple. Justice faith is not going to determine, have not determined the past, is not going to determine the future either. He's establishing the nature of faith. That it is the acceptance of revealed facts. Whether or not we were there when the earth was founded, whether or not we understand what was happening all that time ago. God has said that he spoke into existence all that exist, that he created it out of nothing, and therefore we accept that. And he's basically saying to us and to his readers, your attitude toward the past, you accept what God has said about creation, ought to be your attitude toward the future. That you accept what God says about the final end of things. For no more than you can go back and prove the past, you can't go forward and prove the future. But just as your subjectivity did not bring about that past, neither does your subjectivity or subjective attitude toward things bring about the future. And he is rooting the view of faith in this past under this understanding of past events. And that's kind of the point of verse 3. So he picks up again in verse 4. By faith, Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended, there is that idea, as righteous God commending him by accepting his gifts, and through his faith, though he die, he still speaks. By faith Enoch was taken up, so that he should not see death. And he was not and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now, before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. And without faith, it is impossible to please him. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. By faith, Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen. Now we begin to see this forward-looking nature of faith In reverent fear, constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. Three men in this section, Abel, Enoch, and Noah. Noah's faith is rather obvious as it's set forth there. He was told about the future. Hey, it's going to rain. Now, we would say, yeah, well, your weather app says that, but mine says something else. Noah trusted God's view of the future and acted accordingly. And so he built the boat he was told to build. Noah's faith is fairly straightforward. The faith of the other two men who are mentioned here is a bit more mysterious. There's actually a great deal of debate about the nature of Abel's offering compared to Cain's Was it that he made a blood offering and Cain did not? Was it that he offered the fat parts, implying the best parts of his offering, where Cain may have offered the bruised fruit and the leftovers? Was it that Cain was acting in mere outward formality with no inward reality? We don't know for sure, and it can be debated for quite a while. The point is that Abel, whatever the nature of his faith, he acted in faith. And we know even less about Enoch. We are told in the Old Testament that Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Now, it's widely accepted that that last part, God took him, is meant to convey that he did not die, that he was ushered into God's presence bodily, physically as a whole human being, not merely his immaterial soul. So that he stands with Elijah as the two people who have entered eternity in the way that we will all one day experience eternity, body and soul. But the details of his life are not given to us It is a mystery. Our author concludes that to have pleased God in such a way must have involved faith But that and that's a valid uh r- uh uh uh understanding, but it's actually not on the pages of Genesis explicitly. And so we are left with something of a mystery. Three men of faith But three very different outcomes, and that's the thing I want to point to for the sake of what we're developing. So many in the church today, so much of the American church today, argues that Christianity is The reason it's important, the reason you should accept it, the reason you should believe it, the reason you should go to church, the reason you should be a Christian is to impact the outcome of your life here and now. That by being a Christian you will live a better life. But notice these three men. The one was rewarded handsomely in this life. He didn't die. The one lived out a very long and prosperous life, but he was mocked and ridiculed for his faith. And Abel was the first martyr. Killed. Murdered. for his faith, cut down in the prime of life. And in fact, the the record of Genesis is pretty clear that he had no offspring. He was cut down before he was able to form a family and have children. He was still a young man when he was murdered. He died for his faith. That's not the picture that much of American Christianity wants to paint of faith. You see, faith doesn't change the future. The future is what it is. Faith looks at the revelation of that future, at the things that God has promised about that future, and believes them to be so. Abel did not live his best life now because he was a Christian. He was killed because he was a Christian. Picking up in verse 8. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he went to live in the land of promise. And we begin now to see this metaphor for looking forward to what is promised. Yes, for Abraham, it was a concrete place in this world. But it was never merely that. It was always pointing to something more, as our author will point out in a moment here. Picking up in verse 10, for he was looking forward, here we see it, he was looking forward to the city that has foundations. whose designer and builder is God. You see, Abraham did not move from Ur of the Chaldeans into Canaan. Because he simply wanted to possess Canaan. His obedience in this life was not about this life. The author of Hebrews is saying, hey, Abraham did what he did because of his faith and hope and belief in the things that God had promised beyond this life. That Abraham moved in so that one day he could move to the city that has foundations built by God. He longs to look forward to that. You know When a deacon accepts his calling and his ordination in the church when he acts in and for this time and place He does so, hopefully, not because of some assurance that the reward is in the here and now, but in the confidence that what is done here and now has value in the then and there. And by the way, if that's not the case, Paul, Paul of all people says, if that's not the case, if faith's reward is not in the next life, what does Paul say to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 15? Then we are to be pitied above all men. Christians are the most pathetic, most foolish group of humans on the planet. If the next world isn't real. That's according to the Apostle Paul. It has to be a forward-looking faith. Verse 11. And we come now to the character in this list that I find the most compelling. There's a reason that of all of these stories of the Old Testament, I chose Sarah's to be our Old Testament reading. Let's look at what our author has to say about Sarah by faith. Sarah received power to conceive, even when she was past the age. Since she considered him faithful, who had promised. Therefore, from one man and him as good as dead, were born descendants as many as the stars of the heaven, and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore. I chose the Sarah passage for Old Testament reading. I focused in on this of all the options that we could have, because I think in some ways that Sarah perhaps best captures the real biblical picture of faith. For hers is not a response of warm fuzzies. Sarah's response to the promises of God was not one of rejoicing. It was not one of standing up and singing praises. It was not rooted in a proper emotional response. In fact, her emotional response was totally contrary to what it should have been. She laughed. She heard the promise of God to her husband, and she couldn't help herself. She laughed. It's ridiculous. That's absurd. What could possibly be dumber Than believing that at age ninety I'm gonna have a child. Come on So why does she make the so-called Hall of Faith? Why is Sarah on this list of the great saints of old Well, at some point, she set aside her skepticism. At some point, she reflected on the God who made the promise At some point, she laid in that tent one night and thought to herself, we've come this far. We've left behind so much. We have thrown everything in on this God who appeared to us out of nowhere. He was not one of the gods of Mesopotamia. He wasn't a god of my fathers and mothers. He appeared to us out of nowhere, and we have thrown everything in with him. Our whole lot in life is based on his promises. And much like the close of Hebrews 10, she says, we've come this far with him. Why would we quit now? And at some point, after her bad emotional response, she made a reasoned, cognitive, uh intellectual decision. Not rooted in an emotional response to some hymn that got her stirred up. Not rooted in some campfire speaker who moved her to emotion. But rather in reflecting on the truths that had been promised her, she snuck into Abraham's tent one night and said, Do you want to give this a try? Maybe there's something to this promise. Let's try I'm still not a hundred percent certain. It still seems strange to me that this is possible, but I'm willing to give it a shot. Notice the wording of our text. Notice how he says it there. I gotta find my spot here. You know, he says the ability to conceive was granted in response to her faith. In other words, because of her faith, God granted her the ability to conceive. It wasn't that She happened to be partaking in marital relations and, oh, I got pregnant, so now I'll believe. That's not how this played out. Our author says no, she believed first and therefore got pregnant. She took concrete steps. Rooted in a belief that what had been told her was true. Not rooted in emotion, not rooted in how she felt in the moment She, I like the story of Sarah in part because she captures how I think many of us feel on a regular basis. There is a part of us that says the resurrection just can't be true. It's outlandish. It's unprecedented. It's unparalleled And then, in the cold light of reason, we begin to look at all the evidence, we begin to look at the manifestation in the lives of the disciples, we begin to look at and how it changed the course of history, we begin to see, and we begin to go, you know what? If this were any other historic fact, we'd all agree that it happened. The evidence is overwhelming. The only reason I'm doubting it is because I can't wrap my head around it. I'm going to accept that it's true, even though I can't really see how. And just like the Bernoulli principle holds that plane aloft, even though I can't actually see it I accept the objective reality and live accordingly. Sarah accepted the reality of what God said. And I like this because I think a lot of us think that we when we have these doubts, when we're sitting there questioning things, when we're kind of scratching our head, going, how can this be? We somehow think that that undoes us, that that's the end of us, that we're done as Christians. That is all over, because we doubt it. We weren't sure. No. That's not how biblical faith works. Biblical faith isn't bringing about what's going to happen. It's accepting what God has said about what's going to happen and living accordingly. I wish, I wish, I wish, I wish that I had done a better job of planning this service because we should absolutely be reciting one of our creeds when this is over. A statement of what we believe regardless of how we feel about it And then living accordingly. Alas, I did not. Verse 13: These all died in faith, not having received the things promised. Again, I cannot emphasize strongly enough. Christian faith is not about the here and now, but about the future hope rooted in God's past actions. They died not having received the things promised. How does the name it and claim it view of Christianity get past this right here? If you just believe enough, pray enough, and tell God in confidence He'll give you whatever you want. In other words, I have to have more faith than Abraham. I have to have a better faith than Sarah. I have to have a deeper relationship with God than Abel had. They didn't get in this life the things that were promised. What makes me think I'm going to? That's not biblical Christianity. They did not receive the things promised. But having seen them And greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, for people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. I suspect that if you interviewed the people who talked to me, most of them would be convinced that my home is in America. That's not how these people of faith talked. If you had conversations with them, it became clear that they were not home. That they were looking for a home that was not where they were right now. Oh, that we would speak with that kind. Understanding. For if they had been thinking of the land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country, that is a heavenly one. I mentioned that we have a session meeting tomorrow night. One of the things we're going to be taking up at that meeting is the sermon series that follows the book of Hebrews. I was in a conversation with one of our members, I can't remember if it was a week ago, two weeks ago, something like that, and we were talking about the forward-looking view of Hebrews. And that member pointed out to me it would certainly be nice to have a better forward looking view if we knew more about what lay ahead And so I'm going to propose to the elders, and God willing, and the elders agreeable, I think at least, if not the next sermon series, a near sermon series is going to be on the topic of heaven. What is it we look forward to? What is this city like that is promised here, that's spoken of here? What is this country that they longed for? At some point we are going to take a look at those things. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. Do you believe what Jesus said in John 14? I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am, you may be also. This is the assurance of faith. This is the basis of Christian belief. Not that if we believe enough that we will prompt God to come and save us. But rather the realization that he has taken the work to save us, and we are going to hope in that In 2013, I schemed and deceived and hid behind the scenes and I snuck around and I did a bunch of underhanded stuff to prepare a trip to Paris, France for our 25th wedding anniversary. I made the arrangements, I did all the work, I worked out all the logistics, I made sure the kids were going to be taken care of, I did all the things that needed to be done. I paid the bills ahead of time, the fly bought the tickets and all the hotel reservations and everything. Having done all the hard work of preparing to go to Paris, would I not then take Becky with me? At that point, it even in my fallen humanity, you're looking at me going, yeah, at that point, you're kind of committed, you're kind of taking Becky. You've done it all, you've spent all the money, you spent all the time, you spent all the effort. Why would you go and not take Becky? And that's what Jesus is saying to his disciples. You understand what's ahead of me? Do you understand the work I have to do to prepare a place for you? And by the way, don't think for a moment that preparing a place for us is somehow going to heaven and building mansions. That place was only prepared in his death on the cross. That's the work he had to do. That's the preparation that was necessary And he says to the disciples, if I'm willing to do that, don't you believe that I'm going to come back and take you there? Why would I go through all of that? And then leave you and not bring you home with me. That day is coming, whether you believe it or not. That day is a reality rooted in who Jesus is and what he did and who the Father is and what he's done and who the Spirit is and what he is going to do. That is an objective reality. Faith doesn't usher that in. Faith ushers us into that. That's the biblical view of faith. By faith, Abraham 17, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who has received the pro and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said, Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back By faith, Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau. By faith, Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph. Bowing in worship over the head of his staff. By faith, Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave direction turning his bones. Great sermons in each of these And yet I want us to see the big picture and how it's being laid out before us. And again, the illustration is a consistent one. Actions in the here and now that are rooted in future reality. By faith, Moses, when he was born, this is not the faith of Moses at this point. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents. Because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's idiot. This is an interesting one, isn't it not? They kind of did what parents do. They hid their kid from being killed. It doesn't strike you at first glance as this phenomenal act of faith. And yet the author says, hey, when it push came to shove, when they had a choice between fearing God or fearing Pharaoh, they feared God. And were not afraid of what Pharaoh might do to them. By faith, Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as on dry land, but but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned. That's an interesting one. Both groups of people stepped out into that sea. Well, in the same conditions outwardly, the one group stepped out and was saved, the other group stepped out and was killed. The difference is their attitude toward the God who had parted the seas. By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days. In this 31st and last verse for today, this is an interesting one. Think about the wording here. By faith, Rahab the prostitute. Did not perish with those who were disoriented. Now notice what it says. Because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies. I never caught that wording before. Imagine that, a prostitute being friendly with men. Travelers. It's interesting, isn't it? I don't think that wording is accidental Because at first she acted like prostitutes act. Hey, there's men from afar, there are foreign men, these men are on a business trip, they're away from their wives and their families. They're going to want a good time But upon hearing their message, upon hearing all the accounts of what their God had done, upon recognizing that their God really was God, She changed. She believed. All of that was real, whether she believed it or not. Her faith didn't change reality. Reality changed her faith. And she looked at the objective facts and went, that's true. And I'm on board with the truth. And she was saved. Faith is not an emotional state of being. It is a response to what God has said. It is a following through a certain objective realities that our Heavenly Father tells us. One more illustration to close things out. There are two events in my time as a parent that haunt me to this day, that give me nightmares even now. Both involved decisions I made that nearly cost me the life of one of my children. The first of those was when our oldest child, who at the time would have been about seven years old or so, eight years old, somewhere in there, he stood in his tree fort And he had made his own little zip line and he wanted to test it out. Now a wise father would have said, no, don't do that But I said, go ahead and try, I will catch you. He jumped off the edge He acted in faith. He took the step that matches the Bible's illustration of faith It wasn't about his emotion in that moment. It was about who had made the promise. My father made the promise. I trust my father. I believe him when he says things. I will do what he says. And he stepped off the edge of that tree fort onto his zip line, and he fell. And I did not catch him. His head struck the hard ground and his spine missed a 2x4 that would have paralyzed him for life by just a couple of inches. And I live that moment over and over and over again. Because it nearly cost me my child. But it actually does illustrate biblical faith. It does illustrate that when our hope is in the right Father, when our confidence is in the right set of proclaimed truths, That we can step off that edge and know that we'll be caught. Know that we will be saved. Know that we will be captured. Joshua's faith didn't bring about reality. My slowness of reaction time brought about reality But when it's God we're trusting. When we are believing the one who spoke light into existence out of darkness, Who spoke matter into existence out of nothingness, who, by the word of his power, enabled a 90-year-old woman to be a mother, Who by the word of his power walls down because people walked around them. When we hope in him Our faith will be rewarded. We will not fall. We will be saved And we will be raised up on the last day to glorify him, to praise him, to thank him, and to spend eternity with him. It's not about how you feel in the moment. It's about the God who promises. Let's pray. Lord, give us hope in those promises. Make real in our minds the reality of both history and the future. That we would cling to the confession we have because it is the set of facts that are real. And that we would never let go. By your grace, bring us home holding fast to our confession. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.