I invite you to open your Bibles to Acts chapter 1, Acts 1. It's in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts. We begin a new sermon series this morning that we're gonna It's going to take us up through at least the holiday season. We may break a few times here and there, but we're going to be looking at the book of Acts. As you turn there, I want to offer a little bit in the way of introduction. We saw in our Old Testament reading this morning that there The kingdom fell apart because of the acts, the behavior of one Reaboam, but then we turned right around and saw that it was by God's plan. That what was behind that was the plan of God. That there were acts of one person who brought about certain consequences, but it was because of the acts of God. As we enter into our study of the book of Acts, these opening verses that we're going to look at this morning kind of set the tone for what we're going to see in the rest of the book. They serve to help paint a picture of what we're going to be looking at. And one of the things is a question of the acts of whom? Who's at work? Who is acting? Finding the cause of something, giving credit or pointing out blame, can be a tough thing to do sometimes. We live in a very litigious society. I don't think many would argue with that, but if you disagree, I guess you can sue me. One of the things that's behind our love of litigation is a desire to blame someone. To point to someone and say, he is at fault. It's her fault. She caused this. I was deposed some years ago in a wrongful death lawsuit, and the the grieving party, the complaint in legal terms uh was striving to blame somebody for what happened. But as things unfolded, as we began to see what was going on, you saw that there were literally dozens of different decisions by different people. any one of which had it been done differently might have affected the outcome, might have avoided that tragic death. Blaming someone can be very difficult to do. The flip side is also true You've got the challenge of assigning credit to someone. No CEO ever turns around a failing business by themselves on their own. No co coach revives a flagging team by him or herself. There are always many, many people who must play their part. For sure we see this in things like war. Grant is often credited with finally winning the Civil War, but does he win if Sherman doesn't take Atlanta? Does he even get a chance to be the commanding general if Chamberlain doesn't hold Little Roundtop in the Battle of Gettysburg? Many, many, many, many people Affected the outcome of that war. We cannot credit any one person Whether it's blame or credit, causation is almost always a very interwoven fabric. It is the axe of many. That is one of the key principles to these opening verses of the book of Acts. Over the next 28 chapters, Luke is going to retell for us, recount for us, the almost inexplicable penetration of a tiny little religion into the very heart of pagan Rome. How did it happen? Who acted to bring that about? As we read these opening verses, Let's see if we can't find the different actors, the different players, those who played a role in bringing about the penetration of Christianity eventually into all the world. We're going to read Acts verse chapter 1 verses 1 through 8, but in order to do that, I've got to go back and get my Bible. My apologies. Here at Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. That means, among other things, this, that if you want to know how it is that God's church marches forward, if you want to know how it is that we're going to survive the assault that is upon us today. then you must know his word. And so I invite you to hear now Acts chapter 1, verses 1 through 8. In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and to teach, until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, You heard from me, for John baptized with water but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And ye will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, living breath of God, speak to us through this your word. Let us hear your message for us this morning. Let my words be your words, and if they are not, strike them from our minds immediately, so that you and you alone are the ones speaking to us today. And that by you speaking, we will see all you have called to act on your behalf. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. In these verses, verses 1 through 8 of Acts chapter 1, we see Luke set forth in very simple, very bullet point approach, he doesn't go into a great deal of uh of detail, but he sets forth all those who will be actors in the book of Acts. Now, historically, this book has sometimes been called the Acts of the Apostles. An appropriate title. For we see even here where Jesus tells the apostles that they're going to act in certain ways. It is the acts of the apostles. But we see here also, there in Luke 1. 1, that there's a sense in which, look, notice what the author, by the way, a couple of quick answers to some questions. You may be wondering who is the I In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt. That is Luke. The first book we read the introduction to the Gospel of Luke was our New Testament reading, where we see the same person Theophilus addressed. So that first book that's referenced here is the Gospel of Luke, and this is the second volume of a two-part work. Some of you may be asking now, how do we know that? How am I supposed to accept that, Pastor? And I say, come to Sunday school. We're going to talk about it in some detail. It'll be a blessing. It'll encourage your confidence in the Word of God. So Luke writes, he says, in my first book, Otheophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and to teach. And what is the clear implication? Well that this is a continuation of that. That there was more that Jesus did. And certainly We see some who would say, no, this book shouldn't be called the Acts of the Apostles. It should be called the Acts of Jesus. And others will say, but the Holy Spirit plays such a prominent role throughout the book of Acts, and we will see that week in and week out. And they say it should be called the Acts of the Holy Spirit. And to that I say we are back to the problem of pinpointing causation. We are trying to find one person to whom assign we could assign credit or one set of people to whom we could assign credit. I'm going to propose this morning that what Luke outlines here in the opening verses of Acts are really that the book is rightly called The Acts of Jesus It is rightly called the Acts of the Holy Spirit. It is rightly called the Acts of the Apostles, or I'll say the Acts of the Church. But it is also rightly called the Acts of the Gospel. That outline is in your bulletin on page 12 if you wish to use that to follow along. Let's take a look at this point by point. We already saw that the idea of the continuing work of Jesus, the acts of Jesus And we see uh Luke outline some of those acts. Now in these few verses, he doesn't go into detail about all of them, but let's take a look at some of the acts of Jesus that we're going to see, that we see outlined here, and we're going to see repeatedly. in the study of the book of Acts. We see that Jesus, Luke wants us to know that Jesus is acting himself It's not merely that some are acting like him or that some are acting on his behalf. We frequently in the church will Talk about the fact that we are his hands, we are his feet, and there's some value in thinking that way, but that's not Luke's point here. He's not saying that some are acting on behalf of Jesus. He's saying Jesus is acting. And the first thing we have to come to grips with is this. How can a dead person act The answer is he did not stay dead. The first act to which Luke points us is that of the resurrection. You see how he words it there in verse 3. He, Jesus, presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs. One of the acts of Jesus was the act of proving himself alive. Now, some of us can be a little skeptical about that. And you may sit there and say, Pastor, that's easy for you to say for how can we possibly verify it? He has since been taken up. He's not here. We can't actually verify that. You're right, that's easy for me to say. But it was not easy for Luke to say You see, Luke wrote sometime between A. D. 65 and A. D. 80. Again, we'll discuss that in Sunday school. And he writes at a time when many were still alive who were first-hand witnesses of these things. So that if it did not happen the way he says, he would have been called out. They would have called him a liar. They would have pointed out the falsehood And he's writing, as we saw in our New Testament reading, he is writing to one named Theophilus for the purpose of giving Theophilus certainty. That's the word used in the opening of Luke, that you may be certain of the things you have been taught. Now how certain could Luke, I mean Theophilus, possibly be if Luke opens with a lie and people come around to Theophilus and say it didn't really happen that way? Luke took a little license. Luke took a little freedom with it That's gonna blow up in Luke's face. It won't accomplish his purpose of giving his reader certainty. Rather, it'll increase his doubts. It's easy for me to say today that Jesus rose from the dead. But when Luke wrote this, that was a verifiable fact. People were alive who could call him a liar. You know what's interesting? As we're going to see in the next few weeks, the most strident enemies of Jesus and of Christianity never once say, well it didn't happen. Because they saw Jesus again. He made public appearances. They rejected the implications of the resurrection. They rejected his lordship that comes from his resurrection. But they do not argue with Luke's claim that he arose. The acts of Jesus include the act of proving himself alive to his followers. Something he continues to do today as the work continues. Another thing we see here in the Acts of Jesus is that it in uh Lost my place, sorry about that. We see Jesus speaking of the kingdom of God. We see there in uh uh uh Verse 3 continuing, he presented himself alive to them after his sufferings by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. Now, if you are familiar with the gospel accounts, you're going to know that this is what Jesus talked about all the time. This is what each of the gospel accounts records as his opening sermon. Mark chapter 1 verse 13. And Jesus began to preach the good news that the kingdom of God was at hand. And here at the end of his ministry, Jesus is proclaiming the kingdom of God. The acts of Jesus are to prove himself alive and to proclaim the kingdom of God. to tell, to reveal it to people, to make it known. Now if you are the one of the original listeners, this is going to be a difficult thing for the kingdom of God Seems really abstract compared to the kingdom of Rome. Rome controls the world as they knew it. Rome has absolute authority over their everyday lives. And all they want is to be free from Rome. And now Jesus is talking about another kingdom, a kingdom of God. But that is one of the acts of Jesus. to make that a reality. To make it something that really will happen. It's why, we didn't read this far into the text, we'll take this up next week, but it's why he ascended. For apart from his ascension, he could not take his throne. And apart from taking his throne, he could not act as king. The Acts of Jesus include making himself known alive to his followers, and it includes the proclamation of the kingdom of God, and we will see that throughout the book of Acts. But the Acts of Jesus also include one other incredibly important thing. He gives the Holy Spirit. He gives the Holy Spirit We see this in in verses 4 and 5 and following. And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem. Don't go do anything. Don't head out. Stay put. You can't do this on your own. But to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, you heard from me. Flip back just a few pages in your Bible to John chapter 14. Go back just a few pages to John chapter 14. We're going to pick up in verse 16. Jesus says this starting in verse 16 of John 14. I will ask the Father and He will give you another helper, to be with you forever, even the Spirit of Truth. whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him for he dwells with you and will be in you. That's the promise of the Father, the Jesus, that they had heard from Jesus. And we have now Luke turning back to that and recording that Jesus reiterates that promise. Wait in Jerusalem, for I'm going to give you one who will be for you a blessing. It's interesting that Jesus mentions John the Baptist here. For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. If we go back and look at the opening of Jesus' earthly ministry, there was this prophet named John who tended to hang out by the Jordan River and he called people to repentance, and when they repented He would baptize them. He would apply water to them. An outward ritual to signify the cleansing that was available through the forgiveness of sins. When they repented, God forgave and they were washed clean. But John himself says, listen, I'm not the Messiah, I'm not the Christ, I'm not the one. The one who comes after me, he's the one that will baptize you with the Spirit and with fire. And it is this prophecy that Luke now recaptures for us here and reminds us. And Jesus reminds his followers as he's ready to depart. So the acts of Jesus, as summarized here, is the act of making himself known as the resurrected one. It is the act of proclaiming the kingdom of God, and it is the act of giving the Holy Spirit. Now, is that an exhaustive list of all that Jesus does in the book of Acts? It is not. But it does frame up very nicely what we're going to see coming in the rest of this book. The book can rightly be called The Acts of Jesus, but it can also rightly be called the Acts of the Holy Spirit. For when Jesus gives the Holy Spirit, what does he say is going to happen? But you will receive power, verse 8, when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. Now the Holy Spirit makes a relatively small appearance in these opening verses, but we are going to see as the book unfolds that the Holy Spirit is there time and time and time again throughout. this record of the early church. And we see right off the bat that one of the key acts of the Holy Spirit is the provision of power. the giving of power to those whom he indwells. That the followers of Jesus aren't expected to act on their own, and in fact Jesus tells them not to even try. Don't head out. Don't go anywhere. Stay put. You can't do this on your own. How did Jesus say it to them in John 15? Without me, you can do nothing. Apart from me, you can do nothing. And here he says, now I'm going to give you my spirit, through whom you can do all that you need to do. The Acts, the book of Acts can rightly be called the Acts of the Holy Spirit, and the key act here in this opening section of the Holy Spirit is the act of giving power to the followers of Jesus. You know, sometimes we lose sight of the fact that we have that power at our disposal. That we have the power is not in question. It's whether or not we believe we have the power and whether or not we tap into that power. We can have something and still make no use of it. When I was in grad school as a budding chemist, I went down to the stock room one day to get a canister, a tank of argon gas that I needed for the chemistry I was doing. I get to the stockroom window. I'm filling out the paperwork to get the canister of gas, and they say, we can't give you the canister. We can't give you a canister. I said, oh, you're all out of argon. The stock room manager said, no, no, no, we're not out, but we only have one tank left I said, well I only need one tank, I'll take it. He said, yeah, but if I give it to you, I won't have any in stock. And I thought to myself, well the point of having it in stock, I didn't think about I said it out loud. The point of having it in stock is that we can use it, right? He's like, yeah, right. I'm like, well I need to use it. Yeah, but if I give it to you, I won't have any in stock. And I said, the point is not to have it in stock. The point is to have it in use. Sometimes we look that way upon the Holy Spirit We just need to keep him in stock. We just need to keep him there. We've got him there. We're not actually going to use him Good news, unlike tanks of Argon, the Holy Spirit does not get consumed or used up. Trust his power freely. Step out and act in it boldly. You and I have been given the power of the Holy Spirit. More on that in the weeks to come. This is a book of the Acts of Jesus. It is a book of the Acts of the Holy Spirit. But it could also rightly be called a book of the Acts of the Church. Now I uh the title, The Acts of the Apostles, has been around for a long time, and I'm not going to dispute that. it's an appropriate name, but I've chosen to call it the Acts of the Church because there are many in this book who play a key role who are not themselves apostles. Barnabas and Silas and Apollos and Priscilla and Aquila and Lydia and many, many others, Stephen, who are not apostles, but they act in key ways. And so I've decided to say that we're going to call this the Acts of the Church. Now, flip back to Luke 24. Flip back a few pages. Before Acts is the book of John, before that is the book of Luke. Now, Luke 24 records four key events. One is the resurrection of Jesus, verses 1 through 12. And then in verses uh uh 33 through, I think it's 35, sorry, 13 through 35, we have Jesus meeting with some uh followers on the road to Emmaus. So the the the He has been crucified, he has been raised, but these two men don't know that he's been raised. And they're walking in sadness along the road, and Jesus, disguising himself from them, comes alongside and begins to talk with them. And eventually he reveals himself and look down at the end of verse 30 When he was at the table, Jesus, at the table with them, he took bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were open, they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. They recognize that they have seen the risen Savior. Skipping down to verse 33, and they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven, and those who were with them gathered together, saying, the Lord has risen indeed and has appeared to Simon. You notice the reason I point this out, and they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together. Now, if we don't have time to read the rest of Luke 24, in fact we're going to flip back to the book of Acts now, but if you read the rest of Luke 24, you would find that it gives an account that overlaps very closely what we're reading right here. That Jesus then went and gave a bunch of instructions to those with whom he had met, and then he was taken up away from them. And I share that to say that if we read this as though it's instructions to the eleven To the apostles, we misunderstand what's really going on. For Luke 24 makes it clear that in this setting, you've got the eleven You've got the two men to whom Jesus appeared on the road to Emmaus, and then you've got others. Unidentified, unspecified. Actually in Luke 1, we didn't read this far, but skip down to verse 14, Luke himself summarizes, all these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer together with the women. and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and his brothers. At least those are present. This is not commands or instructions given strictly to the apostles. The you here is the body of believers, all who are gathered whose hope is in Jesus as the Christ. In other words, it is to us. It is to the church. This book records the acts of the church, not just the apostles. We don't get to say that it's you know not my responsibility to act in that way because I'm not an apostle. Not only I'm not an apostle or a pastor, I'm not even an elder or a deacon. Surely I don't have to act. And yet we see the acts of the church. Now, what are the acts of the church? Real quick comment about what they're not. Do you notice what the disciples immediately do? They ask, is now the time of the kingdom, Lord? If you some of you are smiling because you're familiar with the disciples and you know that this was a question they badgered Jesus with over and over and over again during his ministry. When are you going to restore the kingdom? Some of you are going, what do you mean by the kingdom? What's going on? I don't understand. Way back 1,000 BC, quick history here, uh a king named David consolidated the tribes. They became known as uh the tribes that had descended from Abraham and from his descendant Jacob, and those tribes became took on the name of their ancestor Israel. And they became known as the nation of Israel. And David uh consolidated in a way that Saul never quite was able to do. And David captured uh uh the the central city of Jerusalem and he began to drive out some of the surrounding nations and he began to devo spread their power, their influence, their land, their holdings to a wide area in what was today called the Middle East. His son Solomon extended that kingdom even further from the border of Egypt to the uh to the uh Euphrates River in Mesopotamia, from the Mediterranean Sea over to Arabia. And it became not quite a world power. but a power to be reckoned with, a power that could no longer be pushed around by the world powers, a force among the nations. And the fame of Solomon grew to such a point that kings and queens from many places far away came to know of him and hear about him. And it was the golden days of the kingdom of Israel. And that's what they're asking about. It's 930 years later. They're still hoping to go back to those good old days. Is today the day you're going to restore the kingdom? Now, in defense of the disciples, what had Jesus just been talking about? He'd been talking about the kingdom of God. So of course it's on their mind, but they misunderstand the nature of that kingdom And they're worried about it. And Jesus says, it is not for you to know times or seasons. The Father is fixed by his own authority. The reason I bring this up is because this is a sin into which we fall so easily. The temptation to be obsessed with times and seasons The temptation to buy the book that's going to tell us when Jesus is finally coming back. To watch the movie that's going to explain when he's finally coming back. And that is not the acts of the church. In fact, that is defiance of what Jesus says right here. He says, do not fret over that. For that is in the Father's hands. It is also a powerful reminder to us that everything is in the Father's hands. That as the rest of this book unfolds and things are going to happen, Stephen is going to be stoned, Paul is going to be beaten and whipped. One after shipwreck, one after, and you're gonna be going, what is going on? Has got- is the world spinning out of control? Has God completely lost control? And Luke says right here at the beginning, no, God is in control. These things don't happen apart from him, but because of him. The acts of the church are to trust in the acts of God. And we see the other act of the church that is commanded here. You will be my witnesses. In Jerusalem, among those you really like, among the religious piety with whom you're comfortable In Judea, among those who are not quite as spiritual as you are, they didn't come into Jerusalem for the festival, but rather they stayed home. But go minister to them anyway. In Samaria, whoa, wait a second. We Jews hate the Samaritans. Nope, you're gonna go to Samaria and to the end of the earth. What? A good Jew never strays far from Jerusalem, and you want us to take your story into the end of the earth? And Jesus says the act of the church is to be about building the kingdom of God. Not the kingdom of Israel per se, not the kingdom of Shore Harvest, not the kingdom of Scott Shaw, the kingdom of God. The act of the church is to be witnesses to the kingdom. Now, I don't point this out in some sort of guilt. wrenching way of making us all feel badly about the things we're not doing. But rather just the opposite. The book of Acts is phenomenal encouragement to those of us who are beleaguered and afraid. and unsure of how to go about this. For if you were a betting person, would you have bet on these people gathered in this room at this time? The religious leadership in Jerusalem was trying to kill them. The empire centered in Rome later would take up the mantle of trying to destroy them. All earthly odds were against them. There was no way they were going to survive, let alone convert the world. And that's the hope. This is not a guilt trip. This is a reminder that there is power that really does work. I can't share the gospel, Pastor. Come on. I can't even live out the life I'm supposed to live as a Christian. Will you expect me to testify and witness to people? No, I don't. Because I'm with you. But we can do it. And it will be effective. We need only be witnesses. We only need to tell what we've seen and what's happened. We don't have to make a theological defense. We don't have to come up with some phenomenal doctrinal argument. We simply need to say this is what happened. Jesus came. He died so that you don't have to pay your own price for sin. He rose again because God accepted his payment. He ascended into heaven because he had a right to go there. And because he's there, he's going to bring those who hope in him. to be with him. That's all we've got to do. And we leave the rest to the power of the Holy Spirit. This book is a book about the acts of Jesus, and it is a book about the acts of the Holy Spirit, and it is a book about the acts of the church What it really comes down to is this. Luke's more worried about the acts than the actors. Luke's point is what happened, not so much who did it. If Luke was really obsessed with the actors, why does he tell us, why does he not tell us what happened to Peter? Peter just vanishes from the pages of Acts. Paul, the book ends with Paul on trial, arrested in Rome. Luke doesn't tell us the outcome of the trial. He doesn't tell us what happened to Paul, the human hero of the second half of this book. Because Luke isn't focused on the actors. He's focused on the acts. What happened? What happened? What got done? You can spend all your time arguing about the nuances of theology about who's the cause behind it, but you miss the point. Jesus is the cause behind it and the Holy Spirit is the cause behind it and the church is the cause behind it. All of these were acting and all of these were working And I would argue that what Luke is going to propose to us as we march through this book, one way to think of this is if it's the Acts of the Gospel. It is the acts of the gospel. It really is part two of the gospel of Luke. It really is part two of the good news of one who came to bring salvation. It really is a continuing story of how God saves people. And therefore it is the acts of the gospel. Don't worry about your weakness. Don't worry about the fact that you're not sure how to use the power of the Holy Spirit. Don't worry about whether or not you know how to uh dot every theological i and cross every theological t. Know that it is the gospel The good news is that there is a Savior named Jesus that marches forward, that carries the kingdom, that conquers enemies, that brings sinners to repentance. that changes the world. That's the story of the book of Acts. It is the Acts of the Gospel. We have sung about in Christ, we sung the song in Christ Alone. We have sung Holy Spirit, living breath of God. In a moment we're going to sing, rise up, O men of God. We're going to in music bring all of these things together in hopes that we will be reminded that we're not in this alone. We are not acting on our own. This is not the work of Shore Harvest. It is a continuing work. Of the gospel. And that's all we need do. Tell people. Invite people. Share with people Take a brochure to them. Point them to a website that has the sermons they need to hear. Bring them to your Bible study. Bring them to church. That's what we need to do. That's the acts of this church that will continue the work by the power of the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Lord, as we study the book of Acts, let us see the Acts of the Gospel, the amazing works that are accomplished when your word goes forth, when it is faithfully proclaimed. when it is dutifully lived out. And in seeing it, in seeing what you did 2,000 years ago, let us be encouraged and renewed in strength and in faith. Let us be emboldened. Let us believe that these same acts can be accomplished today, here on the Eastern Shore. through your church, by your spirit, because of Jesus. Let us be used by you to continue the work. in bringing the gospel to everyone. We pray this in Christ's name