Open your Bibles, please, or click in your Bibles, as the case might be, to Romans chapter two, Romans two. If you're using that Bible that's in the pew rack in front of you, it's on page 1117. 1117. Romans chapter 2, page 1117. Before we dive into Romans 2, we're going to do a quick review of Romans 1. One of the things we are learning about the book of Romans is that it is this almost continuous argument. It's this continuous chain of logic. And so each week as we dive into a new passage, we're going to need to remember where we have come from. Before we do either of those things, let's stop and pray and ask God's guidance and understanding his word. Dear Holy Spirit, you are the giver of life. You breathed life into Adam all those millennia ago. You gave life back to Jesus after his wrongful conviction and execution. You called the Apostle Paul from death to life. And you breathed life into his pen. You inspired his written word preserved in Romans. And though he wrote these words, you are the one who inspired them and brought them into being. And so we ask that you breathe life into us through them this morning. That we would hear the message that was meant for your church 2,000 years ago and that continues to be for your church today. And that in hearing we would obey, that we would submit, that we would accept the truth it teaches, and we would follow you rightly. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen. In Romans 1, we saw where Paul said that things were so bleak, so bad, so run amuck. That men were having sex with men. It was for Paul the evidence that we most clearly demonstrated that God had given over at least a portion of humanity, allowing them to erode the very essence of their humanity. Paul was arguing that in our sin we were becoming and had become what we were never created to be. Sadly, if Paul were writing today, he would have an easier time making his case. Oh, we still degrade our humanity through sexual perversion. But we defaced the image of God in other ways as well. In the name of border security, we wrench children from their mother's arms as if toddlers were a serious threat. It is a cruel expression of our inhumanity toward the very weakest bearers of God's likeness. But our lossy is more profound even than that. We not only rend children from their mother's arms, but from their mother's wounds. Not to cruelly inter them, but to brutally kill them. Tearing families apart, killing the unborn. The degradation of our humanity is profound evidence that God has turned us over to become everless like Him. Without God keeping us from our own worst proclivities, we become more like the serpent. We chose to follow in Eden. Why does God, in His wrath, let us do this to ourselves? What Paul told us in chapter 1 was because we refused to acknowledge him as God. We denied his divine right over us, and so we worshiped other things instead. Maybe some in our culture worship science. Maybe we worship nature itself. Maybe we have a pagan view of the world. Maybe we worship a political leader. But we have replaced God with one of the many things that he created, and we have become idolaters, worshiping what never should have been worshipped. Now someone might argue that, you know, they might say to Paul, hey, that might be true for many, but it's not the case with everyone. You know, maybe it's possible that these people have gone astray, not purposefully, not intentionally, not conscientiously, but accidentally. Maybe they just didn't know any better And of course, one of the points Paul makes in chapter one is that nobody can make that argument. That by the very nature of creation itself, we know that there is one God to whom we are answerable. We are without excuse, Paul argued. Now Romans was written, we saw, at least in part, to unify this fractured and fracturing church in the city of Rome. Paul does not, interestingly enough, though, begin by preaching brotherly love. That's probably what we would do if we were looking for unity in the church. He doesn't say, hey, you should think more highly of the other person. He's just as good as you are. No, Paul's argument has been and will continue to be just the opposite. Stop thinking highly of yourself. You are as seriously sinful as everyone else. It feels wrong in our society today. Rather than lifting some up so that we see each other in an equally elevated way, Paul is dragging us all down so that we see ourselves as sinners. You see, Paul knows that not everyone is going to agree with him, not everyone is going to see themselves in that light. There are going to be people in his audience who join him in condemning homosexuality and the other sins in chapter one. But they're going to see themselves as basically good. I'm a moral person, I'm an upright person. I agree with you that that's an abomination. And it's that group of people that Paul now addresses at the beginning of chapter 2. Paul is going to take up an argument with the person who sees themselves as basically good. the moral man, the upright man, the one who walks in honor in this world. Paul is to to to help make that point. Paul is going to shift gears in how he uses his pronouns. We're not reading all of one and flowing into two, so we're going to miss this if we're not careful. Chapter 1 was all first-person plural pronouns, we. Paul uses the word we, included himself. In chapter 2, he immediately turns to second-person singular, you And he addresses the imagined debater. And in so doing, he addresses some of us, perhaps all of us. Taking us on, taking on our imagined goodness in a very direct way. And so the question to us this morning is, do we see ourselves in the we of chapter one? As profound sinners, as people who could, uh at least if we were not redeemed, could have walked down the path described in chapter one? Or do we imagine that to be them, because we're basically good? If we are in that second category, chapter 2 is very much for us. Look now how Paul turns from the them in chapter 1. to you and me in chapter two. Therefore, you, singular, have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges For in passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself. Because you, the judge, practice the very same things. We might be tempted at this point to say, no, no, no, Paul, I'm not gay, I'm not a homosexual. What do you mean I practice the same things? Things plural, Paul would say to us. We must remember that while homosexuality was the specific illustration he chose in chapter 1, it was not the sum and substance of all sin And in fact, he enumerates a whole bunch of other sins at the end of chapter 1. And he says: if you stand to condemn any of those, but practice any of those, Then you condemn yourself. We pick up in verse 2: we know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who practice such things. Now, do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things, and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Are you a basically good person, he's asking? And on that basis, do you imagine that you're going to somehow slip through the cracks on the judgment day? Do you imagine that I'm pretty good and God's not really going to worry about me? I mean, come on, on judgment day, he's going to have bigger concerns He's gonna have to deal with Adolf Hitler and Mao Zedong and all those really bad guys. God can't possibly be worried about me. Is that what you imagine? Is that how you picture your goodness? I'm in pretty good shape because I'm not like them. That's who Paul is addressing here in chapter 2. Verse 4, he offers another possible view, maybe, or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath, when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. Gina was a close friend of mine in high school. Gina was tall and she was pretty and she knew it. So when we would go to McDonald's, Gina would do things like order a large ice cream cone. If you're not familiar with McDonald's menu, they've only ever had one size of ice cream cone. But she would order a large ice cream cone. And if it was a teenage boy behind the counter, she got a large ice cream cone every time. We would I I quickly learned if we were going to McDonald's, I just gave her my money and let her order for me She would order the jumbo fry. They don't have a jumbo fry, but she'd get a whole tray full of hot fries. Some of us imagine that's how God's kindness is going to work. That's how God's love is going to work. You see, we all know that God is love, right? The American Church has been preaching that for the last 70 years, 80 years, 100 years. God is love. And therefore, he's just going to be nice to us. And with a wink and a wave, he's going to say, Yeah, you didn't pay for that, but you're basically a good person, and I'm going to give it to you. Some of us have a spiritual Gina complex, thinking that we're going to get what we haven't earned because God is just gaga for us. It's not how it works. Paul is making it very clear that's not how it works. Yes, there is a kindness and a patience and a forbearance to God. And to his character, Paul says, but that's not, do not imagine that somehow that's going to allow God to wave you through. And in fact, that view is going to store up wrath, Paul warns in verse 5. That's going to make your situation worse. On the day of judgment, if that's how you think God works. He's just gonna wave you through because you're basically good. Now your neighbor, your the the the moral person who in who's in your life, who chats with you over the back fence, who maybe talks to you over the uh in a coffee break room at work, that uh uh Cousin in the family who's a basically good person who's going to talk you up at Thanksgiving. If you were to have this conversation with them, they would probably be a little shocked, a little overwhelmed How can you say that God is not going to just let me through? You go to church, you're a Christian, you're supposed to know that God is love. I know that God is love, and it's been like six Christmases since I've been in the church. You see, that's the kind of a uh uh uh uh debater that Paul is imagining right now, and that's who he's addressing. And so he takes up this problem in the verses which follow. He says, you presume upon the kindness of God and hope that his kindness will let you slip through on the day of judgment. You ask if I know that God is love, and Paul now responds, do you not understand the nature of God's judgment? Verse six for he will render to each one according to his works Gina got what she did not deserve, what she had not paid for. It will not happen that way on the day of judgment. Job, the book of Job, our Old Testament reading, we saw that. In the book of Revelation, in our New Testament reading, we saw that. And now we see Paul also saying it: that God is going to give people what they've actually earned. According to his works. In chapter 1, Paul talked about the righteousness of God. And that word, we've got to keep reminding ourselves, that word in that culture. It meant more than justice, but it never meant less than justice. The foundation of righteousness was just judgment. And Paul is affirming that God is a just judge. He will give to each exactly what they deserve. Picking up in verse 7, Paul puts some examples to this. To those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor immortality, he will give eternal life. Paul says, he confirms that to the one who earns eternal life, God will grant eternal life. Now, if you don't have a background in Presbyterianism, you're probably on board with this. But if you're steeped in Presbyterian as I am, I need you to listen to what I'm going to say next. Pay attention to this. Hear this. Are you seeing what Paul's saying? Are you listening right now? He says this very plainly and very clearly to everyone who earns eternal life. God will give eternal life. That's justice. That's the message of verse 7. If you are good, God will let you into heaven Paul's argument is to do otherwise would be unjust. God would not be God. He would not be just if he denied heaven to those who are good. But conversely in verse 8, those who are self-seeking and who do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek. If you're wondering about that priority order, Paul's going to develop this more as we go on in Romans, but remember he's already addressed the idea that we've got two different cultural groups in the Roman church. Those who come out of a Jewish background, those who come out of a Gentile-pagan background, and he's trying to preach to both of them, and he is in essence saying to both of them, yes, this applies to you. If you're hearing this, it applies Verse 10: But there will be glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, also the Jew first and the Greek. For God shows no partiality. And there it is, in that simple statement. There will be no spiritual genas in heaven. No one will wink their way into God's eternal life. Teenagers working in McDonald's might show partiality to flirty, pretty girls. Human judges might show partiality toward their social circles. Senators might show partiality toward the connected and rich and powerful and influential. God shows no partiality. If you're in the audience of the Roman Church and you are among the connected, you're the Priscilla or the Aquila, there is the warning here. Do not imagine that that's going to help you on the day of judgment. But if you're in the Roman church and you are a slave, there is comfort here. Do not imagine that God is over going to look you or to overlook you on the day of judgment. But if you are that slave There's a warning here. Do not imagine that God is going to let you in because you've suffered enough in this life already. But to the wealthy there is the hope. Do not imagine because you were once a terrible person who bribed officials, who owned slaves yourself. That God is somehow not going to give you a fair shape. Paul's going to great lengths to make sure we understand that God's justice is a perfect justice. He will give life to all who earn it. He will never deny it to any who deserved it. But, and this is where verse 12 is going to be critical, crucial, it's the turning point of the passage. He will never grant eternal life For those who are falling short. For all who have sinned, not all who are Desperately wicked, not all who we might judge to be among humanity's worst, not all out there. But to all who have sinned, without the law, that is to say I didn't know about God. I didn't know He had a moral standard. I didn't know that all who have sinned without the law, for all who sinned without the law will perish without the law And all who have sinned under the law, that is to say, those of us who knew better, those of us who had heard what God expected, those of us who knew the reality of God's judgment and morality, they will perish under the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what the law requires They are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. For they show the work of the law is written on their hearts. While their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them on that day When, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus It is not your basic goodness which will see you into eternal life. It is absolutely true that God would never deny heaven to the one who has earned it. But you have to earn it. He will not just let you in Verse 12 is incredibly important to a proper understanding of this passage. It is a point upon which Paul will expound. He will come back around to this and talk about it more in the next chapter, chapter 3. But right now we cannot miss what he is saying. All who have sinned, be they the immoral who have no law. Or the moral person who seems to have a sense of law. All who have sinned will be condemned by God's judgment. God shows no partiality. And that includes toward those who have a basic goodness to their character. You see what he says, it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers. You can know God's morality You can join with Paul. Yes. I agree with you, Paul. Homosexuality is a terrible terrible perversion. Yes, gossip is bad. Yes, disobeying parents. All those other things that he listed at the end of chapter one. You can amen every single one of those. You can show yourself to have a deep sense of morality, but you also have to keep that law perfectly. That's the key. All who have sinned, with or without a sense of morality, will perish in God's judgment. I drew our attention to the salvation by works that was found in verses six through eleven. But now, armed with our knowledge of verse 12, that all who sin will perish, we need to go back and look at those verses more closely, going back up to verse 6. He will render to each one according to his works to those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress. for every human being who does evil, the Jew first, and also the Greek. But glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no partiality. Again, I'm going to stress it what I did earlier. Make no mistake, these verses clearly and plainly teach a salvation which comes by works, a salvation which is attained through what one does. Now if we stop right here, if you cut this sermon off right here, you're gonna run me out of uh town on a rail. You're gonna turn me into the presbytery and get me d uh uh uh defrocked and you know, what's the term? Uh I'd have you know Anyway, I lose my ordination status. But we do need to see it through. We do need to understand that that is what's being said here. That there is a way to earn one's salvation. If it wasn't so, God would be unjust and unfair. The key, though, is to understand God's moral expectation. I think I've shared with you this story some years back. But since I cannot find a better or more memorable one, I return to it again. I think some of you know that we have a friend, a close friend, who's toddler's son. One day found chocolate bars in the cat box. Yeah. It was not good. Imagine for a moment that this friend of ours, this woman, she loves, she's active in the kitchen all the time, and she would often include her children in the kitchen. So imagine for a moment that this happened while she was baking brownies. He adds chocolate to the brownie batter that he found from the cat box. You're at her house that evening and she tells you this story and she serves the brownies and as she's handing out the brownies, she's saying, oh, by the way Don't worry about it. I picked it out as best I could and I added a little extra sugar to cover up any flavor. Do you eat the brownie? Even to be polite When we think that we can take our morality to God, we are serving up spiritual cat box brownies. I'm mostly good, God. Oh, sure, a little bit of contamination in there, but I've done what I could to get it out, and I've done some good works to sweeten it. Don't you love me now, God. You see, the problem when we talk about the idea that one can be saved by good works is that almost always we forget The perfection of God's holiness. Yes, God is love, but He is holy. He is righteous. He is perfect. And he will not wave you through on some basic goodness in your life. If you're going to achieve your salvation by earning it, You need to be perfect, unmarred by any sin You see, this view we have that God is just going to let me through, maybe the view your neighbor has, that God is just going to let me through because I'm a basically good person. Is to think that God would be okay with a cat box brownie. That's not who God is. His love is not played out in a way that compromises his justice Or that degrades his righteousness. His love is played out in that he overcame that wickedness He threw those brownies out and gave us new ones that he mixed up, that he made in Christ Jesus A righteousness revealed from God. Why does Paul say, I am not ashamed of the gospel? Because it's the power for salvation. Why? Because in it a righteousness from God is revealed You, he's beginning to make the argument. You have to stand before God and give an account. You have to be perfect in righteousness. You have to be absolutely pure But he's trying to get us to understand. We can't do that on our own. There's no way we're going to measure up to that. There is simply no hope for us in and of ourselves Some years back while I was in seminary, one of the things I had to do for my world religions class is I had to go to us houses of worship in other faiths and interact there and we just See what they were doing. And so I think it was Caleb and I one night went down to the I called ahead and got permission. We went down to the local uh Islamic Fellowship Center uh. . not too far from our house, and we hung out there with those uh Muslim men on that Friday night, their evening of worship. And afterwards they we had a conversation with them And in that conversation, this question of God and forgiveness and holiness and how we're saved, this came up. And I pushed a little bit and I asked them, What does Allah do about your sin? And they looked bewildered at me. And they said, Well, you have to keep the five pillars of Islam, you have to pray these so many times a day, you have to do these things, you have to be, and you have to have more good than evil. I'm using Islam, you realize that's how a lot of us as Christians think about things. Many that call themselves Christian churches have exactly that view. And most of the world, if they have any spirituality at all, that's how they imagine it plays out. But Caleb and I sat there interacting with these men, and they kept going What do you mean? What is what and I I I was trying to be overly rude, but I was trying to make the point. So Allah is going to let you in with all your sin right there intact? He's just going to ignore it? He's going to sweep it under the rug? Is anything done about sin? Do you understand that that is the distinction between true biblical Christianity and every other faith out there? That God's perfection requires that sin be addressed, that it be paid for, that it be dealt with. That it be accounted for, that it be punished. A little sin is still too much A minor peccadillo is still a great offense. What we owe God is absolute moral perfection. Thank God, there is in Jesus Christ a righteousness which has been revealed, which is received by faith, which becomes ours in a legal way that Paul's going to explain in the coming chapters. And our sin becomes Christ. But apart from that If we admit that anybody out there has ever done anything wrong, then we convict ourselves. The moment we recognize that there is a moral standard, Paul says in Chapter 2, we stand convicted. We stand in need of a righteousness we can never generate for ourselves. You see, with God, there is simply no partiality. All who sin, whether they know about a law or not, whether they are immoral or moral, all who sin will perish. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this powerful reminder from the pen of Paul that we are indeed a sinful people, that we, by the very fact that we admit that there is right and wrong, by the very fact that we confess that some people do things wrong, we point the finger at ourselves. There is a standard, and we cannot for one moment imagine that we have met it. And so we find ourselves in desperate need of Jesus Christ. Take us to him by faith. Let our hope be in him. We pray this in his name. Amen.