Please hear now the word of our God from the gospel of Mark. And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon, and he entered a house and did not want anyone to know, yet he could not be hidden. But immediately a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him and came and fell down at his feet. Now the woman was a Gentile, a Syrophoenician by birth And she begged him to cast the demon out of her daughter, and he said to her, Let the child be fed f let the children be fed first, for it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. And she answered him, Yes, lord, yet even the dog is under the table eat the children's crumbs. And he said to her, For this statement, you may go your way. The demon has left your daughter And she went home and found the child lying in bed and the demon gone. I want to stop and take a moment to make a few comments about this event that has happened here that Mark records. And one of the things that I'm going to point out, we have three little stories like this that we're reading this morning. And I want to point out that each of them on its own seems relatively trivial. Seems really not to matter that much in the grand scheme of the ministry of Jesus. And in fact, of the three stories we're reading this morning, two of them are found only in Mark. They're not found in the other gospels. The other gospel writers felt like they could absolutely talk about Jesus' ministry and totally omit these. And what's interesting, what makes that even more interesting, is when you consider that most biblical scholars believe that Mark wrote first. And that Matthew and Luke then used Mark as the basis for their own gospels. And they embellished and added and brought in additional accounts of things. And yet, Matthew and Luke, when they read through Mark and they looked at these two miracles, they themselves said, Well, I don't really need to recite those two miracles. We can move on without them. We can tell a lot about Jesus without them. And so as we consider these three stories this morning, the question that we have to ask ourselves is: why does Mark include them? Here he is, the evangelist who's in a hurry, the shortest of the gospel writers. The one that's focused on getting it done, getting to the message, moving along, keep it moving, and immediately, and immediately, and immediately, and immediately, he records three things that the other gospel writer, or two of which the other gospel writers didn't even feel the need to record. And one that doesn't really seem like something that initially helps make his own case. And so we have to stop and ask ourselves: what is Mark trying to accomplish that he records these things, that he includes these things? And so I want us to look a little more detail at this story of the Syrophoenician woman before we move on and consider the other two, and then step back and look at all of them in the context. The first thing I want us to see here, and it doesn't come through necessarily well in the English. Some of it is just the nature of translation. Some of it, I really I take issue with some of the way things were translated here But Jesus is actually, and Mark's record of Jesus interaction with this woman is actually pretty harsh. It's pretty shocking. And in fact, in the uh so here it says she was a Syrophoenician by birth, but that word birth is not there in the Greek. And in fact, what the Greek says is that she was a Gentile woman of the Syrophoenician kind. You know, one of those types of Gentiles. Of that kind. She was a half-breed. She wasn't even a purebred Gentile. Now in the Jewish hierarchy of Jesus' day, there were the Jews up here, there were God-fearing Gentiles here, and then there was everybody else. And the everybody else were those in whom God had no interest, for whom God had no plan. For whom there was no hope of salvation. God came to save the good people, and those were clearly the Jews. He was going to extend some grace to the God-fearing Gentiles. We got to allow for that because the Old Testament does. You know, you got people like Naaman. You know, you know, a Syrian who comes to faith. So we've got to allow for the fact that God may save some Gentiles, but surely those who do not acknowledge him, those who who are Uh the the the the underclass, the underbelly of society, our holy, good, righteous God, would have nothing to do with them And while it may not be obvious to us today, that is the portrait Mark is giving us of this woman. She's the bottom of the social barrel. She's a woman, she's a gentile woman, and she's a half-breed gentile woman. She's got no business stopping a Jewish man, a Jewish rabbi along the way and interrupting his vacation. He's gone out of the way. Uh uh Tyre is a is about a 35-mile walk from Galilee, where he was doing most of his ministry. And Sidon is a another uh was another twenty-two miles up the coast from there. He's traveled quite a ways away. To get away from it all, and how even to he were even told there he was hoping that nobody would notice him. And she interrupts his vacation. And so the exchange that goes down between the two of them is actually pretty stunning. She says, Master, heal my daughter. And he says he quotes Romans and says that's funny because Romans was written a long time later. It's pretty bad when I have to tell you when I'm making a joke. He quotes Robinson says, you know, salvation is first for the Jews, then for the Gentile. No, he doesn't. He says, I'm not about to give the children's bread to the dogs He calls her a dog. And I'm sorry, there is no cultural cover for that. It's not like, well, you know, back then dog was a compliment. No No it was not. And then something even more amazing happens. The verb here, when Jesus answers her, when she you know she sashes back to him. Yeah, but even the dogs can pick up scraps off the ground And then he says to her, For this statement you may go your way. The verb there in English is a subjunctive verb. You may remember from eighth grade English your subjunctive verbs. I used to give mil Mrs. Nelson such a hard time I should probably go back and apologize to her. When am I ever going to need this? When am I ever going to use this? I never need it. Subjunctive verb. Who cares? But the subjunctive verb has with it the idea of a possibility or a probability. But that's not what's in the Greek. And I really do think the translators here were uncomfortable. With the harshness found in the Greek. And they couldn't bring themselves to put it that way in English. But some of them do. King James, New Nasb, they actually translate, it's an imperative verb. It's a command. It's a directive. So here's the situation that plays out. She comes up to him and says, Master, will you deal with my daughter? And he says, No way. I'm here to save the Jews. I'm not giving my bread to the dogs of society. And at that moment, what are all the Jews around him doing? Amen. Preach it, brother. Gotta get a witness. They're all on board. They're all going, yes, exactly. This is exactly correct. And then she fastened back and says, Yeah, but we can still eat some scraps off the floor. And then in Greek he says, For that go. It doesn't say you may go. It's the imperative command, go. And I want you to stop and realize what just happened in that moment. All of the Jews are standing, and I'm going to include the twelve, are standing around that moment going, Yeah, you got what you deserve. Who do you think you are walking up here stopping a Jewish rabbi, you half-breed Gentile woman? Who do you think you are? And in her head, she's going, oh no, I've overplayed my hand. Oh no. I've just asked him to heal my little girl. And I sassed him, and he says, get out of here. Go. And there is a moment of great tension in this meeting. And then the sternness in Jesus' face melts away. And he winks at her and he says, Because your daughter's already healed. What is now going through her mind? In that moment, all of the Tension that came to the forefront, the stomach coming up in her throat, going, oh no, I've just been sent away. Oh no, I just overplayed my hand. Oh no, I just offended the one guy who might have been able to heal my daughter. What? She's healed She is now jumping out of her sandals, running around hugging everybody who will hug her, and racing home to see if it's really true. In that moment, Jesus brings great joy. The way he deals with her so harshly gives voice to all of the others around him. He voices their thoughts, not his own. He calls her a dog because that's what they're calling her, not because that's how he thinks about her. And he brings all of those in and he sucks them all in to the moment of going, yeah, she's not going to salvation's not for her And in that moment Jesus says, Yes it is. Salvation is for all who believe. And part of what we have here before us this morning is a reminder that when we feel like the dog of society, when we feel like the half-breed Syrophonician, Gentile woman who should have no standing before God because everybody says we're not the right kind. That's not who Jesus came for. That's not what you gotta do to be clean. That's not how it works. You gotta get your act together. You gotta be one of us Before you go to Jesus, Jesus brings all of us to the point of going, Don't you get it? Salvation is, yes, it came through the Jews, it came by the Jews, but it's always been for all who believe, all who respond in faith And she goes skipping off, exulting joyously in what's just happened. Let's keep reading. Then he returned from the region of Tyre and went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the region of the Capolis. And they brought to him a man who was deaf. and had a speech impediment and they begged him to lay his hands on him. Apparently he wasn't deaf from birth. He can speak He's learned to speak somewhere along the way, but he's gone deaf at some later point in life. And most scholars think his speaking better is probably a stutter. We don't know for certain. And taking him aside from the crowd privately, he, Jesus, put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting, touched his tongue. And looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, Athatha, that is, be opened. And his ears were opened, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly And Jesus charged them to tell no one, but the more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it, and they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak. Let's move forward now to uh Mark eight, and we're gonna start in verse twenty-two. What we just read at the end of seven is one of two miracles that are unique to Mark, found nowhere else in the Bible. The other three evangelists do not do not address that miracle. The other three evangelists do not take up the next one we're about to read. And again, we ask ourselves, why does Mark include them when he is so brief in every other places? Why does he include them? Let's keep reading. 822. And they came to Bass Seda, and some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch him And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village, and when he had spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, he asked him, Do you see anything? And he looked up and said, I see people, but they look like trees walking. Again, he was probably not born blind, since he knows what trees look like, and he knows what walking people look like, but he's lost his sight somewhere along in life. I I don't know if there are any Lord of the Rings fans here. I think of the Ants. Walking Trees. If you're not a Lord of the Rings fan, just go look up Ants this afternoon and you'll see it. Um He looked up, he said, they look like trees walking. Verse 25. Then Jesus laid his hands on his eyes again and he opened his eyes. His sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly, and he sent him to his home, saying, Do not even enter the village. Let's pray. Lord, speak to us through this your word, that we might know the wondrous things that you have brought to fulfillment through Jesus Christ. our Savior. It's in his name we pray this. Amen. Interesting story. My uh my mom is uh comes from a large family and she's quite a bit older than her younger sisters. And so I've got a couple of aunts who are actually closer to my age than they are to my mom's age. And one of them was like ten. and was over visiting her older sister when they were already married, parents were already married. They already had me at this point. I was like three. And so the my ten-year-old aunt is like putting me to bed one evening. And I I I'm three. I don't remember this story. My aunt tells this story And she goes to put me to bed. And apparently I wouldn't go to bed, but not for the usual reasons. Not for all those classic toddler three-year-old reasons. But rather I wouldn't go to bed. Because you see, my mother earlier in the day had promised something and had not delivered it, and I wanted mom to fulfill her promise. But here's where the story takes an interesting turn. We had been at the store and I had been misbehaving, and my mom promised when we got home I was going to get a spanking. So here I was, a three-year-old who wouldn't go to bed because I hadn't been spanked. And my aunt didn't know what to do, so she went downstairs and she told my mom, and my mom said, Oh, that's right, I totally forgot. And she did what all good 20th century mothers did. She said, Oh, forget about it, it's not that big of a deal. Nope. She marched up the stairs and she spanked me and put me to bed. My aunt tells that story because it influenced how she later raised her own children. She was dumbfounded that her older sister was that mean and that cruel and that harsh. That even you know, I'm asking for the spanking instead of saying, Oh, that's good that you remembered. Now you can do the right thing. No, she spanked me. You know, truth in advertising, even when it's a spanking, matters. Falling through and doing what you say you're gonna do matters. In the text before us, we see something interesting playing out. I've said to us, I've asked us to think about why does Mark include these? When others omit them. When he could have easily omitted the discussion of the Syrophoenician woman, when he could have easily omitted the deaf stutterer and the blind man, why does he include them? It becomes even more stunning, more striking when you think about all the things that Mark does leave out. We already commented earlier. He makes no mention of Christmas whatsoever. He gives one verse to the temptation of Jesus. He gives only three verses to the baptism of Jesus. He makes no mention of Jesus' high-priestly prayer. He makes no mention of the Sermon on the Mount. All of the things Mark leaves out, why include these people. Well, our Old Testament reading was from the book of Isaiah, and in that Old Testament reading we we we saw, and then our New Testament reading was from the beginning of Mark 7, which we actually preached about a couple of weeks ago. And we saw where Jesus quotes Isaiah 29. You have in your bulletin a yellow piece of paper. I hope you have in your bulletin. It looks like this, a little two-sided sheet of paper. And what I want to do with this is this morning. So I want to encourage us to go through and to recognize what Mark recognized. Mark, when he's writing his account, realizes that in quoting Isaiah 29, Jesus is pointing toward it. He points toward it and says, You Pharisees, Isaiah was right about you. You honor me with your lips, but your hearts are far from me. You teach as uh as the fear of the Lord, you teach a commandment of mankind rather than the commandment of God. But in when Mark writes that account, he realizes he's Steeped in the Word of God, he knows the rest of Isaiah 29. And it dawns on Mark that it's not just those few verses that are fulfilled by the Pharisees, but rather all of Isaiah 29 is fulfilled in the ministry of Jesus. And in order to make that clear, he includes these things that other people leave out. Matthew and Luke don't need these two miracles. Because they're not, they've got other purposes in their writing. They're not trying to get us to see the connection to Isaiah 29. So at the beginning of Mark 7, Jesus quotes Isaiah 29. And now throughout Mark 7 and 8 Mark is putting together the case to show that Jesus fulfills Isaiah 29. In this yellow sheet, I want us to take a few moments to walk through real quickly what's going on in Isaiah 29. So the side marked the top, Inaugurated Eschatology, Mark 7 and 8. In the box on the left, we have the content from Isaiah 29. In the box in the middle we have where Mark addresses that and then a few comments on the right hand side. So real quickly let's go through some of this. Verse 13, and the Lord said, because these people draw near with me their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men Therefore, and then we go on. And we just saw the New Testament reading that is quoted by Jesus in Mark 7, verses 6 and 7. So there Jesus kicks off an understanding of Isaiah 29 and its application to his ministry. We read in Isaiah 14. The Lord through Isaiah says, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder. Now we've got to stop right there. The word wonder and wonderful and wonderment and all those sorts of words in English tend to always have a positive connotation. But that's not the biblical meaning of them. When Moses is arguing with God at the burning bush and says, How am I going to prove to him that you sent me? God grants him signs and wonders. To prove that Moses is a spokesperson of God, the spokesman of God. He was granted signs and wonders. So which of those things were wonderful in our English use of the word? Maybe it was the uh blood the water to blood. That's pretty wonderful. Maybe it was the flies or you know the gnats or the frogs or you know the de Not one of them was wonderful in the way we use it in English, but every one of them was a wonder So as we read Isaiah, we have to be careful that we don't read our meaning into the text. What is meant by wonder is something amazing, even if it is not wonderful the way we would use it in English. And so we read one of the things that is wonderful. In Mark 8, our last week's sermon, Mark 8, 1 through 10, the feeding of the 4,000 is an example of something that was both a wonder and was wonderful. There are many wonders that are occurring among these people. Isaiah 29 goes on to read, And the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden. We're not there yet. We're going to come back to this in the spring. But in Mark 12, we have three, a back-to-back-to-back account of three different groups of Jewish leadership coming and challenging Jesus. First the Pharisees come and say, Should we pay taxes? And Jesus quickly dispatches that attempt. They're trying to trap him. They're trying to catch him in in the problem so they can have a case against him. And he dispatches them quickly. Then the Sadducees come. The Sadducees who don't even believe in resurrection. They're trying to mock the resurrection. They come and say, well, what are you supposed to do if you believe in the resurrection? Come on. If a woman's had seven husbands, who's she married to in the resurrection? And Jesus just patches of that. And then the scribes come, the experts in the law, and they say to Jesus, Well, you know, what's the greatest commandment? What's the most important of all the laws? What's the most important? And Jesus says, Come on, guys, that's obvious. Love the Lord your God with all your heart and all your strength and all your mind and all your soul. And he dispatches them. And then in Mark 12, Mark records something really interesting. And after that, no one dared challenge him again. Mark says, look, Isaiah had said, the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden. And Mark says, Do you see that Jesus did that? He shut him down. He brought to an end any debate, any discussion. From that moment forward, there was no discussion, no wondering about who actually was the one that knew the word of God. No one dared challenge him. We keep reading in Isaiah in the left-hand column of our yellow sheet. Verse 15, the bottom box in the left-hand corner. Ah, you who hide deep hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, who sees us, who knows us, you turn things upside down, shall the pottery be regarded as the clay? That the thing should say of its maker, he did not make me, or the thing formed, say of him who formed it, he is not has he no understanding? And we saw in the beginning when Mark when Jesus quotes Isaiah 29, he quotes it in the context of exactly this issue in Mark 7. He says to the Pharisees, you have it all upside down. You're mad at my disciples because they didn't wash their hands before eating, but that's not even a commandment. But you guys, you applaud when people reject their parents When they dishonor mother and father, not only do you justify them, you encourage them in it. You have everything upside down. That's exactly why he goes to this Isaiah. So we flip over the path the thing, we look at the back, we keep moving through Isaiah kind of quickly here. At this point you're going, Scott, this is a sermon on Isaiah, not Mark. We're getting there Top of Isaiah, uh top of the back page. Isaiah uh twenty-nine seventeen. It is not yet a very little while while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest. Let's deal with this real quickly, the imagery here. In the old testament, um, the uh things get shortened down Yes, we do that in our own society. We have certain things, certain phrases that we shorten, they come to mean something. You know, there was a day when it was a computer program, and then it was a computer application, then it was just an application, today it's just an app We all know what we're talking about when we talk about an app. Okay, all of you under 45 know what we're talking about. We talk about an app. I have no idea what you're talking about. We all know what an app is. We all know who, well again, those of us over 45 all know who share is. We don't have any last name. I grew up in Northern Illinois. I grew up in Northern Illinois at a time when you could say Michael. Doesn't matter there's a bazillion Michaels on the planet. We all know you met Michael Jordan. There was only one Michael at that time in Northern Illinois. There are these things that come down to mean something. And one of those that has come down in Jewish, if we're going to think like good Jews, we're going to read this text. One of the things that comes into the is this idea of the land. What was once the promised land simply becomes the land, Ha'aretz, the land. And it needn't have the word promise because there is only one land you could possibly be talking about. But in the the uh uh uh roundabout language of the ancient Middle East, actually even today's Middle East, tends to use kind of a roundabout. We're a little more direct as Americans, they're a little more circumspect And in that way of speaking, all other places became the Gentiles. Israel is the land. All other lands are the Gentiles. And so Lebanon, as another land, is here a metaphor for the Gentiles. And interestingly enough, when Jesus now in our passage that we just read here, when Jesus goes into Tyre and Sidon, Where are those located? They're in Lebanon. They're this place right here that's being talked about by the prophet. And he says, Lebanon shall become a fruitful field. The gospel has been received by the Syrophonician woman in Lebanon in a way that many of the Jews were not willing to receive it. We read on there in Isaiah, and behold the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest. What is the fruitful field? Well in Isaiah it can only be one thing. Isaiah 5 speaks of the vineyard of God. It is the people of God. So in the prophecy of Isaiah, when we talk about a fruitful field, we're talking about the vineyard of God, the people of God, Israel. And Isaiah is saying, there's coming a day when the places like Lebanon that you all reject are going to receive the good news. And the fruitful field is going to become a wasteland because you eject the good news. And Mark tells us the account of the Syrophonician woman so that we will recognize that that is happening. In Lebanon, the gospel is going forth, even while it's being rejected in the fruitful field of Israel. And then verse 18, Isaiah says, in that day. And just like the word promise got dropped off from the word land, so the words of the Lord get dropped off from that day. When an Old Testament prophet says that day, he means one and only one thing, the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord. And Mark has been making the case. If you haven't picked up on it from the sermon title yet, I'm now making the case That Mark is pointing to the miracles of Jesus, pointing to Jesus, quoting Isaiah 29, he's pointing to Isaiah 29 and saying, this is the day of the Lord What's going on right in front of us when Jesus comes? This is the day of the Lord. This is that promised day. This is and the day of the Lord, in case you're not up on your Old Testament studies there, the day of the Lord is always a day of God's intervention. in human history to bring about his purposes and his conclusion. That's always the context in which the day of the Lord comes And in fact, I want to look real quickly at it. The first time we see, and by the way, there's there's a lot of debate about the chronology of some of the Old Testament prophets, I'm giving you my view of the chronology of the Old Testament prophets. Well the first time we see the day of the Lord is in Obadiah 15. I'm not going to ask you to turn to all of these because we're going to move kind of quickly, but if you want to jot them down, Obadiah verse 15 is the first time we hear of the day of the Lord. For the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations As you have done, so it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own head. Well, Obadiah is written to the nation of Edom. It's a judgment against Edom, the enemies of God's people. And so the first time we hear about the day of the Lord, you know, it's for them. It's coming on the Edomites, this day of judgment. But then Joel picks up the theme just a few years later, and he writes this in verse chapter 1, verse 15, alas! For the day of the Lord. For the day of the Lord is near, and as destruction from the Almighty, it comes. Well, okay, but but still it is coming as destruction on the others. I mean after all, whose judgment? Judgment's never on me, is it? It's always on you. Of course, from your perspective, judgment's never on you. It's always on the hypocrite pastor. We never see judgment as coming down on ourselves. And the people look at Joel and go, huh. But then Joel 2 says this: Let all the inhabitants of the land Tremble. For the day of the Lord is coming. It is near, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. Well, Obadiah says it's for Edom. The first quote in Joel says is ambiguous. That second quote in Joel, two out of three is good enough. The day of the judgment is on other people. It's not on us. And then some years later, Amos picks it up and says, This: Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord! Why would you have the day of the Lord? It is darkness and not light, as if a man fled from a lion and a bear met him. You see what's happened is the people of the Israel, of ancient Israel, going, Yay, the day of the Lord, we've been promised the day of the Lord, let's bring on the day of the Lord, let's pray for the day of the Lord. And Amos says to him, you guys don't know what you're talking about. Woe to you for wanting the day of the Lord! You're not happy with your situation. You're not happy with the Assyrians coming down to to conquer you and the Assyrians invading your land. And you're saying I want the day of the Lord, but you don't understand? That's like running away from Assyria. To run into Egypt. It's like running from a lion only to be eaten by a bear. Don't pray for the day of the Lord. Isn't that something wonderful? And he quotes Joel and says, You've forgotten. Joel told us it is darkness and not light Then Isaiah in chapter two picks it up and says, For the Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low against all the cedars of Lebanon, lofty and lifted up, and against all the oaks of Bashan, against all the lofty mountains, against against all the uplifted hills, against every high tower, against every fortified wall, against all the ships of Tarshish, against all the beautiful craft. And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the lofty pride of men shall be brought low, and the Lord alone will be exalted in that. The day of the Lord, Mark says, has come. John records it this way. In John chapter 9, Jesus says, I have come for judgment. You know it's interesting. Here we are on the cusp of Advent. We think about the baby coming, we think about all this in front of us with Christmas, and we really don't look at texts like this, but we ought to. For he didn't come to be a baby. He didn't come to be warm and fuzzy, cuddly, cute, adorable. He didn't come to be soft and gentle. He says in other places, I came to bring the sword, to divide, to separate. To make clear those who will claim me and those who will not. Remember Mark's purpose? What's been our thesis all along? Mark is a call to confess Christ. And he sets before us the day of the Lord, the day of judgment. He says, look, it's come. Look, all of Isaiah 29 is being fulfilled in our midst. You've got to make a decision. Is he the one or is he not? There is no place to just like the warm fuzzy baby, to like all the red gift wrap and the gold ribbons and have Christmas be this wonderful happy time. No, it brings the day of the Lord. It brings judgment. It brings decision time. Is he the Christ? Do you believe that? Isaiah goes on. 18 C, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind man shall see. We read how the blind man is healed, and interestingly enough, this is the only two-stage miracle anywhere in the Gospels. Every other time Jesus works a miracle, it happens instantly. Jesus says it, and it is so. This time it happens in two stages. And I think Mark recognizes and goes, wait a second, that's exactly how the poetry of Isaiah set it forth. Out of the gloom and darkness, there's this idea of two different levels of sight. And Mark goes, yeah, that's right, that blind man, he couldn't see at all, then he could see a little bit, then he could see fully. Spoiler alert, when we get back in January and we deal with Mark 8. We're going to see that this also foreshadows the spiritual sight of the disciples. They see a little bit, and then they see better. We keep reading in Isaiah, the meek shall obtain fresh joy from the Lord. That's Mark's summary of Jesus' whole ministry. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the good news. We keep reading Mark 19b, and the poor among mankind shall exalt in the Holy One. I've already tried to build the case for the Syrophoenician woman. The way Jesus interacts with her, she runs off exulting. She runs off pretty excited. She goes from that moment of terror and horror, going, oh no, he's just sent me away. And then he says, because your daughter's already healed. He says, Woo! She is, by all Jewish accounts, the poorest of mankind. And she runs off, skipping, so that her feet aren't even touching the ground. She can't wait to get home because of the great news that her child The poor of the mankind shall exult in the Holy One of Israel. And then we read the close of Isaiah 29's prophecy. For the ruthless shall come to nothing, and the scoffer cease, and all who watch to do evil shall be cut off. Who those who by a word make a man out to be an offender, and lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate. Isn't that how Mark seven opened up The disciples ate without with unwashed hands, and the Pharisees, by a word, they made up their own word, they made up their own law to make these guys out to be offenders. They weren't really offenders at all, but they're accused of an offense that didn't exist. And then in 29b or 21b we read this. And with an empty plea they turn aside him who is in the right. We're not there yet in the Gospel of Mark, but we know where this is going. Eventually Jesus is going to stand before Pilate. And the Pharisees are going to accuse him of all sorts of wrongdoing. They will, with an empty plea, turn him aside, who is in the right. Why does Mark, the briefest of the gospel accounts, a man of action, a man on a hurry to get through his message, stop and include two miracles that the others ignore? And I think Mark has recognized that when Jesus quoted Isaiah 29, he was referencing all of it. He is pointing to those two verses, but he said, the whole prophecy is being fulfilled in your midst. The day of the Lord has come. I'm here. Judgment. For this reason I have come. For judgment I have come in John 9. You say, well Pastor, that's a really wonderful uplifting message right in the cusp of Christmas. But let me go back to the beginning and share the rest of the story with you. So I wouldn't go to bed because I had to have my spanking. I don't remember that. But here's what I do remember. I remember my dad getting off a delayed flight, flying home from Brazil, 14 hours in the air getting home on business. Taking his rental car, driving it from the airport in O'Hare, driving the hour and a half to get to our hometown, not going home, exhausted, coming straight to my game. And in his suit and tie, putting on the umpire equipment, getting behind the plate, and umping my game because he said he'd be there and he'd do it. And my parents aren't perfect. One of the joys of getting together over the holidays of my brother and sister is lifting all the ways my parents aren't perfect. But they were people of their word. When they said I was going to get a spanking, I got a spanking. But when mom said, Yeah, your friends can come over Friday night and hang out here She didn't cancel at the last minute because the house was a mess. When dad said I'll beat your game, is that my game? When my parents even now today say we will come out and help with that Even at their age, when a long car ride is the last thing they want to do, they'll be here when they say they're going to be here. That's the message of Mark. You see, Mark ends his discussion of the day of the Lord right on the cusp. If you know the next verses, if you turn the page of your Bible, or we're going to pick up in January, Jesus is going to turn to the twelve and say, Who am I? And they're going to say you're the Christ. And all of a sudden it's going to begin to unfold before us that he's the one that's going to keep all the promises of God. Yes, he comes and inaugurates the day of the Lord. Yes, judgment comes with him. But the one who gives a spanking when spankings are promised is also the one who bakes cookies when cookies are promised And Peter picks up on this theme. What does he say on the day of Pentecost? What does he say when he quotes Joel? When he quotes the day of the Lord? When he says this is what the prophet prophesied? But all who call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved The next verse, Peter is going to say, You are the Christ, and all the judgment of the day of the Lord falls away. Mark says before us the day of the Lord. He has come. He has fulfilled Isaiah 29. He has brought with him judgment. There is now no excuse. For mankind. You either claim this name and hope in the salvation He offers, or you face the promised wrath. Which is far worse than any spanking my mother ever gave me. As we look at Christmas, we're reminded that he came because he said he was going to And he's done the hard things already. The humiliation that we looked at last week. The degradation, the suffering, the death, those things are done. And if he came and did all of those. Well, the finishing at this point is a piece of cake. Surely he will come back and be glorified. And glorify those who hope in the name of the Lord. The day of the Lord is inaugurated with the baptism of Jesus. And that is a scary, terrifying thing. Unless you can, like the twelve, say you are the Christ. Because all who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Let's pray. Lord, give us faith to call upon the name of the Christ. Help us to know that wondrous truth. That as the world around us seems to shake and quake and give way, As we worry about how we're gonna pay the bills and how we're gonna put tr uh gifts under the tree, as we fret over how we're gonna face our friends at school, when we worry about our own sin and the way we've let you down. Show us the one who came, who has kept all the promises so far, and for whom keeping the remaining promises will be so easy. So teach us to call upon the name of the Lord, so that for us the day of the Lord is not judgment, but hope. For us, his coming the first time is a joyous reason to celebrate. We pray this in his wonderful name. Amen.