Somebody should turn in your Bibles to Zechariah chapter 5. We're going to look this week at the sixth and seventh visions that Zechariah received. And as I was prepping this week, I was reminded he saw these visions on uh February fifteenth in the year five nineteen BC That's 2,500 years ago this week that he saw those visions. Um saw these visions. So we're going to be continuing to take a look at these. It was interesting this week I received an email from uh one of you. It actually made me laugh, literally, laughing out loud, because it expressed my own sentiment the first time I read this. The email said this. I just read Zechariah 5 and I can't imagine what you're going to say. First time I read Zechariah 5, that's exactly how I felt about it. And yet we will see that there is a wonderful message from our God. We're going to pray and ask God to enlighten us as we consider his word. Spirit of God, speak to us Let us hear the message, the message that you portrayed through these visions to your prophet Zechariah, who in turn relayed them to your people through his preaching and writing. And who you have, visions which you have preserved for us, your people today. You have preserved them, you have inspired them, you have said that they matter, and that their message is for all time. And so we turn to you in sincere, honest desire, to hear the message, to see the message in these visions, and to know the truth of the good news of Jesus Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen. Hear now the inerrant and authoritative word of Almighty God. Again, I lifted my eyes and saw and behold a flying scroll. And he said to me, that's the angel that's been going along with him through these visions, and he said to me, What do you see? I answered, I see a flying scroll. Its length is twenty cubits and its width ten cubits. Then he said to me, This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole land For everyone who steals shall be cleaned out according to what is on the one side, and everyone who swears falsely shall be cleaned out according to what is on the other side. I will send it out, declares the Lord of hosts, and it shall enter the house of the thief and the house of him who swears falsely by my name. and it shall rema remain in his house and consume it, both timber and stones. Then the angel who talked with me came forward and said to me, Lift your eyes and see what this is that is going out. And I said, What is it? He said, This is the basket that is going out. And he said, This is their iniquity in all the land. And behold, the leaden cover was lifted, and there was a woman sitting in the basket, and he said, This is wickedness. And he thrust her back into the basket, and thrust down the leaden weight on its opening. Then I lifted my eyes and saw and behold two women coming forward. The wind was in their wings. They had wings like the wings of a stork. And they lifted up the basket between earth and heaven. Then I said to the angel who talked with me, Where are they taking the basket? He said to me, To the land of Shinar to build a house for it. And when this is prepared, they will set the basket down there on its base. To him who has ear he to him who has ears to hear, let him hear. This is a stunning vision or probably more correctly two stunning visions. There has been some debate through the years among scholars whether this is one vision or two. I tend to lean toward the interpretation that it's two Nevertheless, they are closely related and we're going to take them together. You will recall that we have said that there was a bit of an hourglass shape to these visions. That the first one was a worldwide vision, the second and third dealt with the people of God, the fourth and fifth dealt with persons, individual peoples of God, Joshua the high priest and Zerubable the governor And now we begin to widen out the hourglass again, and we're into these the sixth and seventh visions, and we're looking again at a at a wider perspective. We're back out looking at the people of God more broadly And next week we will see the eighth vision and see that it takes up uh it's again a worldwide vision. And so here we are in these two visions, and they are perhaps the most bizarre of the visions, and yet I think also once we understand what's going on. Once we understand all the technical aspects of the vision, they are also two of the more the more easily interpreted and applied and and two of the more hopeful of the visions that we have in Zachariah. Wonderful hope is brought to the people of God in these visions. So let's talk first of all about the visions themselves. Let's look at the first one. It is of a flying scroll Now, a couple of things to comment. One, the scroll is huge. In fact, the scroll it measures out 10 cubits by 20 cubits. Now you may not be familiar with the cubits. But I measured it out, and it is this section of pews right here, or that section of pews over there. But one section of pews, if you were to make this into a rectangle instead of the rhombus that it is, you would this would be 10 cubits by 20 cubits. That proportionality, that the one dimension is just double the other, indicates the scroll is rolled up and closed up. For if it were unrolled, we'd expect the length to be significantly more than double the width. So this is a big scroll It is huge. And it is flying around. And you've got to believe that Zechariah does not want to get hit by this scroll as it goes around the land. Now Zechariah is in some position that he can see broadly He's able to see not just that the scroll flies over Jerusalem, but that it's flying throughout the whole land. He has been taken in his vision to some prominent place where he can see the scroll is big enough that he can see it even at some distance. And so he sees it flying not just over Easton, but also over Denton, and not just over Den, but he sees it flying over all of the land. And it flies over to the Western Shore, and it flies into D. C. and it flies around Baltimore and it covers the whole land, flying to and fro. Now, Zachariah probably responded to this flying scroll in a way that we may not. For I'm going to guess that the symbolism of the scroll may not be as familiar to us. The actual word used here, scroll, isn't all that common in the scriptures. And where it does show up with prominence, oh, there's a few places here and there where they reference a scroll and they mean obviously the literal physical object But where we see the word scroll in high concentration are just a few places in the scriptures, particularly Jeremiah 36 and Ezekiel 3. Both of which would have preceded Zechariah's ministry, and he would have been familiar with them. And in those two places, the scroll is closely associated with the Word of God, particularly a judgmental word from God, a word of judgment on the people. In Jeremiah 36, Jeremiah tells his scribe Baruch to write down the judgment from God on a scroll. And the word scroll appears over and over and over again in that text. In Ezekiel, uh right at the end of chapter two, and then in chapter three, Ezekiel is shown a scroll of God's judgment. He's actually told to eat the scroll. And he does so. It's interesting. The word scroll appears just after Zechariah, appears just one more time in scriptures where it's used repeatedly. There's a few passing references to it. You know, the scroll of Isaiah was brought out in the synagogue, those sorts of things, but that word shows up one more time, and that's in the book of Revelation. Actually, I guess twice, two different places in Revelation. Revelation 5 and Revelation 10. And in Revelation 5, it is the scroll of judgment sealed with the seven seals. And in Revelation 10, it is a scroll of judgment. John is required to eat, hearkening back to Ezekiel. So that the scroll is a symbol of judgment, of God's word of judgment on the people. So that when he sees this scroll flying around, when Jeremiah sees it going throughout all of the land, he recognizes what this is. This is judgment flying around. This is judgment swooping down over the people. This is judgment hovering over Jerusalem and over Bethlehem and over Jericho and over all of the other villages in the outlying areas That this is judgment sweeping over them. And he is terrified. This is not Like going to the beach, going over to Ocean City, sitting on there on a summer day and having one of those planes fly by with a banner That says, hey, go to this restaurant or go to this casino or go to do this. It's not what we're talking about here. This is not a flying advertisement. This is flying judgment. And he is terrified. It's also interesting where he says it flies to. He says it flies to all of the land. Ha eret. Eretz is an important word in Hebrew. If you're not going to know a lot of Hebrew, there are a few that are worth knowing, and this might be one of them. An aretz can literally mean the land. I think it's pretty well translated here, but it can also refer to the earth. So which is in view here? Well there's a couple things to think about. One What we're going to see in a moment in the second vision is that the basket is uh of wickedness is taken to Shinar. It's not taken off from the earth, it's taken to another place on the earth. Which seems to suggest that this flying scroll is limited not to the whole earth not to the whole earth, but to a particular part of the earth. Also given the hourglass shape of these visions, in accord with the second and third vision, which were people of God focused. These seem to be people of God focused. It's home to argue that they've correctly translated it not as the earth here, but that Eretz here is rightly understood as the land. But even understanding that, we still don't understand the meaning of it. For to you and to me, the land may have lost some of the significance that it would have had for these people. You see, by this point in the history of God's people, in this point of redemptive history, the land was always capitalized. Capital T, capital L. The land. This wasn't any old piece of land. This wasn't your vacation home or the hunting place like you like where you like to go. This wasn't the Ponderosa. This was the land What does that mean to a Jew? The promised land. The holy land The land given to our forefathers, so that the word of judgment, the curse, as it is told here, is swooping and flying and hovering over God's people. It isn't flying around Babylon. It isn't flying around Egypt or Assyria or any of the traditional enemies of God's people. It is flying among God's people. So what's going on here? What is this a picture of? Well, this is a picture of God's word coming To bring judgment, to bring the curse upon God's people, to expose their sin Something interesting happens in the history of God's people. If you are familiar with the books of uh Samuel and Kings and Chronicles, the history of God's people before the Babylonian exile, you'll know that the main sin that that afflicted them, the sin in which they participated most uh egregiously, the sin that was most commonly addressed by the prophets and by God's judgment on them was the sin of pagan idolatry. That they would introduce into their worship the worship of other gods. Now it's interesting, after the Babylonian exile, that sin seems to have been removed from the people of God. We don't see it again. It doesn't come up again. You know, from the uh the day of the conquest of the land, roughly 1200 B. C. , to the day of the uh Babylonian conquest, uh right around 700 B. You know, it only took 500 years for people, the people of God, to give up on paganism. They're quick learners. After the Babylonian return, we don't see that again. But commentators point out that there's a new sin in view here. And if we look at the contemporaries of Zechariah, books like Haggai and Ezra and Nehemiah and Malachi, if we would consider those books, we see that something new has befallen the people of God. They're no longer practicing pagan idolatry, but now they are corrupt in their economics. Their marketplace is filled with greed and avarice and cheating and lying. These are economic sins that are in view here. Did you catch what the two sins were that are mentioned specifically? Stealing. It is commandment number eight. and a specific reference to one side of the scroll. And bearing false witness could sound like commandment number nine, but if you read on it says that They take oaths, false oaths, they swear falsely in my name. This is a reference to commandment number three. And interestingly enough, it says the other side of the scroll. This is a picture of the two parts of God's law, the Ten Commandments, the summary of the moral law The first tablet of the law, commandments 1 through 4, being those that deal with our relationship toward God. The second tablet of the law, commandments 5 through 10, being those that deal with our relationship to one another. And what is being said here is that the people of God are willing to give up the law of God for their own personal gain, for their own economic well-being. That they are stealing and cheating in the marketplace. That they're standing there in the marketplace, they're promising, I guarantee this is a good product. Oh, it's gonna give you years of wonderful use, it'll hold up no problem This is top-notch fabric. I swear by Yahweh the God in Jerusalem that this is a good product. To sell their wares, they're invoking Almighty God's name. They have given up pagan worship and have taken up economic worship. They have taken up the pursuit of the dollar as the number one thing to go after, and they're willing to sacrifice personal integrity to get it. And that's what is now being judged. And I'm sure there were some among the people of God who were saying to themselves, wait a second, Lord, we just came out of 70 years of exile. We haven't rebuilt the temple, we haven't rebuilt the walls, Jerusalem's a mess. I mean, is it really that big of a deal that we're putting our thumb on the scales to make an extra buck? You can see we need the money Come on! Lighten up, God! You don't give us a chance. There's no wiggle room with you. What is the deal? And that is precisely the message. It's not enough that you have attended to my worship It's not enough that you're now careful about what church you go to. It's not enough that you've put aside the worship of pagan idols. I demand holiness in every aspect of your life And it's not okay to make an excuse based on your present condition. It's not okay to excuse it away because of the circumstances in which you find yourself. I wouldn't ordinarily steal from my employer, but you know I've been in hard times. I got one in college and another with some medical bills and I you know, ordinarily I wouldn't do this, but under these circumstances. Ordinarily, I'd be a man of my word, but this time it just isn't going to work out. God says to his people, my law is still the standard. It took you 500 years. to get it right with regard to the one sin? Is it gonna take another five hundred years to figure it out with regard to this sin? That's what's in play here. That's the vision of the swooping scroll. That's why Zachariah is terrified, why he's ducking for cover. why he's concerned about what's going on. And the scroll is swoop uh uh swooping overhead and it's flying to and fro in the land among God's people and except he says it comes down and it resides in the house of the one who lies I'm sorry, steal. So the one who steals. It resides in the wow house of the one who swears falsely by the name of God. And what does it do? It destroys the house. Both timber and stone. The message is clear You are pursuing wealth by corrupt means. You are chasing after the dollar through ill-gotten gain. You are not keeping your word in business. You are not delivering what you say you will deliver. More than that, you're invoking my name to convince your buyer that you are. And I'm going to destroy the very wealth you are pursuing. You know, things haven't changed. When it comes to personal wealth, things haven't changed that much in the 2,500 years since this vision What is for most of us, what is our single biggest asset, the thing that has the carries the most wealth with the end of our lives when we uh our estate is settled up, it's going to come down to real estate The land, the house, what we live in. That's the place where most of our wealth is tied up. And the same was true back then. These people were building bigger, nicer, fancier houses. We see Haggai reference this also. The people were pouring their money into their personal homes, and the judgment of God says the curse of God, the scroll of his law, is going to descend upon the place of their wealth and devour it How does Jesus say it? Store up your treasure in heaven, where moth and rust not decay, and thieves do not break in and steal. For the wealth stored up on this earth will be destroyed. It will be consumed. It will be wiped out. The next vision takes a grotesque turn. The first vision is kind of a summary of the judgment of God upon those who are wicked. It is the plight of the wicked. And now it turns a corner and it shows us wickedness personified. And the flight of wickedness. And it's kind of weird Kinda bizarre. There's a struggling woman stuffed in a basket, there's a leaden lid on it, she's picked up by stork-winged women who fly her away to a bizarre land named Shinar, and the whole thing is a little grotesque. I have mentioned before, I have talked at some length about the fact that I I give uh uh uh uh a hard time to those of you who are into literature and English and I talked about the fact that my my background tends to be math science oriented, but my freshman year in high school I had a literature teacher named Mr. Foote And Mr. Foote was a gifted teacher, and I will admit that under his tutelage my my openness toward literature took a turn and I kind of went, oh maybe that's not so bad after all. Maybe there's some good stuff there in the English and the language arts. And one day, Mr. Foot, we were reading Romeo and Juliet and our eyes were glazed over. Mr. Kfook could see that we weren't connecting with a text and he took And he took his uh a chair and set up a chair here on the floor, and then he uh moved the chair right in front of his desk and he swept his desk off and pushed all the things off on the ground, and then he took uh a stool that he had and put it on his desk And he began to reenact the sword fighting scene for Romeo and Juliet, and he'd jump up on the chair, and he'd jump up on the desk, and then he'd jump up on the stool that was on his desk, and he would Say some line and he would do the sort of thing and he'd jump back down and he'd jump back down. He'd do fight it back and back and forth up and down. And of course freshmen in high school were all sitting with our jaws hanging open going, what is he doing? He's climbing up on his desk. He's jumping on and off the desk. He's climbing up on chairs. This guy's insane Had Mr. Foote simply done that and gone on, it would have been a mere spectacle. Probably worthy of being reported to the principal And having considered for whether or not he actually was fit to teach. But Mr. Foote did not leave it as mere spectacle. Rather, he used it to explain the drama that was unfolding before us on the text, to help us visualize what was going on. And he took what could have been spectacle and he turned it into very memorable instruction. And to this day, I have a soft spot for Romeo and Juliet. If I'm gonna g go see Shakespeare, that's the one I'm gonna go see Because of Mr. Foote's dramatization, it became memorable. Because of his explanation, it became useful and product uh productive in my life And I want to suggest to us here that we need to see this as more than mere spectacle. If all we do is read this grotesque vision of this woman being shoved down in a basket and a lead cover being sent over, and she fell flown off to a strange land and sat on a pedestal. It's a mere spectacle. But it was not meant to be a spectacle. It was meant to be a lesson. Like Mr. Foote, I'm using it to unfold and teach us, we need to wrestle with this. So what is going on here? If verses 1 through 4 are the plight of the wicked, then these verses 5 through 11 are the flight of wickedness. The flight of wickedness. Verse 6 tells us it is the iniquity, it is their iniquity in all the land. It goes on to say that Zachariah is told, it is a woman, and her name is Wickedness. There's some discussion as to why wickedness is portrayed as a woman. Some will say, well, you know, wickedness is a a a a a uh a feminine noun in Hebrew, and so it was appropriate that it be uh uh uh portrayed in a feminine character. Okay, maybe I wonder if one commentator I saw, I think, has maybe got a better explanation as this. This is the new temple prostitute. This is what you've traded in for the new way that you're sinning. You used to pursue pagan worship, and a lot of pagan worship involved a lot of prostitution. They'd they'd go to the temple in order to to involve in the uh to get involved themselves in these uh uh physically pleasurable pursuits that were horribly corrupt. And the picture now is, I'm going to guess that she's adorned like one of these temple prostitutes. And it is a picture of you have traded in one sin for another. You have pursued, you've set aside the pursuit of pagan gods for the pursuit of green gods, monetary gods. And you are still pursuing, you're still being led astray by the seduction of worldliness, the seduction of wickedness. That's why it's a woman in the basket. This wickedness is dealt with decisively. She is thrust back into the basket, and the leaden weight is thrust down on its opening. There's a violent struggle at work here. She's trying to get out so that she can go and lead astray the people of God. She wants to be set free in the land, in Haaretz. So that she can lead astray the people of God, and God says, no. No, you do not have that freedom. And he throws this weight on her while she's in the basket. By the way, the basket is called an IFA, which is a a marketplace measuring device. One more reason why commentators think that these are references to to uh sins in the marketplace. It is akin to our bushel, a little smaller. A way of buying uh a mid-size quantity of agricultural products. An ephah of flour or an ephah of grain. This is an ephah of wickedness. A measuring out of the wickedness in among the people of God. In this picture, one of the things that I think we that this portrayed here that I think we miss, in our own personal struggle with sin, in our own frustration over the ways that we fail In our own prayer lives, when we wrestle with God and say, why do I keep doing this? Why, Lord, do you not Take this away from me. Why, Lord, do I continue to fall into this sin? We begin to doubt ourselves. We begin to doubt our salvation. We begin to doubt the work of the Spirit within us. And one of the things we miss is this picture right here. That God has suppressed wickedness. He has put a lid on it. He has limited it in your life. Believer, you're not happy with your sanctification. You're not satisfied with your own personal holiness. You're not content with the degree to which you have moved toward godliness, but have you stopped to think about where you would be apart? from the Spirit that work in your life. What would your life look like had God not stuffed wickedness in a basket and put a leaden lid on it? How much worse would you be We are not, few people ever are, as evil and as wicked as they could be. But believer, we are not as wicked as we would be. Apart from this grace of the gospel. Wickedness does not have to be reign in our lives Sin does not have mastery over us. Evil does not control us. Now to put a lid on it The picture goes on. The lid is not simply thrown on there, but then the basket is picked up and it is carried off. by two winged women. The the wind is in their wings. The wind is that that uh word that is uh uh uh uh wonderfully ambiguous in Hebrew. It can mean wind or or breath or spirit And it means all three of those things. So that these winged women whisk away this basket on the breath of God, on the Spirit of God, on the Word of God. It is hauled away to Shinar. Now Shinar appears in Genesis 11. It is a name given in Genesis 11 for Babylon. And Babylon, if you're familiar with the scriptures at all, is a consistent picture throughout the scriptures of the enemies of God, a world opposed to God. pagans and atheists and heathens and and and God haters. And so this is an interesting picture. While the the the wickedness of the people of God is contained and carried away, where is it deposited? Well, it's taken to Shinar. And what is done with wickedness in Shinar? Well, a house is built for her. This is the same word, Beth, that is used in chapter 4 and chapter 3 of Zechariah for the temple. And I think it probably should be understood that way here. That in Shinar a temple is built for wickedness. And she's put on a base, she's put on a pedestal. What is the picture? In a world without God, wickedness is worship. Wickedness is lifted up and exalted and put on a high base. It's put on a pedestal. A temple is built for wickedness, and it resides in comfort and ease. And in a world without God, this is what is worshipped. And something interesting unfolds as we draw these two visions together. In the first vision, there is this flying scroll. It is the curse of God, it is God's law, it is the two tablets of the law, and it's flying over the land, it's flying over the people of God, and it is condemning them. And it is saying that you're worthy of those who lie, your house is going to be consumed. Those who uh swear falsely by God's name, your house is going to be consumed. But anybody who stands in light of that vision is forced to an inescapable conclusion. For the scriptures are clear. He who has broken any part of the law has broken all of the law. And who can stand in the face of the judgment of God's Word? If this sixth vision, the flying basket, the plight of the wicked, stood by itself, who would be left in the land? And the obvious answer is no one. There'd be no one left in the land. They would all be destroyed. All of their homes would be consumed, both timber and stone. And yet the next vision implies there are still people there. Someone has escaped the judgment somehow. Someone is now having their wickedness contained and ultimately removed. If you are a believer here today, you know how this is accomplished The visions given to Zachariah right here, right now in this vision, now we've seen it in some of the other visions, but in this vision it doesn't spell it out. How is it that anybody survived vision number six? But they did so because they wore the robes offered in vision number four. They survive because they are a brand plucked from the fire. They survive because God is going to make them able to accomplish what they need to accomplish, not by might nor by power, but by the Spirit of God Believer, brother and sister, we know how we survive the judgment of God. And we hope in the seventh vision here. We thank God that our wickedness has had a lid put on it, and we praise God that one day it is going to be whisked away completely. Taken completely away from us. But if you're here this morning and your faith is not in Jesus Christ, if your hope is not in these things, then you need to be terrified by these visions. That the law of God is swooping overhead even now, and it's going to descend upon your house, and it is going to devour it. And you are going to be in Shinar. And wickedness is going to come and be the center of your worship. And your society and your world is going to be consumed with the cult of wickedness. Raising it up on a pedestal, building a temple for it, and living in its presence. And while this vision says nothing about the ultimate fate of Shinar, the broader ministry of Zechariah does. And we see as his book continues to march forward that he reveals the final doom, the final judgment of God for all who are in this camp. The message is clear. Judgment is coming. We are going to be judged by the standard of God's law. And while we all fail it in our own strength, those who hope in the robes offered through the angel of the Lord, through Jesus Himself. are saved, and their wickedness suppressed, and their future is guaranteed apart from them. Zechariah continues in the midst of this bizarre set of visions, continues to be a minister of hope. A prophet who brings us the good news that there is salvation, even from our own evil. Let's pray. God let us see our sin. Reveal it to us through your word. And in revealing it to us, give us the faith to run to Jesus, to be covered by his righteousness, his robes for mine. So that we might endure the day when the curse of your law descends upon the land. And Lord, as we consider our own struggle with sin, remind us that you have put a lid on wickedness. You have restrained her violent desire to control us. And you are whisking her away. Even now, by the power of your word, your breath, your spirit. Or Ruhok carrying it off on the wings of these storked women. Stork-winged women, carrying it off to a faraway land so that it will never again beset us. We look forward to the day when that is brought to its end. When you will finally and fully wipe away every tear, remove every stain, lift every aspect of the curse. As we reside with you, you as our God, us as your people. We look forward to this longingly. We pray for this even now. And we ask that you would give us the ability to share that hope with everyone we meet. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.