I invite you now to open your Bibles, if you would, please, to Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews 9. We'll begin in a moment in verse 11. Hebrews 9, verse 11. If you're using the Red Pew Bible that's provided there, it's on page eleven ninety-three. Hebrews nine eleven, page eleven ninety-three. Back in September, we began a sermon series going through the book of Hebrews, a book we have found that is written more as a sermon than as a typical New Testament letter. It doesn't have the usual addressees at the beginning, nor does it tell us by whom it is written. And we proceed with the understanding that we don't know who the earthly author was, though the Lord certainly does. We have seen that it has been the pattern, the purpose of our writer, of our preacher, to motivate and to prompt. Hebrew believers, Jewish Christians, to hold fast our confession. You see, they were being tempted to fall back into the Judaism out of which they had come They saw in the old forms a ritual that was satisfying and pleasing. And they were perhaps doubting whether or not this Jesus of Nazareth really did provide a superior way to God. And so our author has been comparing to all of these different aspects of Judaism, comparing him initially to angels whom the Jews held in highest regard, comparing him also to Moses and to other aspects of their former religion And each step along the way, he's been trying to convince them that Jesus is superior, that this recognition of Jesus of Nazareth as the Christ that was promised, as the Messiah, Was actually the fulfillment of Judaism. It was all that Judaism was meant to be. And today he is going to take up yet another aspect of Judaism. Compare the Christ to that and show the superiority of this faith, this confession that we hold to, that Jesus Christ is Lord. That he is the Son of God and Son of Man. That he is the redeemer of the world by the sacrifice of his own life. That's the confession to which our preacher calls us, and it is what we hold dear for ourselves. We pick up now in Hebrews 9, beginning in verse 11. But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, Then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is not of this creation He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. I want to pause here and make a quick comment on the text. Right at the beginning there, things that have come past tense. My translation has a footnote. In the footnote it says, or possibly to come in the future tense What's going on there? Well, there really are different copies of this letter that trace back to antiquity. Some speak in the future tense, some in the past tense. And so it's uncertain which is meant. I would argue based on the textual evidence and based on the context of the book of Hebrews, our author in Hebrews has always got a future-looking orientation. He is the one that's going to Marches toward the city of God and long for us to forward to that which is promised in the city of God He is the one who in Hebrews eleven in the famous Hall of Faith is going to conclude that all of these faithful people who went before us, they didn't get what was promised. It was still out in their future. And based on that, I would argue that the footnote is really the better way to understand this, that its future. By the way, I'm not on my own there. Two of the most literal and wooden, if you will, translations of the Bible, the King James and the New American Standard, they both go with that future orientation and I think we should as well. These are things that are still out in our future. Picking up in verse 13. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Therefore, he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. Just want to point out that in English, that word covenant and will. Look like two different words. They are exactly the same word in the Greek. That's going to be important for us. For a will takes effect. only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore, not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people saying, This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you. And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law, almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. Thus, it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly as the high priest enters the holy as the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ Having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin, but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. Let's pray. Lord, reveal your superiority through this text before us. Through my words, help us to rightly understand your word. And let us see the glory that is yours because of who you are and what you have done and what you have accomplished. We pray this in your name. Amen. Yesterday began a process of reckoning, a day of reckoning, if you will, in the Shaw household. We launched the remodeling of our pantry. So we had to gun it. Everything had to come out. Everything had to be taken off the shelves so the shelves could be made new, so the walls could be patched, so the floor could be made new, so that everything could be painted. And when you take all those things off the shelves, it prompts the question, why were we keeping this in the first place? What are we doing with this? And are we going to put it back in the pantry? Now, if it's a food item, Drew and I vote yes. It goes back in the pantry. We keep it. But all that other stuff, the picnic supplies and all the grilling supplies, and the 17 different blenders and all of that stuff, you sit there and you say to yourself, why are we saving this? Why are we keeping this? Why are we holding on to this? Our text has a day of reckoning in it. Did you catch that down near the bottom? There it was in verse 27. It is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment. There is a day of reckoning There is a day when you and I will be pulled off the shelves of death, lifted up out of the graves, out of the tombs, out of the mortuaries of this earth And we will stand before our Maker, before the Creator, and He will judge whether or not to save us. And that salvation is very much a future thing in this text. You'll notice here that salvation in this This passage is not spoken of as an accomplished thing, a past tense thing, rather it's a future thing. When that day of reckoning comes, will you be saved? Will you be kept? Will you be brought in to the eternal city that our writer will eventually describe for us? Or will you be cast into eternal damnation? And our text really does take up, as the broader book of Hebrews does, take up the question of how sinners are saved. And something of the question of why they are saved. Now, the flow of this passage, the flow of this text is really laid out back at the top. So we've looked at the bottom and kind of where things are headed. up to the top of this passage and understand how he's going to get there. Verses 11 and 12 in my version are one long sentence. And that's actually an accurate reflection of the Greek, which is one long sentence. But we don't tend to speak in long sentences, so sometimes we can get a little lost and confused in this kind of grammatical structure. But let me point out to you an easy way to follow it. Look at the verbs. Those are the key aspects of those first two verses. If we follow the verbs, we will understand the argument of the whole rest of this passage. But when Christ appeared, there's our first verb. Christ appeared. That's Christmas. That's his coming to this earth. It's not an appearance in the sense of him popping up out of nowhere. But rather the appearance of his sense of him being here rather than there. Now, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this because we kind of did that for the three weeks of December. We took a look at the why and the how of Christ's appearing on the earth. We saw that he said himself, that he came to die for sinners. That he came to give his life as a ransom for many. When Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things to come, Then through the greater and more perfect tent or tabernacle, not made with hands, that is not of this creation, he entered. There's our second verb, he entered. once for all into the holy places. What are we speaking of there when we speak of him entering? There are many doctrines that we do a good job of stressing and teaching and talking about, making sure that we understand them and that we know how to rely on them and live according to them. But there is a doctrine that we sometimes overlook. When it comes to the work of Christ and the person of Christ, we do a pretty good job, as we must, of talking about his death and his resurrection and their centrality to our faith as Christians. But we also need to recognize the importance of his life. For without his life, without his perfect obedience, without his fulfillment of all that was required, His death would be meaningless. You see, it's in Christ's life, in his keeping all of the requirements of the covenant of works, that his death becomes meaningful For in his death, he who did not deserve to die can then pay the price for others. So if his life is not part of our doctrine Then his death becomes meaningless. But we do an okay job of that as a general rule. There is one other aspect of Christ that we sometimes omit. It is his ascension. It is his rise from this earth to heaven. Now, a couple of places that's recorded for us, most notably in the book of Acts. In the opening of the book of Acts, in Acts chapter 1, Luke notes for us how Jesus rose from this earth. into the clouds and disappeared into heaven. And how the disciples who were gathered there, and they were more than just the twelve, the disciples who were gathered there, as they watched this happen, they stood there in awe until eventually an angel was sent back down from heaven to say, Gitab, The business you were told to do. Don't just stand here looking into the heavens. The one who went will come back. But they were for sure amazed in the way he left. For Jesus did not depart this earth in the ordinary way that people depart this earth. You see, he had died But that pine box, that carved tomb, was not the way he left this earth. For he was raised from the dead and spent time here. And then he left alive. With his body, fully human, for all of eternity. Jesus is in heaven as a human being. He ascended from the earth. Now, this turns out to be more important than I think perhaps we give it credit. This is the entrance that our author is talking about right here. Now, why does this turn out to be important? Turn over in your Bibles to Daniel chapter 7, and I just realized I left my Bible down there, so give me a moment. Daniel seven, I think it's verses uh thirteen and fourteen that we need. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel. He's the last of the major prophets. Daniel chapter 7. Let me find it here. Yes, verses 13 and 14. So Daniel is in the midst of a vision. He's having a dream at night. He's seeing things. And these two verses record one of the things that he saw. I saw in the night visions. And behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. Leave that open. We're going to come back to it. But I want to stop there for just a moment. Daniel's warning is interesting. I saw one like a son of man. What's going on with that? So was it really not a human being? Was it really not a person? I really do think, and Daniel will say, if we were to read down through 15, we'd see that Daniel admits he's confused, bewildered, befuddled by what he's seen in his visions. You see, he's sitting there going, wait a second, I've got a vision of heaven. I see the ancient of days. I know that's God on the throne, but there's a human being approaching him And I know that can't be done. Sinful humanity cannot walk into the presence of God. Oh sure the high priest once a year, yes, I know he enters into the Holy of Holies, I know he goes. to the mercy seat. I know he meets with God under the wings of the cherubim, the golden cherubim on the Ark of the Covenant. But there's all kinds of preparation that must be done. Sacrifices have to be made, particular clothes that have to be worn, things have to be done in just the right way. And even there The fullness of God's presence is muted. It's tented, as it were For even Moses himself, God would not fully reveal himself, for it would have killed Moses, God says So what is going on that a person is approaching the Ancient of Days? It must be that it only looks like that. But if you're familiar with the Bible, you may be familiar with that little phrase, son of man. For it is the title. That Jesus of Nazareth uses for himself most often. We saw on Christmas Eve the question Jesus famously put to his disciples: Who do you say that I am? None of the disciples needed to turn that around and ask him, who do you say you are? For they all knew who he said he was. For more than any other, Jesus speaks of himself as the Son of Man. And he is referencing this right here. Now, many of them would not recognize it until later, until after the ascension. But he is saying to his disciples, I'm the one Daniel saw going to the ancient of days. I'm the one who could approach the throne of God Almighty. I'm the one who could go into His presence. And yes, I did that in my nature as God, in my deity before, but I'm the one who is going to do that as one of you. And as a son of man, as a human being, I am going to walk up To the unveiled, unmuted, untented, unsubdued fullness of the glory of God. I am that Son of Man. Daniel was seeing the ascension of the Christ. Now what happens? Go back and look at verse 14. Daniel's befuddlement here. Is he struck dead? When a human being dares to approach the ancient of days, does the holiness of God end him? And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. And not just any dominion, his dominion is an everlasting dominion. And not just any glory, it shall not pass away. And not just any kingdom, his kingdom is one that shall not be destroyed. Daniel says of this one like the Son of Man, that he received power and glory and honor and the right to rule. In other words, he was given all the privileges of God Himself. And Daniel's amazed by this. That's what our author of Hebrews is talking about when he says he entered. He entered. What does he describe in the first and third paragraph of this section? He entered Once for all into the holy place. Verse thir twelve. Enter once for all into the holy places. You know what does he say there? Uh-uh. Verse 11. Not the tent made by hands, in other words, not the tabernacle of this creation. Not that tent in the wilderness, not even that beautiful temple that Solomon built. That's not where Jesus went. Oh, the high priests get to go there, and it's a magnificent thing to be a part of that But please understand, dear friend, if you turn away from this Jesus, if you go back to your mere Judaism apart from the Christ of Christianity. You go back to a religion that is only a shadow of the reality of things. This Jesus. Entered the real tabernacle. The one where the presence of God is fully revealed. The one in heaven where he is known as he is. Look down in the third paragraph Uh um lost my place Oh, verse 24. For Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. He entered there, not just for his own sake, not just to go there and enjoy it on his own. You see, that he could have done prior to his death. Having lived a perfect life, he could have ascended directly into heaven And enjoyed the benefits of his perfect life for himself for all of eternity. But our author says he didn't go there for his own sake, he went there on our behalf Keep reading. Now we're back up in verses 11 and 12. Remember those verbs we were looking at. So Christ appeared. Christmas. He came to this earth. God took on flesh and became one of us. He entered verse 12, that is the ascension. He went to heaven, to the real tabernacle where the presence of God is fully known And then what did he do there? He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. He appeared. He entered. He secured. That's the third verb that drives this whole section. He secured. I don't mean by that. I don't think our text means by that, the doctrine of eternal security. That's a true doctrine, and it's a biblical doctrine. But that's not what's going on here. This is not a statement about once saved, always saved. That's not the point here. The point here is that there's even the possibility of salvation at all. That fallen man, that sinful humanity, might actually be redeemed and restored to a holy God That's the point here. That when he entered, with the righteousness that he earned for himself, living out a perfect life on this earth, when he ascended into the heavens, when he went to the throne of the ancient of days, as Daniel saw, He did so, having died, having paid for sin. The wages of sin is death But he didn't sin. He took with him that which was owed for sin, but didn't have a debt to pay. And he went on our behalf. To be the priest who would pay out the price for others. Now look what he says in verse 13. For if the blood of goats and bulls, and I want to stop there and comment on that word if. I don't think our author is using it in the sense that this is really what he believes. I don't think our author is saying sense, the blood of bull bulls and goats accomplishes this. We sometimes use the word if that way in the s in the in the the the sense of the word since. That's not confusing at all. I should have thought a better way to say that. That's not what he's talking about. This if is truly the the contingent, the idea that since you believe this, I'll go ahead and accept your argument. Remember, our author, he stands kind of in the tradition of the Old Testament prophets, who actually tended to kind of run down the rituals of the tabernacle and temple. Not because they thought they were worthless, but because they thought the people overvalued them. The people were putting their hope in the ritual rather than the God of the ritual. Our author kind of kind of leans that way a little bit. So I would argue here, he's not saying that since the blood of bulls and goats accomplishes this, He's saying, no, if we were to accept your argument that it does now what does he say? If we accept that the blood of bulls and goats, goats and bulls and the sprinkling of devil persons with the ashes of the heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God? He's made the argument before, and he will make it again, that the earthly sacrifices had to be repeated over and over and over and over and over again. Because they could never actually make anybody holy. They could never actually make anybody pure. There's nothing inherently wrong with those sacrifices. We saw a few weeks ago how the New Testament disciples and apostles actually continued to participate in those temple sacrifices. They were perfectly acceptable if you understood that they were a picture, an image of what would happen to the Christ. But if you begin to hope in them in and of themselves, then you went astray. And he says, listen, you think they can save? I'll tell you what saves the blood of the high priest who did not sin, who was a perfect human being. That's what really saves sinners. He entered and did this on your behalf. It really is a concept, again, in those first and third paragraphs, they're very parallel. It's kind of a sandwich section. We've got paragraph one and paragraph three more or less saying the same things. So let's look at the middle of that sandwich. So the the Christ appeared. The Christ entered. And he secured. Let's talk a little bit about how. We talked already, kind of hinted at the idea that it was his sacrifice, his blood, but let's develop the idea more fully here in the middle paragraph, verses 15 through 22. I really do want to look start there in verse 16. For where a will is involved. Now again I mentioned this before. Will and covenant are two different words in English, and they kind of have two different implications in English. But in the Greek, they're basically the same idea overlapping each other. And in fact, we have the same word appearing twice. Once it's translated covenant, and another time it's translated will. For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established. For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not enforced as long as the one who made it is alive. Therefore, not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. The argument is pretty simple. That for a will to take place, for it to be carried out, for uh these properties to be distributed in that way, and for this money to go here, and for this to happen with this The person has to be dead. You don't start handing out their their things before they're dead. Basically, what the argument is being made here Let me back up. We tend to think of wills. There is the, in legal terms, the testator, the one who writes out the will. So my will says, you know, actually what are we in illegal terms? What is it? Will and testament. It is a document that testifies to what I want done I become the testator in legal language. I'm the one who's writing it out. And I assign to someone else the job of carrying it out. The executor. The executor, if you will, the executor of the will. So I'm the testator. I test to want these things done. By will, Becky is the executor. She would have to execute those things and make them happen. But what happens when the testator rises from the dead What happens when the one who wrote the will doesn't stay in the grave? He becomes his own executor. What we have going on here in this middle paragraph is the idea that with Jesus He is both the testator. I am dying, and on my death, I want these people to redeem the benefit of my death. I give to you, dear Christian The benefits of my death. Oh yeah, and I rose from the dead And am now the executor of that will. I'm going to make sure it happens. I'm going to carry it out on your behalf. I'm going to be sure you get what was promised in my will. That's the idea of the covenant that's being laid forth here. This idea that Jesus has said, I will die in place of others. And now I've entered the heavens, my ascension, that doctrine of the risen Savior, going to the throne of the Almighty. Daniel tells us, Daniel testifies to us that he's given power and authority and dominion and kingdoms. He has the right to carry out what he has promised. You know, we forget often, what's that little comment? Right before the Great Commission in Matthew, what does Jesus say right before? Right before he says, go into all the world, make disciples, he says, All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Therefore go into all the world. I can guarantee it. The salvation you're going to proclaim, the promises you're going to carry to the world, I guarantee them. Because I'm the one who wrote the will, and I'm the one who died to fulfill that covenant, and I'm the one who rose again and going to carry it out. Because I will ascend to the very throne of the Almighty. I am the Son of Man, and dominion and power and kingdom and glory are mine to claim. That's the promise that our author here in Hebrews is talking about. That's the value. That's why he shifts between this idea of covenant and will. So that we will understand that they're being carried out, they're one and the same person carrying out both sides of it Christ's perfect life made his life possible as an atoning sacrifice. His willingness to die fulfilled the requirement for sin that there be blood. His resurrection proves That he didn't deserve to die, and his ascension to the throne empowers him to carry out all that is promised. That's why the author of Hebrews is saying, hold fast your confession. Stick with the Christ. Don't turn away from this. For where else do you find that kind of promise, that kind of guarantee, that kind of secured eternal redemption? It's interesting how the passage closes. Look at verses 27 and 28 again. Just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, he will appear a second time Not to deal with sin, but to save. Remember, we said salvation in this text is a future-tense thing, but to save those who believe Those who are doing good works. Those who are uh going to church every Sunday. The wording is interesting, isn't it? It reflects the wording of our psalm with which we open the service. Those who are eagerly waiting for him. I know that we are saved by grace through faith. But rather than spin this into that, let's just let this text speak for itself. Because it really does reflect an aspect of true faith. Are you waiting for this? Is this what you're hoping for? Is this what you're longing for? Is this what you look forward to? Is this where your hope is? If you find yourself saying, Well, I believe that Jesus saves, But never really wanting it. Never really waiting for it. What's the disconnect Where have you lost the impact? The author of Hebrews says that the Christ will come back And he will save those who are eagerly waiting for that salvation. How do you know what people are waiting for? How do you know I know Christmas gifts passed and we had Christmas lists and everything else, but I actually got a cool gift. I won't mention what it was, because you won't think it's cool at all. I thought it was cool I got a cool gift that wasn't on any of my Christmas lists. How does it happen? Because somebody listened to me. They listened to what I talked about. They listened to the things I said. Over time, they began to hear in my conversation a longing for that thing. Does anybody know you're waiting for the return of Christ? If somebody listened to you for the next year, would they be able to pick that out of the things you want from your conversation? Do you ever find yourself talking about it, wishing for it, wanting it I'm going to encourage you to do so. Work it into your conversation. Work it into your prayer life. Work it into your with the things you talk about with other people. Let it be your response to a day of frustration. I'm so fed up with this world, everything goes wrong all the time. Don't talk it up to Murphy's Law. Chalk it up to what it is, the sinful broken world we live in, the effects of the curse. And I can't wait for the day that Jesus goes back and makes it all right. I can't wait for him to come back and fix all of this. I'm so sick and tired of this broken world. Is that what motivates us? Is that what we're longing for? Is that what we're waiting for? And does anybody around us know it Jesus is coming back not to deal with sin next time. He dealt with sin last time, but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. Let's pray. Or this message from the book of Hebrews We're not Jews, we're not at risk of falling back into our old Judaism, and yet we find in it a message that's important to us. That we must recognize the work of Christ. That he appeared at Christmas, that he uh uh uh entered at the ascension with into the heavenly realms and came to the very throne of the Almighty, and that in so doing he did so on our behalf to secure our eternal redemption. Teach us to wait for that, to long for that, to desire that, to want it above all other things. And until that happens. Embolden us in our faith. Encourage us in our walk. Draw us to yourself through your word, through the fellowship with the saints, through all that happens in our lives. And we offer this prayer in Christ's name. Amen.