Open your Bibles, if you would, to Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1. Our passage of focus is going to be verses 18 to 32, but in a moment we will begin back in verse 14. Last week, Paul summarized his reading, I'm sorry, his reason for writing as a desire to share the gospel of Christ Jesus with the Roman Christians. Paul wanted Christians to hear the gospel. Not for the sake of conversion, obviously, they were already believers. Rather, by better understanding the gospel, he hoped to foster within them a spirit of unity and of cohesiveness. His detailed explanation of the gospel Is going to be in the hope of helping these believers to live better, more godly lives of unity and love. It is certainly our hope that as we study Romans, we will be moved in that same direction, that we will Understand what we have been saved from, understand who we would be without the gospel, and would therefore be more compassionate toward our brothers and sisters. That's the purpose of the letter. We need to also understand kind of the method of the letter, its literary style. In this book written to Rome, in this letter written to Rome, Paul uses a particular rhetorical device. He debates An imaginary opponent. He is going to address someone who is not obviously in front of us And sometimes we can miss that. And yet when we recognize this, when we see that Paul is a addressing an imagined debater or an imagined discussion partner, much of what he says in Romans will make more sense. And so this morning I'm going to read it that way. I'm going to explicitly interject the things that he imagines his opponent saying. to see if that doesn't help us make sense of where he's going. So we're going to back up to verse 14 Much of Romans, pretty much all of Romans, is this connected logical argument, and so the passages overlap each other. So we're going to go back to verse 14. It's kind of a running start to get into our text today, which begins in 18. So join me now back in Romans 1 verse 14. I, Paul, am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish. So what? His opponent might say. So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. Why? Because I am not ashamed of the gospel. Why not? Because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Now, how is that possible, Paul? How can the death and resurrection of a carpenter-turned rabbi be the power of God for salvation? Because in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to face, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. Why is righteousness from God important? How is it necessary for salvation? How is it the power of God for salvation? Because, Paul says in verse 18, the wrath of God is present tense Revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. What truth are you talking about, Paul? What truth has been suppressed? Many of these people have never heard of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. How can they possibly be suppressing his truth? Verse 19. Because what can be known about God is plain to them. God has shown it to them. And how can that be? How has God shown himself even to pagans? Because his invisible attributes namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. Okay, the opponent might argue, the universe is amazing, and I suppose we ought to acknowledge there is a creator, but so what? So they, that is, men, are without excuse You know, Paul imagines this opponent to be struggling to come to grips with his argument. And so he's going to go back over the same territory, the next few verses, in different ways several times. He's going to come at it from different angles and different facets to hope that the one who is debating him will come to grips with the truth being presented. They are basically saying, wait, say that again? And he's going to say it again. Verse 21. Because although they knew God. They did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. But they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools. And exchange the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal men and birds and animals and creeping things. We are natural born worshipers. We are admirers, adorers, exalters, and extollers. It's what we do. And having denied God's godliness, humanity casts around for something to worship, something to follow And we replace God with the thing we'd rather follow. We become, effectively, idolaters. That's the essence of Paul's argument this far. That the root of human sin is their rejection of God and the replacement of Him with some other power worthy of their admiration. And now we arrive at the first of several turning points in the book of Romans. There's a long line of logic, a long train of reasoning, and then there's a conclusion, therefore. In verse 24. So listen closely now to Paul's argument. Ignoring the clear revelation of God in nature, these people become idolaters. This is why God is angry. Therefore, God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshipped and served the Creator the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. That's the offense In a nutshell, we have abandoned God in favor of other things. So Paul now returns, remember we said he's going to go back and forth, he now returns to the consequence. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchange natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women, and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalties of their error, for their error. Sexual perversion is the illustration Paul chooses to use as the consequence of God giving them up. Having become idolaters, they naturally become sexually perverse. That's Paul's argument. Keep that cause and effect in mind. Paul is not arguing that because they are sexually perverse, God's wrath will be revealed against them. He's saying that God's wrath is revealed against them, and that's why they're sexually perverse. Do you see the cause and effect relationship Paul's establishing here? It's going to be important to our proper understanding of the text. Having befowed their relationship with God, God allows them to befoul the relationship with one another, with their fellow human. A humanity Which severs itself from the existence of its creator is ultimately unmoored from its very identity. This chapter is going to have a lot to say about homosexuality, and we are going to learn how to think better about that sin. But this chapter is not principally about homosexuality. That's not the main point. It's about the justice of God. Homosexuality was, in Paul's view, simply the most obvious way by which human beings were Not being who and what they were created to be. But the society of men which abandoned it abandons its humanity by abandoning God is capable of all manner of great evil. And so he goes on in verse 28. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips. Slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. Let's pray. Lord, help us to see your righteousness even in your wrath revealed And in seeing your wrath revealed, lead us to the only righteousness that we have in Christ Jesus our Savior. In His name we pray. Amen. Some good news is good, or some news is good, regardless of any context, right? If someone says to you, hey, here's a check made out to you for $10 million, that's good news, period. Doesn't matter if you're rich or if you're poor Now granted, that will change the poor person's life more, but it's good news no matter who you are. On the flip side, some news needs context. The announcement that the train is coming. That's good news if you're in the station waiting for a loved one to arrive. It was less good the day that I was fishing with my uncle, and we decided to cross the river on a train trestle. At mid-river, he said, the train is coming. I was not excited. News requires context, at least some of it does. If you come home and come in the house and say, honey, I still have a job. I suppose that's good news, but it kind of would benefit from some explanation Oh, by the way, our company was bought out today. They laid off 1,100 people. But I wasn't one of them. I still have a job. Now that makes sense. That's good news. Paul has said that the gospel of Jesus is good news That it's the power of God to salvation, that it's a righteousness from God revealed among us. But that requires some explanation. Paul needs to kind of lay out the context for that. And that's what we are seeing this week, next week, and the week after. the context into which this good news is delivered. And Paul's first argument is that God's righteousness is needed precisely because his wrath is already on display. In fact, God's wrath You might argue is actually the demonstration of a righteousness revealed. True righteousness punishes wickedness. Last week, we learned about a coin that was being minted at right about the same time that Paul wrote the Book of Romans. And that coin had on its face the goddess equitas, equity, fairness, and a set of balanced scales. And it blazoned across the top of the coin was the word righteousness. Now, the Romans don't get to define righteousness for us. But understanding that that's the society, that's how they understood the word, gives us some insight into how Paul is writing to the church in Rome. He is saying that God is righteous, and part of their concept of righteousness is that God punishes evil. That he will uh uh uh uh level his justice against those who do wrong There is a growing trend in Christianity today to dismiss the idea that God punishes. We want to do away with his wrath There are a shocking number of churchgoers, regular every Sunday churchgoers, who believe there is no such thing as hell. Or if there is hell, and it is at worst just a temporary place where God punishes you for a time. The punishment of God is being undermined even in the church. We say God is love, and we conclude wrongly, without looking at the Bible, we decide that if God is love, that means He couldn't possibly Punish wickedness. Such people are not reading their Bibles carefully. For the punishment of sin is a central theme of the Bible. It is the central theme of the cross. Christ took our punishment for us, so we would not have to. If punishment is unbecoming of God, then so too is the cross. Such people also reveal not only their ignorance of the Bible, but of the world. Anyone who would argue that God does not punish sin were not among the Allied soldiers who freed the concentration camps. Anyone who would argue that way would they did not have to bury the 600,000 Tutsi women and children that were murdered simply for being Tutsis. They have never been trafficked as a slave for someone else's sexual behavior. They have never had a loved one brutally murdered. For the safe space of such blatant, obvious evil Something deep inside each of us wells up and cries out for justice, for punitive justice, for payment for that wickedness. To let such heinous evil go unpunished is itself a heinous evil. And we know it. Why? Because we're created in the image of God. We are like him. We bear his likeness. He will punish evil, and we understand in in innately that it must be so Paul says the righteousness of God is revealed in his wrath against sin. Now, why is God's wrath even in play? What has mankind done to incur the anger of God? And the thrust of Paul's argument today in this portion, we're going to see some different turns in the next two weeks. Today in this portion, the thrust of Paul's argument is that they suppress the truth about God. And in its place, they raise up admiration for created things. They are idolaters, as we said earlier. God is justified, that is to say, He is righteous in holding them accountable for this. Because there is on display in this world more than enough evidence to come to the conclusion that God must exist. God's eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. Now, how is that truth about God suppressed? Well, most obviously in our explanation of the world's origin In Paul's day, the Romans would have had all these pagan gods that were responsible for the origin of our world. Today we have science. And we're going to attribute to science the glory which should have been attributed to God. And it is a personal affront to God. To take God out of the equation as the Creator is to dishonor him in the worst possible way. And let me be clear about this. We're not talking about the need to get your own understanding of creation right in every nuance. You might hold a wrong view with regard to the age of the earth. You might hold a mistaken view with regard to the length of the six days of creation. That's not the point here. If in the final analysis your understanding of all that is comes down to And God said, let there be, and there was, that's Paul's point. Not that you have every other thing. This is not the time and place for us to begin to argue about our understanding of exactly how creation came to be. Paul's point is this. That it's necessary. The essential thing is that you understand that God is behind it. That God is the one who ordained it. created it, sustains it, and controls it even down to this day. People have gone foul of God because they have refused to acknowledge God as behind all things. under all things, in all things, the supporter of all things, the sustainer of all things, the controller of all things. You're Christian, you might honor God as creator But be careful that you do not undermine the totality of His godness in your life. You might hold an excellent understanding of the how and when of creation, but there are other ways we dishonor God and suppress the truth about him. Notice the wording, which is important to Paul, that God's eternal power and divine nature are revealed. You and I must be careful never to diminish God's eternal power. So how do we speak of the storm that blew across the Southeast this week? Do you attribute it to Mother Nature? Do you assign to some inanimate creation, to some forces of the atmosphere? the control, the ultimate control over that storm. If so, have we not taken God out of the control of these things? Have we not divorced him from his eternal power and divine nature? Mother Nature did not wreak havoc upon Florida and Georgia and North Carolina this past week. Hurricane Haleen was in the hands of Providence, not Mother Nature. And whatever Haleen tore down, it was because God wanted it torn down. And whatever Haleen left behind was because God wanted it left behind. Do not give God's governing power and glory over to Mother Nature. And if we imagine that our astrological sign affects our personality, we give power to the creation which rightly belongs to the creator. He made us who we are. When we knock on wood, cross our fingers, avoid the paths of black cats, or practice any other superstition, we are assigning to those created things. The power of providence. We have in our own way exchanged the truth of God for these lies Brothers and sisters, these little things matter. And it's not hard to experience the degree to which they matter. Simply spend the next three or four weeks policing yourself. Every time you're tempted to speak of Mother Nature, every time you're tempted to speak of the weather as in control of itself Substitute God in this place. You're going to be amazed at how often you find yourself turning to Him and thinking about Him in a way you did not before How all of a sudden the discussion of weather is going to prompt you to pray to him to protect somebody who lives there. How often you're going to find yourself acknowledging that he really is in control of all these things. Do not give to the created things the power and glory due to their creator. It is so easy to see idolatry in the other person. How they rob God of his glory. It's so hard to see how we do so. So no. What was the result? of all of this, according to Paul. We get back to his address to the Romans. This denying of God's nature in favor of the exaltation of a creation, that was the offense What did God do about it? How is his wrath revealed? Look at verse 25. Because of idolatry, therefore God gave them up. The loss of the connection to the one true God is directly linked to God giving them up. They gave up. God, is he not justified in giving them up? And what is the consequence of that? Impurity and dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. Do you see how the punishment fits the crime? Idolatry is an affront to the very person of God. It is fitting, and it is just if God's wrath is revealed against the personhood of humanity. Now, Paul has not yet laid forth much detail, but this is his point. Because they exchange the truth about God for a lie and worship and serve the creature rather than the creator, their very humanity. Is at risk. God has given them up to dishonor. Created to be vice-regents, created to be prime ministers under the kingship of God Himself Created to be those who had dominion over the earth, those who were to tend the garden in God's place, that place of honor is being taken from humanity. And dishonor awaits. Paul's argument here is deeply rooted in an understanding of the Imago Dei, the image of God in human beings. Humans were created to be in fellowship with God to learn how to be human. When Jackie moved in some weeks back, she brought her kitten with her. That kitten has watched our adult cat, Bella, and done what our adult cat does. When Bella eats, the kitten eats. Where Bella eats, the kitten eats. Where Bella perches on a high spot, the kitten goes up and perches on that high spot. When Bella plays in a bag, the kitten plays in that same bag. The kitten is following the example of the older cat so as to become a cat, so as to develop into a mature adult cat. That is not unlike our relationship to God. We were to be His image bearers. Where do we learn to do that? But from God. In order to be like him, we have to know him. We have to have a relationship with him. And when we severed that relationship in our pride, when we said, no, we will not submit to God's godness When that relationship was broken, the way in which we would become more human was lost And that's Paul's point. So, how does he illustrate that? Homosexuality. Paul sees that as an obvious departure from the created order of things. Clearly, in Paul's mind, he's arguing that biologically, anatomically, physiologically, males are designed to mate with females, and vice versa. God designed a man to be united in marriage to a woman. One man, one woman, vowed to each other and only each other for life. That, Paul argues, is self-evident. By the way, so far as I'm aware, there is no ancient society of men where marriage was not practiced. Every culture that anthropologists have ever uncovered, until the last 50 years or so, has always acknowledged marriage. No matter how isolated they might have been from every other culture. How do you explain that? There is no theory of evolution that can account for that. But if we were created in God's image, if we were all traced back to a time when Adam and Eve were wedded to one another, then it makes some sense. Marriage between a man and a woman has always been a fundamental reality of what it means to be a human being. It's part of how we fulfill the creation mandate to make more human beings That's Paul's point. That when men sleep with men and women with women, it demonstrates the degree to which these human beings are not what they were meant to be. And it's because God has let go of them, turned them over to themselves. If God were actively protecting them, if he were still engaged with them, this would never have happened. And again, why did it happen? Idolatry. When human beings worship wrongly, they eventually live wrongly. There are a whole bunch of conclusions and consequences of this that we've got to consider First, let's be clear. Paul is pointing to homosexuality as a plain and obvious illustration of humanity run amok Of humanity off the path it should have been on. It is wrong. It is sin. It is not an alternative lifestyle or an alternative love. It is a profound step on a path which leads to us being less human. And so it is right and appropriate that we oppose it. But to be effective. To have any impact at all. Any opposition we might have to homosexuality must address the root cause. We would never battle lung cancer by arguing how wrong lung cancer is. Rather, we addressed smoking. We addressed unhealthy air in factories where people work. We addressed smog in large cities. Lung cancer is a terrible thing, but it was the byproduct, not the cause. That's Paul's argument here is that home duality is the byproduct. Idolatry is the cause. It is the outworking of deeply flawed theology. It is only in getting one's perspective about God correct. That the homosexual will have any hope of getting a correct perspective on human sexuality The root cause of homosexuality, according to the passage, is bad theology. God was not acknowledged as God, created things were worshipped in his place, and unnatural sexuality was the product of God giving them what they wanted. Brothers and sisters, we will not stem the tide of homosexuality and transgenderism or any other perversion in our society At the ballot box this fall. That's not where it's going to happen. That is not where our hope should be. That is not the thing that we should believe is going to change the course of our society. Should biblical principles directly influence how we vote? Absolutely. But never hope that politics is going to save America. It will not. We must know God for who he truly is. It is only in understanding who he is and by uh uh uh uh consequence who we are. That we will get our humanity right and live the way we ought to live. Which kind of brings us to the second point that I think we need to make. The problem which Paul is addressing is societal in nature, not individualistic. Paul is not saying that each person by themselves rejects God, worships a false God, and so becomes homosexual. That sort of one-to-one link is not what is in view here. Remember, Paul is saying that his gospel is for the Greek and the barbarian alike. He is addressing groups of people. As a group. And so he's making the argument here that society rejects God. Society worships self or science or both in place of God. And so society suffers the natural consequences which play out in individuals. Now I know that it seems like I just contradicted myself. I said that we cannot stem the tide of homosexuality. at the ballot box by changing society, and now I've said that society is what's influencing the individual. Let me see if I can't illustrate what's going on here You see, there's an entire generation of young people growing up right now in our society whose minds are so misguided from the day of their birth Right out of the gate. But they can't possibly get this right. Monday of this past week, six days ago. I stopped by the elementary school to drop off some paperwork for Becky. And as I was walking out of the office, There was on the sidewalk next to me a young woman with four students in tow. They looked to be third grade-ish, eight or nine years old. And as she walked, she was engaging their minds and teaching them She was saying, Look, there are five of us. I'm a girl, there are two of you who are girls, and two of you who are boys. Half of the students are boys, half of the students are girls, three-fifths of all of us are girls. She was Putting some fractions in their heads as they walked along. One of the boys began to argue with her. There are three girls. I'm a girl. The teacher tried to correct him. No, there are two boys and two girls. And this eight or nine-year-old insisted, I'm a girl. Do not imagine that an eight or nine-year-old, that a third grader, whatever age they were about that age, do not imagine for a moment that that A young person has gone through all of the thinking that Paul's describing here. They have not conscientiously rejected God. They have not conscientiously exalted an idol in place of God. They have not conscientiously shaken their fist at God. They have not said to God, you had no right to give me a Y chromosome I'm going to declare myself a girl, and there's nothing you can do about it, God. That's not what's going on there. This is the illustration of the saying that the sins of the Father will be visited to the third and fourth generation. We as a society Have corrupted this young person's thinking. We have polluted their minds. So what are the practical implications? Well perhaps most importantly Think about what this means for the homosexual you know, your lesbian cousin, your gay son or brother. Their sexual orientation is the revelation of God's wrath, Paul says. What then can turn away God's wrath? Can you? Can they What can turn away God's wrath? It is only God's righteousness. The only thing that can stand between the wrath of God and the individual is the righteousness of God. Now we begin to see what Paul is tying together here, why the gospel is so important, why it's such good news. If we hope To be saved from the wrath of God, we need the righteousness of God. To whatever degree you are trying to speak God's truth into that person's life, I ask you, has it begun first with speaking to God? God has given them over. There's nothing you can do to make God take them back Will you fix them so that he will take them back under his protective care? Is it not clear that the order of things is the other way around? Do we not need God's hand of protection and supervision to keep us from being the things that were listed in the passage? And more to the point, let me ask you this question, especially as a Presbyterian church, why are you not gay? Is it due to something in you? Is it not due at least in part to the mercy of God, to his hand of protection upon you? We Presbyterians love Romans chapter 9. And we should. But do we not? But we don't always understand its implications. When God says, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, that means that any human whom God preserves Is his act, not ours? It is literally true that there, but for the grace of God go I If it is not for the love of God revealed in his protective care over us His law given to us, his discipline of us as his children, you and I would be the illustration Paul is pointing to. We'd be the ones run a mock our humanity headed in the wrong direction. We'd be in that boat. We'd be one of them Do you see that reality in yourself? Do you understand that you had no more control over your upbringing than does that poor third grader? His situation is not of his own making, though he's going to suffer for it. Your situation is not of your own making, though you are going to glory in it. Any betterness there might be in us, and I don't say true goodness, but relative to some others, maybe there's some betterness, any betterness there might be in us is not because of us. It is the preserving hand of God. It is divine restraint. It is mercy. So the restoration of your gay friend or lesbian cousin has to begin with God. Are you praying fervently? Not for their destruction. Not for the wrath of God to fall on them. It already has. That's why they're in that boat. Are you praying for their restoration and reconciliation? Are you praying that God will lift his wrath from them and replace it with his mercy? They are simply what men become apart from God. They cannot, cannot be anything else on their own. Which, by the way, Paul is going to argue in chapter 7. God must restore their true humanity. Are we praying that He will? Which brings us to another practical consequence. I don't think we always appreciate the interplay of society and the individual The two are intertwined more than most of us as Christians, and particularly Christian Americans, sometimes admit. Think back, for example, to Catholicism in the Middle Ages. It treated the work of people who were outside the church as though inferior. As though it was second class to the work of the church. What the priests and the monks and the nuns did, that was the really important work. That's the work God really cared about. And along came Martin Luther, and he began to preach the Bible. He would say things like: Whatever you do, do all for the glory of God. He would say, dear seamstress, sew your clothes to the glory of God. Farmer, tend your field to the glory of God. Butcher, touch your meat, and deal honestly with your customers to the glory of God. Now did each Lutheran, every Protestant, change immediately? Of course not. Some lazy farmers were still, by their nature, lazy. But some of those lazy farmers they feared God and they tried to be unlazy. And I guarantee you they failed. Yet they now talked about I'm sorry. Yet they now talked about the importance of hard work. Even as they struggled with laziness, they were, in a sense, hypocrites. But they tried desperately to model unlaziness to their children. Now they would have failed often. So, were there efforts of no avail? On the contrary, the next generation of that family would have been better for all the effort. Rather than the sins of the Father being visited upon the third or fourth generation, the redemption of the Father began to bless the generations which followed. Those subsequent farmers worked harder. To glorify God. And likewise the seathrists, the butcher, the baker, and the candlestick maker. And so the Protestant work ethic was born. Not overnight, not in one generation, not in one lazy man, but through that lazy man. The third grader, confused about his gender, is the product of society. But society is the product of individual choices played out over time. What does any of this have to do with homosexuality? Well, just this. If your gay friend or lesbian cousin comes to know the Lord, Do you imagine that that will fix them? Let me ask you this. Do you know the Lord? And has that fixed you of all your sins? But is the Lord working on them in you? So will he not also work on the sin of that gay man who has come to Christ by faith? But do you fall back into your sins? Will he not do the same? Like the lazy farmer, he will denounce his sin, struggle against his sin, not approve of his sin, and yet he will still fall back into his sin. Yet the very act of struggling against it will be the means by which God begins to preserve and protect. A society of believers who cling to his word as the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. We must never tolerate sin, yet we must be very patient with sinners. I don't imagine that there is a formula for executing this, except perhaps the golden rule. How could your brothers in Christ aid your sanctification? Aid theirs in that same way. How could your sisters in the Lord foster holiness in you? Foster it in them in that same way. The body of Christ is a society of believers. Those believers are formed by that body of Christ. And that body of Christ is formed from those individuals. As we pour into one another, we build the foundation for the future of the church. Each of us, individually and corporately, each body goes the way of the other. As our individuals go, so goes our church. And as our church goes, so goes our individuals. Paul says that it's a failure to know God that has caused this evil within humanity. And that brings us back around to another point. Beware the body you choose to be part of, because you will become part of it. You know, one of the most common criticisms leveled at the church for decades now has been its hypocrisy. The world out there says, huh, you say sexual sin is wrong, and you're all a bunch of sexual sinners, you're all a bunch of sexual perverts. It's true. But how much worse would it be to be a part of a place that rejoices in those things? That celebrates them, that says they're good. A church which says, hey, sure, you can be sexually perverse and a Christian, is saying you can be both dehumanized and increasingly human. Is hypocrisy bad? Yes. But openly advocating for the sins we practice so that we will be not hypocritical is far worse. Is that not the point of verse 32? Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them. I can only think of two ways To get out from underneath hypocrisy. One of those is to live in perfection, according to all the righteousness that we preach. That's impossible. The other is to stop preaching righteousness. And that's death Do we fall short of the righteousness that we extol? Absolutely. That's going to be Paul's point in chapter 7. But how does he conclude it? By coming back around to the gospel. Who will save us from this body of death? Praise be to God for our Lord Jesus Christ. Finally, and importantly, do not miss how Paul brings this passage around to the whole list of sins in 29-31. Do not imagine that homosexuality is the only sin which God cares about. It is the sin which Paul has selected as being perhaps most obvious in terms of its the way it runs afoul of our human uh uh uh uh nature, uh of our Biological creation, of a created order, there's a way I should have said it, of the created order of things, but it is not the only sin which arises from an idolatrous heart You see, God has turned us all over to be what we want to be, apart from Him. And so this is how Paul explains it in the beginning in verse 29. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. Homosexuality is not the only sin. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips If memory serves, murder and gossip are the two sins that make every single New Testament list of sins. If you scour the New Testament for all the different places where sins are enumerated, murder and gossip are on all the lists. Homosexuality doesn't make all those lists. Gossip does. And this is very revealing about our misunderstanding of sin. We cannot oppose that which we find yucky. Distasteful, unpleasant, not something we're susceptible to. It's not okay to tolerate gossips Now we would quickly drive out of our church a man struggling with homosexuality, whether intentionally or not. I don't think we would do it intentionally, but we risk doing it unintentionally. Yet we will tolerate a gossip. And let that gossip even become the center of our social network. We must flee sin because it is sin, not because we like it or dislike it. They are gossip, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents. I wish I was crafty enough, clever enough to have scripted both Tuesday night's parenting class and this sermon to come together so beautifully, but I am not that smart. And yet they do. We just on Tuesday evening talked about the importance of discipline within the family, within the household. And here we have Paul listing disobedience to parents as one of the hallmarks of people who have gone astray from God, whom God has given over to being themselves. Do we understand why this is on the list? Because God had made us to be Subordinate rulers over creation. We were to be superintendents of his creation We were to be given of a little portion of the garden and to carve it out and to take care of it and tend it and be stewards of it How does that not begin at home? How is that not first and foremost within the walls of our house? If we do not exercise control over ourselves, self-discipline, and over our children We have denied the essence of what we were created to be. Superintendence over that which God has given us. It's necessary to Uh I'm sorry, my tablet just looks like I'm dead. I'm out of power. We will finish without it. We are to be superintendents over that which God has given us. Paul closes out with a few more sins. He lists a few more things. He talks about the fact. All of these sins are listed because they are his demonstration of how we go astray when we do not hold to the true God. This is why doctrine and theology are going to be so central to the book of Romans. It's why we are going to spend some time in the deep end of the Christian pool. Because we are going to wrestle with these things so that we will have a right view of the salvation we have been given. But it begins here by making sure we understand the context of that salvation. The backdrop against which righteousness is proclaimed. A world in which people are becoming less and less who they were created to be, and more and more unhuman. Because they've turned away from God, and God has given them over. Now it's easy to look at this passage. It's easy to look at this and say, well, that's all of those people out there. I mean, come on, Scott. Come on, Pastor. I'm not gay. I'm not a murderer. I'm not a slanderer. I'm not a god hater. I'm not any of those things on that list. I'm a good boy, a good girl who's gone to church all my life. And Paul is going to turn to us next week And say you're in the same boat. You need the gospel just as desperately as all of these wicked people described in chapter one. The point of his message is this: we are all in trouble without Jesus Christ We are all doomed without his good works on our behalf. And so we must hear the gospel as good news. We must have this backdrop so that we can properly receive it. And we must acknowledge him in obedient faith. Let's pray. Lord, it is easy to look at these sorts of sins, these things that we find so uh hideous, so um detestable in our own sight and to decide that we're not like this. This isn't who we are. And yet we must come to grips with the fact that it is who we would be, apart from your preserving hand on us. This is not a reason for us to be puffed up with pride, but a reason for us to humbly cling to you. It's not a reason for us to boast to others about our relationship to you. It is a reason to implore you to establish a relationship with them. When we understand how you have saved us, when we understand how you preserve us we will better understand how each of us needs one another to be the body of Christ that we ought to be. And so we ask for your blessing upon us in this way, that we would understand these things and live according to them here at Short Harvest. We pray this in the precious name of Jesus. Enmen