Click in your Bibles, unless you're old school, then you can turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 10. Romans 10, we'll begin in verse 14 It's on page 1125, if you're using the Pew Bible, that's in front of you there. Romans 1014, page 1125. Follow along as I read God's Word. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for their voice has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. But I ask that Israel not understand. First Moses says, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. This is the Word of God, and it is the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. Let's seek God's help understanding it. Spirit, show us the message of this passage. There are so many things here that we could talk about. Help us to absorb as many as possible. But Lord, help us to grasp the warning that is here for us and the challenge that is before us. We ask this in humility, knowing that you will honor your own word and it will not be void of fruit, even among us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. I have been reading a book I received at Christmas. Neil Faulkner has written this very interesting account of World War I. And it's focused on the Middle East, on the role of the Ottoman Empire and the Arabs in the Middle East in World War One. Part of history about which I knew nothing. And one of the things he details in this book is the inherent disadvantages of the Ottoman Empire in that conflict Despite a land area that was four times that of Germany, it had only one-tenth the railroads that Germany had. They could not move matamaterials around. And in 1914, in case this is lost on you, in 1914, to get anywhere required coal. If you were going to traverse that great land area by rail or you were going to circumvent it by sea, you fired those vehicles with coal. Yet for all of its size, the Ottoman Empire produced only one percent of the coal that England produced It could field an army only a quarter the size of France, France's army. Why was the Ottoman Empire so impoverished at the outset of World War I? Because if you do not have people, you cannot dig up coal. If you do not have people, you cannot lay track. If you do not have people, you cannot defend your borders. And the Ottoman Empire did not have a lot of people because the land was so poor. It wasn't arable most of it. It wasn't livable most of it. And what that which was livable, you could barely scratch out a subsistence living. We tend to think that wealth is solely a function of who we are and what we've done. But wealth is very much a function of where God put us. We see that today, do we not? There are billions of people who are poor because they made the mistake of being born in the wrong place. Boy, it was really smart of us to choose to be Americans. The military poverty of the Ottoman Empire has a spiritual parallel that Paul has been telling us about. Paul has addressed back in chapter 9 that God is rich to one nation Just as he was to some of the European countries, he's rich toward, he's merciful toward, and he is less so toward other nations. He will have mercy on whom he has mercy, and he will harden whom he will harden. He will love Jacob and hate Esau There is this spiritual divine side of things that says God chooses to do what he chooses to do. But Paul does not hesitate to say there is also a human component. It is possible to sit on very rich land and still be poor. Think of 19th-century Tsarist Russia. You can be a wealthy land and be a poor people. So the second part of Paul's analysis has been a look at Israel's spiritual condition with regard to what the people have done. With the richness that God has given them. What is the blessing? God has bestowed them on them a blessing, but what have they done with it? How have they responded to it? You see, our response to God's spiritual blessing. He said, does not begin with our hard work. At least not if we think that our hard work is going to impress God. We saw that last week. That there is no place for us to make God happy with our own righteousness. The end of the law, that is to say, its purpose or its goal, was Christ. The law was a constant reminder that we desperately need a righteousness that comes from outside ourselves. And sorry, I lost up for a moment, lost my place. The law was to force us into a state of desperation. And in that desperation, what did Paul say? How did he close out the last section? We were to call upon the Lord. For all who call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's how verse 13 into the previous section. The law doesn't save us, it drives us to the one who will save us if we believe in Him Now from today's passage, from the portion we're looking at today, there are three things I want us to consider, three points I want to make. The first of these is I want to look briefly just at the simple logic Paul uses And how he works backwards from our need to call upon the name of the Lord to our need to have someone tell us to do that, to preach to us. So we're going to look at Paul's logic. Secondly, I want us to briefly consider the role of preaching. It's really interesting how preaching factors into this text. Thirdly, I would like us to consider two implications of the text for us, for Short Harvest in particular. So I want us to look at the logic Paul follows, the role preaching plays, and I want us to consider the implications for us today. First of all, Paul's logic in this passage. It picks up where he left off in verse 13. If desperate sinners must call upon the Lord to be saved, they must first believe he exists. Right? It's only in movies and comic books that anybody sends up the bat signal. Why? Because in this real world we don't believe Batman exists We don't call on Batman because we don't believe in Batman. And that's kind of Paul's point here. Nobody's going to call on Jesus. Nobody's going to call upon the name of the Lord if they don't know him. at least know of him. Desperate sinners need to be told that there is a Jesus who saves. You see, if they're going to know, if they're going to call on the Lord, they have to know the Lord. If they're going to know the Lord, they have to be told about Him. Which is why Paul says, you know, how are they to hear without someone preaching? And then he talks about the feet of those who bring good news. In 490 BC, according to legend, there was a professional runner. Now, first of all, back then, professional runners didn't get paid by Nike. Professional runners were the bike messengers of their day. They got paid to quickly take a message from point A to point B. So there were these this class of professional runners back in the day. And in 490 BC, a professional runner Um, and I've got his name here somewhere, uh uh Phidipides. Phidippides comes stumbling into the city of Athens. And he cries out, uh-uh, uh-uh-uh, Nikomin, Nikomin, we won, we won! There had been a battle going on roughly 26 miles away in the city of Marathon. Against the invading Persian uh army. And the Athenians had defeated the Persians and the city was saved. And he ran back to Athens to deliver the message. We won. We won. You can imagine that everyone in Athens considered his swift feet to be beautiful. He brought good news of a victory over the enemies That sense of a military victory, of the delivery of that good news, that's what Isaiah has in mind when he says this. How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. When Isaiah writes that, that's exactly what he's talking about. That Israel is hoping that someone will run into Jerusalem and say, we won! We have defeated our enemies. We have been saved from them. That's the good news for which Isaiah is looking. Of course, Paul takes this and says that if it's true of a military victory, if it's true of salvation in that temporal sense. And Paul, by the way, understands the Old Testament routinely uses temporal military salvation as a metaphor for ultimate salvation. And Paul says, how much better is the good news when it's victory over death, when the enemy that's defeated is sin? That indeed is good news. And how is that victory secured? Go back up and look at verse 9 from last week. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Paul says that is what it means to call upon the Lord. You have to truly believe Jesus was raised from the dead. If you don't, you're kind of sh sending up a bat signal when you don't really believe Batman exists. There's got to be that faith component. To call upon Jesus, one must believe he lives. That requires hearing of Jesus and his resurrection. That requires somebody preaching Jesus. But messengers do not simply message all on their own. I know this because I've reached that point in life, that age, where I have a stunning number of messages my family never gets because I don't hit the send button. They sit there on my phone and never go out. Messages that aren't sent are never heard. And Paul says, those preachers have got to be sent Those preachers have got to be commissioned and put out there. Of course, that lies ultimately with Jesus Himself through the Holy Spirit as affirmed by his body in the church. And so Paul's logic, if I may reverse it, goes something like this. Jesus sends out his messengers with good news that victory over death has been accomplished. Those messengers preach that gospel, that good news. Hearers become aware in and in turn they believe and they call upon Jesus and they are saved. I don't say all that to treat you like idiots. I think you all are capable of seeing how the dots all connect. But at the same time, Paul didn't take it for granted, and I don't want to either. We must see our role in that. We must see our obligation to be among the senders. Yes, we are receivers. Yes, we must hear the message constantly. Yes, we need to sit under preaching of the gospel on a regular basis. But we also must be among the senders. And thankfully, thankfully, thankfully to God's grace to us and your generosity, we are in a small way among those senders. The second point I wanted us to see from this text was with regard to preaching. And in this text, when we're talking about missions and we're talking about outreach and we're talking about uh uh evangelism, there might be a temptation to gloss over preaching, and many churches I suspect would do so. But I'll point out that the word preach shows up three times just in 14 and 15. And then I will point out the interesting way it shows up in there. Before we do that, before we look at how the Paul uses the word preach, two other quick things I want us to note. Paul here does not quote Isaiah. He paraphrases him. And he changes him in some interesting ways. The first, and I just read this a moment ago, that Isaiah speaks in the singular, the feet of him who brings good news. Now stop and think about that. Paul speaks in the plural, the feet of them who bring good news. Why would he change it? If he had left it singular, we would know he was talking about Jesus, right? Wouldn't it be obvious that he was pointing us to Jesus? Why does Paul change it? Because Paul routinely sees a plurality of the message going forward. It's Paul in Ephesians 2. 20. Who points not to Jesus as the foundation of the church. Jesus is the cornerstone. He is that key piece of the foundation against which all other parts of the foundation are aligned. If we don't get Our doctrine of Jesus right, everything else is going to be out of skew. But Paul says it's the prophets and the apostles who are the foundation of the church. Our confession of faith begins with a chapter on Scripture before it takes up the question. Of Jesus. For we would know almost nothing about him if not for the Bible. So we must be committed to the Word of God. We talk about in the it we I hope Brother Conrad, I hope I'm not stepping on your Sunday school lesson next week, but in the Nicene Creed we talk about the Apostolic Church And it's this idea that we continue in the tradition of the apostles, that we carry forward the message they carried forward. There is a plurality To this, they who bring good news. It's also interesting how Paul changes the simple word the Isaiah does not put an article in front of good news. He simply says, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news. Paul says, how beautiful are the feet of him. I'm sorry, other way around. Isaiah says him who brings good news. Paul says them who bring the good news. Paul has a definite idea of what that news is. That it is the life and death and resurrection of Jesus. That's what Paul has in mind there. Now to the part about the preaching. Isaiah speaks of him who brings good news. Paul speaks of those who preach the good news. And that is a striking deviation. You know, when this messenger, uh Phodipides, when he arrives in Athens He doesn't preach to the Athenians. He brings good news, we won. Didn't tell them to do anything with it He doesn't say, hey, stop fortifying Athens. You don't need to any longer. He doesn't preach anything. That's the way we typically think of news coming, right? It's just information. The gospel always comes with commands. Mark summarized Jesus' ministry with this sentence. Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. and believe the gospel. There was a command to it, an imperative. There was something to do. We saw how in the reading Paul says that Israel has not obeyed the gospel. He is assuming that there is an imperative component to it. And the apostles pick up this pattern. Peter, at the Feast of Pentecost in Jerusalem, he has summarized the ministry of Jesus and he concludes this way: repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. For the forgiveness of your sins. There's a command component. And when he was in Athens, Paul said it this way The time of ign the times of ignorance God overlooked. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent. The apostolic good news has always carried with it a command. It has never been merely news. Becky and I have this little dance we do occasionally. She will give me information Most of the time she's just sharing with me something about her life, but every once in a while I sense that it's information upon which I'm supposed to act. There's something I need to do with that news or because of that news That's the sense of the good news of the gospel. There's something we must do with it. We must repent. We must turn away from our efforts to make ourselves good. Or we must turn away from our lack of caring that there even is goodness. Whether we are perceived by the world as openly and outwardly wicked, Or we are perceived to be basically good people, either way, we have a repentance that we owe God. Well, either need we either need to turn from our defiant wickedness. Where we need to turn from our self-help efforts. And we need to believe that righteousness is found in Christ alone. And that's why Paul says preaching rather than bringing. It's that exhortation, that component of command. That's the distinctive of preaching. Preaching exhorts us, it tells us to do something. with the information we've heard. And so we must never apologize for preaching We must be a church that preaches to ourselves, that routinely wants to hear preaching, that expects preaching That we know we need to hear the gospel over again and to be told how we are to respond to it and obey it. But we must not apologize for preaching to others either. It's very interesting in a study of the book of Acts, the word preaching occurs more often in the context of unbelievers than believers. That unbelievers were the ones to whom the apostles preached most often. Because they need to be told to believe in Jesus. I know that's not going to be popular. I know that's not going to be well received. I know when you tell your family members, your friends, your co-workers, not only that Jesus rose from the dead. But that he rose from the dead and they must believe in him. That is not going to go over well. You are not going to get invited to a lot more parties after that. Yet it is the call that is on all of us that we preach the good news. Paul's logic is simple. In order to call upon the Lord and be saved, we must believe He exists. For that to happen, we must hear from preachers, and that preaching has a command to it, an element of obligation to it. Our third point then this morning are the implications that flow out of this. The second comes really from the whole passage, but the first comes from the portion we haven't yet analyzed. Look with me again, beginning in verse 18. So far I've really just drawn from the first four verses, five verses. Now I want to look at the second half of this passage. Paul writes, But I ask, have they, Israel in this context, but I ask, have they not heard? Paul says, I listen, I I understand I told you they have to call upon Jesus, and to call upon him they have to know about him. So isn't it possible that maybe Israel isn't flocking to Jesus because they simply don't know of him? Could it be that they have not er? And Paul refutes this from the Jewish scriptures themselves He quotes the Psalm with which we opened. Verse Psalm 19 and verse 4. Their voice has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. Paul argues first off that That of course Israel is heard because everyone is heard. There is this universal revelation of God, what theologians call general revelation. A general revelation comes in many forms. It comes through the scientific study of creation. For the scientists of this world are telling us that there was a beginning to this universe. That there was a time when it was not. And then it came into being. And we Christians say, well, yeah, we agree with that. And then they jump to this most illogical conclusion. Out of nothing came everything. It just on its own appeared. Just poof came into being. And that's where we have to break with them and say, no, first of all, that's scientifically invalid. Secondly, we know how it all came to be. When we look at creation. We understand that there had to be somebody who made it all happen. General revelation. But general revelation takes the form of our consciousness also, right? Even the most committed atheist knows deep down inside that there is right and wrong. Not what? Before about 1800, there was no right or wrong in English spelling. You know why not? Because there was no standardization. There was no dictionary. There was no uh uh uh uh canon against which to evaluate or judge spelling errors. I have a page of uh uh uh uh uh a sixteenth century English Bible in my office you take a look at it sometime Within the same paragraph, words are spelled differently. It's stunning. Because there's no standard Without a standard, right and wrong don't exist. So when the atheist admits that there is right and wrong, when they argue for certain right or wrong They are, without even realizing, admitting that there is a standard out there somewhere against which these things are judged. Yeah, we know it's his name is God. And he will hold us all accountable. General Revelation: Paul says: everybody knows there is a God from the simple way that the world works. Certainly the Jews know that is also. Know that to be true also. Now, someone might argue against Paul, okay, it's possible that they know about God. But they don't really understand how salvation is found in him. Verse 19. But I asked, did Israel not understand? First Moses says, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. This is out of Deuteronomy 31, verse 21. And Paul's reply to this question of understanding is to look at this prophecy that came through Moses. That it was given in Deuteronomy that there would come a day when Israel would be jealous of non-Jews flocking to their God. And these non Jews would be this foolish nation Now, this is where we start to see how this plays out. How is it possible that the uneducated fishermen that prostitutes That Samaritans and Gentiles would run to Jesus But the Jews did not. The scribes and the Pharisees would not go to him for their righteousness. And Paul's question assumes that we understand the answer. That there is a defiant aspect to their unbelief. It's not a lack of understanding. By the way, don't ever make it about understanding. The hardened unbeliever in your life is not stupid. They're willfully defiant. That's Paul's point here. That if the scribes and the Pharisees, you know, people as educated as they are It's not a lack of understanding, nor is understanding necessary when the simple people of the world come to Christ It's a matter of pride. What did he tell us last week? The Pharisees could not accept the fact that their righteousness was not enough. And their pride was anger that Jesus would lump them in with tax collectors and prostitutes. Rejection of the gospel is always a question of will and not of understanding. Then Isaiah is so bold, verse 20. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who ask for me. If you've been here for any length of time, you have probably picked up, I hope you've picked up on the fact that we try to weave all the elements of a worship service together around a common theme. The scripture readings and the songs and the prayers all work together to reinforce the same theme. But that may not be obvious today. Sure, the New Testament reading, the Great Commission, pretty clear how that connects the missions. But the Old Testament reading may not be obvious. So look in your bulletin at page six. Open your bulletin back up to page six and take a look at our Old Testament reading And I have you go there rather than your Bible simply because I'm jumping between a couple of chapters. So we're in uh uh uh uh Exodus chapter nine. This is the seventh plague. Um I looked it up this morning and now I forgot what the seventh flag was. Oh hail! Plague of hail Then the Lord said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning, present yourself before Pharaoh and say to him, Thus says the Lord. By the way, this is one of the places where I don't love English translations. The name of God, all caps, Lord. Remember, we got competing gods here. Our God is competing with Ra. Alright Thus says Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, let my people go that they may serve me for this time I will send all my plagues on you yourself and on your servants and on your people, so that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth. Now listen to the wording here. For by now, I could have put out my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth. But for this purpose I have raised you up to show you my power so that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. Have you ever stopped to ask yourself about the why there are ten plagues? Did our God, the true God The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God who created everything, did our God really need ten times to get it right? Ten tries to convince Pharaoh to let his people go? He could have done it in the very first stroke. He could have not only freed his people the very first time, he could have wiped out the Egyptians and given his people the Nile Basin. Why doesn't he? Well, we see right here why not? Because God was making himself known. He was letting even the Egyptians. Understand who he is. He bears even Pharaoh's insolence. Remember how Pharaoh speaks to Moses? Who is Yahweh? I don't know Yahweh. Even that insolence. God bears it with great patience so that they would know him. Now we jump forward to chapter 12. And the people of Israel journeyed from Ramses to Succas about 600,000 men on foot, besides women and children. A mixed multitude also went up. With them. It wasn't just Hebrews. You see, some of the Egyptians did believe Some of them did see God at work, and they did come to understand that He was the real God. Our God has never been exclusive based on ethnicity. nationality, race, gender, these sorts of issues. This idea that it was only after the cross that God decided, hey, that's interesting, I should probably offer that to everybody. No, he has always been gathering for himself people from every nation and tribe and tongue. To form that great choir in heaven. Verse twenty one But of Israel back in Romans, sorry, back in Romans verse 20, uh, chapter 10, verse 21. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary. Even among the Egyptians there were some who believed and who followed and who came and came after me. But Israel refuses to do so. Israel had God's word. They had the temple. They had the covenant. John, I'm just getting on terrible feedback here. How many know where you are right now to find you? If we could kill whatever I'm sorry. A lot of feedback. Um Israel had God's word. They had the temple, they had the covenant, they had the prophets, they had the priests, they had the sacrifices. They had all the other blessings of being God's people. In the end, they hardened themselves to all of it. In other words, Paul's point here is this was a country, this was a nation, given great wealth, the natural resources, spiritually speaking, were profound. And they chose to make nothing of them. Which brings us to my point in this Third part here. The implications for us. Do we imagine ourselves to have less spirit fewer spiritual blessings than Israel had? Do we imagine that we aren't at least as well off as they are? If they have the scripture have the scriptures, we have their scriptures plus the New Testament scriptures. If they had a copy of the of the scriptures in the in the uh uh in the synagogue in the village, we have three copies per person in our homes. If they had a rabbi who may or may not have faithfully interpreted the scriptures, we have 27 different options online just among Reformed Presbyterians. We get it right most of the time. We have phenomenal spiritual blessings We are sitting upon rich land. And if we are spiritually impoverished, whose fault is it? And if God held Israel accountable, if Paul is saying, listen, Israel's on the hook, Don't try to make excuses for them. Don't say, oh, maybe they haven't heard. Don't say, oh, maybe they didn't understand. No, they have no excuse. Then where do we stand? If we stand before God. And even if we're in Christ and are saved, nevertheless, the scriptures still say we're going to have to give in everything we've done. Do we really want to stand on that day and go, oh I didn't know. Oh, I didn't know that either. Oh, I wasn't aware of that. Because we didn't do that. the work to find out? Because we did not mine the riches of the Word of God? Because we did not use the resources at our disposal. Because we thought it best to be gone all the time and, you know, I'm not going to go to church while I'm on vacation. Because we thought it a good idea. To watch one more episode of our favorite TV show. They are accountable for the wealth of spiritual riches God gave them The first implication of this text for us is simply this: God will hold us accountable for all the gifts He has given us. We must put them to the best possible The second implication, like I said, flows from the whole of the text, from the whole of the passage, and it's this: it is the idea that there is this universality to the gospel. God is not merely our God. We talk that way sometimes, even as Christians. Jesus is not merely our Lord. He is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. He is God over all gods. Everyone is accountable to him, whether they admit it or not. And so there is this weight. Of a responsibility to declare the reality of who God is and who Christ is But it's not like we go with this bad news. It's not just that we're accountable to God. It's not just that He is Lord over all. It's that he is also a God who provided a way to be right with him. We come both with the diagnosis of the problem and the cure. We have the ability to say to people, you are in trouble with a God who's going to hold you accountable. But You can be right with him by faith in Jesus Christ. We cannot fail to proclaim this. Now, yes, we need to do so through our missionaries. We need to be supportive of them. We need to be praying for them. We need to do a better job of encouraging them. We need to do everything in our power to up our financial support for them. We need to get behind their work to reach this world But we must not imagine that that's the end of our responsibility. One of the single most frustrating translations in all of the Bible was in our New Testament reading. A Great Commission. It reads in almost every English version this way. Go into all the world. Teaching them to obey baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey all my commands. I'm skipping them. I'm missing one. Oh yeah. Make disciples. Teaching them to obey, baptizing them. There we go. There are four verbs, go, disciple, teach, baptize. Interestingly enough, only three of them are imperatives in Greek. Three of them are in the form of a command, and it's not the word go. The make disciples is a command. It's an imperative. The teaching them to obey all that are commanded is a command. It's an imperative. The baptizing them is a command. It's an imperative. The word go is actually in a participial form. A translation might be better off like this. In the midst of your going, as you go about your life. The going is not the command portion of it. It's the assumed portion of it. You're gonna go, you're gonna wander from here to there, you're gonna be in this place one day, you're gonna be in that place another day, you're gonna be in this marketplace or that marketplace, you're gonna be in this job or that j You're going to go. Life involves going. Nobody ever sits perfectly still for their entire life. And as you're doing it. You are to make disciples and to teach them to obey, to baptize them, bring them into the church, initiate them into the church, baptize them. That command sits on all of us. And when we do not, when we fail to do that, when we back away out of cowardice or fear or whatever the reason The Great Commission becomes the Great Omission, and we do not fulfill the charge upon the church. We can be embarrassed by these things. The idea of preaching to people, the idea of telling them that they have to repent and believe Christ. It our world mocks it. It's shameful. Oh, you shouldn't tell people that they're doing anything wrong. You shouldn't tell them that they have to change their way. You shouldn't tell them that they have to repent. You should not give them that kind of exhortation. But we have to recognize that we do it out of a loving obligation to the God who saved us. A loving obligation, not a difficult, dutiful obligation, not one of bare obedience because we must. I heard a fascinating illustration on this this week. Apparently Winston Churchill had terrible parents. Prime Minister of England during World War II. And his nanny stepped in. And she loved him and she took care of him. And she taught him and she raised him while his parents were off doing God knows what. Apparently some pretty bad stuff. And Winston gets to boarding school. And an English boarding school back in the day, nobody talked about their nannies. That was shameful. Be like carrying a teddy bear around in a frat house. Winston was the opposite. Prime Minister Churchill, well, before he was Prime Minister Churchill, he would invite his nanny to come to every school function. And by this point she was quite old and very overweight and in every way the opposite of cool. And she'd show up on campus, and in front of everybody, he'd give her a big hug and a kiss. One of his fellow schoolmates who went on to be in the cabinet with Mr. Churchill later called it the greatest act of bravery he'd ever seen. He did it out of a loving obligation. How could he not show his affection for this woman after she had saved him and his childhood? That's how we all ought to be thinking about preaching and teaching about Jesus. How can we not point to the one who has saved us? How can we not be excited to tell us tell people about this one? Yeah, some people are going to call us weird. And some people are going to say that's that's just uncool. But he saved us. Do we not feel any loving obligation to point to him and honor him and glorify him for doing so? So and in the hope that others will be saved. Let's pray.