Turn your Bibles, please, to the prophet Zechariah. We're going to be looking at the second part of chapter 6, Zechariah 6, 9 through 15. as we consider God's Word this morning. Before we read the text, I want to set the scene a little bit for us so that we better understand it. First of all We're at a turning point in the ministry of Zachariah, or at least in the way that his ministry was recorded. For up to this point, we've been considering his his uh visions that he saw. Eight visions, all in one night That revealed God's plan, God's plan for how he was going to destroy his enemies, how he was going to defend his enemies How he was going to provide righteousness for a filthy people, how he was going to provide power for a weak people, how he was going to to clean out their sin and remove it from them forever. And how and the picture finally in the last vision we saw last week of his mighty chariots riding forth to carry out all of these things on the the breadth of his word, on the the wind of his word going into all the earth to execute his plan. And now those visions are concluded, and now Zechariah changes the technique. It's still the word of the Lord, as we'll see in a moment here. But it's no longer a series of visions being given to Zachariah, but in fact this morning he becomes the vision maker, as we will see. And so we see a transition now. The theme will still be hope. It'll still be the Word of God, but it comes to the Prophet differently, and he brings it to us differently. And so as we consider that change, let's hear the Word of God. The infallible, authoritative, inerrant word of Almighty God. Please hear it now And the word of the Lord came to me. Take from the exiles Haldiah, Tobiah, and Jedediah, and have Who have arrived from Babylon and go the same day to the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah. Take from them silver and gold. And make a crown. Set it on the head of Joshua the son of Jehosedek, the high priest, and say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Behold, the man whose name is the branch, for he shall branch out from his place, and he shall build the temple of the Lord. It is he who shall build the temple of the Lord, and shall bear royal honor, and shall sit and rule on his throne, and there shall be a priest on his throne, and the council of peace shall be between them both. And the crown shall be in the temple of the Lord as a reminder to Halam, Tobiah, Jedediah, and Han the son of Zephaniah. And those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the Lord. And you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall come to pass if you will diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God. Let's seek God's leading as we consider his word this morning. Spirit Speak to us this morning through your word. Make its meaning clear to us. Make its message hit home with us. And by your power, make it effective in our lives, that we would be built up in faith, reassured of the wonderful news of the gospel, and excited to proclaim this truth. To everyone else. We lift up this prayer in this service in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. This passage may not strike us quite the way it would have struck the original audience. Those who saw this, this what has happened here, would have had perhaps a a fuller understanding of some of the historical issues in play that maybe we aren't aware of. And so I want to take a moment and consider this question of priests and kings and their role in the Old Testament I want to share with you a couple of examples of why uh of what happened when when someone tried to unite the kingship and the priesthood. When someone took it upon themselves to bring those two offices into one person. The first such example is that of Saul in 1 Samuel 13. You may recall the account. In 1 Samuel 13, uh uh uh Saul is getting ready to go to battle against the Philistines, and he's been told to wait seven days And then when Samuel Samuel would arrive after the seven days, and when Samuel got there and could speak the word of the Lord to Saul, then the priest were to offer up an offering, and then they would go to battle. But the seven days came and went, and Samuel was not there, and Saul took it upon himself. The text says this: Saul waited seven days, the time appointed by Samuel, but Samuel did not come. So Saul said, Bring the burnt offering here to me and the peace offerings. And he offered the burnt offering. Then Sam, the text actually is interesting. And behold, Samuel appeared and said, no sooner did he get done and bam, Samuel's there. Oops. And Samuel says this. Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly. You have not kept the command of the Lord your God, which he commanded you. For then the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever, but now your kingdom shall not continue Saul took it upon himself to act in the role of priest. He took it upon himself to lift up offerings to God, and as a result, the kingship was taken from him. You're not satisfied being king over God's people, you want to be both king and priest, then you lose your office as king Fast forward some years in the history of God's people, in 2 Chronicles 26, we have another king who takes it upon himself to act as priest. Uzziah is recorded there, and Uzziah is for the most part uh uh uh portrayed as a good godly king. But nevertheless he did fall into sin near the end of his reign. Second Chronicles 26 says that Uzziah became proud and he took it upon himself to go into the temple and to offer incense before the Lord. Again a function of the priest. And like Saul, the kingship was taken from him. Now for the sake of his father David, it was not taken away from his household, the way it was taken away from Saul's household But he lived out his last ten years in seclusion, in in in quarantine because of a disease that afflicted him, and he was no longer the functioning king. over God's people. Twice we see kings take it upon themselves to act as priests, and twice we see God take the kingship away from them. Obviously, uniting the kingship and the priesthood into one person was a big deal in the eyes of God. And it was not to be done. And yet, the Old Testament has accounts of times when those two did come together. We heard one of them in our Old Testament reading this morning. Melchizedek, Abram goes out to war, he wins the war on his way back, he's passing near the city of Salem, and the king of Salem comes down to meet him. Now you're saying to yourself, I've never heard of Salem, but you have, for you know more Hebrew than you realize. The Hebrew word for city is Heru. Heru Salem, the city of Salem. Heru Salem, Herusalem, Jerusalem. And he comes down from Jerusalem. And he's described as both priest and king. He is the king of Jerusalem, and he is priest of God most high. And Abram tithes to him tenth of all that he'd captured in the war. And this enigmatic figure, Melchizedek, blesses him. Melchizedek then appears again in the psalm that we read. as a psalm that clearly portrays the Messiah as having both kingship and priesthood duties. And then Melchizedek appears in the New Testament again, talking about Jesus and reflecting on the fact that Melchizedek is a archetype of the one who unites the kingship and the priesthood. And so we have something interesting going on, that here is a figure who brought the two together and is praised throughout the scriptures. It's interesting, there are many Bible scholars, this is not by no means unanimous, but there are many Bible scholars who believe that Melchizedek was a theophany, an appearance of God to man. I lean toward that camp. Though, you know, what's the line? I'm not going to start a new denomination over that. You know, we're not going to we're not going to fight too hard over that one. Um but I lean toward the view that Melchizedek is a theophany, an appearance of God to man Well, we see also one other place where the priesthood and the kingship come together, and it is a well-known place, and it's a significant place. You may recall the opening, not the opening of the book of Isaiah, but rather the opening of his ministry. In Isaiah 6, verse 1, we read this. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the palace. It's not what it says, is it? The train of his robe filled the temple. It's an interesting picture. In the place where the priest minister, we have a king sitting on a throne. We have a throne in the place where there was no throne, where there was to be priestly duties being conducted. And in the Lord there is united the priesthood and the kingship, and that's the vision Isaiah sees, and that's the vision that launches his ministry. It is, I hope, the vision that we will capture this morning that will launch ministry for many of us. To see united in Jesus Christ these two offices. Priest and king. And so it's against this backdrop backdrop that Zechariah ministers what we see here this morning. Zachariah, having been the receiver of visions, now becomes the portrayer of a vision. He now is setting out visually for others God's message to them. It's still a visual message, but it's no longer one that's being received by the prophet, but being delivered by the prophet. And so what does he do? He takes gold and silver. The words here in Hebrew are interesting. They're cleaned up the the the the the grammar is cleaned up a little bit in English, but there's actually a contradiction in the in the grammar into Hebrew. The first appearance of the word crown is actually plural in Hebrew, but the second and those later appearances are singular. And most scholars think that probably what's going on here is he's taking the two different metals, gold and silver And he's weaving each of them into a crown, and then he's uniting them together in one crown. We've got the gold and the silver being woven together into one crown. A gold crown and a silver crown combined to make this one crown. So that he's now pre- uh presenting this visual image. So in front of these people, he takes this crown And he's going, they all see what it is, they all know what it is, and here is the prophet getting ready to crown someone, and they're all sitting there going, finally Our governor Zerubabal, the son of David, is going to be crowned king, and we're going to throw off the yoke of the Medes and the Persians, and we're going to re-establish the Davidic kingdom. Wonderful. And he takes the crown, and I gotta believe it, you know it doesn't go into this detail, but you probably wonder, did did Zechariah like head towards Jerubble and then like fake everybody out and go to Joshua Because they all expected this crown to go on the head of Zerubbabel. He's the descendant of David. And he takes the crown and he takes it over and he places it on Joshua's head. Well now that we understand the significance of uniting king and priest, we now understand the significance of this picture. This is a big deal. This is something of enormous consequence. This is something of eternal consequence. For in the past, when any mere human tried to combine the role of priest and king, he lost his place. It was taken from him. And until now, the picture of priest and king united has been belonged to the divine and the divine only. Only in God can these two things be united, and now Zechariah puts it on the head of the high priest Joshua. Now clearly we're meant to see beyond Joshua. For the visual image that is presented here Refers to the branch. Zechariah, as he uh uh c puts the crown on as the coronation occurs, he makes reference to the branch Look at verse 12. And say to him, okay, say to Joshua in front of all these other witnesses, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Behold the man whose name is the branch. And now we see Zechariah again leaning on Old Testament witness Remember, Zechariah occurs very near the close of the Old Testament. Probably the only part of the Old Testament that has not been written at this point is the Book of Malachi. The rest of the Old Testament is now in the hands of the people of God. And at this point, Zechariah is leaning on the teaching of previous prophets. So that in Jeremiah 33 we see Jeremiah reference the branch. And in Jeremiah 33, Jeremiah says that the branch will be one who comes from the line of David and will re-establish the Davidic throne. And then Jeremiah adds an interesting comment, that it will be an eternal throne, an eternal son of David. The suggestion, of course, is one that who is not a mere human being. For we all know that human beings don't reign eternally. Then just two verses later in Jeremiah 33, Jeremiah then starts talking about an eternal priest. Well again, if it's going to be eternal, if the priesthood is eternal, then that implies what about the priesthood? That he is divine. For only the divine is eternal. Now Jeremiah doesn't specifically say that these two things are united in the branch, but he refers to the branch as being an eternal son of David, an eternal king over the people of God. Then he refers to an eternal priest, and the the the one who is thinking has got to go wait a second. That means they both have to be God and there is only one God and so the are they are united. They come together The priest and the king come together. And now Zechariah picks up on that teaching and he says, Here's the branch. Here is the one that Jeremiah foretold. He is both king and priest. And the crown goes on the head of Joshua. Now, of course, everyone standing there is saying to themselves, well, wait a second, Joshua doesn't gonna live forever. We know who this guy is He's not going to live forever. Clearly, we are meant to look beyond Joshua the High Priest. Clearly, they back then were meant to look beyond Joshua the High Priest. This was never a picture of the branch, but rather pointed to the branch. This was a type. Joshua was being set forth as a type for the one who would come. So his in his coronation we see the union of the gold and silver into one crown because we see the union of priest and king into one person. They both come together. As we move through the text and look at uh 12, uh part of verse 12 again, we see something of his Constitution, having considered the Crown Priest in his coronation, we look now at his Constitution and we see the following interesting statements Behold a man whose name is the branch. Oh sorry, I talked about some of that. And he is descended from David. He will fulfill the eternal Davidic king. He will uh uh fulfill the eternal priesthood, and these things come together. What was suggested by Jeremiah is now laid bare by Zechariah. By the way, we know this to be true. There is a uh a thought within uh within Christendom. There are s many Christians and these are these are faithful men and women, these are godly men and women, they love the Lord, they they believe his word, but they But they misapply and misinterpret the scriptures and they think that somehow the Old Testament has to stand completely on its own. That we have to understand it apart from the New Testament. What we see right here That our understanding of Jeremiah is broadened and strengthened by Zechariah. There is a progressive nature to revelation which God keeps unfolding more and more and more We don't understand the Old Testament apart from the New. We don't understand how to interpret it apart from the New. We see here that nature of progressive revelation. So his constitution is that he will be eternal, his constitution is that he will be both priest and king, and there is one other aspect of his constitution we must think about. If he is going to be both priest and king, and if he's going to accomplish both of these things, there is hinted at here the fact that he must be both divine and human. For only the divine can minister forever But only the human can fulfill humanity's role in this administration. There has to be a human component. That mediator, the one who goes to God on our behalf, has to be one of us. Otherwise we don't trust that person. Otherwise we don't really believe that they're going to reflect our needs and and uh uh mediate on our behalf. And that is why we see that up until now, the one who would unite priest and king has always been divine, and now is put on the head of a human. And Zechariah begins to unfold for us that together come together in this person both the human and the divine. Gold and silver, because the office of priest and king are united, but we also see that the divine and the human are united. This of course is why, I mean the the the the scholars of old knew this, they saw this. This is why when Jesus applied many of the prophecies of Zechariah to himself Those around him were outraged, for they understood that the messianic figure to come had to be both human and divine. And if Jesus was applying these prophecies to himself, then he was making a claim to the divine Which is why they were so upset. Which is why they wanted to stone him The constitution of the branch, the constitution of this crown priest is that he is both king and priest, human and divine. And they come together in one. His commission is given in second half of twelve and in verse thirteen. And we read the following. For he shall branch out from his place, and he shall build the temple of the Lord. It is he who shall build the temple of the Lord and shall bear royal honor and shall sit on sit and rule on his throne. And therefore And there shall be a priest on his throne, and the council of peace shall be between them both. Let's consider the commission of this crown priest, that he is to, first of all, branch out. What is the meaning of that? What does it mean he's going to branch out? Well, from the earliest days, those who studied this passage understood. That it meant that the kingdom of God was going to extend beyond the household of Israel and Judah. That the kingdom of God was going to go beyond Jews. That it was not limited to those who were biological descendants of Abraham. But that here in Zechariah we begin to see this picture of God reaching out to the whole world. To save for himself a people. He is going to be to branch out. And he's going to build the temple. Now that's an interesting statement. For already in Zechariah, we've seen the prophetic word That Zerubbabel was going to build the temple. That Zerubbabel by his own hand would lay the capstone, the finished the mark of the temple being finished, the final stone to be put in peace place was to be done by Zerubbabel. And now we're being told that Joshua is going to build the temple? We're being told that the branch is going to do it. Besides, temple building was always the prerogative of kings. Priests ministered in the temple. Kings built temples. What's going on? Again, what seems to be in play here is the idea that we're to see beyond Joshua. That they were to see beyond Joshua. You've already been told that the temple you're worried about right now is going to be built by Zerubbabel. So now there's some new temple in view. What is that temple? Well, we've been given a clue. The branch is going to branch out. Of course, the New Testament picks up temple language and applies it to the church. The Jews who wrote the New Testament clearly saw That it was never meant to be only the biological descendants of Abraham, but all those who were of the faith of Abraham. So the New Testament, the temple is you and me It is those of us here and believers throughout the city, county, state, nation, and world who are his by his election and their faith. are a part of the family of God. That's the temple that's being built here. That's the picture we see. The branch is going to build that temple. He's going to build the church. Now I was in a meeting this week and I was reminded, and it was a valuable reminder, even pastors need to be reminded of this. We don't build the church. We don't build the temple. That's the work of the branch. That's the work of the one who is both king and priest. The one who can mediate on our behalf and who has lordship over us. He builds the temple. He builds the church. Oh, he uses us, thankfully. And we are his servants and we are to do his bidding, but we don't do the building. He does that. And it is a wonderful picture here. The commission of the crown priest is that he is to branch out, bring others in, he is to build the temple. And then we also see there in verse 13, he is to bear royal honor. What an interesting statement for a priest. A priest is to bear royal honor. He is to be worshipped. He is to be exalted. He is to be revered. Again, the image is a simple one. To whom do those things belong except to the Lord? This branch, this crown priest, Joshua is a type for the one who would come and bear royal honor. Finally, we see that he is to establish a council of peace. What does that mean? What's going on there with the council of peace? Well, quick reminder that the the what we see in in play here, this priest and king, the priest is the representative of the people. Now we've seen this several times now in the book of Zechariah, and we've discussed it several times. that the priest is the representative of the people to God. He's the mediator from man to God. The king is the one who has authority and power to rule over God's people, to execute judgment, to administer justice, and to defend the people. And what we're seeing here, this Council of Peace, it says there's going to be no conflict between these two functions. These two offices are not going to be at odds with each other. They're going to be a united thing. It's not going to be a question of this or that, but this and that. You know, for most of my life there has been, and I and I read enough church history to know this has been going on a lot longer than I've been alive, there has been a raging debate about how it is that we relate to Jesus Christ. The debate has been framed up in different time periods and different phrases. In the 80s, it was known as the Lordship Salvation Debate. Some refer to it as the debate over easy believism. But the question boils down to this. How must we relate to Jesus in order to be one of his? Can we have him as Savior, but not as Lord? Can he be our mediator, but not our ruler? Can he be our priest, but not our king? That's the question. And the text here suggests that the answer is no. It's a united package. There is no conflict between the two. There is peace between these two offices. They go together. The one who has Jesus as mediator will necessarily have him as ruler. The one who has him as priest will have him as king. Now to be sure that doesn't mean that we have to do good works to be saved. The thief on the cross did nothing. He did nothing. He had no opportunity to act out a single good work. He believed and was saved. So clearly, there is this idea that salvation is apart from our own good works. And yet Never do the scriptures divorce our salvation from our good works. The author of Hebrews said that we should strive after the holiness without which no one shall see God. Martin Luther said it famously in his commentary on Galatians, that we know that salvation is by faith alone. But saving faith is never alone. We know that salvation is by faith alone, but saving faith is never alone. It is always accompanied by good works. The one who has Jesus Christ as his priest will have him as his king. The one who has him as his mediator will have him as his ruler. The one who knows him as savior will know him as Lord. The two go together. And when you're uncertain of the first one, am I really saved? Is he really is he really mediating on my behalf? Is he really defending me before the throne in heaven? The scriptures consistently tell us to look at where we stand with regard to the second. Do you find yourself obeying him more today than you did yesterday? Are you growing in obedience? Are you growing in your desire that he be Lord over your life? And if you are, then that's the evidence that he is in fact defending you before the Father. When you see him as Lord of your life, not perfectly, not flawlessly, not without exception. But when you see him as Lord of your life, you know that he is also the priest who is speaking on your behalf. He will bear royal honor, and there will be a council of peace between these two offices. So we've considered his coronation and his constitution and his commission, and we look Look now at the call in verses fourteen and fifteen, his call. And it says, All those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the Lord. Well, this is what the branch calls us to. This is the call of the branch. This is the call of the one who is both king and priest. He says, because I'm mediating on your behalf, because I'm the priest, because I'm the one who is defending you before Almighty God. Come near. You don't have to stay far off. You don't have to be afraid anymore. You don't have to try to make your own way to God. You don't have to invent your own means of salvation. Come running in. Come near. Come be a part of it. That's the call we read here. All those who are far off shall come and help build the temple. That's the call of Christ on you and me this morning. I'm priest and I'm king. And I have defended you before the throne in heaven. I have given you my robes of righteousness, and I have taken your filthy robes and replaced them. And now I call you to come and help me build my temple. Come be a part of my church. Take advantage of the good news that you don't have to be estranged from God anymore. You don't need to stay far off. You get to come right on up. You get to come running into his throne room as if he's daddy. You get to burst through the golden doors and climb up on his lap and express your joy and pour out your sorrow And get to be a part of the exciting work he's doing. You know, as a kid, I look back now going, wow, did my dad put up with a lot of uh uh craziness when I helped. My help wasn't always so helpful. The classic example is when I decided dad was getting ready to mow the lawn, and I knew that he always filled the tank before he mowed the lawn, so I went out to fill the tank. And dad came out to get the mower going and he couldn't get it going and he couldn't get it going and he couldn't and he starts he's checking the spark plug in. Finally he opens the gas tank and the only thing I had to fill the tank with was my sandbox But I wanted to help. As a little kid, it was excited to be a part of what Dad was doing. And I got it wrong. Dad had to explain to me. Sand goes in the sandbox. It doesn't go in the gas tank. But being a part of what Dad was doing was an exciting thing. And the call of the branch is that you and I get to be a part of what he's doing. You are far off. Come running near. Come be a part of this. Help build the temple. Help grow the church. Help tell others that there is a king and a mediator. And that he has come. And we can be made right with God. You know, as we consider the Lord's table, I want us to consider The prophet. We see there in Zechariah 6:15, he says these words. And you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. Look carefully why he says that. What comes before that? And those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the Lord. And you shall know That the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. You ever wonder about Scripture? You ever wonder if it's true? You ever wonder how do we know that this is really telling us the truth? But Zechariah gives us the measure of the test. He says, When those who are far off come and build the temple, then you'll know that I came from God, that the Lord of hosts sent me to you. You will know I'm a true prophet when what I'm saying here comes true. Brothers and sisters, look around this room. Very few of us are biological descendants of Abraham. I'm not aware that any of us are. None of us are Jews. Many of us did not grow up in Christian families. Some of us lived very sinful lives. We were very far off. And here we are, at the Lord's table. He invites us to come and to eat with him. He invites us to come and share with him. He says, You're now mine. And Zechariah says, when that day comes, when that happens, that those who are far off are part of the temple building, and you're going to know that I came from the Lord. You want to know Zechariah is true and the rest of the Word of God is true? He gives us the measure right there. Our faith, our relationship with the Lord, our relationship with one another through our relationship with the Lord. The fact that we come from such divergent backgrounds, from such divergent uh situations, that the church broadly comes from so many different places, that we have a communion with those we've never met It's proof that Zachariah was telling the truth. He said, that's how you're going to know, is when these things happen. And so we have before the Lord here, before us here this morning, the Lord's table. It is a table that he shares with us. Even this morning it's shared with us so that we can know that the prophecies of Zechariah are true. It is this morning shared with us so that we can know that we have a mediator. So that we can know that we have a priest, so that we can know we have a priest who is also king, so that we can know that the intercession he offers Will one day bear fruit, for he is the ruler over all and will bring it all to completion. What a wonderful ministry of Zechariah. What a wonderful testimony of God's work in us this morning. And so as we consider his table, I want us to consider the invitation that we read in 1 Corinthians 11. Where Paul writes these words. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks he broke it, and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup You proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. You proclaim his ministry as a priest. Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and the blood of the Lord if you do not eat and drink as though he is king. You deny the unity of those two. You deny the branch Or partake in an unworthy manner. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup, for anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. This is the Lord's table. This is the table of the branch. This is the table of the one who is both king and priest. And as we've heard, he says, come be a part of it. You who were once far off and have now come near by faith, come be a part of this. What an exciting invitation. And all here this morning. Who have made a profession of faith in Jesus Christ are invited to be a part of this. Who have been baptized into his family are invited to be a part of this. Who know him as both priest and king, Savior and Lord. are invited to be a part of this table. If you are not among those, if you're not sure where you stand, if you're not sure that Christ is your mediator And don't participate. Don't partake. You can be a part of the continuing service. You can join us in prayer. You can consider these things. But you need to have that assurance That it is the one who is the branch who is inviting you to this table. Not the pressure of those around you, not of some sense of tradition, but rather of a desire to commune with your king and priest. Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this visible sign of your role in our lives, that you are our Lord. and our Savior, our King and our priest. Because you were a our priest, because you were the perfect priest, you offered up the perfect sacrifice. Not a sacrifice of goats or sheep or bulls. But the sacrifice of your own body. And we see that before us. Through these simple signs. You point us to that ultimate sacrifice, to your role as the ultimate priest. Thank you for doing this. Thank you for giving us these signs and seals. Thank you for calling us from a far-off place and making us yours. I pray this in your name. Amen. As we read, on the night he was betrayed, Christ took bread and he broke it. And he gave it to his disciples, and he said, This is my body broken for you.