Our oldest Joshua was just a mere seventh grader running in a high school varsity track meet. He had no chance of winning. Moreover, he was entered into the 3200-meter race, that's the metric two-mile, and it was an event for which he had never trained. So what was the coach thinking? Well, this was a meet of seven very small schools, and when we got there the coach realized that there were only two other boys registered for that event. And thus, if Joshua simply finished the race He would come in third and earn points for the team. There would be a reward. Moreover He would run slowly, and one of our star athletes was in the event right before that race and right after it. So by extending the 3200-meter run, Josh was giving our best athlete a longer chance of resting so that he might be better in the event that followed So if Joshua could just finish that race, he would earn points for the team by coming in third, and he might improve the number of points earned in the next event, giving our star athlete time to rest. The coach, knowing that Josh was not trained for this event, knowing that it would be a challenge for him, gathered all of the parents, all of the other athletes from the team, and had us all get up right next to the track and cheer him on and exhort him, cajole him, push him, encourage him to get all the way around those eight laps and to come home. for the third place. Never in all of your life have you heard a last place finish celebrated so enthusiastically. It was an interesting event. That's actually a pretty good illustration of what's going on in the book of Hebrews. The author is trying to get us to cross the finish line of faith He's trying to encourage us to get home. Not necessarily with the greatest of style points Not necessarily coming in first place. He's not asking us to have a faith that exceeds that of Abraham or Paul or some other stalwart in the history of the church. But he is encouraging us to get to the finish line, holding on to our confession. There is that old quip. What do you call the one who graduates in last place from medical school? Doctor If you finish, you finish. If you get there, you get there. And so the author of Hebrews is trying to spur us on to the finish line Now imagine the coach pulling Josh aside, I don't think that's easy to imagine, the coach Pula aside, and entering him with some story of a runner who went before him sometime in the past Who did something similar, who accomplished some difficult feat, and by doing so earned a great reward That would certainly be in the young man's head as he made those laps around the track, as he strove for that goal. And that, of course, is what the author of Hebrews wants for us. That we would long for the goal, for the reward at the goal line. Not a reward of a third place finish, not a reward of team points But the reward of our Heavenly Father welcoming us home as daughter, as son, as child. The awaiting reward is great. And to get us there, our preacher offers the inspiration of the past and an explanation for the delay. Join me now in reading Hebrews 11 beginning in verse 32. Hebrews 11, verse 32, through the end of the chapter. And what more shall I say? And I'll remind you that last week he has gone through quite the list of stalwarts of the faith, and now he is picking up the pace And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets? who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword. Some of them. They were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. Women received back their dead by resurrection, as we read in our Old Testament reading. Some, though, were tortured. Refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life. Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment They were stoned. They were sawn in two. That's an allusion to the way Isaiah is believed to have died. They were killed with the sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated Of whom the world was not worthy, wandering about in deserts and mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised. Since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us, they should not be made perfect. Let's pray Spirit of God revealed to us the encouragement that this preacher has brought to the ancient believers who were struggling with the faith. And let his words of encouragement and his words of hope resonate with us this morning. That by your grace and through the power of your word, we would hold fast our confession. and run the race to the very finish. We ask this in Christ's name and for his glory. Amen. Becky and I met in September of 1986. That sounds so long ago now. We started dating that following February. And we were engaged on December 5th, 1987. And that was, as you can imagine, the best day yet in my still young life. The days that followed were not. Our engagement was, without a doubt, one of the most difficult times in all of the years of our relationship. Why? Well, it was a time of in-between, of not yet, of almost but not quite. Mentally and emotionally, we had decided to be together, but we weren't. We'd made the commitment to commitment, but were still uncommitted. And there was this weird time in there, those passing months, where either one of us could have bailed on the relationship with almost no hurdles. With almost no difficulty, with no impediment, easily and instantly. It was a time of much anticipation Much of which was met with frustration. You wait a second. Your mother wants what at our wedding? And questions like that seem to go on and on. Some of those disappointments were outside of our control, not of our own making. You know how it goes. Caterers cancel, florists aren't available, the best-laid plans come falling apart. It was a period without the joys and benefits of actually being married. In the years since, I've spoken with a lot of other couples who had similar experiences during their engagements. They were ready but unfulfilled. They were in, but not yet in. That's the frustration of the Christian life. Look with me again at how our author sums up the saints of the past. Some were tortured, he says. Verse 36. Others suffered mocking and flogging, chains and imprisonment. I'm summing up. Some were stoned, sawn in two, killed by the sword. They were destitute, going around in the most rudimentary clothing, they were afflicted, they were mistreated. They would have easily been judged by this world to be flop failures. And yet, this world was not worthy of them. They did not live good and comfortable lives. Rather, they experienced disappointment and discouragement. For fifty, sixty, seventy years. And then to top it all off Though they were commended for their faith, they did not receive the promise of that faith. Their faith went unfulfilled. Like an engagement, the Christian life is a time of being in, of being committed, but without the comfort of that commitment formalized. It's a time of preparation without the perks. A time of planning without the prophet is a time of waiting for that which we really want. You see, in the end, I don't know anybody who wants to be engaged. They want to be married. And so it is with the Christian life. We don't want to live lives of faith. We want to live lives with God. Directly connected, face to face, our faith, a thing of the past, and his reality before us. The Bible speaks of this time in which we live right now in interesting language. It's interesting in part because of the way it conflicts with itself Keep your place in Hebrews 11 if you can, and look with me at a few other passages. Turn over in your Bibles to Romans chapter 8. Romans 8, verse 15. Romans 8 Verse 15. I'll give you a moment to get there. If you're running behind, turn your page really loudly so I hear it. Somebody did. That's awesome. Romans 8, verse 15. Notice the language here. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received past tense. The spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. Now look down just a few lines to verse 23. Still in Romans 8. Now moving on to verse 23. We ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons. We have received adoption in verse 15, and we wait for it in verse 23. Turn over to Ephesians. Move to the book of Ephesians, some pages past Romans in your New Testament. Look at Ephesians 1, verse 7. Ephesians one, verse seven Ephesians 1:7 offers this wonderful comfort. In him that is in Christ, we have past tense. Redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. Flip over one or two pages to Ephesians 4. Just move one or two pages to Ephesians 4, verse 30. Ephesians 4, verse 30. Ephesians 1:7 says we have redemption. 4. 30 says this, and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption, clearly looking forward to the future. Now I'm going to go through several more passages, but I'm going to go through them more quickly, not asking you to turn to them If we were to look at 1 Corinthians 1, 2, as Paul introduces his letter to that church in Corinth, he says this: to the church of God that is in Corinth. To those sanctified in Christ Jesus. That's how he opens his letter to the Corinthians. Listen now how to how he closes his letter to the Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. To the Corinthian church, that blessed mess He speaks of them sanctified in the past tense. To the Thessalonians, a relatively good church by comparison, he hopes for their coming future sanctification. We go to Ephesians 2. 8. We uh read, for it is by grace you have been saved. But then in Romans 5. 9 we read: Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him? Ephesians 2:6, God raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. But 1 Corinthians 15, 52 says, the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised imperishable. Now think about those five sets of verses. Adoption, redemption, sanctification, salvation, resurrection. All of them are presented as done, finished, accomplished. And simultaneously, all of them are taught as yet awaiting us in the future. And did you note a key fact about these ten passages? They come from the books I'll review for you. They come out of Romans, Ephesians, Corinthians, and Thessalonians. What did those all have in common? They are all Pauline. They were all written by the Apostle Paul. It's not that Paul alone speaks to these issues, but rather I wanted to point out that this is not a case of one author speaking one way at one time and another author speaking another way at another time. This is one author speaking two different ways about the same subject matter, sometimes to the very same church in the same letter. One of two things must be true. Either Paul was a rambling man who just spoke stream of consciousness without thinking about what he was saying. Or else there's some kind of tension to the Christian faith. There is something going on here That we have and have not, that there is and there is not. That somehow there is that which exists and yet doesn't. Many Christian thinkers will refer to this as the already and not yet of the Christian faith. Our sermon title is The Now and Not Yet of Faith. We live in a theological tension By faith in Christ, all of these spiritual blessings, sanctification, adoption, redemption, salvation, and resurrection, all of these spiritual blessings are ours already. But the full enjoyment of these blessings is not yet ours. This is the life of faith. How did he say it back in verse 1 of Hebrews 11? This is the assurance of things hoped for in the future, and the conviction of things not seen in the present. This is the life between the times. This is not the former age before Christ came, but neither is it the age to come after he comes again. We live in the overlap of the ages. We live in the in-between. We live in the now, but not yet. And it was not just Paul who saw this time period in this way. Turn back in Hebrews to chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2 verses 7 and 8. Hebrews 2, 7 and 8. Notice the wording that our author brings there. You made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, him being Christ Jesus. Putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now notice what the author says. In putting everything in subjection to him, he, the father, left nothing outside of his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. The author of Hebrews agrees with Paul. That in a very real sense, there are certain things that are and are not all at once at the same time. Christmas 2005. Each of our children got a mysterious gift under the tree. Now the first child opened it not really knowing what to make of it. A piece of rawhide? Strange gift. But as subsequent children opened their gifts, the picture began to come into focus. The next child got a collar, dog collar. Another child got a leash. I have no, I don't remember what the fourth child got. Wait, they all got something. And eventually they were quickly able to piece together, are we getting a dog? Are we getting a puppy? And of course the answer was yes. We are not some weird parents who just give you dog toys for Christmas and then do nothing about it. That's why they have their mother, because without her I would be that kind of weird parent. So then we went, so now we have become a dog family. But it took a little time for that to be realized. First, there's no point in going and getting a dog and then immediately having to board it because we're headed home to visit friends and family over New Year's. So let's forego that. Oh, and then the following week, oh, the Humane Society is not open in the evening, so that stalls a little bit longer. Oh, I'm busy this Saturday, we can't go down. It took some time. We get to the humane society, and none of those are the dogs we really want with our family. Eventually, we got a dog. Eventually the promise of the signs was fulfilled among us. You know, the Old Testament is filled with various signs and promises. Joel said that in the latter days God's Spirit would be poured out on his people. And in the adjacent verse, he says, the sun and moon will be turned red. Peter, on the day of Pentecost, points to the former and says, It is fulfilled among us. Look, the Spirit of God has been poured out. Jesus takes the red sun and moon, these are two verses that are right next to each other in Joel, and Jesus says those have to do with my second coming, the day I come back. There is this weird sense in which part of Joel is fulfilled at Pentecost, and part of the very same prophecy from Joel is still hanging out there, waiting for fulfillment. Similarly, Isaiah prophesies of a great king, a wonderful counselor, the mighty God, upon whose shoulders the government will rest, and of whose kingdom there will be no end. And that same Isaiah spoke of the suffering servant, who would be bruised and battered, beaten and killed, buried in a tomb not his own, cut off from the land of the living with no apparent offspring. In fact, so diverse were the signs and indications in the Old Testament that in the intertestamental period, that 400 years between Malachi and Matthew Many Jewish rabbis took to concluding that there must be two messiahs. There must be two promised ones who will come from God. We now understand that it's one Messiah who comes twice. And we live in that in-between time. And that's really the meaning behind these promises of the future, that they had been initiated in the first coming, resurrection, for example, is the most obvious one But those promises still wait out in the future. In fact, not even are all of you know the promises fully realized, and uh even though some of them have been brought into our present We live in this strange time that because of Jesus, some of the future was brought into our present resurrection. and other such things, the coming of the spirit. But some of our present promises still weighed out in the future. You know, in a similar way, some of the past age is giving way to the new world. There is a very real sense in which Satan is not free to do today what he was once free to do. He is bound by the church. His control is limited, and we do see the gospel spreading beyond the nation of Israel to all the corners of the earth Some of that future hope is brought into our present, but so much of it still waits out there in the future. And so we wait, like those four Shaw children, we're holding a leash, a dish, a collar, I don't remember what was the rawhide, whatever those four things were, and we're holding on to them. Hoping for what will come in the future. Now, what happens to those waiting children or that waiting fiance If the delay seems unduly long, faith begins to ebb, does it not? Hope begins to fade. If the dog never materializes, if the ideos never come, the one who is waiting begins to lose faith. And that's what our author is trying to avoid. Now, they're going to lose faith unless Unless they see good reason for the delay. If one Saturday is spent building a doghouse Will not those hopeful children excitedly participate in that, understanding that it needs to happen first? If we spend some time fencing in the yard, Will they not readily get that's the reason for the delay? And in light of those things, faith does not fade. And in fact, anticipation builds. And they are reminded that the day is coming. And when the beleaguered fiancé starts to wonder if we're ever going to get married, When the boy says to her, honey, we're getting there. Remember what your dad wanted of me. He wanted me to have $5,000 in the bank, and I'm putting away hundreds every month. Look at how my bank account is building up. We're getting close. And she's reminded, oh that's right, that's why there's a delay. And her faith is renewed. So why do we wait? Why has Christ not returned? Why is it that we still live in this difficult in-between time? That is such a challenge to our faith. What are we waiting for? Look with me at verses 39 and 40. Hebrews 11, verses 39 and 40. All bees, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised. Why not? Since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us, they should not be made perfect. God asked the saints of old to wait for us. Now we're reminded that that us is an us-us. That us was then. That us was the us of the very first readers of the book of Hebrews. The author of Hebrews is telling the readers, the saints of old had to wait for you to come in. Why then did they have to wait for the generation of believers who came after them? Why then do we have to wait? For the generation of believers who will come after us. It's okay, it's right and good to pray the prayer of the book of Revelation. Lord Jesus, come. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, and bring this age to an end. It's good to pray that prayer, but it's also wise to understand why he may not answer that prayer the way we would like. It's one thing to want it, it's another thing to demand it, and it's another thing to give God an ultimatum. I'm going to walk away from the faith if you don't come back now. You see, why should we lose faith if he does not return? Should we not also wait patiently for those who are yet to come? Is it not sadly selfish and self-centered to think that we are the definitive generation of believers who will bring history to its end? You know, Drew likes to joke that we stopped with four children because, you know, after he came along, there was no chance of improvement, right? That's fun and it's funny to think about. But a little arrogant to actually apply it to our spiritual lives. Like after us, there couldn't be any better church. There couldn't be any pure Christians. There couldn't be even more that God might want to give to his Son. You see, next week, we're going to read Hebrews 12. 2, which reminds us That Jesus endured the cross. He bore its shame and its pain. Why? For the joy set before him. Do we imagine that we alone fulfill that joy completely? That additional generations would not bring additional joy? God asked them to wait for us. And he asked us What was the reason Abraham did not receive the promise in his life? Because he needed to wait for us. And in a sense, the promise to Abraham could not have been fulfilled in his life. After all, the promise was for a huge number of spiritual offspring. Sometimes a gifted lyricist can succinctly capture that which would take others much longer to say. And there is a lyric from a Phil Keggy song released way back in 1976. The name of the song is Abraham. It was a minor song, even among Phil Teggy fans, but it's one of my personal favorites. And the first verse and the chorus go like this. Look at the stars, Abraham, and believe I am. Can you count stars, Abraham, or the grains of sand? And then he enters his own voice and says, I see why the tide keeps rolling. I see why the tide keeps rolling in and building up the sand tree. Mr. Keggy understood the delay, the passage of time, it fulfilled God's promise to Abraham. More time means more grains of sand heaped up on the ocean's shores. More passage of time means a greater crowd of the redeemed, who will together shout with a mighty roar, Worthy is the Lamb! Now, to be sure, there is no number of human lives that will ever counterbalance the sacrifice of God the Son. And so there will come a day when the Father will bring history to a close. But he delays for the glory of Jesus Christ. He delays so that those who stand among the crowd of the redeemed at the judgment day. When they scan the horizon, their eye will see no end. That the myriad of those who are proclaiming, worthy is the Lamb, will seem to go on forever. The Father asked the saints of old to live by faith, not receiving what was promised, even unto the day they died. Our author says that was for our sake, so that we could be united with them, so that together we would all be perfected, so that together we would all be made righteous. Can we not do the same? Can we not look forward to our children and our children's children and our children's children's children and hope and pray that they will join us that day That they will be among the redeemed. That God will continue to expand. His church. I know it's hard right now. We live in a time in America where the church seems to be shrinking. Where faith seems to be dying. But don't let it die here. Don't let it die among us. Don't let the waning faith out there creep into this in here. Have a bigger view, have a bigger picture. Realize that our God is at work in profound and dramatic ways. That the church is booming in sub-Saharan Africa, that it's exploding in communist China. That the nation that sends out more missionaries than any other right now is not the US, it is South Korea. That the church is growing, that the sand tree is still building, that the tide of time is bringing to the shores of the other side The countless redeemed, whom God has saved to be saved with us, perfected with us, together with all of the saints before. That's a pretty good reason to wait. That's a pretty amazing reason to be patient to hold on to faith, to cling to Christ until we cross the finish line of this life. Let's pray. Lord, work patience in us. Work faith in us. Work in us a willingness to accept that you are in control of the passage of history. And that you will bring about your purposes among your people, here, and across all the ages, and across all the earth. Let us join with the saints of old, living lives of faith, confident that you will bring it about in the final days. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen