Open your copy of God's Word to Acts chapter thirteen. Acts 13, we are at a uh uh uh a turning point in the book of Acts. We mentioned last week that Acts 12 was a little bit out of place in the trajectory of the narrative, uh that it interrupted the the events occurring in Antioch. It interrupted the uh the focus on Paul and Barnabas But we return now in Acts 13 to both those that place and those people. But as we consider Acts 13 this morning, we're not going to take up the entire account as we have. typically done, but rather we're going to stop and look at just the first three verses of Acts 13. As we look at this pivotal point in the history of the early church, the pivotal point in the history of the Antioch Church, I wanted to take a moment for us to be instructed and for us to understand what was going on there. For us to pray that the same would occur here. For us to hope to be much like this church. As I prepare to read, before I read, let's actually go to the Lord and ask him to guide our understanding of his word. Spirit, let my words this morning be yours. Let them be in accord with the message that you have before us, the message of the Bible, your word. Lord, let your leading and your guidance upon our individual hearts and our collective church Come always out of what you have given us, what you have revealed to us in your inspired word. And when we hear these words, by your grace and in your mercy, soften our hearts, renew our minds And let us follow in accord and in obedience to what has been revealed. We pray this up in Christ's name and for the sake of his glory. Amen. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. And that means, among other things, that if you want to know how to live according to the Holy Spirit, if you want to know how to walk, In his guidance, then you must know the word he has given. So I invite you now to hear the word of Almighty God. Now there were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers. Barnabas, Simeon, who was called Niger. Lucius of Cyrene, Menaeon, a lifelong friend of Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Then after fasting and praying, they laid their hands on them and sent them off. Don't we wish that we were guided in this manner by the Holy Spirit? When it comes to what school to go to, what career to pursue, whom to marry. How to live. Don't we wish we had this kind of specific instruction from the Holy Spirit? Wouldn't it be nice? Even down to the little things, which car to buy, which house to buy, what community to live in. It would be a wonderful thing if the Holy Spirit spoke to us in the way that he spoke to this church. And he comes to the church and he says, I want Saul and Barnabas To be missionaries. I want them to go and to carry my word to the pagan peoples. And he does that through the church. Wouldn't that be a blessing if we had that kind of clear, absolute guidance? Now there are many Christians whom I respect, Christians whom I thoroughly enjoy their company, and I believe them to be uh careful uh uh uh uh uh disciples trying to be obedient to the word of god and I will hear them say Something akin to this. They will say things like, The Holy Spirit spoke to me. The Holy Spirit said to me. The Holy Spirit told me. And when I hear that, I get a little tense. I tighten up just a little bit. I think we have to be a little careful with that language. I think we have to be very cautious ever saying, the Holy Spirit said to me, the Holy Spirit told me. For you see, the Holy Spirit speaks to and through prophets and apostles. And that's what we see gathered here We're told that in this church there were prophets, and at least one apostle is named there, Saul of Tarsus, who becomes the Apostle Paul. And for us to say that the Spirit has spoken to us in the same way that He spoke to them is a little problematic. For one of the things that we forget is this, that the speaking of the Holy Spirit is the word of God. The speaking of the Holy Spirit is the Word of God. And in fact, the scriptures play on a word that it loses something in the translation. But in both the biblical Greek of the New Testament and the Biblical Hebrew of the Old Testament, in both of those languages, the word for breath That which comes out of the mouth is exactly, not closely related, exactly the same word as the word for spirit. And in many places the scriptures play on this. So that there, when we're translating into English, it's not at all obvious whether we should speak of the breath of God or the Spirit of God in a particular passage. Because the two go together. And in fact, we see this in 2 Timothy 3. 16, where Paul writes, all scripture is breathed out by God. One translation offers, God breathed. This idea that it comes from his breath It is spoken out by him, but there's a play there on the idea of his spirit. And of course, Peter picks it up. And he looks at it from the other side and focuses more on the Spirit in 2 Peter 1. 21, where he says, No prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. But you can translate that holy breath. And there is this play on this idea. That's what the Spirit says, what comes from God, what the Spirit reveals, is the Word of God. It is the breath of the mouth of God. It is that which He has declared. And so when I say something like the Holy Spirit said to me I really am laying claim to divine authority. I really am setting it up so that what comes next, you have to accept Because it came from God. It's the Word of God. Because the Spirit said it. The Holy Spirit speaks the Word of God. What the Holy Spirit speaks is, by definition, the Word of God. And we ought to be careful claiming that kind of authority We ought to steer clear of that kind of claim. And we see this throughout the scriptures Ezekiel talks about the fact that Ezekiel says, and the spirit of the Lord fell upon me and he said to me. But we acknowledge Ezekiel as a prophet. Isaiah in chapter 59 says, he's quoting God, My spirit is upon you, and my words I have put in your mouth. And that's okay for Isaiah to say that. We know that he's a prophet. And we see this in the New Testament, in Acts 21 and in 1 Timothy 4. These are two places where Paul claims that the Spirit spoke to him. in clear, direct ways. But he's an apostle. In Revelation chapters 2 and 3, John says it was the Spirit who told him what to write to the seven churches of Asia Minor. You got a direct communication from the Spirit. But again, he's an apostle. For you or for me to claim that the Spirit has spoken to me Is to claim to have authority on par with the apostles and the prophets Now some of you will say, but Scott, doesn't Jesus promise that when we are taken before the courts, taken before the synagogues, that His Spirit would give us what we need to say? That comes from Luke chapter 12, where we read this. Jesus is speaking. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say. For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. But being taught what to say is very different than being given the Word of God. If I am dragged before a secular court to answer for my faith, the promise here is that the Spirit will enable me to respond rightly. But that doesn't mean that what I say carries with it the weight of Holy Scripture What the Spirit says is Scripture. It is the word of God. And we must be careful claiming to have that kind of authority And yet we turn around and we see a passage like Romans 8:14, and it says, For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. And we say right there, we say, well, Scott, right there you have it. We're supposed to be led by the Spirit. And I do not for one moment dispute that. So what's the distinction? What's the difference that I'm making? Well, there is a world of difference between saying the Spirit is leading me to And the Spirit said to me. The Spirit leads us. And He does speak to us But if we're to understand rightly how he leads us and how he speaks to us, we have to first come to grips with that opening idea. That what the Spirit says is the Word of God. And we need to turn it around now and say the word of God is what the Spirit has said. The Word of God is what the Spirit has said. If you're looking for the Spirit to speak to you, you need to know this book. You need to be led by it. We are not The church in Acts. We are not the Church of Antioch. We do not have the office of prophet and apostle in our church. We don't, we are not today led in the way they were led, for we don't have those offices But we also have something they did not have. We have the full revelation of the Spirit of God. We have His full and complete and final word. They were living in the midst of the New Testament. We have the New Testament. We need to recognize that when we want to look for the Spirit to speak to us, We must look to this word. You know, it's an interesting thing that happens in Presbytery when a young man comes uh before the presbytery to be ordained into the ministry to seek the the presbytery's approval for this, one of the kind of questions that I think every presbytery I've ever been a part of has asked And that is, do you believe there is continuing revelation? Do you believe that God continues to pour out His Word in new and authoritative ways? And within conservative Presbyterian circles, the answer is always no. The Word of God is closed, scriptures are defined, and there is not new revelation from God. And yet it's interesting how many of those same men will, in their testimony, talk about how they went into the ministry, and they will use language like, the Spirit told me I should become a pastor. That is problematic language. So how do we sort this through? How do we think about this? Well, here's the key. If you are going to say, the Holy Spirit said to me, and what comes next is not directly out of the Bible, I'm going to take issue with it. I'm going to suggest to you that you are mistaken. That the Holy Spirit is not continuing to offer new revelation to us. But if what you mean by that is the Holy Spirit in that moment brought to mind this verse. Well that's That's a whole other thing. That's something altogether different. We ought to know his spoken word so well that it does come to mind and that he can use it in our lives to guide us and direct us. The scripture carries the weight of the Holy Spirit speaking. This is why it's so important that we must handle it rightly. This is why James tells us that those who would presume to teach will be judged more strictly. For we must handle this word carefully because this is the Holy Spirit speaking. It's a weight that we all should carry. As we speak the word As a pastor to the congregation, I need to come under the weight of the reality of that situation. It is God's word. I don't have any right to twist it or change it or tweak it or massage it or make it something I want it to be. It is God's word. And as I teach Sunday school, as some of you teach Sunday school, as we lead our small groups, as we lead our homes, as we lead ourselves into our own devotion and quiet time In each of those situations, we must come and put ourselves under the authority of the Word of God. It's amazing how often people want the Spirit to guide them and ignore His word The Spirit speaking is the Word of God, and the Word of God is the Spirit speaking. You know, there's something interesting there in uh uh this passage. We look at verse uh let's see, it's actually in verse 2 there. Um While they were worshiping is the translation that I have. Some of your translations will say ministering. A few of them might say serving. And the Greek word there, I think probably that idea of ministering is probably the best uh uh translation. It's this idea of conducting a religious rite in the temple. Ministering. And it's an interesting thing there. While they were ministering, and it really is to the Lord. The sense of the Greek there is that it's directed at him. They're ministering to the Lord. We often think of Sunday school teachers or pastors or small group leaders or the elders or the deacons ministering to the congregation But do we think about the fact that we are ministering to the Lord? Our service is to him. Prepare your Sunday school lesson as though you have to deliver it to Jesus. Prepare your sermon, Pastor, as though you have to deliver it to Jesus How many of us would want to get anything wrong? Oh, we will. Don't don't get we will get things wrong. And He is gracious and compassionate and understanding Lord. But how many of us would want to deliver something wrong if we realize that Jesus was sitting right there? They were ministering to the Lord. They were serving Him, sacrificing to Him If we're going to be guided by the Spirit, we have to recognize that the Word of God is the Word of the Holy Spirit to us, but then that also forces us to wrestle a little bit with the nature of this leading. For it is not as specific as we might want it to be. As a general rule, the Word of God tends to kind of hem us in. There are things over here you cannot do There are things over here you must do, and in between you've got a fair amount of freedom. How many of us wish we had the verse that said, Thou shalt buy thy house? Thou shalt get a blue chete. Thou shalt not work for XYZ Corporation. Becky wishes there would have been one that said, you shall marry so-and-so. That kind of direct guidance would be nice at times, wouldn't it? But it's not there. And we realize it's not there. And so what do we do? How do we live a life guided by the Spirit in light of the fact that the Word of the Spirit doesn't always give us the specifics? we want. Well, the first and foremost thing to recognize is this. Anything you believe to be the leading of the Holy Spirit that is contrary to the revealed word is not the leading of the Holy Spirit. Let's just start right there. Our God is not a God of chaos. He is not a God that changes. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. If he is telling you to do this, that, or the other thing, and it's contrary to the Word of God, then it's not the Holy Spirit telling you. It's not the Holy Spirit leading you. It is not coming from God. Whether it's spilling out of your own selfish flesh, or it's coming up from the Father of lies, I don't know. But I know it's not coming from God. Certain things that fall into those broad categories are fairly easy to recognize. But the reality is this, they're always easy to recognize in somebody else. I can easily see where what you're doing is contrary to the Word of God But I can always twist what I'm doing so that it's in accord with the Word of God So what do we do? Well, there are some other things that we can appeal to. There are some other ways that we can have some sense of the guiding of the Holy Spirit. One is the reality of personal gifting. Our New Testament reading this morning from 1 Corinthians listed all these different spiritual gifts. And we need to some degree wrestle with that list and say, where is my gifting? Which of those gifts, and that's not an exhaustive list, there are some other gifts in other places of the scripture. But where is my gifting? That probably ought to guide me into how I minister to the Lord, how I live my life. If I have uh no ability in a certain area, if the Spirit's given me no uh Music. I can kind of sort of carry a tune. That's about it. That's about the limit. It would be silly for me to say that the Holy Spirit is leading me to become the worship minister at a church. It's just, and it's not that you could you can't point to a particular passage and say, Scott, right there it says, thou shalt not become a worship minister. But it's out of accord with my gifting. Our gifting is something given to us, hence the name gift. It's given to us by the Holy Spirit. Have you considered what your gifts are? And have you allowed those gifts to leave you, to be used by the Holy Spirit in you? There is also such a thing as what I'll call internal promptings that the Holy Spirit does work in you. to to push you either toward or away from something. Now this is not going to be something that uh uh is constantly coming and going. One day you think you're going this way, the next day is another one, another day you go over here. No, no, that's not what I'm talking about. But if over time you Find yourself keep coming back to these same thoughts. These same things keep welling up inside of you. You keep hearing, then maybe that is the Spirit prompting you, pushing you to look in that direction Maybe you should go there. And this is one that is common among us as pastors. You'll hear many pastors testify at Presbytery that over a period of years I kept receiving these nudges. And as I recognized a certain set of gifts that could serve a church in a certain way, and I felt these nudges as the Lord seemed to keep pushing me in that direction Well, that's very different from the authoritative statement, God said to me, the Holy Spirit spoke to me. Those are very different things. Last week we looked at the issues of providence and how they played out in the church. How it was that James dies early while Peter is set free. Because in God's providence, he had a plan for them Do you recognize God's hand of providence as a guidance from the Holy Spirit? We're going to see as we get into the book of Acts. that Paul is going to wrestle. He wants to do a certain ministry. He wants to go to a certain place and have a certain ministry there. And the Holy Spirit is going to close the door to him. It's not going to be available to him. He can't go there. And he's eventually going to come to the conclusion that that is the Holy Spirit providentially prohibiting him And providentially guiding him. Now I'm not saying that every closed door that comes your way should just automatically be accepted as the hand of providence. For even in Galatians we find where Paul says to the Colossians, pray also for us that God may open to us a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ. Paul says, hey, this door is shut before us. Let's pray and see if it won't open. But at some point You may want to look at the circumstances around you, acknowledge God's sovereign hand over those circumstances, and let them be for you guidance. Perhaps I should or should not do that. You know, it's one of the things that uh teachers as when I was a teacher, we teacher would struggle. We would always wrestle with this this balance between how do you how do you inspire and and and and nurture and foster in your students a desire to strive for excellence and to to reach for something noble, but at the same time balance that with some dose of reality. As a high school chemistry teacher, the one that I often would run into is the the C minus, the student would get in my high school chemistry class, mom would come or dad would come and ball me out and This is what it was my the C minus that I gave the student was keeping the world from the next great medical mind. Student wasn't going to go be a doctor because of the C minus I gave them. And then back in my head I was going, don't you think a C-high school chemistry might be a sign? That they weren't headed toward medicine in the first place? At some point we do and yet you can't say that. So it's a tough thing to wrestle with. How does circumstances, how does gifting, how does it all play together to tell us something about our future? There are some that are clear. You know, when you're six foot tall and you can barely jump over a shadow, you're probably not playing in the NBA. Right? It's a pretty clear set of circumstances. From the hand of God that has closed certain doors to me But as we study his word and we see the limits, these things that I cannot do, these things that I must be doing. As I look at my gifting and go, well, I seem to fit in reasonably well here, there, and there, as we look at the internal promptings of the Spirit. And if we look at the doors that providence opens and closes, we still will sometimes be left with the question of which way One. What do I do now? I'm down to these few choices, but it's still not clear to me. And this is where we have to recognize the role of the church. You notice the role of the church in the life of Barnabas and Saul. You notice the role of the church leadership First of all, let's take a real quick look at this leadership. It's interesting in what it says and what it doesn't say. Looking at these men briefly, we'll talk a little bit more about them next week. There were prophets and teachers, verse 1. It doesn't specify who's in which category. It doesn't even make clear that necessarily there are two distinct categories. They may be overlapping categories. Someone may be both a prophet and a teacher There were these prophets and teachers, and it names them Barnabas. We're familiar with him. A wealthy Jew from the island of Cyprus had a leading role in the church in Jerusalem, and now he's up in Antioch taking a leading role, a godly man. Simeon, who was called Niger. Niger is the Latin word for black. He's a black man. He's an African. Lucius of Cyrene. Cyrene was a region of northern Africa. This would be like a Middle Eastern complexion ethnic group. So right there we have this the Cypriot Jew, these two uh Gentiles, um Simeon, a black man, Lucius, a a uh um A man from Northern Africa. And we see that right off the bat, the characteristic that determined the leadership of this church was not about what group they belonged to from an earthly perspective. Not about whether or not they they held a p belonged to a particular uh ethnic group or a particular group of my friends or they were all buddies with each other. These are men from three very spread-out parts of the world who God has providentially put in Antioch, and the church in Antioch looks at them and says, these are godly men. These are godly men. We recognize in them the hand of God upon them. And we read of Menaeon, a lifelong friend of Herod the Tetrarch. That word lifelong friend, uh some of your translations may offer foster brother. It's really it's it's this idea of he's a young man who was raised in a and by the way, this is a different Herod than last chapter. Last chapter was Herod uh uh uh uh agrippa. This is Herod uhtipos that's being spoken of here, um uncle of the Herod Agrippa that was in the previous chapter. These these uh princes, these young boys in the court, they would, you know, they can't go play out in the streets with the the normal boys. They can't just go play stickball on the the the streets of uh of uh some ancient city So they would often, there would be these foster brothers that would be brought in and be raised in the court with them, raised in the family with them, and that's what's being referenced here. Herod Antipas is off the scene. He's dead by this point. But here's a guy who was raised in the court of Herod, raised in power and money and prestige and position. And now he's in the leadership of the church in Antioch. And then we see there Saul Men whose only tie, the only thing that links them together, is their spirituality. Their Christian walk, their service to the Lord. And that's what they were doing. And they, and while they were worshiping, and we've got to be careful, I don't know that they, we can't, I'm not sure we can rightly apply that to the whole church at Antioch And in fact, in the structure of the language here, it looks like this group of leadership. It was they who were worshiping. They were worshiping the Lord. They were serving him. And they were fasting, and the Holy Spirit spoke to them. We need to acknowledge the role of the church and of the church leadership and the guidance of our lives. It's not inappropriate. And in fact, it's great wisdom in life's big decisions to seek out spiritual counsel. To go to one of the elders of the church and say, I'm wrestling with, I'm thinking about going off to this college. Here are the upsides, here are the downsides. What guidance do you have for me? Do you see anything in that that would be wrong for me? I want to be led by the Holy Spirit, and I recognize That he's made you a shepherd of our church and a shepherd over my life. I benefited personally from this any number of times I use schooling as an example because it's one that I used. I was wrestling with where to go to graduate school. I went to my pastor. I spoke with him at length. He gave me guidance and it changed my decision. And I'm thankful for it. We need to recognize that we are not always going to be objective. We are not always going to, in fact, rarely are we going to be objective. We're not going to see things the way we ought to see them. But somebody outside of the situation can look at it and help us see some things. It's a wonderful blessing in my life as a pastor when young people come to me and say, I kinda like so and so. And I'm thinking about maybe asking her to marry me. Is that okay? What do you think, Pastor? What a wonderful opportunity to minister into this young person's life. And be able to counsel them and help them understand the Word of God and how it might apply to their lives. We must have the humility to recognize that we don't see it all perfectly But God has given us those who can help us. He's given us the church, and in particular the church leadership as we see it here. One of the things that's hard. It's one thing to go get counsel, it's one thing to go ask for help. It's another thing when the church leadership initiates that. It's another thing when the church leadership comes to you You didn't ask for them to come and they come to you and they say We think you ought not to be doing. We see you headed down this path We are convinced that that is not walking according to the Holy Spirit and His Word. That's hard. Because in our pride, we tend to want to dig in. And say, who are you? What do you know? Who gave you the right? But there's wisdom to listening. There's wisdom To hearing. There's wisdom to saying, wow, one of the reasons I was at this church was because I looked at those men I believed God ordained those men. I believed that God put those men there. And if I really believed that Then I have to also wonder if this is not God's speaking to me. You know, as an elder of the church I take a slightly different set of vows than you took as a member. As an elder of the church, one of my vows is to submit myself to the brethren. And it's speaking of this right here. It's forcing each elder of the church. To acknowledge. You think you have a hard time with somebody coming up to you and trying to redirect you, trying to nudge you off the path you're on? I'm a pastor. I know the Word of God better than you do. I spend more time in prayer and study than you do. Surely I can't be wrong about this. And our pride when it comes to these matters is a real problem And it's the reason we take this vow, to submit ourselves to the brethren. Because it is utter foolishness When the other elders in that room decide to do this, that, or the other thing, decide to go a certain way, and for me, in my arrogance, to say, no, they're wrong That's arrogant. Now it doesn't mean that a group of elders is infallible. And there will come a time. Martin Luther eventually had to say the church is wrong. And he had to break from it and but he didn't do it instantaneously. And neither should any of us. That is a difficult situation to be in. And yet we see in this turning point in Acts that it was the Spirit that was leading them And because the Spirit was leading them, amazing things are about to happen. This church that just took it on the chin in the previous chapter One of its key leaders executed, another one imprisoned, is about to change the world And why are they going to change the world? Because they were a church led by the Holy Spirit. A church guided by the Holy Spirit. A church that knew the word of the Spirit was willing to be obedient to the Word of the Spirit, was striving to live in accord with the Word of the Spirit. It was a church that was willing to follow the Spirit's lead as it played out among its human leadership And it was a church that blessed us. If not for Antioch It is not at all clear. The Spirit would have worked. But the way the Spirit chose to work was that the missionaries to the West would come out of Antioch. That we would be here today because of the gospel they handed down through the centuries. What a blessing it is to us today that this Church, follow the leading of the Holy Spirit. Let us be a church that seeks to do that same thing. Let's pray. Lord, lead us through your word, lead us through the men whom you have ordained as shepherds over us. Lead us through the gifts that we find within this body. Lead us through the prompting that you lay upon us individually. Lead us through your providential control of all things. Let us be a church that blesses the generations to come. Because like the church in Antioch, we were under your leadership, not our own. We walked in obedience to your word and not our desires. We submitted to you rather than twisting you to be our servant We ask for this wisdom, this humility, this guidance, this uh uh spirituality. So that we might be like that church today, here on the Eastern Shore. We lift this up in Christ's name. Amen.