Well we continue our series this summer through um some of the psalms, learning about um uh uh the different kinds of psalms and the different ways to um uh to learn of the Lord and to um uh to sing to the Lord in a lot of different situations. Today we come to Psalm nineteen. So let me encourage you if you have a Bible to turn to Psalm nineteen There are 14 verses in English Bibles. There are actually 15 verses in Hebrew Bibles. In every Psalm, there is one more verse than the ones that we have. Because we don't count the superscription as a verse. But in the Hebrew Bible it does. So I'm going to start with that. I'll be reading from Psalm 19. And as I as I do remember that um uh that this is God's holy and inerrant word, the only infallible rule of faith and practice um for um uh for all of God's people Psalm 19 to the choir master, a psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy Its rising is from the end of the heavens and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned, in keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. May God be pleased to bless the reading of His Word. Let's pray. Father, your Word is a treasure. Everything that you do, everything that you say, points us to you. We pray that as we consider your word together this morning, we may be pointed to you. To see in truth who you are, how great you are, how you have provided for us, how much we need the Lord Jesus Christ to come into your presence. And how you have been our strength and our redeemer. Be those to us as we consider your word together, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So how many times have you heard somebody say, you know, if God would only speak, yeah, I could believe he exists. Or how can you believe in some imaginary God who never shows himself or says anything? I mean that's that's unbelievers. But maybe you're a believer, and after you've prayed and prayed fervently about something, wouldn't it be good? Wouldn't it be encouraging for him to answer you out loud after you've prayed? To tell you he heard you? To tell you he's going to take care of you? To tell you that he loves you? Is that too much to ask But if God did speak to you today, what would it sound like? Part of the problem is that we are so different from God That if he actually did speak, if he actually did communicate, we might not hear it or we might not understand it. It's like a dog whistle set at such a high pitch that a dog can hear it, but people can't. Now we have a dog, and we've we've had dogs the whole time um uh that I've been married. I think that was one of the things I had to agree to to get Julie Tubump to say yes. And when you first adopt a dog You can talk to the dog, but the only response you're really going to get is. You've seen that, haven't you? After a while they begin to learn and scientists tell us that dogs can learn up to about 160 words. I know our dog Mercy knows Food and she really knows walk. But what I think she still doesn't know is lay down. Now maybe she's better grammatically than I am. I maybe if I said lie down that would work better. I don't I don't know. Um And yet, our communication with a dog after a while is even easier than trying to understand what God has to say to us if unless He finds a way to communicate it. It's more like us trying to speak to a goldfish or an ant or a tree or a bush. We are so different from those things that we would have to find a way of communication that would bridge that gap. That what is so different from us would be able to understand us. As we continue our study of the Psalms this summer, Psalm 19 is a psalm that we classify as a wisdom psalm. It is a psalm that is designed to be sung. You saw at the beginning the heading was for the choirmaster. It wasn't just because the choirmaster wanted to read that passage. It was so that the choirmaster would be ready to have the choir sing it and lead God's people. It was a psalm that was written by David, a psalm that tells us that there is a God and that he is not silent. He speaks in the world through what he has made, and he speaks in the Bible through what he has written. And when David thinks about how God has spoken, about how God continues to speak, he tells us that what God says to us tells us about who God is and who we are And by the time David does that, by the end of verse 11, he realizes that hearing God and learning about God challenges and convicts him of his own errors and sins. And it should do the same thing to us. We need to ask God to speak to us, to reveal Himself to us, and as Jesus said in his preaching, he who has ears to hear Let him hear. Psalm 19 divides itself very neatly into three parts, which is wonderful for um for a preacher who likes to preach three-point sermons. Verses 1 through 6. He speaks through his word, or his world, rather. Verses 7 through 11, he speaks through his word. And verses 12 through 14, he speaks to his worshiper. One commentator says that more than any other psalm, Psalm 19 reflects the beauty and splendor of Hebrew poetry. And C. S. Lewis said Psalm 19 is the greatest poem in the Psalter and one of the greatest lyrics in the world. In verses 1 through 6, God speaks through his world and specifically through astronomy. Through the heavens, we're told the heavens declare the glory of God. And the sky above proclaims his handiwork. That word translated sky above in verse 1. is the same word translated expanse or firmament back in Genesis 1, where we read, let there be an expanse in the midst of the uh of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. David sat outside during the day, maybe while watching the family sheep, as a very young man, and he noticed the sky. And he noticed it again at night when it was full of the moon and full of the stars. And he saw the very same things that we do today. When we're outside during the day, when we're outside at night, if uh if any of you um went outside one night uh I think this past week to look at the um the Perseid meteor shower, um you saw the same kinds of things that David did. But David realized something about those things that we often don't. That the sky, the sun, the moon, and the stars are God's creation. They are God's handiwork. They're God's provision for all life on earth, and that they tell us about God. In verse 2, they continue to tell us about God. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. They are silent witnesses in terms of our auditory senses, but they are a voice in verse 3, because what a voice does is to communicate. The paraphrase, the message says they that this is unspoken truth which is spoken everywhere. They communicate all the time. Paul quotes from this section in Romans chapter 10 and verse 18. Um uh and he applies it to the gospel where he says, But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for their voice has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world So the heavens and the rest of creation communicate from God. And we call this general revelation. We call it general revelation because it is it tells general things about God and it tells it to everybody. Not everybody has a Bible, but everybody who lives on earth can see the effects of the sun. Everybody who lives on earth can see the rest of nature, not Mother Nature, nature. Everybody who lives on earth can see the sun, the moon, and the stars at night. Alistair Begg calls it the majesty of God's works. Charles Spurgeon said that nature's words are like sign language. They reveal the wisdom of God Because everything fits together so well and it took great wisdom to create it the way it did. They reveal the order of God Because everything happens in a particular way. Everything fits together. And it continues to happen day after day after day. It speaks of the infinity of God, which you might not notice during the day, but if you look at night And you have a telescope, you are reminded how insignificant um and tiny we are in compared in comparison with the vastness of the universe. The earth the universe is not infinite But the one who made the universe is infinite. The faithfulness of God, God causes all these things to continue to happen. Day after day after day. We don't have to wake up in the morning and wonder, well let's see, will gravity today mean that we're going uh fly up to the ceiling? Or will there actually be water that we can drink today? No. God is faithful. He continues to do things. It shows the power of God. We certainly see the power of God in times of earthquakes and tornadoes and hurricanes, but the power of God silently to work through what he has made, to work through um all the things that um uh that are part of the world and the universe to fit together so perfectly. The greatness and majesty of God, to be the one who could dream all this up. and create it. And he did not simply uh go to Lowe's, buy materials, and build it. He spoke it into existence. The goodness of God. Because all that he has made is good. And how much his goodness to us is shown in what he's made. Paul tells us in Romans 1, 19 and 20 that what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made, so that they are without excuse. They is a pronoun. Who are the they? Who is without excuse? Well, the people who worshiped creation or created their own gods and goddesses Because they should know better. And the people who look at creation and say that all this happened by itself over millions of years, they should know better too. And so should we. Our culture confuses God with his creation. And without the gospel, we would too That's why a song like the one we sang this morning, Creation Sings, is so important to remind us that um uh that what we see all around us didn't happen by accident, didn't happen gradually, but is the handiwork of God and actually points to him Now David uses the activity of the sun as his primary illustration of creation. It comes out every morning radiant and on the move. All across the sky from east to west, affecting all of creation by light and heat. The sun teaches us that God is consistent. That he is powerful, that he is penetrating, that he cares about all that um that his creation needs, and that just as nothing is hidden from the heat of the sun So nothing is hidden from the creator of the Sun either. So God speaks in creation. He tells us truly about Himself. And if we listen accurately We would learn that he exists. We would be drawn to know him, to worship him for who he is, for what he does. But we don't God's voice in creation is enough to leave us without excuse, but not enough to bring us into a relationship with Him. Because even though we should know better, we don't. Even though we should hear his voice speaking through what he has made, we don't. We are the Watsons who see the same things that Sherlock Holmes saw, but We don't really see it. We don't interpret the clues the way he did. And unlike Watson, we actually suppress the truth, Paul tells us in Romans 1. We don't want to know We don't want to believe what creation teaches. When we start to think about what this world is pointing to Our fallen minds naturally go la la la la la la la la la la la la la. I don't want to think about that. Because if we let God's voice in creation really get through to us, we'd realize That God is God, and I am not, and neither are you. And that would demand something of me that I'm not ready to give God's voice in creation tells us of him, but we need something more if we're going to listen and to respond correctly. And that more is God's word of the Bible. So verses 7 through 11 tell us that the Lord speaks through his word. The created world, the created universe is God's general revelation to everyone everywhere. The Bible is God's special revelation to those who read it. And verses 7 through 9 describe the Word of God like a precious gem, a diamond with many facets. As you turn that diamond in the light, Each facet reveals a different aspect of its beauty. And so the verses 7 through 9 give us six sentences parallel in structure that tell us about God's Word. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. And I would dare say that the next couple verses fit in with that last one as well. But we'll get to that in a moment. Let's look first at the nouns, the synonyms for God's Word. The first one is law, and the natural thing that you think of with law is the Ten Commandments, the Old Testament law. The book that everybody hates to read, the book of Leviticus, because if you get started reading the Bible through, you go through Genesis and you slow down a little bit in Exodus, particularly in the last part when it gets to descriptions about the tabernacle But then when you get to Leviticus, my goodness, what in the world do we have here? All it is is laws and sacrifices. But that's not what the word means. The word is Torah, which means instruction. This is the instruction of the Lord that's talked about. The testimony of the Lord, what God says about his word, the precepts of the Lord, the specific truths that God has given us in his word, the commandment of the Lord. Now, God's word is not impersonal truth. God's word is not suggestions. It is a directive that needs to be obeyed The fear of the Lord. And interestingly enough, there are times in the Old Testament where there is a word that's translated fear, and there are times in the Old Testament where it talks about the fear of the Lord They are not the same word. Where it says do not fear, it's not the same word as fear the Lord. So if you're wondering How can God say at one point, do not fear, and then turn around and say, Fear the Lord? The nice thing is, if you read Hebrew, you'd know that they were two different words. The word fear here, the fear of the Lord, is the reverence of the Lord. A response to God's Word. It doesn't sound like a synonym for God's Word itself, but the fear of the Lord is so much a response to God's Word that it is actually a synonym given here. in these verses for the Word of God. The rules are judgments of the Lord, what God decides, what God does Facets of the Word of God, letting us see it in its different dimensions and brilliance. These are the nouns that begin the picture of the Word of God. Look now at the adjectives. and how God's word is described. We're told that it's perfect or complete there in verse 7. If your Bible is like mine, you may have to turn back a page. I mean, this is Giganto Bible because of the um uh the super l super giant print. But your Bible may have Psalm 18 on the same page as Psalm 19. And if you look at Psalm 18, verse 30, it says, This God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord proves true. He is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. It is perfect, and it makes, as Paul tells us in 2 Timothy 3, his word makes the man of God perfect, complete. Perfect and complete. The Word of God is sure, it is certain, it is true. It is dependable. You can count on what God's Word says. I get up in the morning, I look on the weather channel, I see what they're calling for during the day today. Wouldn't it be nice if you could depend on what the meteorologist said? But as I have said many times over the years, meteorology is not an exact science. You can count on what the Word of God tells us. It is sure, it is certain. It is right, it is correct, both morally and accurate in lining up with reality. What God says is right. We don't have to wonder whether uh whether it's right or not. It is right. God's Word tells it like it is. It's pure. It's not mixed with impurities. It's not that the Bible contains the Word of God. The Bible is the Word of God. It's clean. Not just the Bible, but the fear of the Lord. It is clean, it's pure, it is true and righteous altogether. As Francis Schaefer once said, the Bible is true truth. So this is what Scripture is. This is how it appears. This is how it shines. And now the verbs in these verses tell us what it does. Reviving the soul. Some translations say restoring the soul. Some converting the soul. Bringing the soul, the whole person, out of death. Away from death, from straying, from rebellion, and sin. The Word of God does that. Nothing else can do that. The Word of God does that. Making wise the simple. We said this was a wisdom psalm And we're reminded not that the Bible tells us everything there is to know. The Bible tells us everything we need to know about God. Wisdom is not just knowledge, it is understanding how to use the knowledge that we have and to do things that um uh that are pleasing to God. And God's Word tells us that. It says making wise the simple Now you may not like to consider yourself the simple, but the word that's translated simple here actually doesn't mean simpleton. It means teachable, humble. And I'd much rather fit into that description. The Word of God rejoices the heart as we study it, as we learn of God. We have the same reaction as the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, who when Jesus explained to them the things in the scriptures that pointed to himself, and when he left, they said, when he was here speaking to us. Didn't our hearts burn within us? Rejoicing the heart, enlightening the eyes. The sun naturally enlightens the eyes. Supernaturally, the scriptures enlighten the eyes. John tells us in 1 John, God is light, and God's word enlightens us. It illuminates us, it illuminates. the the world around us, it illuminates other people to us, and particularly it illuminates God to us. It is enduring forever In Matthew chapter 5, Jesus said, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law until it is accomplished. The Constitution of the United States can be amended. It has been amended. It may still be amended at some point in the future. But the Bible is not amended And never will be. The final verb, I think, is actually the message of verses ten and eleven, because um True and righteous altogether is an adjectival description. Verses 10 and 11 tell us that it is desirable. And that it is alerting. These two verses tell us more about the value of God's word. It says, more to be desired than gold, even much fine gold. Fine gold was pure. refined twenty-four karat gold. Scripture is pure and true and even more valuable than that. Sweeter than honey and the honeycomb. They didn't have artificial sweeteners. They didn't have the sugar um uh in the form that we had. Their sweetener was honey. Um and uh sweeter than honey in the honeycomb. Um uh a beautiful taste, but we're told in the Psalms to taste and see that the Lord is good. God's word is sweeter More desirable. It serves as a warning. What God has said in His Word is not for entertainment purposes. What God has said in His Word is not just for informational purposes, it is to be believed. It is to be acted upon. The more revelation we have, the more accountable we are to believe it and to obey it. And there are benefits or rewards to reading and studying and knowing the Word So verse 11 brings not only the stick, you're warned, but the carrot. There are rewards in reading it and believing it and following it. Why is it that just as two people can look at the sky at night for creation and sun by day, and one sees God speaking in them, and the other doesn't So two, two people can look at the Bible, read it, study it, learn it, and one sees God in it, and the other doesn't. He looks to find errors. He looks to contradict it. One sees it as we saw in the passage in 2 Peter 1. No prophecy um uh is by one's own interpretation, but men were led by um by the Holy Spirit, um as they wrote. The other sees it as a human book, a religious book. Oh, it's like the Quran or the Book of Mormon. It isn't just God's voice in his world that we suppress. It is also God's voice in His Word that we suppress until the Holy Spirit speaks to us through the Word. If the Word of God is like a diamond, brilliant and precious and multifaceted revealing God to us, then we are in the dark And we don't see it, and we don't appreciate it until God's Holy Spirit turns on the light uses the word to enlighten the eyes, illuminates to us, and allows us to see the truth of who God is. The truth of who we are and our need of a Savior. When God speaks through His Word, He communicates in the same way that um uh that the um uh that the sun brings things before us. In Hebrews chapter four we read in verses twelve and thirteen That the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit. of joints and marrow and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart, and no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. The Word of God is like a CAT scan or an MRI that reveals what is hidden so that it can be treated. Notice how God is referred to in the Psalm. In the first six verses, his name is only mentioned once And he's simply called God. The heavens are telling the glory of God. General revelation can speak of God in general. In verses 7 through 11, he is called Yahweh, the Lord, six times, the personal name, the covenant name of who God is. Verses twelve through fourteen don't just look at God or the Lord, but verse fourteen says, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. It's gone from An impersonal um picture of God to a more personal picture of God to a more personally applied picture of God. In verses 12 through 14, David responds personally as his Lord speaks to his worshiper. As David thinks about God speaking to him, he is immediately conscious of his sin and his unworthiness. So it is in both the Old Testament and the New Testament when people encounter God. In Exodus 19 and 20, the people of Israel They're they're they're out of Egypt, they've come to Mount Sinai, they're ready to hear from God, and when God speaks, the thunder is so loud and terrifying that by the end of chapter twenty they say to Moses, Listen You talk to God. You tell us what God has to say. But don't make us listen to God. In Isaiah 6. The great chapter about Isaiah's call to be a prophet. When Isaiah gets the vision of God, he doesn't say, Alright, I'm on board. He says, Woe is me. I'm undone. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips. When the disciples first encountered Jesus out on the boat. When they couldn't get any fish on one side and Jesus sent them to the other side and they got all these fish, Peter didn't say, this is great. We are going to clean up with this fish from now on. What did he say? He said, depart from me, O Lord, for I'm a sinful man. The voice of God reveals who God is. And when we see who God is, and when we see who we are, it's not the emperor who has no clothes. It's you and me. Verse 12 says, who can discern his errors? Without the Word of God, we won't. The prayer is that he would be declared innocent, or that God would acquit him from hidden faults. Remember, nothing is hidden from the sun Faults that are hidden from others, faults that are hidden even from ourselves, God sees. And if we are to be pronounced pardoned and accepted in his sight, God has to cleanse us. God has to acquit us. If verse 12 deals with sin after the fact, verse 13 shows what our prayer should be before the fact. Keep back your servant from presumptuous sins. Now the word that's translated presumptuous can mean insolent, arrogant, or proud. Not just sin, but something that we know to be wrong. And we go ahead and do it anyway. Like the concern that Paul addresses in Romans 6. Should I go on sinning to reveal more and more of God's grace? Heaven forbid, he says. Presumptuous sin. And there was no sacrifice in the Old Testament system for presumptuous sin. He prays that those would not have dominion over him. Don't let them so much inside my life that they control my life. His prayer is to be kept from these. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Lord, forgive my sin and keep me from sinning even more The person that hears this, the person that responds this way, is called in these verses God's servant. This is not the response of the world in general. This is the response of a person who knows God, has come to love him, and has come to be his servant. When did David write this psalm? You know, some of the psalms indicate when the psalm was written. This one doesn't. There are a lot of people who think, because it talks about nature in the beginning and the sun and the sky, it probably was written when David was sitting out watching the sheep. Or maybe when David and his men were fleeing from Saul and they had to be outside at night and and walking a lot through the day. And you know, if it was written then, boy, how ironic and how terrible it was That later on in his life, David did that presumptuous sin. Not only the sin with Bathsheba, but the presumptuous sin of having Bathsheba's husband murdered. Boy, I wonder if in respect or uh in in retrospect, David thinks, how could I have written that? But you know what? The psalm doesn't indicate when in David's life it was written. And I would rather believe that this was written after what happened. Because he was cleansed and he knew then the danger of presumptuous sin. He asked God to keep him back from it. His faults may have been hidden to the rest of the um uh the the nation for the most part, but he knew them. Acquit me, cleanse me from hidden faults. He knew from his own experience what he was praying about My sins may be hidden from others. They may be hidden from myself. But there's nothing hidden from the heat of the sun. And remember, these words were written before climate change. There is nothing that is hidden from the knowledge of God. When we come to hear God's voice and to know him as he truly is, we have to come to him to deal with our sin. Only In God's provision for us in the Lord Jesus Christ, can we have our sin dealt with, cleansed, forgiven, our hearts and lives changed? So David's concluding prayer in verse 14 deals with words. As God speaks in creation and in Scripture, so David is concerned about his words and his thoughts. And remember Even though we don't say them out loud when we think something, we think in words. May my words and my thoughts be pleasing and acceptable to you, O Lord, my rock or my strength, my redeemer or my savior. So what do we do about God speaking to us? When we go outside and see nature by day, we thank God for it. We learn more and more about what we can about what God has made. And give him thanks and praise for how he's made it and how he continues to bless us in it. When we read and study God's Word, we prayerfully ask God And gratefully listen to what it teaches about God. Read God's word, study God's word for what it teaches about God and for what it teaches about you. And thank God that He spoke unto you in creation and in Scripture, that He saved you in Christ and enabled you to stand in His presence, cleansed and redeemed. If Jesus is your Savior. We began the service with Isaiah 55, 1 through 5, and then verses 6 and 7. Let me conclude with verses 6 through 11. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord that he may have compassion on him And to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways And my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth and send uh sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I set it May God's word accomplish his purposes in our lives, making us more conscious of him, making us more grateful to him, causing us to give praise to him. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the revelation that you gave to um to David, to Think through these things and to write these things out for our benefit, for the benefit to be sung among the people of Israel, for the benefit to be read and studied and learned here. Lord, help us not to look at your word for informational purposes. But may we see your word as you speaking to us. May we love you better, follow you more faithfully. We're only enabled to do that by your Spirit, and He only enables to do that for those who have come by faith to Jesus Christ. If there's anybody here who's not sure of that, pray that they would be sure of that. Talk to Pastor Shaw or to me or one of the elders before they leave. That you might be praised, that your kingdom might go forth in power, and the creation and all of us Might sing your song. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen