Open your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter 2, Romans 2, verses 17 to 29. If you're using the Pew Bible in front of you, it's on page eleven seventeen. Romans two verses seventeen to twenty-nine We have, at least in the popular culture, and in much of the uh uh uh feelings driven church, we have an image of Jesus that is somewhat inaccurate Jesus was not, was not always a nice man. He could be profoundly compassionate And yet at other times he was harsh, severe, strident, downright acerbic He was not always a nice man. And a brief study of Jesus' various moods, if I can call them that, is actually very revealing. So let's imagine that we were to plot to make a graph. This is a scientist in me coming out. Imagine that we were to make a graph of Jesus' personal interactions. So on the horizontal x-axis, that's in an imagination in your imagination before you here, we might have Jesus the spiritual training, the spiritual background of the person Jesus is addressing. So on your left, my right, there would be somebody who has no spiritual training whatsoever, and on the other extreme would be your seminary graduates. And on the vertical y-axis, we would plot how Jesus treated them, specifically with regard to his harshness, his severity. And think about how this would plot out. We would see here, down here, at the first, we might imagine one of his encounters with the various prostitutes that he came in contact with during his ministry. They would, by virtue of who they were in that society, have almost no spiritual training. They'd be on the far left of that X-axis But Jesus was not at all harsh with them. He was very gentle with them, very kind to them. And so there'd be this point down here in the corner of our graph. And then we see him encounter the Samaritan woman at the well. And we know from her dialogue that she talks about where should worship happen and this, you know, Moses sent the law. She has some spiritual knowledge. So she moves a little over on the graph. But Jesus is, but she's a Samaritan. You may not know this, but the Samaritans had a very perverted sense of the Bible, a very skewed view of things. They would have made what we call today a Christian cult. And so Jesus is She has some knowledge, but he's understanding that she doesn't have the knowledge she needs. She's been poorly trained. He is stern with her, but not at all harsh. She knows a bit more. He's just a hair less gentle with her. What do we see when Nicodemus comes to Jesus? Nicodemus is a Pharisee. He's supposed to be well educated in the law. But he's coming to Jesus admitting that he doesn't know everything. So his attitude, his training, there ought to be more expected of him, and Jesus is incrementally a little more blunt with him, almost sarcastic. You call yourself a teacher of Israel and you don't know these things? And what do we see of the disciples as their time with Jesus goes on? They've been trained by Jesus Himself. The Word of God incarnate. They ought to know more. And what happens when they awaken him on the boat? When the storm is raging, they go to him and he they awaken him. And he doesn't first take compassion on them. He doesn't actually calm the storm first. What does he do first? You know, we expect the kind person at that point to go, is everybody okay? That's not what Jesus does He says, what is wrong with you? Do you still not understand, O ye of little faith And he is frustrated with them. Exac exacerb what that word that word is insert the correct word there He is annoyed and disappointed. His they should have known more for having been with Jesus, and his harshness with them goes up on the scale. We begin to see this trend forming, don't we? And what did we see in our New Testament reading? The Pharisees and the scribes, they were the teachers of Israel. They were the best trained in God's word. They knew the law better than anyone else did, and they did not live according to it. And Jesus was downright. Harsh with them, severe toward them. Hypocrites, how are you going to escape hell? He called them whitewashed tombs A tomb was the place of the dead, and the dead made you ceremonially unclean. And here were the people who should have been the cleanest, ceremonially speaking. And Jesus says, you are unclean from the inside out. You are whitewashed tombs He was not kind to them. He was not nice to them But what was Jesus' severest, harshest treatment of anyone ever? Do you recall the harshest Almost mean things that Jesus once said when Peter Took compassion on his teacher when Peter said, No, no, no, no, you're not going to die. Now Peter was being kind. He was being hopeful for his teacher. And Jesus' comment was: get behind me, Satan! That, I'm sorry, leadership 101, you don't call your closest friend, your right-hand man, Satan. But we have to understand that the old hymn is correct. The vilest offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus a pardon receives. But that applies to human beings. Satan has no hope of redemption. For Satan, there is no path to salvation. And Jesus called Peter Satan. It is a phenomenally harsh, severe, judgmental comment The prostitute who knew next to nothing. Jesus was compassionate with her. His closest friend who should have known better. Jesus was very harsh. In Romans chapter one, Paul pointed To the pagans, to the irreligious, to the immoral fools of this world. And he said that they stood condemned because they knew from nature that there was a God, but they did not seek him out They instead worship created things. They were idolaters, and because of their idolatry, God gave them over to the perverse sins that are listed out there in Romans 1. In the first half of chapter 2, Paul took a look at the moral man. He looked at the immoral person in chapter 1. He looked at the moral person in chapter 2. The one who did by nature at least some of the things which pleased God. These are the people who would have joined with Paul condemning the immorality of chapter 1. They are better in one sense, but still condemned, Paul showed us. In fact, the very fact that they can join Paul in condemning immorality is proof that they know there's a standard. And they are fooling themselves to think that they are going to live up to it And they have a perverse view of God if they think they're going to make him happy with their efforts to do so. We said that in effect, their attempt to do enough good works to please God was the equivalent of making cat box brownies. Doesn't matter how much sugar you add, it is disgusting. So according to Paul, the immoral man stands condemned, and according to Paul, the moral man stands condemned. And the question Paul takes up for us today is the question of the religious man, the churchgoer The one who is acknowledging that there is a God, and is at least giving an outward pretense of worshiping that God. What of him? Will she be saved? Surely the effort of the one who goes to church every Sunday, or the Jew back then, every Saturday. By virtue of their attention to religion, they must be saved. Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible. To be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. Not my judgment of these things, but God's His word is our guide. And so if we're going to rightly understand these things, we have to give our attention to God's word. Hear now the word of Almighty God. But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law on boasting and know his will and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth. You then, who teach others, do you teach yourself? While you preach against stealing? Do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law. For as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law. But if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. Spirit of God, open up to us the meaning of this text. Let my explanation, my application be faithful to your message If I say anything that is out of accord with your intent, strike it from my lips before I say it, and erase it from our minds if I should say it. Let us walk out having heard you speak to us, knowing that we have met with you, and that you have taught us. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen. Paul's imaginary Jewish interlocutor, this debater that he is picturing here, was a religious man. He was one who attended church and knew God's word. He would be, at least outwardly, a common enough church-going man or woman in our society. He would be opposed to the corruption out there that we found back in chapter one. He would be fighting in our culture today. He'd be on the correct side of the culture wars and fighting for God's law to take hold in America. It's easy to hear Paul speaking to him or her. Follow along again as I go back through these verses and I simply put a spin on them that's a bit more modern, a little more Christian America, a little less. First century Judaism. Verse 17. You call yourself a Christian, you rely on the Bible, and you boast that is God that God is on your side of America's culture wars Verse 18. You know God's will with regard to transgenderism, for example, and you approve cisgender only because you are instructed by God's law. Verses 19 and 20. You are so sure of your Bible knowledge and righteousness that you spend hours online. explaining to others, teaching them, being a light out there in the darkness of Facebook chat rooms and online forums That paraphrase is not all that far off from that text, is it? Paul's message is definitely for us. Today. We continue on in verses 21 and 22. You preach all this goodness online. Do you then also go online for wickedness? You say that homosexuality and transgenderism break the seventh commandment, but so does pornography. Are you teaching yourself about that while you're online? You see, these first six verses are a rhetorical to or de force. Paul is blasting the self-righteous, church-going, religious person. He is blasting the one who presumes to be able to address the evils of others, but who seems oblivious to his own evils. Then in verses 23 and 24, Paul drops the rhetoric and is very blunt. You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law Righteousness is your claim. You have this idea that you're going to vote the right way and you're going to argue the right way and you're going to represent God the right way and you're going to stand for this or that or the other thing in the culture and that that is going to make you pleasing to God But if the question is righteousness, if that's how you're going to judge others, how does Jesus warn us However you judge, so shall you be judged. And Paul is picking up that idea here You're going to hold everybody else's feet to the fire of God's law. You're going to go into the public realm and demand that they live up to God's law, then you must do the same. And you can't. You dishonor God by breaking his law. Paul then applies the prophecy of Ezekiel, for as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. You see, God's Word has always been for everyone, but it has never been for them. God's word is first and foremost for us. And beyond that, it is for me. Well, trust me, as a preacher, it's easier to preach against them out there. That gets a lot more amens. That gets a lot more attaboys back in the line back there. But Paul's whole point here is that we must be taught by God's word. We must look at it rightly. We must understand it when we take the Word of God and say it's about them. We're missing the point. It's about me. It's about what I need. I wish the third question of our catechism was as well known as the first. The third question asks and answers it this way. What does the Bible primarily teach? And I'm editing this. The Bible primarily teaches what man must know about God. doctrine, and what duties God requires of man The Bible has two main functions, and one of those is instruction and morality found in God's law. And Paul is explaining if I understand God's law rightly, then I would be profoundly impacted by what it says about me. I simply cannot live up to it standards. And yet when I ask everybody else to do so, I reveal that I don't get the gospel. God's law also shows me the place and the import of religion. Religion is not principally about the outward things. Oh, to be sure those outward things matter. In our New Testament reading, Jesus didn't tell the hypocrites, the Pharisees, to abandon their outward religion. He said, no, those you should keep doing. Pay attention to the rigorous tithing, pay attention to all the carefulness that you show in the outward religion, but add to it a true inward religion Should we recite our creeds? Yes. But we should never imagine that the fact that we do so somehow saves us. somehow pleases God in and of itself. Should we seek a degree of reverence in worship? Absolutely. But solemnity for its own sake is not necessarily God-honoring. Should there be joy, you bet. But human joy can spring from all sorts of wrong sources all the time. The outward things are important. That's why he says, for circumcision indeed is of value. Circumcision was the outward physical mark of those who were Jews. He says it has value. So long as it is the adornment of an inner reality, if you obey the law. But if you break the law, your circumcision, that is to say, your outward religion, becomes uncircumcision. So look closely with me at verse 28. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. 29. But a Jew is one inwardly in circumcision as a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. I actually suspect that the word spirit here should not be capitalized. When spirit is capitalized, the Holy Spirit is usually set against the world or the flesh or the devil. Spirit here is set against letter. I think we have a sense of the spirit of the law versus the letter of the law. And I kind of wish spirit were not capitalized. What we have here is Paul's argument that Jesus made in our New Testament reading. That is not about you keeping the letter of the law with great precision, it's about you keeping the spirit of the law That you love your neighbor, that you love God above all other things. That's how Jesus summarized the law So, what is Paul's point then, in summary? It's that simply being attentive to the trappings of religion is not sufficient to please God. What matters to God are the things of the heart: justice, humility, kindness, compassion, righteousness. When the outward trappings like circumcision or robes Or austere reverence or exuberant joy are added to these inward things, then they are a great blessing. Both to us and to God Himself. But the outward cannot replace the inward. You see, at this moment, as we discuss the the the issue of outward religion, we stand at a point of great danger. We stand at a precipice and we risk tripping and falling over the edge. We do, at this point in history, do have the advantage of some hindsight, let's avail ourselves of it. You see, the tug of war between the outward and inward aspects of religion are not new. In a sense, that was the very heart of the Protestant Reformation, right? Rome said salvation was merely by outward participation in the church. Luther and his buddies said it was through faith, something inward. Even in the aftermath of the Reformation, even among the Protestants. There was this debate. Luther fought to keep much of the outward trappings of religion. He didn't want everything about the Catholic Church to be thrown away. He simply wanted inward truth to be added to it. Of course, the Anabaptists went to the other extreme They took great pleasure in tossing out anything that smacked of Catholicism in any way, shape, or form. And the Puritans were heavily influenced by that. And we by them. It's why we have this relatively austere sanctuary. Do we realize that the very way that we've adorned this sanctuary ties back into these debates? Well, there are our brothers and sisters within conservative Reform Presbyterianism who would say, no, we should seek sanctuaries that are transcendent, that are uh awe-inspiring. And we have this raging debate about what should the outward trappings of our religion look like. And in the last 50 years in North American Christianity, there's been this push, this drive, this effort on behalf of many. To say that the really thing, the thing that really matters is that the church be real, that it be authentic. Now, I don't disagree with that But there's a great irony to how this has played out. You see, the markers of authentic Christianity have to come out with things. It's only when you strip away the robe, Pastor, and you wear holy jeans and a t-shirt, and you get a tattoo, and you make sure we see it every Sunday. It's only then that you're a real pastor and truly authentic. You've got to be cool, you've got to wear the right glasses, you've got to make sure you're on the right social media, you've got to be interacting. And we've made Authentic real Christianity, all about all these outward things that we were once against We simply replace the previous outward trappings with new outward trappings. Miss the teaching that Paul is trying to get us to hear in this passage. You see, neither Paul nor Jesus suggests that throwing off the outward things is the answer. In fact, both make a point of saying the outward things matter. Now, there can be legitimate discussions about what those things ought to look like. There can be legitimate disagreements on the best way to express our faith outwardly. I'm not saying that every church out there needs to be like us. God forbid We need other churches to challenge us. We need brothers and sisters in the Lord who see it differently than we do. We need the benefit of growing and maturing from other people's understanding of these things. I don't want Christianity to be short harvest times a million. But neither should we imagine that we simply need to address something outward that we're doing and we're going to suddenly have fixed all of our problems. That misses the very point that's being made here in front of us Within the last two weeks, in this teeny tiny little congregation I have had four different efforts to pull our worship service in competing directions. There has been that effort to make the service, to encourage me to make the service more reverent. I have no problem with reverence. There's a desperate need for that in our society. Meanwhile, another person is challenging us to express more joy. There has been a call that we should return to more of the tradition Because traditions transcend us. Traditions teach us transcendence, that it's bigger, the church is bigger than just us. It's bigger than our moment. It's bigger than what we feel about it It has been around longer than we've existed, and it will be longer. And I get that. And there's a value to transcendence. And another among us is saying our church needs to be more spontaneous And tree form. And Paul is trying to teach all of us that it's not about these outward things. That they can be perfectly correct and our religion be flawed to the point that we are hellbound. In one sense, this is kinda where this text ends. That you need to stop worrying about your outward religion, that attention to the outward religion isn't going to save you That if you are a faithful Jew in his day or a faithful churchgoer in our day, that's not what's going to get you to heaven. And if I were going to be absolutely stuck to the text, this is where the sermon would end. I can't do that. I'm going to pull back the curtain. Spoiler alert, I'm going to give us a little insight into where Paul's headed with this. Why he's teaching this. Remember what he's doing is he's trying to get this church in Rome, this church that has the risk of coming apart at the scenes. This church that has people of different backgrounds, people of different ethnicities, people of different socioeconomic classes People have different religious training. They are at risk of coming apart and fracturing. And he's trying to get them to stay together. He's trying to explain to them. You all are invested in the same gospel. You all are saved by the same Christ. You all are doomed in the same way apart from him. And therefore, you ought to stay together. And he's challenging the Church in Rome, and he's challenging us today To say, if you really understand the gospel, if you really understand how you have been saved, then it is not through these outward things. Then you're going to have to figure out a way to get along with everybody else He's going to use two different metaphors. He's going to talk about the body and the members of the body and how they have to work together to be one body. He develops that more fully in Corinthians, but he does brush on it in Romans. And then he's going to use the metaphor of a surgery. In Romans 11, he's going to talk about how the Gentiles were this branch that had been grafted into the olive tree of Israel, this stump that arose from the family tree of Abraham. Paul lived in a time when human surgery that would attach parts was unheard of. So let's modernize and mix his two metaphors. Rather than tree surgery, let's imagine human surgery. He is saying, in effect, that you are this unwieldy, unnatural beast. You are this body sewn together. You are, after a manner of speaking, Frankenstein's monster. The Holy Spirit's monster. Awkward, gangly, moving stiffly Why? Because one foot is not used to being attached to that ankle, and that ankle is not accustomed to being connected to that knee, and that knee had never before and seen that dip. And you get the idea. And Frankenstein moves around with this awkwardness, this lack of grace. And Paul is saying to the body of Christ: don't be like that. Yes, you are afoot, but let the head that is Jesus Christ guide. Let the spinal cord, I don't know, maybe that's the elders, convey the message to you. If one foot tries to go one way because they're convinced that's the right way, and another foot tries to go the other way because they're convinced that's the right way. At best, the body falls, and at worst, it's torn apart at its seams. And it fractures. And it is this unseemly, gangly, awkward monster, the Holy Spirit's Frankenstein. And what Paul is pleading with the Church in Rome, and I think he's pleading with us today, is to say, can you accept That your view of the best way for things to go may be perfectly okay, unless it tears the church apart. There may be nothing wrong with your preferred view of worship, unless it tears the church apart. Your goal, if you're going to teach others, if you're going to get everybody else right, if you're going to make sure we all understand what worship really ought to be, it begins with first understanding your need to keep the body together. Which is why he's going to go on after his surgery analogy in chapter 11, in chapters 12 and 14, he's going to say Those of you who are truly spiritually mature, those of you who think you really can teach everybody else about the deep things of the Lord, you should bear with the weaker brother. Not get your way, not have the songs you prefer or the feeling of worship that you think is better. If you're that mature. You ought to understand what's really at stake. You ought to understand That you were saved by grace because you were a profound sinner. You ought to understand that that person who has the opposite view of you is a sinner saved by grace. You ought to understand that you would both be in the same boat headed for hell if it were not for Jesus. And because of him, you're in the same boat, the same family. You are united. You are one in Christ, and so one with each other. And you gotta figure out how to make that work. We all think we know what's best for Christianity. We all have this idea of where the church ought to go and what it ought to do Do we remember why Jesus was so harsh with Peter? I opened up with him calling Peter Satan. We now need to go back and take a look at that. Turn in your Bibles, please, to Mark chapter 8. Mark 8 Verses 27 to 33. Mark chapter 8, 27 to 33. I should have looked up the page number of the Pew Bible. My apologies, I did not. Mark 8, 27 to 33. I'm thankful that some of you still have paper bibles. I can hear the rustling. I know it's not time to move on. When we all get to digital Bibles, I just won't even know when it's time to start moving on. Mark 8, beginning at verse 27, and Jesus went out with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi, and on the way he asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am? And they told him, John the Baptist, others say Elijah, others say one of the prophets. And he asked them, but who do you say, who do you say that I am? And Peter answered him, You? Why, you're the Christ, the Messiah! And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him. Now notice what comes next. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things. things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he said this plainly They have come to the point of knowing who He is. You are the Christ. And now it's time for them to understand what that means. And he has begun to teach them that your hope in the Christ is in his suffering and his death. Not in a victory that comes here and now, not in a victory against Rome, but in a victory against sin. That's what he teaches them. And then what do we read? And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. Matthew fills in some details here. He tells us the nature of Peter's rebuke Peter comes to him and says, Oh, no, no, no, no. The Messiah doesn't die. You're not going to, this isn't going to happen to you, Jesus. I just said you're the Christ, the Messiah. That's the champion of God. That's the one who wins our victory. He doesn't die, duh That's when Jesus unleashes the rebuke. Verse 33. But turning and seeing his disciples, Jesus rebuked Peter and said, Get behind me, Satan. For you are setting your mind on the things of God, and not on the things of God, but on the things of man. Jesus' most severe, his harshest, his least kind words that he ever uttered on earth were directed. At the one who puts his own understanding of religion above the teaching of God. Paul is tearing down our personal view of religion so that we would better understand Christianity. He's not there yet. His big reveal is still a little ways off, as I mentioned. He's going to eventually tell us how this plays out. But his message to us is that our true hope is not in the perfection of our worship. But in our clinging to Christ, our holding to Him, our helping the body together go to Jesus The Lord's table, the sacrament before us, is described in our Constitution as a sensible sign and seal. Meaning that it can be seen. It can be touched and tasted. It can be sensed. It is concrete in a way that faith is not. It's tactile in a way that grace often isn't. And so we're going to put that to good use this morning Right now I'm going to ask that you stand. Bring your bulletins, walk forward, and gather as close as you can around the table. And I see the hesitancy, nobody's popping up to do this. You don't want to. When I used to sit out there, I didn't want to do this kind of stuff. But it's kind of the point, isn't it? That we will do what is uncomfortable for us because we desire the good of those around us. And so I ask you to come forward, to bring your bullets and to stand as close as you can. Don't try to don't go to the back. Don't wait. No, get up here. Because what is this about? This is about the table of Christ. This is about the fact that you've looked in the mirror and gone, I'm a sinner and I need what this table offers. That I can't on my own make God happy, but Jesus did so for me. And when we see that about ourselves in the mirror, keep coming, keep coming, keep coming. All right. That's right, slowly. It's okay. Slow is okay. Slow is smooth, smooth is fast. That's how they say it, right? You know, we gather in here, like we're going to at Thanksgiving and Christmas up close with our families to take a meal. We gather in here to be near one another. And each of us at this moment wants the preacher to do what we want him to do, the service to be what we want it to be, the elements to be handed out the way we want them to be handed out. And in this moment, we have an opportunity in a sensible sign, in a concrete, tangible way to put our preferences aside. And to say, I will do what is better for the body of Christ. I need what's at that table. I need the Jesus who's there. And I recognize that my brothers and sisters do as well. And so I'm not going to elbow them out of the way to get it. I'm going to pass it to them and share. Remember, our communion at this table is not merely a communion with God. It is also a communion with one another. And we in this moment are seeing our need visually, concretely, to help each other get Christ. Not to fix how we worship, not to fix what songs we sing, to help one another partake of Jesus. That's what we have to recognize here. That's why I called you forward. No, we're not going to do this routinely. No, this is not going to be the way we always serve communion. It was just it came to me this morning as I was reviewing the sermon. But I think it has some value. Not our preference, but his. Not our desires, but the benefit of one another. Can I share Jesus with each other? Can we pass him out to one another? Let's pray. You know what? We're gonna take hands like we would at a family meal around such a table as this. Yeah, okay, I think that's a good one. Let's pray. Lord, it is a wonderful thing that we have Jesus as our Savior, that we have one who died in our place, who bore the penalty of our sins, and who gives us his righteousness. So that we can be perfect in your sight even while our worship is flawed, that we can be perfect before you even while our our efforts here on this earth are stumbling. And if any of us have imagined that we've got it all right and we need only tell everybody else what we've learned, forgive us. Humble us. Help us come to Jesus at this table. And as we are reminded of what we have in him, let us offer it generously to one another. Yes, in this moment with these elements, but throughout the week and throughout the years to come, that we would be a part of your body. that understands who we were apart from your grace and is sympathetic to the others who need your grace We offer this prayer in Christ's name. Amen.