Turn your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter 8. Romans 8 we'll be picking up at verse 28. Romans 8, 28 through 30. It's on page 1123 if you're using that. Red Pew Bible that's provided there. This morning we're going to be taking a look at something that is part of a bigger concept in theology known as the Order of Salvation or the Ordo Salutis. If you'd like to know how all of this fits into the bigger discussion, there's an insert in your bulletin that may be helpful. It's got two sides to it. The one is a summary, the other kind of gives a bit more detail. Take a look at some of those to help you understand how this fits in. Romans 8, beginning in verse 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. For, and I will remind you that that word for almost always can be read as the word because. Because those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. Quick comment on this text. You will see that there are things in this passage that are missing from that bulletin insert. And some have wondered why Paul gives such an abbreviated form of the logical order that leads to salvation. Why are there links missing from Paul's Chain. For example, faith is not mentioned in the verses we just read. Now there is no New Testament author that has more to say about faith than Paul. He didn't forget about it. He didn't not know about it. So why is it not here? Well, almost certainly for Paul, it would have been subsumed under that word call. Those whom he predestined, he also called. Just as God called light into being And light necessarily came into being. For Paul, when someone is called by God, they're going to Have faith. They're going to repent and believe there's going to be a conversion. It would be as automatic as light popping into being So it's not at all clear that he's left faith off the list, but rather that he has subsumed it under that idea of calling, for they would be two sides of the same coin in Paul's thinking Also, we notice that sanctification is not here, and he has much to say about that. Why did he leave it off? Well, certainly sanctification and glorification. really are one and the each is the part of the other. Sanctification is the beginning of the process, and glorification the complete So almost certainly he saw our sanctification as being part of the glorification. I'm not sure at all that Paul has left anything off from the Rather he just thinks about these things differently than we do some two thousand years later. I'm not sure that's to our advantage. I'm not saying we're doing a better job of it than Paul. We just tend to be more Western in our wanting to divide everyone. thing in the tiniest, smallest little parts we can divide it into, where he saw things at a little more complete picture. One other comment Even if we allow for the fact that maybe there's a few links missing from this, Paul's point is still made, right? One not needs to see every link in a chain to know the chain exists and to understand the purpose of the chain. Either way, this is a glorious passage and we're going to dive into it more fully now. Let's ask God's help doing that. Lord, we do come to you this morning and ask that you would help us to hear these things that are before us in the text and hearing them to help us believe them, and in believing them, help us to rest in them. And to appreciate them, and to rightly return to you the thanks that you deserve for them. We ask this in the kindness of your Son. Amen. At least since the 17th century in the time of the English Puritans, these verses, verses 29 and 30 particularly, have been called the golden chain. The golden chain. And it certainly is a chain. It's a link of causality. One thing leads necessarily to the other. And it is a picture of the chain by which God reaches down from heaven and lifts people to himself. You'll recall that Jesus talked about the fact that no one would come to him unless the Father draws them to Jesus. That word draw is the word that was used of lifting water out of a well, of drawing water up by a bucket from a well. And that really is the picture here. That God reaches down into a hole, into a well, into a depth, into the tomb, our spiritual tomb where we reside dead. And he draws us out of it by these this chain of events. Of course it is golden, for it is beautiful in our eyes. It is uh beloved idea that God would save us, redeem us, lift us out of that well of despair. Just as one who has fallen into a well and is pulled out by a bucket would see every thread of the rope as though it were silk. We see every link in this chain as though it is gold. And so it's appropriate to refer to this as the golden chain. I could have tried to be more clever, but I am just not that clever. Golden chain is a great title for this. The chain, as it's given here in Romans 8, has five links. Our sermon will have six points, one for each of the links and one for the kind of a tying it all together and seeing the big picture. Let's go through it in the order in which it's presented. The first link in the chain is the first point in our sermon this morning. Foreknowledge. God's foreknowledge. Those whom God foreknew He also predestined. God's foreknowledge is the first link in our logical chain. Now, some of you will be aware that this has been a source of much controversy. It has been much debated as to the meaning of this idea of foreknowledge. You see, some have imagined that God looked out into the future and he saw what you would do He saw that you would respond in faith, and so he knew beforehand what was going to happen It was God's foreknowledge in the sense that he learned of it before it happened. Now, for the briefest of moments, that actually sounds okay until we actually think about it. It's really not the right way to think of this. And in fact, no reputable commentator on the book of Romans sees foreknowledge in that This is not God looking out into the future and seeing what would happen. First of all, there's simply the problem of God learning The idea that God would look into the future, see what you were going to do, and then come to know it actually falls well short of who God is. When I was a child, I like to take things apart. I would disassemble bicycles and other such things And a bicycle, especially back then I just had kind of a one-speed bicycle, pretty easy to learn about it. I could take it apart and learn about the bearings and the gears and whatever those spokes, all the things that were there. It wasn't a complex machine. I could come to a pretty thorough understanding of it. I came to an understanding, though, I acquired that knowledge. God does not acquire knowledge as if he once did not know This idea that God would look into the future and come to know what you were going to do is a misunderstanding of who God is. God is more like the engineer who designed the bicycle, who dreamt it up. who who knew about where every gear and every bearing and every spoke would go and put them there. That engineer knows that bike in a way that I do not. That engineer designed the bicycle He knew it beforehand, or she knew it beforehand. Not in a way of discovery, but in the sense of dreaming it up, thinking of it, bringing it about in their own. mind. That's the sense of God's foreknowledge. He does not learn. He does not look into the future and see what we are going to Secondly, there is, you know, setting aside that more philosophical discussion, there is just a excellent reason in the text itself to reject this idea that God looked into the future and knew what you were going to do. For the text does not say God foreknew things about you. It does not say that God foreknew the decisions you would make. It says he foreknew you. He doesn't foreknow data. He foreknows people And if we're going to understand that, we've got to understand the biblical meaning of knowledge. Our Old Testament reading introduced the idea. Jeremiah 1. 5 said, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Now this is not a collection of facts about Jeremiah. God knows those facts about everyone. If that's all that's being said to the prophet Jeremiah, the prophet could have easily said, big whoop. How does that help me? You know facts about everybody. So what that you know them about me? Clearly, the message to Jeremiah was not that God knew facts about him. But that God knew him even before he had been formed in his mother's womb. God is setting Jeremiah aside as special in some way. We consider Genesis 18, 19. Now the modern English versions, all of them put it the same way, God is speaking of Abraham, and he says, I have chosen him. I have chosen Abraham Abraham. But the King James Version is more literal. It renders not the understanding of the Hebrew word, but the Hebrew word. And what does it say? God says of Abraham, I know him. I know him And again, it cannot be mere facts. It cannot be the statistics of Abraham's life. That would be a meaningless statement as the junior member of the pastoral staff of my previous church. I often did funerals that were for non-members of our church. A family might be a member, but then there would be a death in their family, and that person wasn't a member, and they would ask us to do the funeral, and I would do those funerals as a kindness to that ministry, to that family. But that often meant I was doing funerals for people I'd never met. Now by the day by the time the day of the funeral rolled around, I knew all of the key facts about that person's life I knew when they were born, where they were born, to whom they were born, I knew how many siblings they had had, I knew where they went to high school, I knew where they went to college, I knew what jobs they worked, I knew whom they married, I knew the names of their children, their grandchildren, and any other descendants that might have come from them I knew the facts of that person's life when I did that funeral. I did not know them. I did not know them. That's the key distinction here. God is not saying I know a bunch of things about Abraham. He is saying I know Abraham. And of course, this all comes to a head when we go one step further back in the Bible. We go back to Genesis chapter 3, chapter 4, sorry And we read there, and Adam knew his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to a son. And we have now the sense of what the Bible means by knowledge. In the Bible, knowledge is not something that's at arm's length. It's not information about It is intimate relationship with steeped in love Wrapped in love. Paul is saying in a very biblical way, in a very Hebraic way. God foreknew those people. In other words, he for loved them In advance of them even existing, Paul writes in 2 Timothy, before the world was formed, God's grace was lavished on us. What did we read in our New Testament reading? Before the foundation of the world, the names of the elect were written in the Lamb's book of life. It is before, it has nothing to do with who we are. God knew beforehand. He had an intimate knowledge of us, he had a relationship with us. He loved us. This last week in the Men's Bible study, we came across an interesting thing from Professor Leon Morris's uh commentary on 1 Thessalonians. in which uh Dr. Moritz talks about the fact that the Christian concept of love, the Christian seized on a Greek word that Really, there's evidence to think that it existed before the Christian era, but there's no actual record of it existing before the Christian era. And that the Christian seized on this new Greek word to describe love. It's a word that many of you have heard before. It's the Greek word agape. Now, why did the Christians seize on that? Well, Dr. Morris talked about they did so precisely to set it in contrast with the prevailing Greek understanding of love. That Greek word arrows. You see, the Greek idea of love, aros, was an idea that was rooted in the worthiness of the object and your desire to possess it. It's why you can speak of, in the arrow sense, loving a car. And it is why we objectify each other. That if a woman is sufficiently pretty, and a man desires to possess her, he might say, I love you. In that Greek arrows sense of the word. And the Christians could not use that word for the divine idea of love. Because it's something utterly different. And Dr. Morris talks about the fact that the agape, the love that the Christians set forth in their scriptures and in their writings after the scriptures What different on both of those accounts. It wasn't rooted in the object, but in the lover, in the subject. Love flowed not because of the worthiness of the recipient, but because of the nature of the one who loved. Thus God loves because of who He is, not because of who we are And secondly, there's no idea of possession, just the opposite. There's an idea of self-sacrifice. Not what can I do, what can I get from this if I have them, but rather what can I do for them. That's what Paul's talking about here. God foreknew He loved beforehand. He had this desire to have a relationship with. He chose because of who he is. God is love Our unworthiness, had God loved in that Greek sense, that arrow sense, he would have looked down into history and looked and seen nobody worthy of his love. For we have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. This is not the sense of this. It is the sense of God being one who loves, and our unworthiness was not going to be any obstacle to that. Just as God must necessarily keep his word because he is truth, just as God will absolutely be just because he is justice, he is also love He must then necessarily love. Not because we're worthy, not because there is something in us, but because of who he is. Yes. So he chose to love us And does God's love flowing out of his nature, not because of who we are, does it meet the second part of that agape concept? Is it a love of possession or of self-sacrifice? He gave his son In this we know love, that we did not love God, but He loved us and sent His Son as the sacrifice, the atoning sacrifice, the propitiation for our sins. That's what this is talking about. God foreknew in that intimate, loving, biblical sense. beforehand bestowed on us his love because of who he is, not because of anything in us, not because of our worthiness Paul said this more clearly a few years later when he wrote his letter to the Ephesian church, where we read in verses four and five. of chapter one of Ephesians. In love, God predestined us for adoption to himself. Of course, adoption rises out of love. Of course, it must necessarily be rooted in the adopter. No. The second link in our chain is predestination. We come now to the, he says, and those whom he foreknew, he also predestined. There are very few words that when they undergo translation from one language to another come out as neatly and perfectly as this one does. Predestination is exactly what you think it is. Destination beforehand. Pre-before destination. Your destiny. God mapped out your destiny. God set out your life. He set forward what would happen to you and around you, and he set it all out. So that the love that he had decided beforehand to bestow on you would be known by you, that it would come to you. Now that plays out differently in different lives, right? Me, I was raised in a Christian family that took me to Bible-believing, Bible-teaching churches. That's how God predestined my life. I know some of your stories. One of you went to a college where there was a guy on the door down the hall who was faithful in his proclamation of the gospel. And that was the path by which God brought you to salvation. There are those, there is at least one of us who was actually in a faithless church, one that did not. Follow the Word of God, did not preach the Bible. But in that church, events conspired to cause you to read the Bible. And the light of the gospel shone in your life through that. God puts you in that spot. God puts you in that place to bring you to that point so that you would know Him. Some come through preaching. Some come through the faithful witness of a neighbor. But all of those events are set in your life. By God. Now there are genuine believers, men and women, who will stand well in front of me before the throne of God, much closer to Jesus than I will be. Who reject this idea, who struggle with this idea that God would lay out our destiny. That he would trample on our free will. Why did he give us free will if he's just gonna walk all over it in this sense? If you're struggling with that concept, I want to ask you a question. Let's think about this question looking not at the side of those whom God foreknew and predestined, but those who are not the ones Paul's talking about here. Those whom he did not choose to love in a saving way beforehand, and did not map out their destinies that they would hear the gospel. Imagine, actually, let's go to the extreme and imagine a person who lives and dies having never heard the gospel. Who lives and dies in some far-flung place that the gospel had not reached, no missionary had gone there yet. And he or she lives out their life and dies, having never believed in Jesus, because they never even heard of Jesus. Now I ask you what is going to happen to them in eternity? And frankly, I don't care what your answer is. That's for another sermon and a few weeks. weeks. Here's the point. It doesn't matter what their destiny is. It's entirely in the hands of God. He will dispatch them into eternity according to his good pleasure. Because they never chose to believe they never heard it. Now, why is it that we are okay, not okay with, we have no op no option. That is indisputable, that is unavoidable. We can't get around that It's clear that their eternal destiny is entirely in the hands of God. Why then do we think we are different? And we need to stop only for a moment and realize. We might demand to say, I chose to believe, and you did. God really did give you a free will. There's no question about that. But did you choose to be born in a time and place where you'd hear the gospel? Did I ask to be put into a family that would take me to Bible-believing churches? Did you ask to be put on the floor of the dorm that would have the Christian three doors down who would tell you about Jesus? You see the issue? If you say to yourself, well, God can't ordain these things, he can't map all these things out. He can't trample my free will in that way. All you're doing is kicking the can down the road because at some point you have to acknowledge these things were in God's control and not yours But remember, this isn't something God did out of spite He foreknew you. He loved you in advance. In love, he predestined you to be adopted as his children. Those whom he foreknew, he predestined. He worked it out, mapped it out, that they would come, that they would hear the gospel. And become believers. Calling is the third link in the chain. God placing his love upon us, him foreknowing us. God planning out our lives, Him predestining us. All of those were things that happened in eternity past With this third link, we enter into the realm of the here and the now of our lives. God calling those whom he predestined, he also called. Now, first off, as I've already alluded to, this is not the idea, as we sometimes think of it, of someone speaking the gospel. That's what theologians might call the outward call. This is not that Remember, this is a link in the golden chain. It is the link by which the Father draws us out of our depths of despair and lifts us up to Christ Jesus. The outward call is issued to many who do not respond in faith, who are not converted. It can't possibly be part of the link of this chain. This chain is the chain that lifts those who will be saved. Which means it's a different type of call. It's what's sometimes referred to as the inward call of the gospel. What our constitution, our confession of faith, calls the effectual call. It has an effect. It is not a call that falls on deaf ears. It is not a call that reverberates in an empty room with no impact. It has an effect. This is the call that Jesus issued to Lazarus. Come forth. It was effective. It worked. It had an impact. It made an instantaneous difference in his life. Now, this call doesn't look the same for all of us. It is the Word of God's power, but it need not necessarily even come to us in words. For we recognize that God calls to spiritual life some before they're even born, while they're yet in the womb. They will necessarily come to faith for God's call is effective and it will produce repentance and faith, conversion God's call might look like tragedy in some people's lives, driving them to their knees, forcing them. To look for him. God's call might be a Bible in the nightstand of a hotel room. It might be a Billy Graham crusade. It might be any number of different things. There were those who at Pentecost heard Peter preach, and that was the calling of their lives, and they came to salvation. There was the Ethiopian eunuch who was reading his Bible, and that became God's call upon his life. There were wonderful stories like Timothy, where a grandmother read the Bible. It was the call upon his life. One way or another, all those whom God has loved beforehand. Whose lives he has predestined and mapped out, he does call them. He reaches out to them with power, with the word of his power, and they respond in faith and in remote. repentance. Those whom he foreknew he predestined, and those whom he predestined, he also called. Now, he said that for Paul, the conversion of a man was an automatic and inevitable consequence of the calling of God. It's the earthly effect of the divine word of power. And what has Paul already said earlier in Romans? If we have faith in Christ Jesus, when that calling is effectual and it causes conversion and we repent and believe, if we have faith in Christ Jesus, What is the consequence of that? It is justification. And Paul has spent much time dealing with justification in the book of Romans, and we will not rehearse all of that this morning. Rather, I will remind you what Paul has summarized in chapter 3, and 4, and 5 of the book of Romans is that justification is the legal declaration of God. That Christ's righteousness will account as ours. Our sin will be accounted as his. His death will have therefore taken care of it. And that it pays the price for our sins. It is, this justification comes because Paul has told us that there is a righteousness that is revealed in the gospel. And that's what we need above all else, is righteousness. And it is applied to us. The final link, the fifth and final link in this golden chain is glorification. Those whom he justified, that is to say, those whom he has said, you are right with me, you are legally okay. He also glorified. The first thing we note there, and if you don't have familiarity with this, you may not notice it, but those of us who are familiar with this process, We understand that glorification is for us a future thing. Paul puts it in the past tense. It's a very characteristically Hebraic way of saying it is certain. It is as if it's already done. It's an absolute guaranteed, cannot miss, will not fail, hundred percent going to happen saying. Those whom he justified, he also past tense glorified. That's kind of Paul's point. That's kind of the point of this whole chain. Because it's going to lead to the beautiful certainties that are going to follow in the next several verses. Wants us to understand this cannot fail. And he says we'll be glorified. We need to understand it. I think sometimes we misunderstand that. I think sometimes as Christians, when we speak of going to glory, of someday that will be glory. We think about in glory we will glorify God. And that's true, but that's not what this is saying. We think of the the idea that what sorry lost my turn of thought there for a second. What it's saying here is that we will be made glorious. It doesn't say we will glorify. It says we will be glorified. We will be made glorious. Whatever is in you that is inglorious right now Whatever is in you that is shameful will be replaced with something worthy of honor. Whatever is in you that is that is broken will be replaced, will be replaced with what was supposed to be and what would have worked There may be things about you you don't like. Some of those will be changed. And some of them you will change your attitude toward them. And so my impatience will be replaced with a long-suffering spirit My temptation toward this sin or that sin will be replaced with a righteousness in that aspect of my life You will still be you, but you will be the perfect version of yourself. You will be the best you, the you that you should have always been. Not necessarily the you you want to be. Because you may not want what is appropriate for you. But you will be the best possible you. This is not a promise That we will glorify, but that we will be glorified. We will be what God intended us to be That which he has said legally about us in our justification will be a reality all will see. Now is that going to be glorious? Yes, it is. It'll be a wonderful thing. The golden chain in Romans 8 has those five links. God's foreknowledge, his love for us before time, which caused him to prescribe all things, his predestination of us. That destiny included him calling us out of spiritual death to spiritual life. That calling produced faith in us, which justifies us in Christ's righteousness. And having been made legally righteous in Christ, we will be made personally righteous. And every evil removed, every good trait Fulfill. And we will be the glorious creatures we were meant to be. Those five links lead us very naturally to our sermon's sixth and final point. The purpose behind it all, the reason for it. Why does Paul put this down here? Why does that matter? The ultimate reason behind these things is actually set forth right there in the verses we've read. Let's go back over and read more carefully. Verse 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, but that's not the purpose. So that everything makes you comfortable, everything makes you happy? That's not the purpose. No, rather these things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Now here it comes. Because those in me foreign knew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son in order that. That's the language of purpose. That's an explanation of why, right there. That's the verbiage we use when we want to explain something. Here's the reason behind it all. In order that he, Christ the Son, might be the firstborn. Among many brothers. Almost every December 25th throughout my childhood Sometime in the early afternoon, our phone would ring. And it was Mrs. Cohn, two doors up. Calling my mom to see if it was okay if I pulled away from our family Christmas activities to go up to their house. Their son David was an only child. Dave and I were pretty good childhood friends, hung out a lot. And as an only child, what fun is it to get all these cool Christmas gifts and have nobody to play with? And Mrs. Cohn knew that she couldn't call first thing in the morning, but early in that afternoon Out of love for her son, she wanted him to have somebody to enjoy the benefits with. My mom was always happy to get me out of the house. So she readily let me go. And we spend the next many hours in the cone. I'd walk in and say, Merry Christmas to Mr. and Mrs. Cone and head right down to the basement, and David and I would play with all of his toys. Now, that's not a perfect picture of what's going on here, because that's rooted in David's loneliness. We must not paint a picture of God as lonely. And yet God, even when things were perfect, how many times have you heard me say it? He said of the first man, the perfect man, it is not good for him to be alone. We were created in God's image, and God is a God of fellowship, of relationship. He is in himself three persons who relate to one another. And the second perfect man, the last Adam, Jesus of Nazareth, is fully human. It's not good for him to be alone either. And more than that, he earned it. She alone earned the right to say to the Heavenly Father, I want siblings. I want to enjoy all that you have created. I want to be blessed in it with other people. And for that purpose, that the Son might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. All of these things work together. Not for us to get a new car, a better job, have an easy life. Our good is that we get to play with God the Son for all eternity. We get to play in the world's biggest backyard. We get to enjoy the best toys without any squabbling over them. David Cohn and I fought almost every Christmas afternoon There'll be no such fighting. This is the good purpose of God in our mind. This golden chain is not something that gets wrapped around our wrists and ankles so that we can do nothing, so that we're tied down, so that we have no freedom, so that we are encumbered. It's the chain that lifts us out of depths of despair. Up to Christ. For the purpose of being his brothers and sisters. For the purpose of adoption, Paul has already said in the previous section. So that we might belong to God. This is the Heavenly Father loving his Son so much that He also bestowed His love on us, though we were not worthy. What did Paul say in Romans 5? While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. This is agape love at its very best. Self-sacrificing. Flowing out of the nature of the one who loves. It is for the purpose of the good pleasure of God the Son What is the chief end of man? It is to glorify God. And to enjoy him forever. And to be enjoyed by him forever. Okay. I added that last part. But it's biblical. The Father's purpose in foreknowing you, in predestining you, in calling you, in justifying you, and in glorifying you. He is all rooted in the perfect divine love, which must necessarily sacrifice of itself for the good of another In love, God predestined you to be conformed to the image of His Son. Amen.