Turn in your copy of God's Word to the end of Acts chapter 4. Acts chapter 4. We'll be picking up in verse 32 The addition of the numerical markings, the verses, the chapters, been a wonderful blessing to the study of God's Word over the last 500 years since they were added. But there are times when we might dispute their placement, and we must remember that they are not inspired. They were added some time later. And this is one of the times where I differ with the division, for I'm really quite convinced that the story at the end of chapter four and the story at the beginning of chapter five go together that they ought to be taken as a unit, for they address similar subject matter from opposite sides of the spectrum. They stand as a contrast to one another, and we are going to look at them that way this morning. So I remind us again that here at the Short Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. If you want to know how to live, if you want to know the wisdom there is in the fear of the Lord, then you must know his word. And so I invite us all now to hear the holy, inerrant, and powerful word of our God. Follow along as I start reading in Acts 4. 32. Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him were his own, but they had everything in common. And with great power, the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of what was sold, and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as they had need. Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas, which means son of encouragement, a Levite, a native of Cyprus. sold a field that belonged to him, and brought the money and laid it at the apostle's feet. But a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property, and with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself some of the proceeds, and brought only a part of it, and laid it at the apostle's feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart You have not lied to man, but to God. When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last, and a great fear came upon all who heard of it The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him. After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened, and Peter said to her, Tell me whether you sold the land for so much. And she said, yes, for so much. But Peter said to her, How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out. Immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last When the young men came in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. And a great fear came upon the whole church, and upon all who heard of these things. Let's pray. Lord lead us into a proper understanding of this passage. And in understanding it, teach us to rightly understand the fear of the Lord and our need to live in the shadow of the great grace that is ours in Jesus Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen. This passage that I've read, that I've combined from the two chapters, involves uh uh a section that has been troublesome to many. over the years. The end of Chapter Four has bothered many people throughout the centuries. Not in the sense that they think it doesn't belong to the Bible or that it's ungodly, but rather it it creates for them some confusion about how we ought to live. I can remember as a a young man in the church wrestling with this text wondering if this was not the prescription for some sort of Christian communism, some sort of spiritual socialism. and whether or not that we were wrong to live the way that we live. And yet as we look closely at the text, if we take the text purely in isolation, if we take only the text at the end of four, you can build that argument. But as we let it rest in the wider text of Acts, we see some problems with that position. For starters, we see in the very next chapter. Peter's address to Ananias is that you had the right to do with your property whatever you wanted. You were under no obligation. You didn't have to sell it and bring it in. You could have done whatever you wanted So in the immediate context of these things, we see Peter saying, this isn't a cult where we're demanding that you turn over all the properties of the church so the weak and rich ourselves There was no sense of that. Moreover, later in the book of Acts, in Acts 12, verse 12, we're going to see that the church gathers for a service in the home of Mary, the mother of John Mark. Now, Paul tells us that Barnabas and John Mark were cousins, and that's a word that is used loosely in the New Testament. It doesn't necessarily mean cousin the way we mean it, but it can And if it does, that would mean John Mark's mother, Mary, was Barnabas' aunt. So now we have a situation where they meet in Aunt Mary's house for a church service. Well, how can they meet in her house if she's not supposed to own any property? How can they be meeting there if everybody was supposed to sell everything they had and give it away? And then at the end of Acts, in Acts 21, we're going to see Luke and Paul and the others with them are going to stay in the home of Philip the evangelist. The text tells us he's one of the seven. In case you haven't had a chance to read ahead, the seven are the deacons appointed in chapter 6. Now, here's a man who was one of the deacons. He was charged with caring for the poor. But he kept back a house, a house big enough that he could host all of the comrades of Paul on that missionary journey? He was supposed to have sold it all And yet, despite keeping back for himself a very nice house, they saw fit to make him a deacon and put in charge of caring for the poor, clearly, this is not a model for just giving away everything. So now you can all take a deep breath and go, whew, this is not a guilt trip service. I don't have to walk out of here, walk home, leave my car in the parking lot, and put it up for sale. No, you do not have to. This is not a cult, it is not communism, but rather it is a description of the heart condition of those early believers gathered here at the end of Acts 4. Notice how they behave. They did not Say that anything belonged to them. It's not that nothing belonged to them with regard to ecclesiastical law, church law, with regard to civil law. It's that it they didn't claim their ownership. They didn't state their rights. It wasn't about their rights, it was about their responsibilities to one another. So that there was this sense not of, hey, that's mine, but a sense of, hey, can you make use of this? Do you need this? And again, it was need-driven. This was not an attempt to arrive at some sort of egalitarianism. Let's all be equal. For we see there that it's driven not by, oh, he has more, he has less, we should take from him and give to them. No, it's they may have less, but they're doing okay. But she's not She's not going to make it. Let's help her out. And that's the sense of the text here. Do you need help? Can you benefit from what I have? And if so, let me share it with you. Some years ago, I was uh working in a situation where I met a a man who who worked in the same environment. He owned an old pickup truck. And I was going to be doing some things for which a pickup truck would have been handy. And so I called up Jim and said, hey, can I borrow your truck? He said, no problem. And I said, well, how do I get the keys? He said, they're always in it And I said, What? And he said, yeah. He goes, you don't even need to ask. Anytime you need my truck, you take the truck. You leave your car in my driving driveway with the keys in it, so if I need a vehicle, I can borrow yours And when I see yours, I'll know who has my truck. I was like, really? Of course I didn't believe him. A lot of people want to sound that generous, but they really as I talk to others, no, that's really how he operated Those who knew Jim knew that his truck was at their disposal all the time. That's kind of a sense here. Are your things at the disposal of the others in the church? so that they might survive and live at least. I'm not talking about live well when I say it doesn't talk about living in luxury But are they able to live? Are they able to meet their everyday needs? And if not, what are we doing to step up? Now we've got to ask ourselves a little bit of the why of this. And it's interesting A lot of critics of the text will say that verse 33 is out of place. Verses 32, 34, and following deal with, they have all things in common, but verse 33 is about the success of the apostles' uh ministry. But I want to propose to you that it's not out of place, that Luke puts it here precisely to point out to us the relationship between their generosity and the success of the gospel. That they were living as if the resurrection actually happened. Think about the reality of the crucifixion and the resurrection if you really believe it. Jesus, whom you believe as a Christian to be God incarnate He said, I did not come to be served, but to serve and give my ransom, give my life as a ransom for many. And then he lived out those words. More precisely, he died those words on a cross. Then he rose again. And he said, resurrection awaits you if you will believe in me. Resurrection to an eternal life. So that all of a sudden this life seems really not that big of a deal Not that important. Why am I getting bent out of shape over that little offense? It'll all be fixed in the next life. Why am I worried about that item, my possession, when it's not going to matter in the next life You see, when you believe the resurrection to be real, all of a sudden the things of this life just become meaningless. And you and I, when we get a little too attached to the things of this life Our status in this life, our property in this life, our power and our position and our prestige, it's almost always driven by the fact that we have lost sight. of the life that matters. The gospel was successful because the people live like the resurrection really happened. Is your life resurrection driven? Is it crucifixion driven? What they held in common was the visible implication of their invisible faith. What they held in common was the visible manifestations of their invisible faith. They would recite a creed, but then they'd go live out that creed. We need to live as though the resurrection is real. Think about how you think about your property. Do you think about your property and your legal right to defend it and to claim it as your own and not have to share it? Does your approach to property look an awful lot like your unsaved neighbor? Why? If you believe something very different from what he or she believes, then why does your attitude toward the things of this world seem so similar to theirs? Are you able to take the material things of this world and put them at the disposal of the Lord as he asks for them? And needs them. It is the account of the rich ruler that we read in our New Testament reading. It's not that Jesus was saying to him and to everybody after him, you have to give away everything. It's that Jesus was pointing out that he couldn't let go. He had claimed to obey all the law, and Jesus said, No, you covet. Let me show you how you covet. Because I'm quite convinced, had he said, Certainly, Lord, I will go do that. Jesus would have said, you don't need to. How did Jesus handle Abraham? As Abraham raised his knife against Isaac, he stopped him and said, I see now that you have the faith, and you needn't go through with it. I don't think for one moment that the rich ruler would have had to actually give up every single possession he had. It was Jesus exposing his inability to do so. And we have here a demonstration of what it looks like when the church says, nope, next life. I'm next life focused. I'm not worried about keeping score in this life. I'm not worried about having the nice things of this life. And to the degree that I have them and God has been generous and provided them to me, then I'm going to be generous in return And I'm going to let my things be used by others. We must have in common with these Christians. a conviction of a lifestyle lived in light of the resurrection, so that our gospel will be as fruitful and as effective as theirs was. In verses 36 and 37, we are introduced to a man whose name is Joseph, and we are going to talk more about him in our shortened Sunday school. Shortened because of the party, but we're going to keep it short anyway. Our shortened Sunday school today. So if you're able to stay, we're going to meet Bar. And talk a little bit more about him. But we meet this man Joseph, and we see him held up as an example that Luke pulls out to show how this was done. And there are a couple of things we note there. We see him, he is so generous, so routinely generous, so routinely uh uh uh uh encouraging to the other believers that he gets that nickname. Bar Nabas, Bar meaning son, son of Nabas, son of encouragement. And that becomes a name by which he is known not just in the early church but throughout history. None of us know him as Joseph. If I refer to Joseph of Cyprus, we all look at each other and go, who is that? But his reputation as an encourager through his generosity stands. I think a lot of us wish we had that in common with Barnabas. Some of us wishing we had his generosity, some of us wishing we had his reputation. Some of us wanting that reputation without necessarily living like Barnabas lived Boy, why don't the elders call me, you know, uh uh uh uh Mr. Encouragement? Why don't the elders call me uh Jane the Generous, Martin the Magnificent, Scott the Stupendus? The elders call me things, but I shouldn't repeat them, so that's not true. We want the reputation, we want that standing in the church that Barnabas had. Without having to do what he did. And if you look at what he did, the wording there is interesting. He sold a field. Again, doesn't imply that he sold everything he owned. He sold a field, and he brought it and he laid it at the feet of the apostles. The picture is clear. It's complete submission, complete turning over of the property, of the money to the church. Relinquishing all control. I can't tell you when I was the church administrator for years at my previous church how many times people would come and say, I want to give the following to the church. I would say, thank you so much, and then they would say, but The church must do this and this and this and this and this and this and this and this and this with it. It was an unwillingness to relinquish. Now as Theophilus reads this text, as you and I read this text for the first time, we may not re know what's going to happen in the future with Barnabas. At the moment we may think Barnabas is just Joe average guy, Joseph of Cyprus average guy. And that he's just turning over the property. But we're going to find out that he has a leading role in the church. He has a prominent figure in the early church. He actually gets called and lumped among the apostles at one point. This is a major player in the early church, and he says, I relinquish all control. I give it over fully to the Lord. You give your gifts over fully to the Lord. If yours is the gift of music, are you giving it over? fully to the Lord. If it is a gift of teaching, have you given that over fully to the Lord? A gift of hospitality, a gift of generosity. A gift of leadership or any of craftsmanship, any of these others. Have you given it over fully to the Lord? You will earn a reputation that you may not even know you have. I've worked with a couple of people through the years. People who I still find myself going back and going, wow, what he was amazing. She was unbelievable. And as I look about, why do I think that about them? It almost always comes back to this right here. They gave of themselves fully to the church and to the people in the church, holding nothing back. And they don't even they probably don't even know that they have that reputation in my mind and in the minds that we've talked among our family, the kid my kids are like, wow, she was amazing, wow, he was unbelievable They probably don't even know they have that reputation, but they have it because they actually live like Barnabas. We want to have in common with Barnabas a reputation for that sort of generosity, but we struggle to let go of control. We struggle to give over our gifts completely to the Lord as He did. One of my favorite illustrations of leaders submitting to the church. It's not a financial one. But it's one that has really impacted me and stuck with me almost going on 20 years later now. I was a young ruling elder at my church. hadn't been on the session for very long and we began I had this crazy idea that we could do a Valentine's dance at our church. And I floated the idea and wow did that meeting get interesting in a hurry. Dancing at the church? I said, well yeah, but it's married couples. Two hours later we finally had the vote. And it came down 8-4 in favor of the dance. A few weeks or a few months later, we held the dance and something astounding happened. Behind the scenes, behind closed doors, I knew who voted which way. And of the four who voted against it, three of them came to the dance, and the fourth one was out of town on business. They didn't say, I want it my way. They didn't say it's got to be the way I think it should be. I'm a leader in this church, and therefore I will make sure it goes the way it's supposed to go. They said, No, I took a vow to submit to My brethren in the Lord. My brethren have spoken, and I'm going to support my church. And as a young elder, I was aghast. And I get choked up still thinking about it. And I wish I could be more like that. Let go and turn it over. To the church. That's what we wish we had in common with Barnabas. And that's something we all need to pray for and about and to seek in our lives. It's because of his absolute conviction about the resurrection that he was able to let go, not only of his stuff, but also of his status, not only of his cash, but also of control. Finally, in chapter 5, verses 1 through 11, we meet Ananias and Sapphira. If you spent any time in children's Sunday school, and are of an age comparable to my own, you have seen flannel graph lessons on Ananias and Sapphira. And at some point Ananias is upright on the flannel graph, and then we pull him off and we turn him 90 degrees and put him back down. We have all seen the account of Ananias and Sathira. So what is it about? What did they do wrong? Where did they run it off the rails? Was it greed? I really don't think it was greed per se I'm not sure that we can see it that way, given how Peter addresses the situation. Peter says you had a right not to sell it. It was yours. Before it was sold. And oh by the way, after you sold it, it was still yours. You could hold some back. So what's going on? Well it appears that what's going on is they looked at Barnabas and they said he's got a cool nickname. Everybody calls him sort of encouragement. We want that kind of cruel status in the church. Barnabas somehow is leaked back out to everybody. Barnabas sold the field and and and turned in the money, and that's why everybody likes Barnabas. So we're gonna sell a field, and we're gonna turn in the money so everybody will like us But of course, they start to look at it and go, well, that's a lot of money. Oh, that field sold didn't realize the real estate market had gone the way it is. That field sold for a lot more than we were expecting. And they wanted to hold some back. The word there in your Bible in uh uh where is it in verse uh two And with his wife's knowledge, he kept back. That word kept back, that Greek word only shows up three times in the whole Bible. It's here. It's in Titus 2. 10. And there it's transfer uh translated as the word pilfering. It's an idea of stealing, of deceptive stealing. And then it's in our Old Testament reading, in the Greek version of the Old Testament called the Septuagint, and that Chapter Joshua chapter 7 verse 1 where it says Achan stole or he kept for himself some of the goods of Jericho. That's the only other time that word shows up. And so we see that every time it's used, it's related to this idea of deception. Of taking what didn't really belong to you and to doing so deceitfully. Apparently they had made some kind of promise, maybe between themselves, we're going to sell it and give it over to the church. They had made a commitment and now they don't keep that commitment. For sure they are deceiving. Here it is, here's all of it. And they don't give all of it. I don't know that it was necessarily this is a lesson against greed. I'm not sure. Is lying in view here? Absolutely. Lying is in view. Lying is a big deal here. But it's interesting how Luke plays out what happens in the next few verses. That I think Luke gives us a clue to the thing that we need to really see. For in verses 5 and 11, we have some interesting wording. Now, you know more biblical Greek than you realize you know. You know things like when the uh Greek word shows up for six, you know the word hex. You all learned hexagon at some point. You know that it means six Here's a case where you know some Greek words. In verses 5 and 11 in the Greek we find these words, Phobos Megas. Phobos megas. Phobos from which we get our word phobia. And we all know what a phobia is. Megos, from which we get the word mega. In fact, I was discussing mega with one of the youngsters here this morning. He used the word mega. I was like, that's so cool as part of the sermon this morning. Even our youngest here know what the word mega means. And twice it speaks of a Phobos mega. A huge fear. A great fear. An enormous fear And you say, well, Pastor, I know we talk about the fear of the Lord, but that just means reverence. And you know, Pastor, I mean, come on. I attend a church where the pastor wears a robe. How much more reverent can I be? But that's not what the word means. My seminary professor laughed. He said, the Greek word for fear means fear. And that's what it means. And you say, but Pastor, we live under grace. We do live under grace when we live by faith. When we repent of our sins and live by faith, but God has not changed The God of the Old Testament, the God who destroyed Achan for keeping the goods at Jericho, who destroyed his family, apparently for their complicity in it. How could he hide it in the tent and then not know about it? The God who did that is still the God we worship. is still the only God who is or was or ever will be. He's the same God And so long as we live in sin, we have phenomenal great fear, or we ought to have great fear. And the thing we risk sharing in common with Ananias, the risk we have of being in common with him is that we do not fear God properly. That we believe that because of grace we can get away with sin. That we can Enjoy our lusts, whether they be uh of a carnal nature, of a dietary nature. uh uh uh alcoholism drugs we can pursue our own selfish desires with our things in our relationships that we can live according to our own desires And then just vanty about the word grace. As if God has somehow changed. He's gotten old and kind of lost his bite. He he's like Grandpa Shark. If you're watching the World Series, you know what we're talking about here. He's got no teeth left That's not the God we serve. That's not the God of the New Testament. This is not a story found in the book of Judges or in Numbers. It's found in the early church. And it says to us, fear the Lord. Be wary of your sin. Walk as if he sees, because he sees. Walk as if he cares because he cares. Live as though he's holy because he is holy And you say, but Pastor, I can't. I cannot live it out imperfection. I understand that. And Luke, as he writes this, to Theophilos, understands that It's not a call to perfection in your own strength, but it ought to strike fear in us. For in that fear, we will take grace seriously. We will recognize that it's not a get out of hell free card. It's not something we hold back till we need it. It's not like we have a certain number of rounds that we can go on God's grace. I can abuse God's grace so many times. It's not like we should play this game of going, you know what I want? I want a deathbed conversion. That's the way to do it. I get to live out my whole life the way I want to, and at the last second, boom, I'm converted, good to go. That's not living in the fear of the Lord. That's not living as though He could take us at any moment. Do you think that Ananias thought he was going to drop dead right then, right there? I can guarantee you he did not. We need. Now, what did you see in the text earlier? Great grace was upon them all. Luke doesn't say that somehow that grace has gone away, and now there's only fear, but rather in the midst of even that great grace, they are reminded of the God they serve of his greatness, of his holiness, of his perfection, of his standards. And they are driven. To do exactly what they've been preaching. Repent and believe. Repent and believe. Turn away from a life of sin and cling to the life of Christ. Repent and believe. And that's where a fear of the Lord ought to lead us. Not to a striving within self for perfectionism. But going back to Jesus over and over and over again and saying, I can't do this. But I want to. I don't want to live as though your grace was cheap because I'm reminded of what it costs you. I want to live not only in light of the resurrection, but also of the crucifixion. I want to treat my things as though this world doesn't matter, but I want to treat the body and the life you've given me as though your crucifixion does matter. I fear you, God. But I know the only place I can win to you. That's the great irony of the good news of the gospel. That ordinarily fear drives us away from the thing we're afraid of. This is a fear that drives us to the very person we fear Because he's the only one who can deliver us from himself. No one else can stem the tide of God's wrath. No one else can stem the conquering effects of our sin. It is only in going to Him that we can be saved from Him. And we must fear God as they did. Phobas Megas. A great fear came upon the early church precisely because of their sin. When you sin, And the fear of the Lord falls afresh on you. Don't hide your sin. Don't try to sweep it under the tent like Achan did. Don't try to run away from God. Run to Him. Come back to him with it. Repent anew. Ask for new power to be obedient and ask for the continued work of sanctification in your life And when we begin to live lives that are markedly different from the world, our gospel will have the power that theirs had. Let's pray. Lord, give us a healthy, appropriate fear of you. And when we Experience that fear when we look at our sin and grow concerned about our future. Let it drive us into the arms of Jesus. Let us be like this people, one upon whom there is great grace, one upon whom there is also great fear. So that we would have the effectiveness that they had Not so that we would gain reputation, not so that we would get cool nicknames in the community like Barnabas did, but rather so that we would be effective in sharing the gospel as they were. We pray this in Christ's name and to his glory. Amen.