We remember as we consider God's Word that God's word not only is inerrant and holy and infallible, but it is the only. uh rule, the only infallible rule for um for faith and practice. If we want to know who God is, if we want to know what God is like, if we want to know um uh what he says about us And what he directs us to do, we need to know God's Word. Acts 8, beginning at verse 4. Now those who were scattered went about preaching the Word. Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ, and the crowds with one accord paid attention to what was being said by Philip when they heard him and saw the signs that he did. For unclean spirits, crying out with a loud voice, came out of many who had them, and many who were paralyzed or lame were healed. So there was much joy in that city. But there was a man named Simon, who had previously practiced magic in the city and amazed the people of Samaria, saying that he himself was somebody great. They all paid attention to him, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God that is called great. And they paid attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic But when they believed Philip, as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized, he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed. Now, when the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the Word of God, they sent to them Peter and John, who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. For he had not yet fallen on any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given, through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, saying, Give me this power also, so that any one on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. Repent, therefore, of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord, that if possible the intent of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. And Simon answered, Pray for me to the Lord, that nothing of what you have said may come upon me. Now when they had Testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go toward the south, to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza This is a desert place. And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship, and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. And the Spirit said to Philip, Go over and join this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, Do you understand what you were reading? And he said, How can I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of the scripture that he was reading was this like a sheep he was led to the slaughter. And like a lamb before a cheerer is silent, so he opens not his mouth. In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth And the eunuch said to Philip, About whom I ask you, does the prophet say this? About himself or about someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What prevents me from being baptized? And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing. But Philip Found himself at Azotis. As he passed through, he preached the gospel to all the towns until he came to Caesarea. Pray that God would be pleased. And would be honored with the reading of His Word. Let's pray. Lord, take your word and apply it to our hearts. May the Holy Spirit be our teacher. That we would hear what you would have us to hear and remember what you would have us to remember and act upon what you would have us to act upon. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank Pastor Shaw and the elders for the opportunity again to preach. I said to Pastor Shaw last week after he had that very lengthy passage, some 72 verses between Acts 6, 7, and the beginning of 8. I said, okay, you did 58 minutes last week on 72 verses, and I have 36 verses this week, does that mean I have 29 minutes? And at that point somebody else said I'd love to hear a sermon from only five verses. We trust that the Lord will bless whatever happens. It seems that life is full of two kinds of times. Times of status quo. When circumstances and routine seem pretty much the same, and times of transition, when you're preparing for and then beginning a new stage of your life You decide to move maybe to another um uh area close to where you live or maybe even across the country or around the world. In school, there are transitions as you begin elementary school and middle school and high school and college or vocational training Transition as you begin a career and certainly transition later on if you change a career. I understand that more and more people change their career multiple times during the course of their working years You decide to get married and during the engagement period it's a transition, preparing not just for a wedding, but for um for married life You have an accident or a major illness, and instead of life as usual, you have a time of healing and convalescence I remember one transition um uh that occurred in my family as um I had two younger sisters two years apart and in my day, which will tell you how old this is, we didn't have middle school, we had junior high which began at grade seven and went through grade nine. Now my one sister Janet um was going into grade nine and the ninth graders in middle school are are the the cream of the crop And my other sister Carol was going into grade seven. She was the newbie, the bottom of the barrel. So when Janet um uh gave Carol advice about um beginning this transition in junior high, she said, if you see me in the halls Don't wave. The time of trying a new church. Deciding whether this is the place that um that you want to be a part of is a transition. And for the early church, the events Luke describes beginning with chapter six and seven are a major transition No sooner, it seems, does uh the church selects seven men as deacons than one of them is brought to trial um for his forthright preaching of the gospel. He is violently and shockingly executed, and life changes entirely for the Christian community in Jerusalem. This morning we will look at um the work of another of these deacons, a man named Philip And the major transition of taking the gospel and the church out from Jerusalem. Times of transition can be difficult They can be unexpected as far as what will happen, what will happen afterward, how long the transition will take. But the thing to remember is that the Lord is there to bring us through those times of transition. They may catch us by surprise. They may not be what we expect, but nothing catches him by surprise. He ordains and plans all the things that happen, so we can trust him for our transitions as well as our um our times of status quo. And during times of transition, our circumstances and even our abilities may change But God will use us to serve Him in whatever conditions we find ourselves. As Scripture teaches us, all Christian believers have gifts and abilities um uh abilities and gifts to use to serve the Lord. That's what ministry is. The word that's translated ministry is the same word that elsewhere is translated serve or um or deacon serving the Lord in the places that He puts us and with the gifts that He gives us. So in that sense as I talk about ministry in terms of the the headings of the um the sermon today, not talking about ordained ministry, um talking about um the ministry, the service for all of God's people. The events in um in Acts chapter eight give us not only a historical account of the things that happened as the persecution began and as Philip carried the gospel to these different places. They also give us important lessons about the ministries that God gives us. Ministry in life sometimes take unexpected directions. You may very well have known that in your own life, and you may very well be experiencing that right now. Ministry can sometimes be challenging when it's with undesirable objects and people. We don't always get to choose the people that God brings us to to minister to. Ministry is not always neat and predictable. Sometimes its results are uncertain. But sometimes ministry serving the Lord can give us unparalleled opportunities. First, I want to look with you at the unexpected direction of ministry. Things in Jerusalem had been going remarkably well for quite some time. The church had grown, people were coming to faith, there were over five thousand people there, they were meeting together regularly They had dealt with an internal issue with the uh the selection of these deacons. There was an uneasy truce with the religious leaders there in the Sanhedrin after they had followed the advice of Gamaliel And even some of the priests were coming to the faith. Things were going about as well as you could possibly imagine if you were there. Then Stephen is arrested and martyred, and everything changes. We didn't read the first four verses of chapter eight, but um the second half of verse one um tells us that the um uh the people were scattered. They were dispersed. They were called the diaspora, those who had been dispersed in letters that um that are written later in the New Testament. They were dispersed much as the Jewish people were dispersed after the exile into Babylon. Says that all were dispersed except the apostles. And maybe you wonder why not the apostles? Well it seems that most of the um the difficulty that pe uh that people were experiencing was at the hands of Hellenistic Jews. All of the apostles were Hebraic Jews. What's more, they knew that even though a lot of people were being spread out, there were a lot of people still there, and Jerusalem was still um uh the center of the Christian faith at that point. So they stayed to provide the leadership that was necessary and uh uh to go on from there. There was ongoing violent persecution. Before, only when healings had been done or preaching had been done was there persecution and beatings on the hand at the hands formerly of the um uh the leaders of the uh the Jewish community. But now a systematic effort to seek and destroy begins, led by a man named Saul, about whom we will hear more next week. What was going on? One of the early Christian leaders, a man named Irenaeus, a century or so later, said, The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church, and it is a quote that many other Christian leaders have used since then. Persecution instead of stopping the church caused the gospel to spread and caused more people to come to faith. We don't see that as much here in this country because the persecution is not nearly as Obvious and open, but in other parts of the world we see that very thing. In um the uh the middle of the last century, hundreds of missionaries were expelled from China. The thought was that um uh that this would put an end to the church in China. There are hundreds times the number of Christians in China today that there were when those missionaries were expelled. The blood of the martyrs, the persecution on God's people, is the seed of the church. If it was Satan's plan to stop the Christian faith's growth by this, it seems that he overreached. Jesus had said that they would carry the gospel to Jerusalem, to Judea, to Samaria, and to the ends of the earth It was this persecution that began to take this from Jerusalem to the next step. Now some people have thought that this means that The Lord was there waiting for the um the apostles and the others to get the idea, you've got to go out from here. After a while, they're just not getting it, so we better turn up the heat and make them do what they don't want to do That would be an indication that God changes his mind and doesn't have a plan. Scripture doesn't say that. What we believe is that this persecution was the means that God used. It's not the means that um uh that they liked. It's not the means that um that uh that we would have um going if we were um uh if we were having a session meeting to plan how the church uh how our church would uh go on from here. We wouldn't say, well you know, we're just not growing fast enough. We need to bring in some people to make it hard for everybody We wouldn't do that. But that was the means that God chose. And because he is sovereign, and because he knew what would happen, he planned what would happen. He brought about what would happen. That persecution accomplished great and mighty things. Theologian John Stott sees a pattern here in Acts 8. Martyrdom leads to persecution Persecution leads to scattering, and scattering leads to widespread evangelism In the fall, I frequently see leaves all over our deck and all over the porch. And so when Julie says to me, get a blower out there and get those off of there, it would be nice if as soon as you turned the blower on, all the leaves went in the same direction. and left the deck or left the porch completely. Have you had the experience with a blower that I've had? You turn the blower on and they go every place. Well Satan and Saul and those who were with them turned on the heat, and the Christians and the gospel went every place. Part of transitions are the changes, either temporary or permanent, that they bring, often with uncertainty Where are we going? How long will he be there? What will I do next? What will I be able to do next? Circumstances may change, but God doesn't change. We need to trust him through the transitions. and when they even when they go in unexpected directions. Secondly, we see the undesirable objects of ministry. One commentator wrote that Jesus regarded uh or that Jews rather regarded Samaritans as heretical outsiders, and Ethiopia as the extreme southern boundary of the habitable world. And that's where Philip headed. Jews and Samaritans had a history and it wasn't a nice history. It goes all the way back to when um when David became king and his tribe, the tribe of Judah, accepted him right away And it was seven years later before he was um uh accepted and crowned king by the whole rest of the nation. It got worse when David's grandson Rehoboam Listen to bad advice, and the kingdom divided into a southern kingdom of Judah with the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, and the northern kingdom of Israel with all of the others It was the northern kingdom of Israel that eventually established the city of Samaria and from which they got the name Samaritans. It was the northern kingdom that was taken into exile first. by the um by the Assyrians. Those who were left intermarried with um with pagans who were brought in, um, they never were brought back from exile. It was the southern kingdom Judah that went into exile to Babylon, but they were brought back. And when they came back, in order to rebuild the temple and then to rebuild the walls, if any of the Samaritans wanted to help them, they said no. It was made even worse a couple of hundred years later when the Samaritans built their own temple on Mount Gerizim. So that by the time of Jesus, when Jesus talked to the woman at the well in John 4, she says, um, well you worship um uh in Jerusalem And we worship here. The here was Mount Gerizim in a temple that um uh that they had um that they had built there There'll be more about Samaritans that um uh that you'll see if you stay for Sunday school today. That that that's what they call a plug. Um so uh so I encourage you to um to stay uh uh for Sunday school The attitudes toward Samaritans were very much like the passage in our New Testament reading today, when Jesus had just said to his disciples, the one who is not against us is with us. And then things didn't go real well in Samaria, and James and John showed how much they had learned the lesson by saying, You want us to call down fire on them and consume them? Jesus said, No, no. That same John with Peter in this passage took a very different view of Samaritans later on. The city that they went to, it says the si um uh the city of Samaria. Um some translations say a city of Samaria. If it was the city that originally was Samaria, its name had been changed by that time to Sebasta, but some scholars think that may not have been where Philip went because there was a large Greek influence there It may have been the um the religious center at that time, a city named Neapolis, or um later came to be uh known as um uh nobles. And as Luke describes it, it was a very impressionable city, impressed by magic, impressed by sorcery. So when Philip arrived Preaching, he not only shared the good news of the gospel, he also was used by God to provide healings and exorcisms, signs and wonders. Now what signs do is point to the truth. The truth of Philip's claims. If you only focus on the sign, You don't get to what um uh what the sign is supposed to be pointing to. If you've ever driven on Interstate seventy Heading out from Baltimore, there is a sign that talks about the distance to the other side of the country. I've never been to the other side of the country. I know that sign is there, but that sign isn't doing me any good because I haven't gone to what it's pointing to. The signs were to point people to the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what signs are supposed to do It did it so effectively for the great majority of these people, it says that they believed and they were baptized. Now, there are several controversial aspects to Luke's account in Acts 8, and here's the first controversy. It says that they believed and were baptized. But they didn't receive the Holy Spirit at the point that um that they believed. And we know from the rest of Scripture that um that that is not normally the case Some of you may remember Pastor Shaw's lesson several weeks ago as far as the events of the Book of Acts to find out whether they're considered dis simply descriptive of what happened or whether they're considered normative of the way things are supposed to happen. There are some Christian groups that say that this is normative Some who say you believe and are baptized, at some point later you're confirmed. Other groups that say you believe and are baptized, at some point later you get a second blessing and receive the Holy Spirit. The testimony of the rest of Scripture is that this is an abnormal situation. The key here is Peter and John getting involved in it. Now why did they get involved? Not because they didn't trust Philip, but because the word had gotten back to them that people had believed But they had not received the Holy Spirit. So Peter and John came to find out what was going on and um to uh to lay hands on them. When they did, they received the Holy Spirit. And there must have been the same kinds of results when these people received the Holy Spirit, that it happened back on the day of Pentecost. Some people have called this the Samaritan Pentecost Theologian F. F. Bruce said, some special evidence may have been necessary to assure these Samaritans so accustomed to being despised as outsiders by the people of Jerusalem that they were fully incorporated into the new community of the people of God. And it was also important that Peter and John, who were leaders of the community back in Jerusalem, to come home and say These Samaritans have believed, they've received the Holy Spirit just as we have, and they are just as much a part of the community as we are. A major transition in the life of the church was here. Not just Judean Jews and Hellenistic Jews, but now Samaritans too. Some of you may have been Christians a long time. Some of you here have been involved with shore harvest from the very beginning. Others of you may not have been believers very long, and you're just visiting or haven't been with us for very long. But it doesn't matter. In God's eyes, in the eyes of us of the church, all of us are equally part of the church All of us are equally part of uh uh of God's um community. There is uh there is no uh special group of uh of old timers. Uh yeah, I know I'm an old timer. Um but um uh there Everyone in God's eyes who has faith in Christ is seeing the same. Thirdly, we see the uncertain results of ministry. And we see it in this man named Simon. The ESV says that what he practiced was magic. The NIV and some of the other translations say that what he practiced was sorcery. So this is not the illusion that you see magicians today practicing. This is something deeper. This is something darker. And he had a large following He was called the great. He was called the great power of God. And he was an amazer. Verse 9, verse 11, and verse 13. All use the same Greek word, exestami, which means amazed or astonished. In verse 9, Simon amazed the people there in that city. In verse 11, they were amazed by him. In verse 13, it was Simon who was amazed by Philip. and uh and what was beginning to happen um with uh uh with Philip. Philip's preaching and miracles upset the status quo. Now to Simon's credit, instead of opposing Philip, he followed him But we'll soon see why. Like so many others, Simon believed and was baptized. But when Peter and John arrived, laid hands on believers, they received the Holy Spirit, Simon revealed his true colors. He got the sternest possible rebuke from Peter. He asks that he would have the ability to give the Holy Spirit by laying hands on people himself. Peter says to him in verse 20, May your silver perish with you. That's not, well, you've got the wrong idea, pal. You need to rethink this. This is a very strong and stern rebuke, probably sterner than any of our English translations would be comfortable at putting it. In fact, Simon is known through history for what he tried to do here. Known through history because there is a process called Simony. Simony is the attempt to turn the spiritual into the commercial, to buy ecclesiac ecclesiastical office. In a sense, Simony was involved at the time of Martin Luther, when the church was saying, you can get your relatives out of purgatory if you put money in the coffer to buy something spiritual. Simon was the first one that Scripture records to do that. If you want to be remembered for something down through the years, this is not the thing you'd want to be remembered for. This incident with Simon is the second controversial thing in Acts chapter 8. The first controversy was, is it one step or two-step? to um believe and receive the Holy Spirit. The second controversy is was Simon a believer or not? Verse 13 says he believed. It says he was baptized. It says that he followed Philip In verses 18 through 24, he gets about the sternest rebuke that um uh that anybody associated with any church ever got. Jesus had warned his followers about people like Simon in the parable of the sower. You remember in the parable of the sower there were four different soils? The third soil We read this about the um uh the third soil. Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. And Jesus explains that when he says, As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. There was an initial response, but it was only to the signs. It was only to the miracles. Jesus had always been suspicious of those whose faith had been based only on signs and wonders. In John chapter 2, it says, now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, Many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing. But Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them, because he knew all people, and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man Jesus knew that faith that is only as deep as miracles is not real faith at all. Faith that is only based on the signs, not based on the one that the signs are pointing to, is not genuine saving faith. at all. R. C. Stroll said years ago, we are saved not by a profession of faith, but by a possession of faith. Signs and miracles point to Jesus, but if you don't get past the signs, you never really get to Him. Healings, answers to prayer, emotional times in our lives are important. But they're not enough unless they get us to Jesus and result in a changed life. So We need to ask ourselves, do I love God more now than I used to? Do I love God's Word more now than I used to? Do I love God's people more now than I used to? Do I want to follow the Lord more faithfully now than I used to? Was Simon a true believer? Well, look at his reaction to Peter in verse 24. Peter gives him this rebuke, and what does Simon say as a result? Pray for me to the Lord that nothing of what you have said may come upon me. He doesn't say, pray that the Lord will forgive me. He doesn't say pray that I will repent. He says, pray that these bad things that you said won't happen to me. In that sense, he is like Cain in Genesis 4. When um uh when God pronounced the curse on Cain, Cain said, My punishment is more than I can bear. He killed his brother. But the thing that he couldn't bear not was not the guilt, it was the punishment. And that's what Simon was doing here. So was his faith genuine? It was a baby faith that never actually um uh was completed. by focusing on Jesus. There is a warning throughout Scripture, and in Hebrews 6 a very serious warning about those who are close to the Lord and turn away from him. But the um the author of Hebrews says at that point, but he was confident of better things from them, because he had seen the work of God in their lives. As we see the work of God in our lives and we um we continue to come to Him by faith, repentance for our sins We can be confident that our faith is genuine and not just based on emotional things or temporary things. Finally, we see the unparalleled opportunities of ministry. As Peter and John headed home, God had a different destination for Philip, another unexpected direction. And this was a test of faith for Philip. After all, he was with a city A lot of people had believed, all kinds of people there, things were going as well as they possibly could, and God said to him, Okay, you're north of Jerusalem, I want you to change directions entirely and head toward Gaza. Gaza was the southernmost of the five cities of the Philistines, right on the Mediterranean, and it says it was a desert road. Philip could have said, I guess, I don't think I'm reading this right, Lord. I mean things are going really well here, and and Peter and John went home. You need to have somebody here to lead this group So I must have read this wrong. Um send somebody else, okay? It says Philip went, um, where God called him to go. It says that he met an Ethiopian eunuch. He was the head treasurer of the Queen, actually the Queen Mother, whose title was Candace. Scholars believe that um uh that that was not um her actual name um that uh the queen mother in that um uh that group, that um that country, actually performed the social duties of royalty because the king was too separate to do any of the uh the normal royal things himself. We believe that this eunuch, whose name we never get, was either born a Jew or was a proselyte. Some people think that he may have been a Gentile. But Scripture is clear that the Gentiles don't come in until the time of Cornelius later on. So Philip follows the leading of the Holy Spirit. He sees this slow-moving chariot Um the uh spirit says, go up to this chariot, and he hears a man reading aloud, which most everybody did if they were going to read in those days, particularly if you're going along in a bumpy chariot. It um uh it's a good idea to um to read it out loud And Philip hears and asks him a question. Now, this kind of opening is an opening that any evangelist dreams of. The person he's going to share the gospel with is already reading the scripture. The person that he's going to share the gospel with asks he asks you to explain it, and he comes to faith right away. He's reading Isaiah 53, which was our Old Testament reading this morning. Of all of the passages in the Old Testament, there is no passage that speaks more to the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ and the cross than Isaiah 53. It couldn't have picked a better passage to be reading to hear the gospel. Not that it was easy to understand without knowing the gospel. Prophecy is a lot easier to understand once we see it fulfilled than it is to know how it's going to be fulfilled ahead of time. And the um the eunuch was open enough. John Calvin said that the eunuch's modesty in acknowledging his ignorance freely and frankly Is unfortunately a contrast with what we see too often where not one in a hundred gladly submits himself to teaching Stott said that um that the eunuch was so well prepared by the Holy Spirit um that it seems he believed immediately and went on to ask for baptism. Somebody should look at this incident and say it isn't always this easy. Too many people that we talk to are not interested or they reject, they put off, they even violently oppose, as people violently opposed as this chapter began. But when God gives this kind of opportunity and fruit, it is a very beautiful thing. In the movie Chariots of Fire The um the actor who played uh Eric Little said, um talking to his sister, when I run, I feel God's pleasure. Whatever God has called you to do, whatever your ministry is, when you do it for his service, when you do it with all your heart, you need to feel his pleasure. in what you're doing for him too. You may not get a response like Philip did here in Acts eight. Or you may God can lead us in unexpected directions and give us unparalleled opportunities today, too. And then Philip left suddenly. And we don't know the rest of the story for the eunuch. But he went away rejoicing, and we expect that he shared what he had heard with the um uh with the people that he came back to. Philip continued evangelizing along the coast all the way up to Caesarea. And Luke found out about this, we believe, because Luke was in Paul's party that stayed in Philip's home in Caesarea. Luke um Acts chapter twenty-one talks about that um that So, look at what God used Philip to do in vastly different circumstances. He preached in a city He preached at a desert road. He preached to a large following. He spoke to a single individual. There were signs and wonders in the one place. It was just an explaining of the scripture in another place. Different circumstances, different methods, but always the message of the gospel, always the sharing of the Word of God. So what do we take away from Acts 8? We need to be sure that our faith is not in things that God has done for us or done for others, but our faith is in Jesus Christ and Him alone. And we need to realize that God has given each of us a ministry, a service. We need to be willing to use our gifts and abilities to serve the Lord and others in unexpected directions. Even with undesirable people, even with uncertain results, expecting unparalleled opportunities to serve and to witness. Some of you may have noticed my title sounds something similar to what you've heard in some movies. In the Toy Story movies, the character Buzz Lightyear says, time and again, to infinity and beyond. So here I titled this sermon, The Scenario and Beyond. In the last of the Toy Story movies, Buzz is told to listen to his inner voice and follow what his inner voice says. But Philip gives us better advice. We need to listen to the leading of the Holy Spirit and carry the Word of God to uh to where wherever God will send us. So as you pray, as you serve, as you follow God's leading, you can know the Holy Spirit's direction in your life. and find pleasure in what God has equipped and called you to do. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the way you used Philip. Thank you for the example that he is to us. Thank you that the same Holy Spirit, who worked through him, is available to work through your people today. Confirm that our faith and trust is in Jesus and Jesus alone. Confirm that you have given us gifts and abilities to use to serve you and to serve others where you put us, whether we're in times of transition or not, so that you will be honored, that people will be blessed. And that the gospel will go forth. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen