We're going to be looking at Colossians 1, 15 to 17. Colossians 1, 15 to 17, if you'd open your Bibles there, please. And as you're doing so, let me explain the sermon title. Turtles all the way down is a picturesque way that philosophers use to address a thorny issue. Maybe you're familiar with it. It comes out of Hindu mythology, which said that the earth rested upon a giant turtle. But of course that begs the question, what is that turtle resting on? And it raises the possibility that you could just have one turtle on top of another forever more. Or you could have something at the bottom behind which you cannot go any further. You see, this is really a picturesque way of describing what's called the question of infinite regress. Can you just go back forever? If proposition A rests on proposition B and that rests on C and that rests on D, do they go on forever, one resting upon another? Or is there some basis, some bottommost turtle? You recall last week we asked the question, why is there a tea kettle boiling on the stove? Well, there was the physical and molecular explanation, and we're not going to repeat that, but there was the personal aspect of truth that we briefly explored. Why was there a tea kennel boiling on the stove? Because I want an oatmeal for breakfast. So let's explore that personal side of truth for a moment. There's a tea kettle boiling on the stove because I want oatmeal. But why do I want oatmeal? Because I like it. Why? Because I think it tastes good. Why? Because I like the raisins that are in it. Why? Because? Why? Because Why? The problem of infinite regress really is the problem brought to light by every four-year-old. Do the question of why go on forever? And if you have a four-year-old child or grandchild, you might think the answer is yes Why goes on forever? But when we look at Colossians 1, 15 to 17, we see a different answer. This really is the second of two sermon texts. The first one was part of our New Testament reading, where in John 14, 6, Jesus says, I am the truth. Here we have our second sermon text. So follow along now as well. Actually, before we read Colossians 1, 15 to 17, I want to make this quick comment. It's in fairness to you. One of the things that we hold to be of utmost importance here at Sure Harvest Church is what is called expository preaching. Expository at its root is the word expose that the preacher must expose the meaning of the Word of God, not share his own ideas, not share what he thinks is wise or good, but to share what God has said. And in one sense, today's sermon will not be exposing Paul's main message of 1 Corinthians, or Colossians 1. And yet in another way, we will be exposing Paul's underlying assumptions upon which he built his argument. So we are going to be, this is going to be an expository sermon, but it's one that's going to expose the things that rest behind or under the argument that Paul is making. So join me now picking up in Colossians 1, verse 15. He, and we're jumping in the middle, so that is the God man, Jesus of Nazareth, he is the image of the invisible God. the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and in earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things fold together. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we do not consider the significance of these verses nearly enough. Wow us this morning with who you are. Humble us and exalt yourself. Help us to understand the profound nature of truth. Show us how to live in light of it. We ask all of this in your grace. Amen. Many of you will remember the old PDS special called Cosmos. It was the most, it is the most watched PDS production of all time, Cosmos. Not Cosmo I don't know what that's the most of anything. But cosmos, it was a documentary about space, and it was a much loved documentary And the show opened with a sometimes with a famous line. I for one never watched the show, but I know the opening line of it. Professor Carl Sagan would get on, and he would say the cosmos is all that is, or was, or ever will be. That profoundly philosophical statement was done purposefully Professor Sagan was doing more than merely introducing a documentary about space. He was also addressing the question of infinite regress. Very few thinkers in human history have been willing to say that it really is turtles all the way down. Most of them have concluded that at some point there has to be a foundation, a stopping place, a bottom-most turtle, upon which everything else rests. Professor Sagan was arguing, from the atheistic point of view, that that is the universe itself. That is matter and energy, that there's nothing beyond that. He is basically arguing That you could take my personal question of truth, why was there a tea kettle boiling? My personal preference for oatmeal, I like it, my personal preference for that oatmeal, I like the raisins in it And at some point, if you push that back far enough, according to Professor Sagan and other atheists, you reach a point where all of that boils down to matter and energy. And nothing else. That there is ultimately no other truth behind all things. You see, saying the cosmos is all that is, or was, or ever will be, is to say there is no God. There are physical things, matter and energy, but there are no non-physical spiritual realities. I want to take a few moments today to kind of apply that point of view and to kind of explore where it leads. So if we ask the question, you know, as I already said, you know, behind my personal preference for oatmeal, there really lies this impersonal force. Let me flip it around and begin it at the beginning according to this viewpoint. So at some point, like 13. 8 billion years ago, everything came into being in what is now known as the Big Bang. And in that moment, the laws of nature came to be, the laws of physics determined stellar evolution, how galaxies and suns and things came into being And then according to this view, those that the results of stellar evolution led to planetary and solar system evolution. And the results of that led to biological evolution. And the results of that led eventually to a form of a species that had taste buds so that they would eat food that is good and not eat food that is spoiled with bacteria. That all that is behind all of this was once upon a time the universe exploded into being and the laws of physics took over. There is nothing more to it than that. In other words, every decision, every preference. Is ultimately rooted in nothing but the laws of physics. And the laws of physics are not Right or wrong, they're not morally good or bad, they just are. Which means in this worldview, in this point of view, There is ultimately no absolute final right or wrong Your moral preference is your moral preference that has arisen out of the biological, chemical, energetic forces that brought you to be. They're not inherently right or wrong. Everything is ultimately impersonal Ironically, that makes every choice merely personal. There are times in our lives when this view is tempting to us When the world feels very harsh to us, where the universe feels lonely and impersonal. And we wonder quietly to ourselves, we're good Christians, we would never say this out loud, but we ponder deep within Is it really true that there's just nothing out there besides matter and energy? Maybe there really is no personal God. I sure don't feel like he's there. But I want us to look at this viewpoint a little more carefully. Not so that we can mock those who hold it. But really as a way to inoculate ourselves against it. You see, the whole book of Hebrews, you may recall, was written to keep us from abandoning the true faith in favor of of something else that society was pressuring us. I hope this summer to have that same effect. That if we consider the meaning and nature of truth this summer, that we will be guarded and protected against the pull of this world, which is pulling us away from truth. So this naturalistic, materialistic, atheistic view of truth, it tends to chide theists, particularly Christians, at two main points. One of them is the supposed moral hypocrisy of Christians. Notice how I ordered that, the supposed moral hypocrisy of Christians. It's just something along these lines, you Christians, you say that God is holy, he's perfect, he's righteous, and you are none of those things. Now, in a sense, that's true, but I would remind us that it's true on the basis of inability. We cannot live lives of pure righteousness. So, yes, we fall short of the moral standard that is out there. But it's because that moral standard is too high, it is too far out there, it is too perfect for us to achieve Atheistic naturalism will not live by its moral standard. Think about it. In their view, there is nothing but natural laws, and those aren't right or wrong, good or bad, they just are. So, kill, do not kill. Both just are. Love or abuse, both just are. Kindness or hatred, both just are We cannot live by our moral standard standards, but ironically, atheists will not live by theirs, though they could. I shared this with some of you. I don't know if I've ever shared it from the pulpit and the sermon, but it's worth retelling you that if I have. Some years ago my brother was teaching high school calculus And between classes during the passing period, he got into a discussion with one of his advanced students. This precocious 16-year-old was going to set him straight on the ultimate truths of the universe. And she was explaining to him that there are no absolute right and wrong, there is no underlying truth, everything is just whatever you want it to be. And he said, okay, I want to do a quick demonstration to you. He said, you have a $20 bill on you? She pulled it out. She went, yes I do. And he said, can I borrow it for a moment for the sake of my demonstration? She said, sure. He took it from her, the bell rang, he put it in his pocket, and he taught the calculus lesson. Now you know what happened, right? She came back later and said I want my $20 back and he said no. And she got money. And he said, why? And she said, because you aren't allowed to take my money. He said, why You see the problem with the atheistic naturalistic point of view? They say there is no ultimate right or wrong, but they will not live that way. When you run a foul of their sensitivities, you are absolutely wrong. Is there a hypocrisy to the way Christians live? In a sense, I suppose there is. We say we ought to be and we are not. But we, if we are faithful to the scriptures, will turn around and immediately admit we cannot be what we ought to be. We are not hypocritical at that point, but rather confess the reality of who we are But the atheistic naturalistic point of view says there is no ought to be, and yet demands that we be something we ought to be. It is a horribly inconsistent position. Why? Because no one can live with the reality that it proposes. No one wants to live. There is a great irony that those who propose that there is nothing behind the universe except matter and energy itself Are some of the most insistent that we live a certain way. Because you cannot live as if that is true. Because we know ultimately that it is not true. I want to dissect naturalistic atheism from another perspective, one that's a little more philosophical. Christians are often chided for inventing God to solve all of our problems. Let me be sure this can happen. But I taught at a Christian high school and I put on the biology test, you know, why is this this way? There'd always be two or three students who would answer because God made it that way. You know, they didn't know the biological answer, so they gave that answer. And sure, to be sure, some Christians, we do treat God as merely the underlying answer to every question. But of course, the atheists will then ask, they'll follow up with, then where did God come from? By the way, if that point little suggestions of how to interact with that, don't even try to answer that question. Go after its premise. You're not talking the moment you ask where did God come from, you're not talking about the God I'm talking about. The God I'm talking about has always been. He has no beginning. There is no sense that he came from anywhere or anywhere. We're talking about two different descriptions of God at that point. But they will ask us where God came from. And too often we hang our heads, tuck our tails, and skulk away. as though we are ashamed of our answer. But I'd like to turn the question back on them. You say that matter and energy are all that are, but where did they come from? You say that the that it all began at the Big Bang, but what was behind it? What caused the Big Bang? Here's an answer. It's a pretty typical one if you do some research on this. This particular answer is from Professor Alistair Dunn at the University of Manchester in England. He writes the following, and I'm quoting him at this point. The Big Bang is the moment that space and time came into existence. Before the Big Bang, there was no space or time. Well listen to everybody so fast. So it is actually meaningless to ask what caused the Big Bang to happen. There was no universe, capital U, in which that cause could have existed. Isn't that interesting? They will ask us to say where God came from, but if we ask them where the universe came from, they say that question is meaningless. You can't ask it. Because before the universe, there was no universe in which a cause could exist. Professor Gunn continues now, and he's speaking about his own answer when he says the following. This might seem like a bit of a cheat, but there are other good reasons to suppose a cause for the Big Bang might not exist. Quantum physics, and we're not getting into any details of quantum physics, don't shut yourself down, don't plug your ears. Quantum physics has shown us that some events have no cause at all. Things can happen randomly, spontaneously, and for no particular reason. This unpredictable and causeless nature of the universe, how you, is experimentally verified. and has nothing to do with our inability to observe correctly. It is a fundamental property of the universe. So although there may have been a cause for the Big Bang that we are unaware of, modern cosmology neither defines nor requires. I don't even know where to begin to dissect his statements. It is riddled with holes. He first says quantum physics has shown. Sure. In this universe. But according to him, the things of this universe don't apply to before the Big Bang because nothing existed then. But he's now saying that we should take the way we've seen this universe and apply it to what happened before the universe came into being. He wants us to believe that we can't ask him to answer our question, because that's meaningless in the pre-Big Bang. emptiness, but he's going to turn right around and say that the laws of physics somehow apply in the pre-Big Bang emptiness, though he has no idea why or how The events of quantum physics has been shown has shown that some events have no cause at all. If you're familiar with even the most basic aspects of philosophy, go back to your freshman philosophy class in college. One of the fundamental tenets is that a negative cannot be proven. You can't prove a negative. Now he says, as a matter of fact, there are some events that have no cause at all. They have no cause that he knows of, no cause that he's willing to admit, no cause that he's willing to bring into the conversation. Because he can't see the cause or is unwilling to accept the cause doesn't mean it doesn't exist. We would say that it does have a cause. And now I go back to my freshman biology students and I give their answer. Because God wanted it to exist. You're saying there is no cause, we're saying there is a cause. And it rests in God. You're saying that we have to believe that everything just popped out of nothing, and we're saying that everything came out of nothing because God made it so. Which of those is actually easier to believe The idea that somehow there would be personal choices and personal preferences and personal desires and personal longings arising out of a completely impersonal universe is mind-boggling. And yet we will not accept the idea that there is a personhood behind it all. You see, in this question of infinite regress, is it turtles all the way down? One answer, increasingly popular in our society, is to say, no, it's not turtles all the way down, but it is purely physical And only physical. And out of that sprang personhood. But we've just seen that that view is self-contradictory at its very inception. It uses our understanding of the existing universe to explain what happened before anything existed, which it says you can't do. That view would say that there is no fundamental right or wrong, but not one person lives as though that's true. You see in a quest for ultimate truth, in the question of what is the ultimate truth behind it all, that is an untenable position. And again, I share this, I talk about this not because I think any of you are at risk of falling into it, but to help inoculate us, to help shore us up, to help us realize that that position the world is espousing is riddle with problems. It is not an altern an acceptable alternative to theism. Which says that ultimate truth is actually a very different thing altogether Rather than personal preferences arising out of impersonal forces, rather than abstract concepts like justice coming from natural laws, the Bible assumes the opposite That behind everything is a person, God, and that out of this person's will and preferences and good pleasure, all things physical and concrete Came to be. We agree with the atheistic naturalists that once upon a time there was nothing physical. And we agree that out of nothing, bam, everything came to be. We radically disagree with the why behind that moment. You see, theirs is, well, I guess we don't really know, but we shouldn't ask because the idea of causation, of being when there was nothing, well, that's just irrational In other words, there was not, then there was. Just accept it. In Stark Contrast, we point out that there is because there has always been. That being gives rise to being It is patently absurd to say that anything can arise out of nothing. We don't say that. We say that everything arose out of God. Being gives rise to being. In the beginning, God In the beginning was the Word. Jesus says, I am the truth. Paul writes, in him all things hold together. Out of the personal but immaterial God arose all things, both material and immaterial. The reason there is personhood in this universe is because this universe sprang out of a person. So I asked again, which is the more believable view? That nothing just spontaneously gives rise to everything, or that being created being? This reality, this ultimate truth This understanding that behind it all is the person of God has consequences We begin with Paul's statement of the Colossians that God the Son is the ultimate cause behind all things, the underpinning of existence, the one in whom all things hold together. Let's look back at another of Paul's famous statements, another of his important doxological creeds. Turn in your Bibles to Romans 11. 36 Romans 11, 36. I did not note what page that was on in the Pew Bible, my apologies. So Romans 11. 36, last verse of chapter 11. As you're turning there, I'll remind you that Romans 12 is the beginning of Paul's practical application. Romans 12 through 16 are the how you ought to live and light up. Romans 11, 36 is the conclusion of his theological and doctrinal teaching. On the gospel and the nature of God. And he closes it with a Romans 11:36, where we read this. For from him and through him and to him are all things To him be glory forever. Amen. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. We have got to understand the importance of that statement. put together with our passage out of Colossians, put together with our passage out of John 14. We've got to begin to comprehend the implications of that. So for a number of years, I was a full-time chemistry professor at a community college, and it was an interesting thing to go into a social setting. Go to a party, go to a wedding, whatever. And sit down with strangers. You sit down with strangers, what are the things you ask? What's your name? Where are you from? And what do you do? And I would tell people, well, I'm a chemistry professor. I swear if I had said I was a mortician, it'd have been political. I would say I'm a chemistry professor, and the next words out of their mouth were, oh, I hated chemistry. Worst class I ever took. Only class I ever failed. Chemistry's the worst. Think about that for a moment. I have said that I'm dedicating my life, I'm giving the best part of my day every day. To teach and expound, to profess, I was a professor, to profess chemistry. And you've just said it's terrible. It's worthless. That's really. That's a personal sense. I think it's pretty wonderful. Do we understand the implication of God being the truth behind all things? And what that means when we have a disregard for truth. Outside that window right there is a beautiful hosta, deep rich green leaves, a whole bunch of them. about a gazillion light lavender flowers, pale halavender flowers off the top of it. It is a stunningly beautiful plant. But if I say otherwise, if I talk negatively about that, if I disregard that Don't I disregard the one who created it? The one who thought it was beautiful and worth making? Aren't I ultimately Talking down about the one who's behind it all? You see, whenever I get things wrong about this creation I'm getting things wrong about God. If He is ultimate truth, then truth ought to be ultimately important to us. Truth is personal because it is a person. It is God. So if I imagine that there's something wrong with a particular skin color, I'm imagining that God got it really wrong when he created humanity. When I think that gender can be tossed aside and I can just live however I want, I disrespect the creator of gender. But we can't leave this truth, this reality, out there at arm's length with those things that don't impact us. No, we've got to bring it home You see, in any way that I deny truth, I personally offend the person of truth, God Himself. Which means if my view of pick something, vaccine is wrong, if it is untrue, whatever view I hold. I have disparaged the God who ordained the science that created them If my view of the moon landing is false, I have a false understanding of the God who made space travel possible. If I desire to glorify God best, then I must necessarily desire to understand the world as accurately as possible, as truthfully as possible. It's the reason that Johannes Kepler, the famous astronomer, once said that to study science is to think God's thoughts after him. You see, this idea of the personal reality of God being what underpins everything is not limited to the physical realm. It's why Paul, just one chapter later, in Romans 13, why Paul will tell the Roman Christians to submit to and obey the government of Rome, a pagan anti-Christian government. And how does Paul say it in chapter 13? There is no authority except from God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists what God has appointed. For from him and through him and to him are all things, including the politics you don't like. And so Paul begins to build on that to say that's why we have to submit. This question of what is true and what is true is not merely a philosophical discussion or debate. It impacts how we live our lives and how we glorify God in the midst of our lives. One of the more blessed moments for me as an elder at this church was in the aftermath of the COVID pandemic when we began to come back together for worship. And our elders were discussing how we should do that. Now I knew from personal conversations with them that several of them did not like The idea that the government would do a masks mandate for different reasons. Some thought it was of no medical value, some thought it was an invert an intrusion on private rights, some thought But, interestingly, collectively, the elders all agreed that we were going to ask people to wear them when we regathered for worship. Not because we agreed, not because we thought it was right, not because we wanted to make a political statement, but on the contrary, we wanted to make a statement that we understand were under authority That the government of Maryland has said that if you're going to gather you have to wear those masks, so we're going to wear them. It's not sin to wear a mask. But it would be to not wear them. You begin to see that if we take this idea that we can decide for ourselves what is true and what is right We have said to the personal God who said, I am the truth, all things hold together in me, we are saying, no, we're going to take you off that throne and put ourselves there. That I'm going to decide what is right for me to do. When making a political statement, when making whatever statement becomes more important than obeying We have said to God, your concept of truth is the wrong one And that is a personal affront. It is a personal offense. We must be men and women of the truth. Even when we don't necessarily like what that means for how we live our lives. That we do not glorify God by standing up for what we think is right, but we glorify God by doing what is right. He has said, I am the truth. And out of his personhood springs the realities that guide our lives. You see, this is ultimately the underlying problem. That there is a God, a being, behind all being, is not particularly hard to believe. It's incredibly hard to accept. It's incredibly hard to submit ourselves to it. And so the world out there has very openly denied that there is any person behind truth. And therefore there is no ultimate person of truth. But we in here are always at risk of the same sin. Not because we are going to just flat out say there is no God But because we are going to be tempted to act as if we did decide what is true You see, when we say, well, I just finished, we're saying my personal view of truth is what's really important in this session. But we just say, well, you think what you want to and I'll do what I want to, we are saying there is no ultimate truth. I'm not saying that we are going to settle it all. I understand there are going to be realms within which we are going to remain divided. I get that. But when we have this idea that that's the way it should be, that we should just accept that we're never going to agree on anything because there really is no R absolute standard out there, that's where we go horribly. Wrong. It is truth, it's a person. It's God, it's Jesus Christ. And when we act like the truth doesn't matter, we're saying the essence of his being doesn't matter. When we are too lazy to wrestle with it and work at it, we're too lazy to try to understand God. I cannot stress this enough. Right here, right now, this morning, I want to say what I said last week, and I'm going to say again all the rest of the summer. If we are going to be people of the truth, then we are going to have to be willing to admit we're wrong a lot. If we're going to hope to live in the truth, that is to say, the live in God, we are going to have to have the humility to let go of the way we think about things. Is it turtles all the way down? No, it isn't. It's a person at the bottom of it all. It's God underneath it all, behind it all, upholding it all, keeping it all together. But when we act like it's our job to figure all that stuff out, we act like the world will come crashing down if we admit we were wrong Then we have imagined ourselves to be in God's place. We imagine ourselves to be the person behind all truth. It is not turtles all the way down. But neither are we at the bottom of hell. He is before all things. And in him all things. Oh, we got it. Lord, this is difficult for us to accept. Our pride is so hardy, so entrenched in who we are. That the idea that we are going to have to throw out entire attitudes toward the world and take yours and dock yours in their place is almost unimaginably good. Help us. Help us help each other. Help us encourage one another. Not gloating when somebody admits they did something wrong, but graciously helping them through it. Never acting like being wrong is the end of being human, but understanding that's the beginning of being humans we're supposed to be. Work in us, individually and collectively as a church. A desire to be people Who walk in the nature of truth, in the personhood of God, who walk according to what He has willed about this universe. The alternative is not acceptable. The alternative fails at in every way So help us not to fail in living the light and what for us. We ask this for the glory of Christ in us. Amen.