Open your Bibles if you would to Romans chapter 5, Romans 5, verses 12 to 21. It's on page 1120 of the Pew Bible in front of you. As you turn there, I will give a heads up to the note takers among us that the outline in the bulletin isn't quite going to be the one that I follow this morning. Because of our trip to Georgia to see the new grandbaby, I wrote that outline very early in the week before the sermon was fully fleshed out. My apologies. Nevertheless Those will still be important sub-points of what we're going to consider this morning. Romans 5, beginning in verse 12, reading through verse We're going to read through it in its entirety and then come back and consider it piece by piece. Hear now the word of Almighty God. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given. But sin is not counted where there is no law. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type. of the one who was to come. But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift And the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of the one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reign through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life Through the one man, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, So one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So that as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let's pray. Lord, help us to understand this beautiful, amazing, important message Help us to see that you have made it possible that we could be transferred from the humanity that follows in the line of Adam. to that which follows in the line of Christ. That we can move from the people who are headed to death, in whom sin and death reign, and be moved into the people. Over whom life and righteousness reign. We are amazed that this is possible. Help us to understand the import of this passage and its implications for our lives. We ask this humbly in Christ's name. Amen. Corporate identity is a tricky thing to think about. What does it mean to be part of something? integrated into something bigger than ourselves. You can be part of a team, part of this body, the church, part of a marriage. The list goes on and on. There are things that are bigger than just us that we are a part of. But we struggle a little bit with that idea of corporate identity, of belonging to the bigger picture uh uh entity. In the mid-1990s, and I I didn't take the time to look up the exact year and all that, but sometime in the mid-1990s there was a a training death among the Navy SEALs, and it spurred a round of editorials and consternation and hand-wringing Did SEAL training really have to be so rigorous, so dangerous, that a young man would die not in combat, but in training? And one of the articles that I read back at the time was written by a former Navy SEAL, and he argued that it was absolutely necessary That the training remain unchanged, that it remain absolutely the way it had always been. And his argument went like this He said we entrust our lives to one another. We are in it together. We have to be able to operate as one entity, and we have to know. that every man around us has gone through what we went through. We have to have that shared corporate identity as Navy SEALs if we are to function. as a team, as an entity, as a whole. Now certainly shared experience does unite people The author of Hebrews acknowledges this. To help us unite with Christ, to help us bond with Christ, he makes the point of saying that Christ's experiences on the earth were like ours, that he suffered what we suffered. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, he tells us It is important that we understand Christ shared the experiences we shared. But is that all there is to union? Is that the essence of what it means to be united? That we have a common experience? It's interesting to thought who we are as Americans. We struggle with a sense of corporate identity precisely because we don't have this shared common experience. Your ancestors may have fled Ireland because of the potato famine. My ancestors got out of Norway because of religious persecution. But we don't have a real sense of our ancestors. We don't have common genetics and common history. We don't have this common background. And so we struggle to define the American identity. What does it mean to be one of us, to be part of us? Related to that, intertwined with that. We have often held in high regard the idea of individualism. We have that Lone Ranger mentality, that settle the West, that go forward and be a pioneer mentality. To kind of pick yourself up by the bootstraps to be your own person. We celebrate individualism. And so it's one of the reasons we struggle with corporate identity. And our individualism is pervasive. It gets even into our politics, right? When one of our elected leaders makes a mistake, our response is, well, I didn't vote for him. And we want to divorce ourselves from being connected and identified with the corporate whole. There is very little us-ism in America. You know, unlike those SEAL teams, we lack the experiential commonality, and we therefore often lack corporate identity. Now why does any of this matter? Why are we talking about this? Well because corporate identity is central to the passage in front of us this morning. It's central to Christianity. If we're going to rightly comprehend this faith in which we stand, and if we are going to comprehend what Paul is writing in the book of Romans, we're going to have to begin to wrap our head around the idea of corporate identity. That we are what we are because of the group to which we belong. That we have an identity that is bigger than ourselves, that is something other than just meism That in fact, who I am begins to take a back seat to who we are in our corporate identity. But that corporate identity we began to see last week is not rooted in us trying to bond with one another. Our communion is a real thing, but it begins not with you and I trying to be more united with each other, but with each of us recognizing that we are in Christ In Christ is a phrase that occurs 87 times in the New Testament. In Christ or in Christ Jesus. Of those 87 occurrences, 83 of them are in Paul's writing. It's an important concept of Paul. To be in Christ is central to Paul's theology. And if we're going to understand what he's writing here, we're going to have to understand what it means to be. In Christ. This past October, as the baseball postseason, the baseball playoffs were rolling around. I was listening to a sports radio commentator, and he was talking about the 10-year, 10-game Baltimore Orioles uh playoff losing streak. And he was talking about how that has to weigh heavily on the players and on the team and how that had to be affecting how they approached the postseason. And I have to admit I was scratching my head. Because I was been paying it some attention to the Baltimore over the time I've been here, and I I thought they had kind of undergone a complete transformation. The team had been kind of dismantled and rebuilt and they were one of the youngest teams in the major leagues. How could it be that this losing streak would weigh upon the Baltimore Orioles players when most of them were not a part of it. And then to my surprise, within a few days, it might have been the very next day, I saw an article, an interview, with one of the rookies on the Baltimore Orioles. And he was talking about how this losing streak was impacting And how he thought about it, and how it waited on it, and how he wanted, for the sake of the team, for the community, he wanted to win some games in a series, and they were striving to break out from it in the street. I'm scratching my head, going, How can this be? You're a rookie You've not been a part of any of these losses. How can it be something that weighs on you? And the young man, while he didn't make a point of stressing this, he bumped up against an idea that's important. They talked about the fact that the very matter of putting on that jersey, when he put on the Baltimore Orioles uniform, he was one of them. He belonged to them. He was part of who they were and are. He had his identity in the uniform. You know, it's a very common thing in sports to say the name on the front is more important than the name on the back. But most of us don't actually live that way. And this young man, this rookie, was trying to at least outwardly express this idea that I am part of them. I'm one of them. By wearing this uniform, I am a Baltimore Oriole and I own that losing streak. You know, this idea of being in Christ is going to be incredibly important to us. That it's not just shared experience that unites. It's belonging. It's being connected. It's being part of. Oh, to be sure, in one sense, these 37 years later, or 36 or whatever it is, I can't keep track anymore, that Becky and I have been together We are more one, we are more united, we are more of a corporate entity than we were back then, but there is another sense that the moment we said I do We were one. We were united. There is a reality of being in that union That transcends how we feel about it, how we experience it, how we sense it. And this young player seemed to grasp something of that. There is in the Bible this difficult and challenging duality. We are saved by virtue of the expression of our individual election in individual faith. And yet we are saved by virtue of our corporate identity in Christ. And if I am in Christ and you are in Christ, then it necessarily follows that we have a union one with another which is going to play to Paul's point later on in the book of Romans. So we see again now that Paul's hope for unity in the Roman Church is found in a better understanding of the gospel. That if Christians grasp the good news, if we understand what has been done for us, if we understand what it means to be in Christ, We will be more inclined to bear with one another, to be in union with one another, to be a united whole in the face of And so Paul is now going in the second half of Romans 5 He's going to begin to outline what it means to be in Christ, and he's going to do so in contrast to what it means to be in Adam. The first 11 verses of Romans 5, Paul taught us, he built the case for our reconciliation with God. That God has reconciled himself to us and us to himself in Christ Jesus. And we looked at that last week and what that means. And so he opens this next section in verse 12 with the word therefore. Therefore. That is to say, let me now tell you an important consequence of being reconciled to God. What he says now is rooted in and based on what we saw last week. That we are reconciled to God in Christ Jesus. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned We're excited to hear what he has to say next, aren't we? He's got something to say. As a consequence of your reconciliation to God, I have some news about death and sin. And who wouldn't want to hear this news? He's got us on the edge of our seat. Tell us what's the good news? How has death and sin been changed because we're reconciled to God? He set us up to want to hear what he has to say next, but then he doesn't tell us. He breaks off. He makes a hard right turn away from where he was headed. I, for one, can be very impatient. with this orator uh style of uh of communication, this oratorial uh style. The idea that you're gonna make a statement and then step into a parenthetical and not ex not finish it I get impatient. And yet Paul has good reason for it. He recognizes something that he said. I can picture him dictating this to his secretary, to his emanuensis, and realizing, wait a second, I just made a comment that needs some explanation. Do you see what it is? Did you catch that? Look at that line. It's just one verse. Death spread to all men because all sinned. And before he can explain anything else, he needs to explain that statement. Ponder that for just a moment. Death spread to all men because all have sinned. Newborn babies die. Unborn babies die. Is that really because they sinned? And this is what Paul realizes he has to explain. He can't go forward with his main idea until we grasp what he's trying to tell us here. Now I'll ask you, dear Presbyterian, we already made reference to our catechisms. I'll ask you the 14th question of our catechism. I don't really want you to say it out loud. What is sin? What is sin? And our catechism biblically rightly defines sin in this manner. Sin is any want of conformity unto or transgression of the law of God. How can it be said that a newborn has transgressed God's law? On the face of it, that's kind of a crazy idea, and Paul knows it, which is why he's stopping. It's why he has taken this abrupt turn. If death is due to sin, and it is, and if sin is breaking God's law, and it is, then how can babies be worthy of death? But that's really not that's really only just the nub of the matter. That's just the surface issue. There's a deeper problem here. How could anyone have died in the time between Adam and Moses? Think about it. There was a law given to Adam, but it was for Adam. Do not eat of the tree. Well, that law is moot once they're kicked out of the garden. Nobody following Adam was under that law. And it's not until the time of Moses that the law of God comes to humanity. And Paul is not going to address why babies die, he's going to address why anybody dies. Why is it that death reign from the time of Adam to the time of Moses if there was no law? If sin is breaking God's law and there's no law to be broken, how can anybody be said to be sinning and how why was anybody dying? Is God unjust? So as much as I am dying to hear how our reconciliation to God is going to change death and sin. I understand why he cuts off. We need to grasp what's going on here. Death spread to all men because all sin, verse 13, for sin indeed. was in the world before the law was given. But sin is not counted where there is no law. Now we have to begin to realize he is changing the sense of this word sin. Paul doesn't say that there were sins in the world. He says sin was in the world. He's not talking about acts of defiance. He's talking about a condition and a state of mankind. That we were sinful in who we were, not merely what we did. And he notes that without the law, the estate of sin might go unnoticed. It might be missed. Escape our attention. Yet, this is verse 14, yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam. There's so much packed in here. Paul admits that the sin he is talking about is not our catechism definition. He's not talking about acts of defiance, acts of transgression. It's not breaking a rule like Adam did. This sinning, he says, was not like the transgression of Adam. Yet sin was clearly in the world. Now How does Paul know that sin was in the world? Well, he tells us. Because death reigned. Death reigned. So that means sin must have been reigning also. Now, what is Paul's unspoken assumption here? Notice Paul skips over. He doesn't actually spell it out. But there's an unspoken assumption here. If death is deserved, If God is just, if these people from the time of Adam to the time of Moses are dying, then it must necessarily follow that they're in sin. If that's not the case, then God is unjust. And if God is unjust, then we can have no hope Because he can change his mind, he could be uh arbitrary, he could be capricious, let's just pack up shop and go home. Paul's underlying assumption is that the presence of death proves the presence of sin. Despite the lack of a law, despite the ability to transgress anything, there was sin. If you look down at verse 19, you see this idea that sin is not an act, but a condition. It's a state of being. By the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. You see what that's saying in verse 19? It wasn't that they sinned individually, it's that they were sinners because Adam sinned. Adam became a sinner by sinning. But everybody after him became a sinner when he sinned. Even apart from their own sins. Many die. Not because of any transgression of their own, but because they belong to Adam They are in him. They are of his line. They are part of his descendants. Say, wear the uniform. Of the atom line, apart from any act on their own I don't know about you, but this is a point in Christian theology where I start to get a little outraged. The ire begins to build, and I kind of want to scream at the test. That's not fair. It's not right. That someone died because they just happened to be a human being and Adam sinned and made them a sinner? How is that just How is that even possible? The scriptures themselves say that the children do not pay for the sins of the father. And yet that seems to be exactly what's going on here. It's an outrageous way of doing things. It's a re it it's a deeply offensive system Part of the brilliance of the book of Romans. One of the reasons that Romans is at the central of so many important turns in church history. It's because Paul anticipates every such objection. And he answers them And my objection, my outrage that I would be on the hook for Adam's sin Paul sees it coming and he cuts it off. Verse 14b. Adam was a type of the one who was to come. Adam was a type of the one who was to come. A type. What is a type? What does that mean? Well, it really means what you think it means. A type of something, a category, a genre, a kind, a type of animal, dog A type of automobile trucks. It's a category to which something belongs Adam was a type of the one who was to come. Now, the one who was to come, written by a Jewish writer like Paul, written to an audience where there were many Jews in the audience. They would have understood that the one who was to come was the Messiah, and he's already established that that was Jesus of Nazareth. So he's talking about Jesus. That Adam is in the same category, the same type, the same genus as Jesus. Now, at that point we risk overplaying the similarities. We risk extending the metaphor too far. We risk making too much of this category, of this type. And so before we can go too far down that road, he heads us off. He cuts us off. He jumps immediately in verse 15 to kind of outlining all the ways that Adam and Christ are not like each other. And as I read verses 15 and the following after them, pay attention to the occurrence of the word man, M-A-N. Let me remind you that that is not only what God called all of us. When God made Adam and Eve, he called them man. But it's also the proper name God gave to the first male man. That's what Adam means in Old Testament Hebrew. Man. So we are in this text as mankind, and Adam is in this text as the man, and Christ is going to be clearly in this text as the man. And we have Paul beginning to explain how the one man supersedes the other. If you go over to the book of Corinthians, 1 Corinthians, you'll see there Paul actually calls Jesus the last Adam. Here he alludes to it. So now let's take a look. Adam is a type for Jesus. He's in the kind and the category, the genus as Jesus is. But now let's look at all the differences picking up in verse 15 But the free gift is not like the trespass, for if the many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gifts by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many And the free gift is not like the result of the one man's sin, for the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift, following many trespasses, brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reign through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. He's told us that Adam was a type of the one to come, that Adam was a type of the Christ. And now he goes to great lengths to say, hey, they're not alike in some important ways. Look at the ways. Adam's act caused death. The Christ's actions caused grace to abound for many Adam trespassed. He broke a law, and condemnation followed. Christ obeyed, giving his life freely. That's the free gift that's mentioned there. And justification followed. Death versus life, condemnation versus justification, perhaps most importantly. Through the one man, Adam, death reigned. But through the one man, Christ, the free gift of righteousness reigns in life. Punishment versus grace. Condemnation versus justification. Death versus life. They couldn't be more different. These aren't just differences, these are polar opposites. They're the exact opposite of one another. He's not simply saying, hey, there are some nuanced differences between Adam and Christ. He's saying everything is different between Adam and Christ. To be in Adam is to be in death, to be in sin, to be in Christ is to be in righteousness and to be in life. They couldn't be more different. So it begs the question: in what way are Adam and Christ of the same type? How can Paul use the word type in relation between Adam and Jesus? It'd be a bit like trying to make the argument that Adolf Hitler was a type for Mother Teresa. It seems counterintuitive. Why would you pick that? Of all the, they're both human beings. Beyond that Then why would you pick that? If your point is to say that Mother Teresa was merely a human being and not an angel, why would you compare it to Hitler? And that's what we ought to be saying here. What is there between these two that even ties them together at all? You see, and this is where our struggle with corporate identity comes back in to haunt us. We struggle with the concept of solidarity, that we're in it together, that we're in this as one. With anyone, with anything. Adam and Jesus were of the same type because of the relationship they had to all who would follow in them. Just like that ball player who put on the Orioles jersey and therefore he put on the losing streak of the Orioles. So it is with anyone who is born into humanity. The moment you put on the jersey of humanity, you own humanity's sin. It's part and parcel of being human being, and Adam brought that about. You came under the sway and the consequence of Adam's sin the moment you became a human being. You were in Adam, united to Adam, part and parcel with Adam. Maybe think of it this way: Adam was acting as your agent. What he did, you did. Whatever contract he signed, you signed. Whatever deal he made, you're on the hook for it and responsible for it. Or think of it this way, this is a common way many theologians have talked about it over the centuries. Is that Adam Was our representative, our federal head. Federalism is this idea that we don't, it's not a direct democracy. We don't actually vote for the laws, we vote for those who vote for the laws We pick our representatives, and they make the laws. Some of you will say, wait a second here, but I didn't get to pick Adam. I mean, I may not like my representative at the state legislature, the state assembly, but at least I got a chance to vote for him or her or against him or her I got no say in Adam. Why does he get to be my representative? Pause right there for just a moment. When Adam stood in front of that tree, what was his great sin? You, God, do not get to decide what I eat or don't eat. Isn't that what we're doing in front of this passage right now? If we're outraged at the idea that Adam would be our representative without our choice, without our say-so, we're outraged at the very way God set things up. We are angry at God for doing God things. And we have immediately committed the sin of Adam. So you can in this moment refuse Adam as your representative You can shake your fist at God and say, you have no right to ordain who represents me. I'll stand on my own two feet. I'll stand for myself. I will be my own agent and my own representative. But you had better be sinless. You might want to throw off the inherent sinfulness that comes from being an atom But are you free of all wrongdoing? Have you never deceived anyone? Have you never broken a promise? Have you never taken what didn't actually belong to you? Have you never been thoughtless and careless and self-absorbed? Pretty good chance you don't even remember the last time you were self-absorbed because you were so self-absorbed you didn't know you were self-absorbed You stood in the aisle in the grocery store not even realizing you were blocking everybody else from getting around you because you were looking at the phone for the coupon and were standing right in the middle, totally self-absorbed. But they were polite enough not to point it out to you. You don't even remember the last title-absorbed because you were that self-absorbed. And if you're going to throw off Adam as your representative, if you're going to throw off this idea of federalism, if you're going to throw off this idea of being in Adam or corporate identity Then you must be prepared to stand on your own. And you're in trouble. Big, big trouble. To think that we could do the the system better is to say that God got it wrong. That so now Paul is going to finally come back around To the point where he started in verse 12. He's going to come back around to that thought of being reconciled to God in Christ Jesus Of being in Christ, of being united to Christ, and therefore reconciled to God. And he's going to come back around to the benefits of that and what it means for us. And he's going to say, listen. You might be frustrated that you're in Adam and that he sinned on your behalf But look what it means to be in Christ and to be reconciled to God because of him. Verse 18. Therefore As one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. You may not want the guilt that comes from being in Adam, from being a human being, but do you understand the righteousness, the blamelessness that comes from being in Christ? Of putting on that jersey? Of being traded from the team of Adam to the team of Jesus? To having gone from the humanity that was headed to hell to the humanity that's headed to heaven? One act of righteousness leads to justification, not your act of righteousness. But Christ on your behalf, Christ as your agent, Christ as your representative. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. If you know where we're headed, if you know Romans, if you're familiar in a moment, what's Paul going to say at the beginning of Romans 6:1? Shall we go on sinning that grace may increase? Paul, you have argued that grace has abounded where there was much sin, that the grace of God grows in proportion to sin, that it's able to overcome any amount of sin? And again, Paul is going to anticipate our objections, anticipate our questions, and he's going to answer them. But that's next week Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that as sin reigned in death Grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Adam is a type for the Christ in that his ax fell on those who followed after him. Just as Christ's righteousness falls on those who follow after him. When we are united to Christ in faith, We are reconciled to God. And when we are reconciled to God, we get the benefits of being in Christ. Once we are okay with God, and God is okay with us. Then he treats us as a part of his family. He counts us as one of his. We are in him. We belong to him. We commune with him. And we therefore have all the benefits of him, whether we feel like it or not, whether we got a sense of it or not. It is the point of this table of communion, a constantly we constant weekly reminder that we are His. We sang this new song, not a new song, but a song new to us this morning. I belong to you. It's a beautiful reminder that it doesn't matter what goes on in the world around us. We are in Christ. We wear that jersey. We are called Christians, little Christ. And so we have all the benefits that are accrued to him Our corporate identity, brothers and sisters, is no longer American. It's no longer Marylanders. Our corporate identity is not that I come from Norwegian descendants and you come from someone lesser than the Vikings. It's that we are in Christ, with each other, belonging to Him, wearing that same jersey, owning that same righteousness benefiting from that same standing with him as our representative, him as our agent, him as the one acting for us, however you want to think about it. That's the good news of the gospel. That's the good news of Romans 5. Let's pray. Lord, it can be a struggle for us to to grasp this truth, to to to let go of our desire to stand on our own and to accept that we belong to you, that we are in you. Help us do that. Help us let go of our desire to make our own way in this world and to accept the fact. That we stand in Jesus Christ. We are his and he is ours and we belong to him. And because we belong to him, we have all the benefits. of of Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen