I invite you to open your Bibles and turn to Mark chapter 10 as we continue our sermon series through Mark, A Call to Confess Christ. As you're turning to Mark 10, we're going to be picking up at verse 35 and reading through the end of Mark 10, reading two stories that are tied together by the way that Jesus interacts with with his petitioners. And I want to remind you, as you're turning there, uh where we are in the Gospel of Mark, because it's it doesn't feel that way if we're not if we don't pay attention. Well you have to realize that we are on the cusp of what is known as the triumphal entry. And the events that we are about to read about occur on the Friday before Palm Sunday We are entering Jesus has just eight days left of his ministry before the cross. And so that what occurs in the rest of Mark is really a very compressed time period in the life of Jesus. Even though it's going to take us two more months to get through it all in our sermon series, it's going to occur in just eight days in Jesus' life. And I share that with you to remind you that we are on the cusp of Jerusalem, that the people are headed up. Jesus is leading a group from Galilee. They are headed into Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover in the Holy City. And that he knows he has been telling his disciples all along the road on the way to Jerusalem why they're going there, so that he can die. So that he can be betrayed and turned over to wicked men, so that they can mock him and beat him and spit on him and kill him. And so that he can be raised again. And it's in that context of that teaching, of that walk up to Jerusalem that we find our text this morning. Before I read the text, I would remind you that here at Shure Harvest Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. So that if you want to know what it is we are to believe, How it is we are to live, if you want to know how it is that we are to come to our God, then you have to know his word. I invite you now to hear the Word of God from the Gospel of Mark. Starting in verse 35. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Grant us to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your glory. Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink, you will drink, and with the baptism which I am baptized, you will be baptized. But to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared. And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John And Jesus called them to him and said to them, You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant. And whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. And they came to Jericho. And as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples in a great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stopped and said, Call him And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take heart, get up, he is calling you. And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus. And Jesus said to him, What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said to him, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Go your way, your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way. Let's pray. God, please speak to us through your word this morning, that we would know that we have met with you. And that you have spoken to us, revealed yourself to us, so that we might understand how to rightly come to you through Jesus Christ. Christ, the one who is walking to Jerusalem here in this text on our behalf. We pray this in his name. Amen. I think many of you are aware that our third child Caleb is in the Army, and he spent most of last year in Kuwait and Syria on a forward deployment, and he got Uh tasked with a particular detail, he was to be the driver for a uh a group of notables from the base who were going to go into Kuwait City to the embassy, the U. S. Embassy in Kuwait City, and to meet with the ambassador and some dignitaries. Kind of a big deal. It's kind of cool for a 19-year-old to be able to go to a U. S. Embassy and meet the ambassador and rub elbows with the bigwigs. And when they leave base in a situation like that, for security reasons, they don't wear their uniforms. They wear civilian clothes. So he gets to the embassy and he's uh done his driving along the way and he's sitting at the table waiting for the festivities to begin, and there is an uh an older man who sits down and strikes up a conversation with Caleb and Caleb begins to uh the the the joy of uh the 19-year-old being in the army and being overseas and all the fun he's been having, all the neat things he's learning He begins to tell this elderly gentleman, this older gentleman, about all the about all the wonders of army life and all the glories they've been enjoying and the threats they faced and the horrible food that they've survived and the overnight deployments and so all the amazing things of Army life. And at that moment the MC gets to the microphone and begins to gather the attention of the audience And begins to introduce the first dignitary who is going to be a keynote speaker at the event. He begins to talk about the uh illustrious uh 35-year career of this major general And at that moment, the man talking to Caleb gets up and goes to the microphone to the applause of the room. Caleb had just told a two-star general about how great it is to be in the army. It was an embarrassing moment in the young man's life. And it was a lesson. And sometimes you gotta keep your mouth shut until you really know what's going on. And as embarrassing as that is, as humbling as that event was, it pales in comparison to what James and John do here. For Caleb didn't know. They were in civilian clothes. He didn't know this man was a two-star general James and John knew, or they should have known, to whom they were speaking on this occasion. For their teacher, their rabbi, their leader, their lord, has just told them Just the verses that came right before where we started. He just got done telling them that he's going to Jerusalem to die on their behalf. And they respond with, yeah, son of man suffering, death, beating, yeah, we get it, we get it. But what we really want to know is this Have you got the connections? Can we get the front row seats? Can we get the 50-yard line Super Bowl seats? Do you have that ability, Jesus? You know, we don't want to be at the back with behind the lady with the big hat and the kid behind us kicking the back of our chair. We don't want to miss the archangels. We don't want to miss out on seeing Moses and Elijah and all these others We want to be sitting right up front in the place of glory. And Jesus says, fellas. You have no idea what you're asking. You have rightly perceived that my seat will be the seat of supreme glory in heaven. But you fail to understand why. It's because I'm going to die. It's because I'm going to be spat on. It's because I'm going to be beaten. It's because I'm going to suffer. That the seat of supreme glory is reserved for me. And you think that you get the next best seats in the house? Have you not processed the thought about what that means, fellas? Are you not listening to what I'm teaching you? You're not getting it. They say to him, but we can. We can do it. We can do all the things that you're doing. We can suffer the things you're going to suffer. And Jesus kind of, you can see him kind of just shaking his head. He says, guys, you don't have any idea how right you are. You really are going to suffer these things. In this moment, right now, in your pride, in your arrogance, you couldn't possibly face what's about to come. But on the back side of what I'm about to do, when you see the power of God and the resurrection, You will be able to do what is needed. You will face the things I'm going to face. You will be baptized in the suffering with which I'm going to be baptized. You will drink from the cup of agony that I'm going to drink. And in fact, if we could continue forward, flash forward into the book of Acts, in Acts chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, we find that this James right here is executed for his faith. He is beheaded by Herod Antipas. It's the only one of the twelve for whom we have an account of his martyrdom in the scriptures. According to church tradition, all of the others also died for their faith, except for his brother John here. John, so we have the first one to be martyred and the last one to die are both right here. But John doesn't live out an easy life for he dies in exile on the island of Patmos, suffering because of his They have come to Jesus in pride, in arrogance, in assumption of position and of power. They have said to themselves, this isn't, this is obvious I mean, we're two-thirds of the inner circle. That's the other thing I always find interesting about this. I'm kind of at this point in the book of Mark, I'm kind of used to Peter being the knucklehead. I'm kind of used to Peter sticking his foot in his mouth, and it's not Peter this time. It's James and John. And I think what they've you know decided along the way is, well, there are only two seats next to Jesus. And there's three of us on the inner circle. Obviously, obviously it's two out of the three of us. I mean, come on. I mean, not only are we part of the twelve that Jesus has chosen, but we're part of the three that he took up on the Mount of Transfiguration. Clearly, these seats belong to us. And it makes sense to us why would Jesus want to split up? We're brothers. I mean Peter's only a cousin. We're brothers. Why on earth would Jesus want to split us up? So clearly it belongs to us. And Peter, he'll get some other good seat, but it won't be one of those two. And with that logic and with that assumption and with that arrogance and with that pride, they go to Jesus and say, we want those seats reserved. Interesting. He's told them why he's going to Jerusalem. He's told them what he's going to do on their behalf. He has said, I am going to be betrayed. I am going to be mocked. I am going to be beaten. They're going to spit on me. And they're going to kill me. And they say, Yeah, but could you do a little more? Think about that. Think about that. When we say, yeah, Jesus, thanks for saving me, but could you do a little more? I'm not getting the recognition from my boss that I think I deserve. My wife isn't fawning over me like I probably should be fawned over. I'm pretty amazing as a husband. My kids don't quite bow before me the way they ought to bow before me. Lord, I deserve more. Yeah, you saved me, but could you do a little more? When we come to Jesus with a list of demands that are focused on ourselves, we come as James and John came. With a slap in the face to say, yeah, you're going up to Jerusalem to die, but could you do a little more? The seventeenth century English clergyman John Flavil once said, They who know God will be humble. They who know God will be humble. Had Caleb known who was sitting next to him, he would not have run his mouth. Had James and John really realized what was going on, who it was they were talking to, who was going to die and suffer, who was going to die, they would have never asked for glory to be given to themselves And when our prayer life, when our desire life is completely focused on self, it reveals that we don't truly know God. They who know God will be humble. The ten are indignant. It's an interesting thing. Why are they indignant? Why are they upset? For the truth is that if they also got it, they wouldn't be upset at all. Do the calculus. If you truly get it, the first will be last and the last shall be first. I really get it. Then they should be rejoicing in James and John's stupid request. For by putting themselves forward, they've just put themselves at the end of the line. We've just moved closer to the top of the list And they don't get it. They're indignant because they're thinking exactly like James and John. They're a little frustrated, a little upset that they didn't think about it. We're closing it on Jerusalem. Jesus has told us he's going to die there. The window of opportunity to get this request and is closing. And James and John beat us to it. That's why they're indignant, because they don't get it either. What does the text say? Jesus called them all and sat them down and starts teaching them yet again. In verse 42, and Jesus called them to him and said, You know that those who consider rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great ones exercised authority over them, but it shall not be so among you My people are to be different, not like the world. That has been a theme throughout the Old Testament. Even the thing, some of those crazy things we read in Leviticus and we're scratching our heads going, why you can't Plant two different crops in the same field? You can't weave a garment with two different threads. I don't understand. And the point was separation. Keeping things separated. Don't mix and mingle. I don't want your plants to mix in your field because I don't want you to mix with the Canaanites I don't want your threads mixed in your garment because I don't want you mixed with the people around you. You're not to be like them And Jesus says, guys, this is what the Gentiles do. They grab power, they hold it for themselves, they act like they're all that, they lord it over the others. That's not how the kingdom of God works. He said, if you want to be first in my kingdom, you've got to serve. I wish I had planned this. I didn't, but in God's providence, after Sunday school today, we're going to stay and rearrange chairs here. You want to be first in the kingdom of God? Fight over who gets to stay and help with that. That's what he's talking about. It's my turn to take a shift with the children. Now I'll get the sh I'll get that shovel. You stay here. I'll get the shoveling done. No, no, let me get up on that ladder and do that. The people of God ought to be fighting not to see who gets pride of position, but who gets to serve. Guys, you'll understand this. I suppose the women here might also, but I've never been a woman, so I don't know. But the guys will understand this. There was that girl somewhere along the way that you kind of had your eye on, kind of liked her And she needed something, you were killing yourself to get it for her. Jumping up to show off. Jumping up there to serve her That's how I met my wife. We're in Chicago with a college group, group from our college, and we're there in Chicago. It's December. And she forgot her coat. The Windy City in December without a coat. And I'm going, great, I got a golden opportunity to serve her. And I'm taking off my wonderful top. I'm like, here, take it. She's like, no, I'm like, oh no, no, take it. I'm like fighting her. Where am I toe? I want you to like me Now she'd be gonna code and say, Well, you'll learn your lesson. We ought to have that desire for the Bride of Christ. We ought to have that desire to take off our coat, to serve one another. To impress the Bride of Christ, to love the Bride of Christ, to be cold on her behalf, to be up late on her behalf, to be overwhelmed on her behalf, to have too many things on our plate because we're serving the church and the people in the church. That's what Jesus says here. You know, there's a uh interesting account True story. Man's uh riding along on his horse, uh Army a long time ago, and uh there are three men struggling to get a cannon out of the mud, stuck in the mud And there's a a a fourth man standing there yelling at them and not helping. And the man on the horse says to the uh to the fourth man, Why aren't you helping? And he says, Well I'm the corporal. It's not my job to do this. That's the private's job. I'm here to supervise. And the man gets down off the horse and he picks in, and together the four of them are able, after some effort, to break the cannon free, get it back up on solid ground, and unstick it from the mud. And as the man gets back on his horse, he turns to the corporal and says, next time you guys need help, tell them to call the commander-in-chief. And George Washington rode away. The one who is willing to serve is the one who will truly be great among the people of God. You know, when you go to a wedding reception, it really does reveal what we think of ourselves, for on the list of all the tables and where we're going to see, what do we all do? We all start at table number one to look for our name. I gotta be table one, don't I? It's really discouraging when you finally get to table 18 and there you find yourself. Want to go easier on your pride? Start at table 22 and work your way up. You'll find your name a whole lot faster When we're at the wedding feast of the Lamb, and we are seated at those tables, and we feel like we're quite a ways back there, and we're looking at the people next to us going, Can you see the dais? I can't tell who's up there with Jesus. Can you make it out You know, it I it is that Billy Graham? I I I can't see him. You know, all the pictures I've ever seen of John Calvin were pretty fuzzy, but maybe that's John Calvin You stop and go, wait a second. The odds are pretty good that none of us are going to know the people on that Deus with Jesus unless they once served us in this life. The very fact that we start listing the names of famous people means we don't understand how the kingdom of God works. We must serve. The text, the section ends with Jesus pointing out. He says, For even uh important verse there in verse uh forty-five, for even the Son of Man Quick comment on that title. Son of Man occurs. It's Jesus' favorite term for himself. Son of Man comes out of the book of Daniel. Where Daniel records for us that he had a vision, and in his vision, one like the son of man, one like a son of man, comes before the uh the ancient of days. And he is granted power and glory and the right to judge the nations. He is given all the prerogatives of God. The one who is the Son of Man in the book of Daniel is God. And Jesus says, even the Son of Man, and these guys know their Old Testament, they know their Bible, they know Daniel. And they should know who the Son of Man is. He's God. He's the one that comes into the presence of the ancient of days and is given equality with God. He's given the prerogatives of God. He's given the glory of God. He's given the position of God. Isaiah chapter 46 says very clearly: the Lord says, I will not share my glory with another. And yet the Son of Man gets glory, because he is not another, he is God. And Jesus says, even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. Why do we serve one another? Why is the kingdom of God supposed to be different? Because our king is different. Our king is not like other kings. Our God is not like other gods. He came to serve you by dying for you. He came to serve me by dying for me. The text goes on. And it's pretty easy to see how the two texts, the two stories are tied together. And in fact, I think Jesus purposely ties them together because the same question, exactly the same words, are used in both stories. Jesus says, what do you want me to do for you? He says that in the second verse of the text to James and John. He says that in the second to last verse of the text to Bartimaeus. What do you want me to do for you? We have two accounts of two different petitioners coming to our Lord, and he responds, he sees an opportunity to demonstrate to his disciples how they ought to come. To demonstrate to you and me how we ought to come. And so Bartimaeus is sitting alongside the road, and some interesting things happen there. One, as they're walking along, Bartamaeus He uh he he hears this commotion, he says he's blind, he doesn't know what's going on, and he says asking people around what's going on, what's going on? They said, Jesus is coming. He said, Jesus, the one from Nazareth? Yes, Jesus of Nazareth is coming Well, I've heard about him. I know the wondrous power he has. I know his ability to break the curse, to set people free from the effects of sin in this life. And at this moment it's worth stopping and reminding ourselves. Why do miracles occur? Go back to the very first miracle that Mark records for us. Do you remember what it was? It's that man being dropped down through the roof. The one on the mat? And Jesus says to him, your sins are forgiven. And everybody around clucks their tongues. You know, this guy got right to forgive sins. And Jesus says, well, which you tell me which is easier to say that? Or to say, get up and walk, take your mat and walk. They say, well, of course it's easier to say your forgives are forgiven. Who can check that? Who can go into heaven? Who can ascend into heaven? Bring down the accounting register of God and check to see if the sins are really forgiven. So of course it's easy to say that. And what does Jesus say? So that people will pray for miracles for all the centuries to come? No. So that you will think I'm really this amazing guy? No. He says, so that you know that the Son of Man has authority to forgive sins on earth, so that you understand that the one who comes in the name of Almighty God, the Messiah, has the right to undo the curse to undo the effects of sin in our life so that you will know that. And then he turns to the man and says, take up your mat and go home. And the guy is healed. And ever since then, each of the miracles of Jesus have been an affirmation of his right to reverse the curse, to undo sin. He has that power, he has that authority, he has that right. And this man has heard that account. This man has believed that truth. And he's hoping in it. And he says, I've heard about Jesus of Nazareth. He can undo the effects of sin. My blindness is a consequence of my sin. He can do, he can fix this. He yells out, Son of David, have mercy on me. That's a loaded sentence. We could spend an entire sermon just on the Son of David. We won't. It is the only time in the Gospel of Mark that that title is recorded for us. It's implied at the triumphal entry, the opening of chapter 11. But it's not actually stated there. This is the only place in the Gospel of Mark where the Son of David title is recorded. And in a nutshell, what the man recognizes is his position in the royal hierarchy In the royal pedigree that has come down. There was a covenant promise made to David that there would be one who would rule on his throne for all eternity. And this man says, I think this is the guy. This is the one who is going to rule on the throne of David, rule over God's people for all eternity. They call them by that title. Son of David, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, one who will reign forever. The second half of what he says is also noteworthy, for he says, Have mercy on me. Not give us, give me what I ask for. Not I'm going to demand because of my position on the inner circle of the disciples. I'm two, we're two-thirds of the of the inner circle. And therefore we have a right. No, he doesn't say that. What is mercy? Do you remember what mercy is? Mercy is when we do not receive some bad thing that we deserve. This doesn't happen as much as it used to, but there was a time in my life when mercy was an important component of my everyday life because I liked to drive faster than the law liked to allow. And I would get stopped. And I would really hope that the officer, she'd come up, she'd take my license, she'd go back to the car, and I would really hope for mercy. But she wouldn't give me the tickets that I had rightfully earned. And she would occasionally, not as often as I wanted, but occasionally come back and say, we're going to let you go today, Mr. Shaw, with a warning. It's mercy. I deserved a ticket. I had broken the law, but I was given mercy. I didn't receive the punishment I deserved. By this man saying, Have mercy on me, he admits that he deserves what he has. I deserve to be a blind beggar. That's what I've earned by my sin. That's what is rightfully mine. I don't deserve to sit at your right hand or your left. I don't deserve to sit in your presence at all. But I'm I know who you are. I know you're the one who comes from God. I know you're the son of David, and I know what is promised about the Messiah, and he will be merciful. And I'm hoping in that. I come with nothing but my sin and its consequences in my life, and I would, I'm hoping. I'm praying that you will undo the consequences of sin in my life. That you will reverse the effects of the fall. And take away my blindness. James and John come to Jesus with an expectation of position. Bartimaeus comes to Jesus with emptiness. And only the hope of mercy. It is a complete inversion of how thing how James and John did it. You know, there's an interesting link here that we need to make. When we look at this verse, it's not always obvious and not always easy to see, but I want to fast forward, and we're going to get to this and look at it more closely in a later sermon, but right now I just want to fast forward to Jesus hanging on the cross at the end of the Gospel of Mark. You don't need to turn there. I'll just tell you quickly what happens there. So Jesus is hanging on the cross, and the leaders of the Jewish people, the leaders of the Pharisees and the leaders of the scribes, are standing at the foot of the cross And they're congratulating one another on their apparent victory. And they're kind of elbowing one another and pointing and scoffing and ugh, you know, wagging uh how does Isaiah say? They wag their heads at him. Oh my goodness Okay? And one of the things they say is, this guy could save others, but he can't save himself. He saved others, but he can't save himself. And what's interesting is if you look through the Gospel of Mark, you'll never in the English translation You'll never see where Jesus saved anybody. What are you talking about? He saved others. The enemies of Jesus are admitting that he saved others. But in our English translations, we don't see that he saved anybody. This word that we see here, in verse 52, and Jesus said to him, Go your way, your faith has made you well. That's the word save in Greek. It's used broadly in the New Testament, in the Gospel accounts, and some of the epistles. Sometimes to be saved from a disease, to be saved from blindness. And for good reason the English translations don't render it as saved because it we don't know for certain that he actually means this man has been saved spiritually, although he does say he followed Jesus. But this is what we're talking about right here. This is the overlap that we've got to see. Made you well, healed you in Greek is the same as saved. When the leaders stand at the cross and mock Jesus, this is what they're pointing to. Events like this right here. He saved others. But he couldn't save himself. And whether or not each and every account of a miracle is going to reflect an eternal salvation, a spiritual salvation, it does reflect Jesus' ability to save us from the effects of the fall, to heal us from what ails us, to undo what has been done to us. Because of his faith, because he came humbly to his God, because he came with nothing in his hands except his own sin. And said, this is what I bring. Take it away from me. Please take it away from me. And Jesus says, that kind of faith, that brings salvation. That has saved you. That has made you well. James and John did not understand God For as Flavil said, those who know God will be humble. That same sentence actually, John Flavel went on to add this. He said, that they who know God will be humble, and he went on to say this, and they that know themselves cannot be proud. They that know themselves cannot be proud. This man knew himself. James and John did not know God and so they were not humble. This man knows himself and he cannot be proud. He says, I am a sinner. I have received what I deserve. I am suffering the right and just consequences of my sin. But you're a merciful God. Please take it away. Please free me from it. You know, there's something interesting in Paul's letters. The first, we believe that the first of Paul's letters that we have recorded in the scriptures is 1 Corinthians. Scholars think that's the earliest of the letters he wrote. And in 1 Corinthians 15, 9, we read this. Paul writes, I am the least of the apostles. I am the least of the apostles. A statement amount of humility, to be sure, but it's kind of a humble brag, right? I'm the least of the apostles, but hey, I am one of the apostles. That still puts me pretty far up here. It's some years later Paul writes the book of Ephesians, and in Ephesians 3. 8 we read this. I'm the very least of all the saints. In his first letter, Paul says, I'm the least of the apostles. The apostles are up here, and I'm on the bottom rung of that. And then he says, well, wait a second, as I've lived longer and grown more and come to know myself better, I recognize that I'm the least of all the saints. I'm down here. The last books that Paul writes are the two letters to Timothy. And in Timothy we read this. Paul says, I am the foremost of sinners. Early in his ministry, I am the least of the apostles. Later in his ministry, I am the least of all the saints. And at the end of his life, he says, I am the least of I am the foremost of all the sinners. I am down here. I am the pawn scum of the earth. It was because Paul was this backsliding carnal Christian? No! Had he grown in sanctification during his life? Absolutely he had. But he had also grown in knowledge of self And he said, wow. Wow, am I a sinner? It's unbelievable how bad I am. As he had walked away from killing Christians, you say, well, Paul just got nothing but better as his life went on. He used to kill Christians, and now he's a leading missionary of all time. But if Paul stood before the throne of a holy God, in prayer and in reading of the word, he kept coming, wow. Wow, I can't believe how bad. Every day I'm just stunned by my sin. I bet yeah, a new level of my selfishness is revealed to me every day a new degree of my uh my my evilness, my wickedness, my rebellion against God. How does he write it in Romans? I find that I cannot do the things I want to do, and I do exactly what I don't want, and I can't Woe to me How does he end that passage? That passage of great frustration over his sinfulness. He says, Who can save me from this body of sin? And then the very next That verse says, praise be to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Coming to know yourself Will humble you. You will not be able to be proud. But that doesn't mean you're going to be downtrodden for all eternity. For precisely as your understanding of your own sin grows, so too will the scale of the cross in your eyes It will get bigger and bigger and bigger. And the arms of the one who were stretched out on that cross will become more amazing to you. Because you're going to begin to realize, wow, what He did for me. Those who know God will be humble. Those who know themselves cannot be proud. But in that humiliation, we go to God and we say, Set us free from the curse of sin. Son of David, the one who rules forever, have mercy on me. That is a great hope. It will remove the tears. Coming to grips with our sin is painful. But embracing a great Savior is that much more joy. James and John get there We know they get there. We know we're going to see them in heaven. There's no question about that. But they had to learn a hard lesson along the way. The lesson to us today is not to come with presumption of position. Oh, I'm an elder in the church. Oh, I'm a pastor, oh, I'm a deacon, oh, I'm this, I'm that. No. I am a sinner who deserves to be blind and homeless, a beggar along the side of the road, but you are merciful. And I come to you humbly. Have mercy. Be on the O son of David. Let's pray