Today we return to our series in the book of Acts, a series entitled Acts, The Work Continues. A work that continued. in the church after Jesus left this earth, and a work that we hope and pray continues in our church today. We're at a pivotal point in the book of Acts By God's grace, I didn't plan this, it didn't work out this way, it didn't work out this way according to my plan, but by God's grace we actually left Acts at a really key point, and we're jumping back into it now at that pivotal point. The the some interesting things have happened to remind you where we were in Acts. There was a persecution that broke out following the stoning of Stephen in Acts chapter 7. And in Acts 8. 1, we read how that persecution caused the church to scatter. And the rest of Acts 8 is the account of Philip sharing the gospel in the land of Samaria. And you recall that that was a bit disturbing, so much so that leaders, Peter and John, leaders from the Jerusalem church, went to Samaria to check and make sure that everything there was copacetic. You know, we weren't sure about this Samaritans believe coming into our church, what's up with that? And yet the gospel went forward in Samaria. There was an Ethiopian who came to know the Lord through uh uh his ministry. But something interesting there. Samaritans, yes, they weren't friends with the Jews and the Jewish believers were having a little tough time with the Samaritans, but in the end they kind of said, well The Samaritans, they're kind of sorta like us as Jews. I mean they've got some of us in them and they've got we can see how how they could come to the Jewish Messiah. And that Ethiopian, granted he's he's not uh uh uh historically one of us. But his knowledge of the prophet Isaiah clearly shows that he was a Jewish proselyte. So he had become one of us. And so they kind of were okay with those things happening. But then in Acts 10, something astounding happened. In Acts 10, Peter goes to the house of Cornelius. Cornelius is not a Samaritan. He's not a half-breed Jew. He's not Jewish at all. And he's not a proselyte. He's not a convert to Judaism like the like the Ethiopian probably was. And when he comes to know the Lord, there is again controversy. And the beginning of Acts 11 is the account of Peter coming back to the church in Jerusalem and giving a report and wrestling with that. And the church having to come to grips with do Gentiles have a place? With the Jewish Messiah. Praise God, they said yes. Had they not, you and I would not be here today. For the vast majority of us are Gentiles And so the church had been wrestling with these things back and forth. In the middle of Acts 11, in verse 19, what we're going to pick up here now, we see it actually opens up We're referring back to that persecution. We are jumping back almost in time to something that appears to perhaps have been happening alongside of the things that we read in 8, 9, and 10 And now we pick up in Acts 11, verse 19, and we're going to read through the end of the chapter. Hear now the word of Almighty God. Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who on coming to Antioch spoke to the Hellenist also, preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord. The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad, and he exhorted them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose, for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith, and a great many people were added to the Lord. So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul. And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians. Now in those days, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch, and one of them, named Agaba, stood up and foretold by the Spirit that there would be a great famine over all the world. This took place in the days of Claudius. So the disciples determined, everyone according to his ability to send relief to the brothers living in Judea. And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul. Lord, guide us into an understanding of your word that is in accord with your intent. And let it be made alive in our lives individually and our life collectively as a church So that your son will be known and his glory shone forth. We pray this in his name. Amen. I had a boss who had a tendency, good boss overall, liked working for the guy But he had one little quirk that kind of annoyed me at times. He had this tendency to identify some trait about you and then ever after reference you according to that trait. As if that was the only thing in your being or your existence For me, it was my tendency to be a do-it-yourselfer. As many of you know, I tackle my own home improvement projects, I do most of my own car work, and so he labeled me as a do-it-yourselfer, and everything always came back around to that. To the point where if I mentioned that a family member was sick, he would laugh, oh, you're just going to do the surgery at home yourself, aren't you? It got a little old at times. There was more to me than just my do-it-yourself projects. But if we're honest with ourselves, we all tend to do that with regard to one another. We tend to identify some trait about a person. And use it to identify that person. You know, what's his name? You know, the kid uh uh tall guy, always a Pittsburgh Steelers fan, I think. You know who I'm talking about? And of course many of us go, oh yes, I know who you're talking about about. We identify people by that trait. You know, Becky's husband, the good-looking one If I'm going to be known as Becky's husband, I should be known as the blessed and lucky one. We identify people by certain traits. We see that happening here in the book of Acts. Our key verse here in Acts 19, the central theme of this section comes there in Acts, in verse 26. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. They were first called Christians in Antioch. There is a long history of the people of God being called by names they did not choose for themselves. A careful study of the Old Testament will show you that the word Hebrew was not one that the people of God applied to themselves. The Egyptians called them Hebrews. The Assyrians called them Hebrews. The Babylonians called them Hebrews. They didn't call themselves. Hebrews. For the word is derived from the ancient Semitic word that means nomad or wanderer. And they didn't see themselves as yeah, okay, forty years in the wilderness, we get it. But we have a promised land. We're not wanderers, we're not nomads We are not Hebrews. Now, by the New Testament, they had begun to use that term for themselves, but it's not one they applied to themselves initially. The same was true 1500 years later with the Lutherans. They didn't want to be followers of Luther. They saw themselves as adherents to the Bible. But others called them Lutherans. Same with the Puritans. It was not a label they chose for themselves, but it was applied to them. In the early part of the 20th century, there was this group of Christians that steadfastly clung to five essential doctrines. Those doctrines were known as the fundamentals of the faith, and they quickly became known as fundamentalists. Not a name they picked for themselves. In the later part of the 20th century, the world looked at a branch of Christendom and said, You guys are all about evangelism. You're trying to get everybody else saved. And they called us evangelicals Throughout history of God's people, those outside have applied names to them. And we see that here. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. Let's take a look at this. Let's take a look at why this was the case and what the significance is of this Looking first at verses 19 through 20. 19 to 20, we ask the question, whom did they preach? Whom did these disciples Now first a couple of comments about Antioch. We see there that we we this is the first time that this city has shown up in the book of Acts, but it is from here on out going to be a fairly important city in the account of the early church. So let's learn a little bit about the city of Antioch. It was uh uh uh the first thing we ought to say about it is that there were a couple of Antiochs in the ancient world. And this one is known as Syrian Antioch, and it's by far the more important of the two. If you're in doubt about which Antioch it is, it's almost always this one. Okay? It's at the uh very northern edge of ancient Syria, or today it's technically the ruins are in the very southern part of modern Turkey. On the Ortantes River. It was a large city, verified population of at least a half a million, third largest city in the Roman Empire. It was a diverse city. It was a major trading port. Trading routes that came across land from Asia. from India and China would come to uh uh Antioch, and their goods could be put on ships, floated down the Ortantes River and taken out to the Mediterranean Sea and distributed through the rest of the Roman Empire. It was a major trading port, and as a result, it was incredibly diverse. People from all over the world lived in Antioch. And it was a corrupt city. Phenomenally so. The Romans are not exactly known for their morality. After all, their entertainment was killing people in the Colosseum And the Roman historians write about how they were afraid that the moral degradation of Antioch would one day corrupt Rome. That's how bad things were in Antioch. That there was fear that it would corrupt Rome. So it's into this city that we see the Christians come. They come because of the persecution that broke out. They are scattered by the persecution. It was the hand of God moving them. Jesus had told them as he was departing that you will go into Samaria and Judea and to the uttermost parts of the earth. And when they didn't go quickly enough on their own, God gave them a little kick on the backside to get them there. And they end up now in Antioch And they start preaching the Word of God. Now there is another technicality. We dealt a little bit with some information about Antioch. There's a technicality we need to address here to really understand what's going on. And I need you to look at uh uh uh uh there in verse 20, but there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who on coming to Antioch spoke to the Hellenists The Hellenist. We need to deal with that word very briefly. If you've been following closely, and if your translation is the same as mine, you will remember that we've seen that word Hellenist before. We saw it back in Acts 6. In Acts 6, you recall that the deacons were established because there was a dispute between the Hellenists and the Hebrews. Jewish believers who were heavily influenced by the Greek culture, the Hellenists. Jewish believers who not so heavily influenced by the Greek culture, the Hebrews. But they were both groups of Jews. Here you'll notice that these are not set in contrast to the Hebrews, but rather they're set in contrast to Jews. We see that it's Jews in verse 19, and by contrast, Hellenists in verse 20. And notice that just like when the gospel went to non-Jews in Acts 8. Jerusalem sent somebody to go check on things? Notice we have Jerusalem sending Barnabas to come check. By the way, this is a good argument for the Presbyterian system. connectedness of churches, one church answerable to another. This is where we get our Presbyterian model, is in places like this. But we didn't notice when when uh the the- if these were Hellenist Jews, there'd be no controversy. After all, the deacon board of Jerusalem was dominated by Hellenist Jews. These Hellenists, rather, are better seen not as Hellenist Jews, but as Hellenists. Period. They're Greeks. And in fact, this is the only major English translation that translates it as Hellenists. All the rest put the word Greek there And I think even Maius footnoted and says, or possibly Greeks. Okay? So I think it'd better see this as Greeks. These are Gentiles These are not Jews at all, hence the controversy and hence some of the discussion that's going to break out So one of the things we have to ask ourselves is if the initial men who came to Antioch restricted their preaching to Jews only, were they standing in defiance to what was decided back in Acts uh uh uh eleven with regard to the gospel going out to the Gentiles. Remember Acts 11, they dealt with that controversy, the beginning of 11, the first half of 11, they dealt with the controversy of should Gentiles receive the Jewish Messiah? And can they be brought into our church? And they said yes. And now we have these men going, nope, I'm going to preach only to Jews. So are they standing in defiance to the decision of the church? Tough call. And commentators are not agreed. There are those who argue yes, they went out in defiance. There are others who are saying, no. So this is a flashback. Stephen's going back and telling us something that was happening co coincidentally with what happened in Jerusalem, and these guys don't even know about the Cornelius events and that decision. I don't know And so we are not going to make a point out of it either way. There are other things here that we can glean, that we can be certain of, and that's where we need to focus. And I want to draw our attention to that now. So what was going on? What happened here? These unnamed men, by the way, that's important. Well uh Elder Gary's prayer That we all are responsible for the gospel. You see here, this is not a church established by Peter or Paul or Barnabas. Unnamed people took the gospel to Antioch and they shared it and they established a church. Yes, Barnabas and Paul will later come and pass through this church. But they did not establish it. It is something that belongs to all of us. And what do we see there in verses 19 and 20? What do we have? Well it says they they they were speaking the word at the end of 19, and then at the end of 20, they were preaching the Lord Jesus. They were preaching the Lord Jesus. The first thing we have to recognize about this church and its establishment and why it was called what it was called, why the world named them Christians. It's because that's what they talked about. They were preaching the Lord Jesus. They were not preaching other things. They were not preaching, get yourself fixed, clean up your act. Behave right, Antiochians. Flee from the corruption, and then you can be saved. They were preaching the Lord Jesus. We must always be doing that. It is why we read the Nicene Creed this morning. To remind ourselves, the rest of this is going to make no sense. Everything else that comes here is going to make no sense to you if you sit there today and do not own The Lord Jesus. Do not love Him, are not clinging to Him. Nothing else that we say today is going to make any sense. It begins there. We must understand who He is. Who for us and for our salvation came down, was born of a woman, suffered under Pontius Pilate, dead, buried. But rose again. We must start there. None of the rest of it's gonna matter. If we don't love what Jesus did for us, we are never going to be able to be like this church and be called Christian. If we don't bask in who he was, we will never be like this church and be called Christians. Or we may call ourselves that. But that's an empty, hollow title. We will never earn it from the world. It begins with preaching Jesus. And a quick note too, it's interesting. Prior to this in the book of Acts, it's been largely Jesus Christ. Jesus the Messiah. Preaching to Jews, they would naturally talk about the Messiah. Jews were waiting for the Christ. They were waiting for the Messiah. It's interesting here, there's a little nuance that Luke uses. Here they preach the Lord Jesus. These Gentiles, they know nothing of a Messiah. They're not waiting for a Messiah. They don't know anything about a Messiah. Telling them the Messiah has come is like telling them that the sky is blue. Okay, so what? How's that information helped me But there was one who is Lord. There was one who is the ruler. It's not Caesar. It's not the mayor of your powerful city. It is this Galilean fisherman named Jesus of Nazareth. He is Lord. Let me tell you about him. We must realize that within the framework, we don't get to make up titles and names for Jesus. It's not okay to say, well, let me tell you about the man upstairs. He never calls himself the man upstairs. We don't have that freedom to rename him He is not our best buddy, our co-pilot. But within the parameters of the names that God gives for himself, Maybe we ought to have the wisdom to pick which aspect, which characteristic of God best fits the situation to which we are ministering. And they preach the Lord Jesus. Having preached the Lord Jesus, we look at verse 21. To whom did they turn? Whom did they preach? They preached Jesus. To whom did they turn? And in the hand of the Lord was, by the way, the hand of the Lord was with them. We must be doing all that we're doing in prayer. For we will accomplish nothing on our own. The hand of the Lord was with them. The hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord. They turned to that Lord Jesus It seems to be a two-step process, and it implies that maybe it's possible to take the one step without the other. The wording there is interesting. Many who believed turned to the Lord Jesus. There seems to be this idea of uh uh giving some assent. I I I believe what you're saying there. Interesting, interesting what you just said about that guy. Okay, I did never heard about this Galilean carpenter Jesus of Nazareth, but now that I hear about him, yeah, I believe he existed. Yeah, I believe he died. I believe he rose again. But they stopped short Of giving themselves over to Jesus. But many went that next step. Not only do I believe these things intellectually, not only can I assent to these things as historic facts I want to believe that they apply to me. I want to believe they are true for me I am going to turn away from my life of sin. I'm going to turn away from the security that I have put in my personal belongings. I'm going to turn away from the comfort I have drawn from my family, and I am going to turn to Jesus. And that is what we see happening in Acts 11. They preached Jesus and they trusted in Jesus. And then Barnabas comes in verses 22, 23, and 24. Barnabas, son of encouragement, he shows up on the scene, sent somebody, somebody tattled to Jerusalem. You know what they're doing up there in Antioch? Have you guys heard what they're doing up there? They're preaching to Gentiles, pagans, completely unworthy men and women, and they expect them to come to salvation. Jerusalem says, yeah, we should probably look into this. And again, we don't know exactly how this played out in relationship to Peter and Cornelius. Maybe Barnabas is on his way to Antioch when the Peter and Cornelius report comes back to Jerusalem. We don't know. But Barnabas gets up there and he checks out. By the way, Political wisdom on part of Jerusalem. Notice some of the key preachers in Antioch are Cypriots. Remember where Barnabas was from? He's a Cypriot. So they're going to smooth over some of the potential rift there by Barnabas can come along the side and say, hey, I'm one of you. And Barnabas comes. And he sees wonderful things happening. He recognizes the grace of God to these Gentiles, and he encourages them. In fact, the word there is he exhorts them. Exhortation is at the heart of preaching. He is preaching to them. And he is preaching to them to do what? What does the text there say? To remain faithful. Look at verse 23. And he exhorted them all to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose. Whom did they preach? They preached Jesus, who for us and for our salvation came down and made himself one of us. To whom did they turn? They turned to Jesus. To whom were they faithful? What does this mean? This idea of faithfulness was clearly the idea of obedience. They obeyed. They did. Remember what Jesus said in the Great Commission? Go into all the world and make disciples. Teaching them to obey all that I have commanded. And the church here is clearly in obedience. They remain faithful to To Jesus. We look at the remainder of the section 25 through 30. We ask the question, whom did they serve? Whom did they serve? So Barnabas, he goes to Tarsus, verse 25, he goes to Tarsus to look for Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. By the way, there is when you try to piece together the timeline of the book of Acts. There seems to be some missing time right here. And so probably what the point is that it took him quite a while to find Saul. Okay? There seems to be that it he was gone for a length of time to find Saul. We know from some hints that Saul drops in a couple of his letters. that Saul suffered some persecution during this time of his life. We don't have a lot of details. The real uh uh shaded part uh kind of a hidden part of Saul's life. But we know he serves so apparently he was in hiding to avoid the persecution. So it takes Barnabas quite a while to track it down. So if you ever look into those timelines, there's some missing time here, and that seems to be what's going on here So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians. Now in those days, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. And one of them named Agabah stood up and foretold by the Spirit that there would be a great famine over all the world. So the disciples and I can't sorry Turn my page here. So the disciples determined every one according to his ability to send relief to the brothers living in Judea. There's two things we see here. One, Barnabas and Saul give their time, their energy, their efforts to serve the church in Antioch, to serve the bride of Jesus Christ. They are given over to this. They're willing to give up whatever else they had going on in order to serve that church. Now, granted, not everybody is called to give up, give it, go to full-time ministry. We understand that. But the point is that they gave generously and served generously in that church. But then we see where the rest of the church does rise up And notice the wording here. It's not that Saul and Barnabas had to chastise them. Verse 29. So the disciples determined. It arose up as a grassroots decision. This prophet, you say, well wait a second, so should we have prophets in our church today? Well let's remind ourselves. The Lord was still speaking through prophets because the New Testament wasn't yet written. They were living the New Testament, they weren't reading it. And so the Lord did still send prophets occasionally, but we see that that office of prophet, the gift of prophecy still exists When the man of God stands up and says, Thus saith the Lord, but the office of a prophet has ceased to exist. exist. But it was still in play there, and we see it in other parts of the New Testament as well. Agabus is going to turn up a couple of times as a genuine prophet of the Lord. And he says, hey, there's a famine coming There's going to be economic ruin back home in Jerusalem. And the people say, we care about the church. We love our brothers and sisters. Let's get out ahead of this and take care of them now. They preached Jesus. They turned to and trusted in Jesus. They were faithful to Jesus. And they served Jesus. So why were they called Christians? The short answer is this. They couldn't be called anything else. They couldn't be called anything else. They weren't known as do-it-yourselfers. They weren't known as Steelers fans. They weren't known as Jews. They weren't known as Gentiles. They couldn't be called just Greeks because they weren't just Greeks. Their principal thing they talked about was not their national heritage. The number one conversation was not about who their ancestors were. The thing that flowed out of them was not their philosophy. They couldn't be called Epicureans or Stoics. It wasn't their politics. They couldn't be known as Republicans or Democrats. There was nothing else to call them. And stop and think about this. Did the pagans, the heathens The godless people of Antioch know who Jesus Christ was? Well, no But they kept hearing from their co-workers, from their neighbors, from their friends who were part of this weird group over there, all they ever talk about is this Christ. It seems to be all they're about. They talk about Christ. They go to meetings to hear about Christ. They give up their money for Christ, they give up their time for Christ, they're willing to be mocked for Christ. I don't know who Christ is, but this group is a bunch of Christ followers. And they were called Christians. They were called Christians Think about something. Think about how backwards we get the word Christian. We have a tendency to say that one becomes a Christian and then a disciple. We need, now that we've got them a believer, now that they're a Christian, we need to disciple them. One becomes a Christian and then a disciple. But is that the pattern we see here? Do we see one first being a Christian, labeling themselves that way? And then later getting around to the task of being discipled. The disciples, the disciples were first called Christians In Antioch. And what is the bar to being a disciple? This is not popular. What I'm about to say does not go over well. But it is biblical. Look at Luke chapter 14. Turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 14. Luke fourteen, we're gonna start at verse twenty-five. Luke 14, verse 25. Now great crowds accompanied him, Jesus, and he turned and said to them If anyone comes to me, makes a simple profession of faith, prays the sinner's prayer, he will be called a Christian. If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children, and brothers, and sisters. Yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Going down to verse 33, we see him continue the theme. So therefore Any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. What was Jesus' standard for disciples? Was that you turned to him as they did? That you turn from everything in this world as the Christians in Antioch did That you hold to him and him alone, that he supersedes everything else in your life. That if your brother should push you to turn one iota from Jesus, you must renounce your brother. If your friend on social media should push you one iota from Jesus, you have to unfriend them Is that the right term? I think so. That's Jesus' standard. And it's once we are willing to give up everything for him Because he gave up everything for us, it is but a fitting response. It's not asking that much. By the way, his everything was a lot more than your everything. The glory of all the universe, the power over all the universe, the possession of all the universe. That's all he gave up for you. And when we give that up, when we got that, but ourselves, when we turn away from this life, when we turn away from these things that we hold dear and say, Jesus first. In my life. Jesus, the thing that I'm going to talk about in my life. Jesus is what I'm going to be known for in my life. I'm going to be so like him And talk so much about him that people are going to be forced to call me according to his name. There's going to be no other thing they can call me. I'm perfectly content if everyone forgets where I stand politically. I'm perfectly happy if no one remembers my favorite sports team. I'm okay if you don't know one other thing about Scott Shaw. But you must know more. This Jesus was everything to him. And it was a name applied by the others. Not I call not that we call ourselves this And so the question of the title of this sermon is, what will they call us? If the word Christian has become so watered down If the word Christian has become so misused and misapplied, when we were in Kiev some years ago on a short-term mission trip, we'd sit there and try to talk to people about Jesus, they were all Christians. Well, I was baptized when I was ten days old in the Orthodox Church. I go every Easter. Clearly, I'm a Christian. The word Christian was so watered down that it became meaningless. The question becomes this, Shore Harvest. If we preach Jesus and turn to Jesus and obey Jesus and trust in Jesus and forsake all other things for Jesus What will it force this community to call us? Heaven forbid that twenty years from now we're still known as the church in the old moose lodge. How sad will that be? What are we going to force them to call us? Because all we talk about All we care about, all we give ourselves to, all that we serve, comes back to the one who gave everything for us. Let's pray. God, too often we have taken your name in vain We have called ourselves Christians, little Christs, little Christ followers, but we have not acted that way. We have not behaved that way. We have not earned that title. Lord, we know we do not earn our salvation. We do not earn your grace or merit before you. But in front of this world, let us earn the right to be called by your name. In front of this world, let us earn the privilege of being mocked for the way that we hold to you. In front of this world, let us be a people known for this. Whatever they find to call us, let it identify us correctly with you. What they mean is an insult, let us wear, as the glory of your name upon us. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen.