The original version of this sermon, preached at Shore Harvest Church on June 12, 2024, was not recorded due to equipment malfunction. This version was preached June 14. So while Becky and I were in Ukraine on a short-term mission trip, we met probably a half-dozen, maybe more women named Anastasia. It is a beautiful name, both in its pronunciation and in its meaning. Anastasia comes straight out of Biblical Greek. Stasia means to stand, anna means again. Anastasia is the New Testament word for resurrection. It literally means to stand again. Too many American Christians do not understand the significance of that word, and they wrongly believe that the dead are forever disembodied spirits. But anastasia, standing again, is not metaphorical. It is not figurative. It is literal and it is physical. Those bodies which once lay motionless in the grave will be reanimated. They will stand again. Anastasia. This is what we proclaimed just a few moments ago when we recited the Apostles' Creed. That summary statement of the Christian faith includes the confession that we believe in the resurrection of the body and in the life everlasting. Now, why is resurrection of the body part of a summary statement of our faith? Because the resurrection of the body expresses the core of Jesus' purpose. The redemption of this world, of this life. I hope you are beginning to see a pattern across this sermon series. John was shown the new heaven and the new earth, Earth 2. 0 This world is what God intended at creation, and so it is this world which He will redeem and restore. And since this world was fitted for us, created for us, to be our grocery store, our marketplace, the source of our re- the place of our resources It was fitted for us to be the canvas upon which we would glorify the Lord. It makes no sense to restore this earth, but not then restore us. to it. And so it is that we will be raised from the dead to stand again upon this earth, Anastasia. This morning, we want to try to look at and answer two key questions about this fundamental Christian truth What will those bodies be like? When we stand again on the new earth, what will our flesh be? But there's another pressing question we want to answer as well. Until then, between now and then, between our deaths and the last resurrection upon the new earth, what will we be like? What are we like during the period between our death and our bodily restoration? Bow with me now and take a few moments asking God in silent prayer, asking God to open your heart and mind and will to his teaching on this subject this morning. Lord, show us the great hope of the resurrection, a real hope in a real future, really restored and redeemed by you. We pray this in Christ. Amen. So what will we be like as we wait for heaven, wait in heaven? for the new earth in our bodiless state. What will those new bodies be like once they're given to us on the new earth? Those are questions we want to address this morning. But before we jump into either of those, I want to take just two to three minutes, very brief, very quickly, answer the question of why do we look at this at all? Why do we study the afterlife at all? So if you look in the bulletin on page 13, you'll see an outline of the sermon, and it begins with that question of why study the afterlife? Well, for starters, we will all face death. It is a fact that we must confront. Soldiers are trained in tear gas chambers. Firefighters, they they practice and train in burning buildings. Why? So when that moment of truth comes, they do not panic, but they trust their training and do the right thing. You and I are going to face death. And when our moment of truth comes, will we be prepared? Will we be well informed? Or will we be like an unprepared firefighter who dies because in his fear he trusts in the wrong things? That is the risk we face. If at death's door we cast our hope upon reincarnation, then we, like that firefighter, will be lost. Dying people will consult mediums. They will hope in healing crystals. They will chase all manner of foolishness because they have not been trained and prepared for what is happening. So let's learn about death and how it affects us, so that you and I are ready for it, so that we will honor Christ right up to and even with our last breath. We are going to have to minister to brothers and sisters facing death. You see, firefighters and soldiers, they do not only train for themselves, but they also train so they are prepared to help one another. Every brother and every sister in this room will face death, their own, and that of loved ones. We should be well informed about death. so that we can help them, so that we can come alongside of them, so that we can bear their burdens with them, so that we might rightly minister to one another We need to be well trained in death for our own sake so that we face it well, but also so that we can help others see their way through it. Finally, we have to be well prepared to understand death because the essence of the gospel message is a message of hope beyond death. You see, the core of the gospel, the core of the gospel is the promise of eternal life. And yet every believer dies Can we explain that? Can you explain the relationship of death and everlasting life? If not, don't we risk muddying the waters of the gospel message? To be effective for the gospel, we must know how to talk about death rightly, and how Jesus has defeated death for his followers. We should study death in the afterlife for our own hope and preparation, to be good ministers to those suffering around us, but also to be effective defenders of the gospel message. So let's jump into now. Let's take a look at the afterlife, beginning with the question of what are we like after our deaths, but before the last resurrection? There are three views that come up most often when this subject is addressed. We're going to cover the first two very quickly. The first of these is purgatory. Purgatory is a uniquely Roman Catholic doctrine And it is a serious affront to the gospel. Purgatory is a place of purging. You can hear it in the name. It is the place where the redeemed Must suffer for any sins for which penance was never done. Ponder that for a moment. Believers must suffer for their sins. Forgiveness is, by definition, the transfer of a debt from one to another. Politicians want to forgive student debt. What does that mean, except that the obligation for that debt will be taken off of those students and placed on to future American taxpayers? That's the essence of forgiveness Purgatory horribly pollutes the gospel message of forgiveness in Christ Jesus. Jesus paid for our sins. We do not. Our sin debt was transferred to him and we owe nothing. As far as the East is from the West, so far does he remove our transgressions from us, all of them Underlying purgatory is the belief that Jesus' payment for sin was insufficient, and that we must make additional payment before we can enter God's presence. A second uh uh uh teaching with regard to the time between our bodily death and our bodily resurrection is something called soul sleep. It is a bit something of a minority report in church history. Some believe that Martin Luther may have held this view In the church today, so far as I am aware, only the seventh day Adventists take this position. It is the view that the soul, separated from the body, is unconscious in a state of suspense suspended animation until the last resurrection, when, reunited with the body, it reawakens and life resumes upon the new earth. Well, at the Transfiguration, Jesus interacted with Moses. Moses' soul was not asleep, though he had died. There he was very much awake and conscious. interacting with Jesus. Moreover, in Revelation 6, chapter 6, verse 10, John sees the souls of the martyred dead in heaven, and they are not asleep. They are calling out for the vindication of their martyrdom, for God's justice to come down upon those who murdered them. These dead, awaiting their bodies, are most certainly not asleep. Soul sleep is a mistaken view. It is misbelief. But please understand it is a misbelief of an entirely different kind than purgatory. Soul sleep does not threaten the essence of the gospel. There is error, brothers and sisters, and then there is error. We must understand the distinction between those two things. Soul sleep does not impugn the work of Christ. So, if we reject both purgatory and soul sleep, what then does the Bible teach us about the time after death but before the last resurrection? It's a time that theologians call the intermediate state, the intermediate state. The Old Testament speaks of Sheol some sixty-five times. Three of those were in the psalm we read this morning to open our service. The New Testament, talking about the very same place, adopts the Greek word Hades. Now I'm going to stop us right here. I don't know about you, but I know I have often used Hades and Hell synonymously. Turns out that is a mistake. The Greek New Testament never uses Hades and Hell interchangeably or synonymously. In fact, and we're going to see this in next week's sermon, in fact, Hades and Hell are most clearly distinctive. absolutely distinct in the New Testament view. Like I said, more on that next week, but for now I just need you to understand that Hades and Hell are not synonymous. So when we talk about Hades, that's equivalent to the Old Testament Sheol, not to the New Testament hell. So Sheol in the Old Testament, Hades in the New Testament, these are two names for the same place. the abode of the deceased, the realm of the dead. The details about this place are thin But the curtain is pulled back a little in Luke 16. There Jesus is telling a parable and featuring two dead men. Now, some have pointed out that this is a parable, and parables are fictional stories, and so we ought not lean on this as a source of information about the afterlife. Their comments about parables being fictional stories is well taken, and their warning about drawing too much information out of it is a good warning. However, in response, I would point this out, that Jesus' parables are always set in familiar settings. His characters are fictionalized. The main storyline is fictionalized, but the setting is always not. His parables are told in households, in small businesses, they're told about farms, they're told about things with which the people were familiar. And this was by design. Jesus was trying to communicate quickly and effectively. He needed the setting to be well understood by his audience. precisely so that they could focus on the fictionalized central characters. In other words, the account in Luke 16 does not work as a parable If the people are scratching their head going, what is all this about Hades and Sheol and about dead people and them talking and interacting? If that's a mystery to his listeners, then they're going to miss the point. In other words, yes, this is a parable, but it's a parable set in a place the people fully understood. In other words, it reflects the teaching of Jesus' day. about the afterlife, and it's a teaching he does not refute, he does not correct in the teaching of his parable. So I think we can safely look at this teaching and draw out of this parable and draw out of it some teachings about the afterlife. So what do we see? Well we see in it two men. One of them is a nameless man, just called the rich man, and he was wicked in this life. The other is Lazarus, not the brother of Mary and Martha, a different Lazarus. And he was a good man in this life. And the two are, broadly speaking, in the same place, yet they experience that place very differently The rich man, wicked in this life, was suffering in Sheol, or Hades. Lazarus was comfortable and comforted. Now note that it is the wicked man who is suffering, not the righteous man Lazarus. In other words, this is not purgatory. We can't jump from this teaching to the doctrine of purgatory. We also know that they are conscious, conscious, and cognizant of their past lives upon the earth, and they are able to talk with each other The wicked man apparently unable to go to the comfortable place where Lazarus was, there being a barrier of some sort between them. In short, what we see here in Sheol or in Hades, the realm of the dead, is a place of consciousness, a place of suffering for the unrighteous, and a place of comfort for the righteous. Don't get a lot out of that, but we're going to build on it. Alright, then in Luke 21, while he is dying on the cross, You may recall that there was a thief next to him who repented and said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And do you recall what Jesus said to him? Jesus turned to the man and said, Truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise. Paradox. Paradasos, I hope I'm saying that correctly, was a Persian loan word referring to a walled garden or park. a protected, pleasant place, if you will. Now many have assumed that Jesus meant heaven. But that can't be the case. You'll recall, so this was on Friday where he's dying on the cross, he tells the thief. Today you'll be with me in paradise. But two days later, on Sunday morning, on the third day, he encounters Mary Magdalene in the garden. And do you recall what happened? She recognizes him and she rushes up to give him a hug. And in John 21, 10, we read how Jesus Spoke to her. He said, Woman, do not hold on to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. Now where is the Father? What did we establish three weeks ago? Was it not that by definition the Father is in heaven? Heaven is the holy abode of God. So Jesus had not yet ascended to the Father, he had not yet been to heaven. So two days after Jesus tells the thief, You will be with me in paradise, He tells Mary Magdalene he has not yet been to heaven. What's going on? How can he say to the thief that you're going to be in paradise today, but tell Mary he had not yet been to heaven? You see, our problem is our understanding of the word paradise. Remember, paradise comes from that Persian word meaning a protected, pleasant place, a walled-off garden or park. It does not, strictly speaking, mean have been. Now, that good guy, Lazarus, he was in a comfortable place, walled off in some way from the wicked man So if we read paradise as heaven, we have all manner of interpretive difficulties. But if by paradise Jesus met the pleasant part of Sheol where Lazarus was, everything falls into place. Jesus spoke the truth to the thief, and they were together that very day in Hades, the realm of the dead. And Jesus spoke the truth to Mary. He had not yet been to heaven. In Jesus' day, the deceased went to the realm of the dead, to Sheol, to Hades. The righteous were comforted in the protected portion that Jesus calls paradise. The unrighteous suffer. So it was with the dead Jesus. He went to that place. By the way, this resolves some of the problems we have with the creed we just recited. Our creed says that he descended into hell. In English, this is an unfortunate translation. You see, hell in English has come to mean the place of eternal torment. But the Greek word in the original creed, in the oldest known versions of this creed, they're written in Greek, the Greek word Is not the word usually used for hell. It's not the Greek word gehenna. It is instead katotata, which strictly speaking means lower region. Moreover, as we will see next week, hell is still empty. Jesus could not have gone there. It has no occupants. Jesus did not go to hell proper. And by his own testimony, he did not go to heaven. Rather, he suffered under Pontius Pilate, died, was buried, he descended into the lower region. The creed is saying that Jesus went to the grave, to heal the Hades, to the realm of the dead. And Jesus called it paradise because he and the thief were heading to the pleasant, protected portion. of the realm of the dead, that waiting place. Okay, so far we've described the afterlife as it existed up to Jesus' death But then in Acts 7. 59, something remarkable happens. The deacon, Stephen, he is dying. He is being stoned to death for his profession of faith in Christ And he cries out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Now the dying Stephen was described as a man full of the Spirit, and so we can trust that he understood things rightly, that he had a proper view of things. And as he lay dying, he expected to be with Jesus. Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. But this changes everything. For Jesus by that time had ascended to the Father. Jesus was in heaven So Stephen no longer expected to go to Sheol or Hades. He anticipated being with Jesus in heaven. How can that be? How can Stephen, upon his death, expect to go to a place that Jesus did not go upon his death? Well, Ephesians 4 gives us some insight into this. Paul is speaking of Jesus there, and he speaks of Jesus descending and ascending. And upon his ascension, Paul says that Jesus took with him a host of captives. Apparently at his ascension into God's presence, into heaven proper, Jesus freed the righteous dead from Hades, from Sheol, and he ushered them into heaven with him. So why the change of destination? Why is it that prior to Christ's ascension The righteous dead waited in the pleasant portion of Sheol, but after Christ's ascension, Stephen and the others would expect to go directly to heaven and not the waiting place Well, you remember from our sermon series just this past spring in the book of Hebrews, we saw how Hebrews often looks at the Old Testament religion and finds there Teaching about foreshadowing of Christ's work. Old Testament worship taught us about Jesus' work. And so it is here also. What was necessary to enter into God's tabernacle presence in the most holy place? Was it not the case that the high priest had to make a sacrifice upon the bronze altar first? Right? No one entered into God's presence apart from the offering of a blood sacrifice for sin. For millennia, the righteous dead waited comfortably in Sheol until Jesus the high priest ascended to heaven Opening it via his sacrifice, his own life given at the cross. Thus, upon his ascension, Jesus presented himself to the Father both as our high priest and as our sacrifice. And when he did so, the doors of heaven's holy place were thrown open to us. I know we are Presbyterians, we are the frozen chosen. But if that does not excite you, if that does not ignite in you some joy and some enthusiasm, there may be a problem. So I'm going to give you another chance and we're all going to get our amens ready. When Jesus ascended to heaven, he was our high priest, taking himself as the sacrifice, laying it on the bronze altar, as it were, of heaven, so that we might enter. Heaven's holy place. Amen. Amen. You see, in this God, through Jesus, turned death upside down. He flipped it on its ear. He made it what it didn't used to be and made it into something more wonderful now. You see, death had been separation from God. And now all of a sudden death was the way by which the righteous Entered into the presence of God. Death no longer carries us away from God. It now carries us to Him. In Christ Jesus, it is not death to die. Now this has been a very long way of getting around to this conclusion When a believer dies today, her body is laid in the grave, but her soul ascends to heaven into Jesus' presence, into the Father's presence. The unrighteous dead continue to go to Hades and to suffer there, but the righteous dead no longer have to await a future time in God's presence. They enjoy it immediately. Now, I've built this whole argument upon the hope of Stephen. But it really is affirmed throughout the rest of the New Testament. Paul holds to the same view that his victim, Stephen, held it to. In Philippians 1, Paul memorably expresses this view. He says, My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. Paul, like Stephen, saw death as a passageway to heaven. to the presence of Jesus, not to Hades or Sheol. In 2 Corinthians 5, our New Testament reading from earlier in the service, Paul spoke of the uh uh at death of the body being unclothed, a metaphor, I'm sorry, of the soul being unclothed, a metaphor for the loss of the body, but it was at that point at home with the Lord He is basically saying, if you are not on this earth in your body, then the only other place you can be as a believer is in heaven with Jesus. The dead believer is at home with the Lord. We are either alive in our bodies or we are alive in heaven with Jesus. Again, Paul affirms that it is not death. To die. Revelation 6, we unlocked at that earlier. We saw the martyr dead, the souls of the martyr dead, are awaiting their bodies. They're very much conscious. They're in heaven. They're in the throne room in Revelation 6 of the Almighty. They have been ushered into God's presence. So the intermediate state for the unbeliever continues to be suffering in Sheol in Hades, the realm of the dead. But for you and me, upon our deaths, we do not suffer in purgatory, neither do we fall asleep, nor do we descend to Hades. Instead, we take up a spiritual residence in heaven with Jesus and the Father and the Holy Spirit. Now speaking of taking up residence If we're going to have a discussion about heaven, as we've been doing this several weeks, at some point John 14 has to come into discussion, and it ought to come into discussion. It's very apropos to any teaching on heaven. John 14, Jesus says the following. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also and you know the way to where I am going. I will come again tends to turn our thoughts to the second coming, and we immediately begin to apply this passage to the future eternal state upon the new earth. I think we need to look more closely at the passage. Notice the verbs I go now, present tense. That where I am now, you may also be. You know the way to where I am going now But where was Jesus going? When he left this earth, did he go immediately to the new earth? Of course not. He's going to heaven. He's already told Mary Magdalene that he has to ascend to the Father in heaven as it exists now. Jesus was not going to the future heaven, the new earth upon this restored earth. He was going to heaven as it is Now, you see this passage is about the intermediate state. Now, whether it's literal or not, I actually cannot imagine. I'm not sure why disembodied souls would need rooms. Maybe they do. I don't know all that much about disembodied souls But Jesus' point, whether literal or metaphorical, is that there is a place for the departed faithful, and it is with God, in his very house, as it were. This is a picture of nearness to God. And remember, while the Bible tells us almost nothing about what heaven is like right now, it is in John 14, my father's house, God's house. We talked about this a few weeks back. Given the opportunity, which of us would not jump at a chance to see Bill Gates' house? And we would never imagine it to be boring, to be uninteresting, to be a place taken lightly. It's Bill Gates' house. The Vanderbilt Mansion is a tourist destination for a reason. God's house will not be the law. Heaven is not boring. It is not uninteresting. It is not as if there will not be the most beautiful things there, the most amazing art, the most phenomenal beauty. the most pleasing aesthetics, the best food on down, I don't know if disembodied souls need food, but in the new earth food. It will be a most fascinating place. Now remember, we don't go to heaven, we don't enter into the presence of the Almighty, we don't go to the cosmic most holy place By a conversation with St. Peter at the pearly gates. No, we are ushered there by Jesus himself. I will come and take you to myself. You see, he's not talking about the second coming here because he's not talking about the new earth He's talking about the intermediate state, so he's talking about coming, at least metaphorically, and ushering us from this life Into the afterlife, into heaven. Why? Why does Jesus personally escort us into heaven? Well, I'm pretty sure we're right back to that question of our right to be there We cannot enter the universe's Holy of Holies without Jesus vouching for us. He is our only in I'm pretty sure this passage is not about the second coming at all, but about Jesus coming, at least metaphorically, and bringing each of us, each of the faithful dead. into his father's house. That's worthy of another amen, is it not? Absolutely. Not too bad, huh? Do you see now why Stephen committed his soul to Jesus? Do you see why Paul was sure that death was better than life For the believer, death has ceased to be separation from God and has become union with him. Death has been flipped on its ear. This is why my grandfather would say that he He feared dying. It might be painful or unpleasant, but he did not fear death. The biological process might be terrifying But leaving behind this earth to be with God is not. It is not death to die. Before Christ ascension into heaven, all the dead went to Sheol, the realm of the dead. The righteous enjoyed it. The unrighteous, they do not, and they remain there. But Christ ascended, presented his sacrifice on our behalf, and opened heaven for believers. So when you and I die, we enter heaven, and from there we await the redemption of our bodies. So what then are we like in the end upon the new earth following the last resurrection? We move now to the third and final point of our outline. The nature of our bodies in the last uh after the last resurrection upon the new earth. Now, it's exciting to think about what we just discussed about the intermediate state, about going to heaven upon our death, but that is never in the scriptures the great hope of the gospel. And I hope it is not your great hope. That you will, like the Bible, look past the intermediate state and hope in and long for Our resurrected state on the new earth. You see, the good news of Jesus' work is not that we become forever disembodied souls. Our great hope is to stand again upon the earth and to get to live this life as it was intended, in communion with God, and without the sin, without the brokenness, without the discouragement, without the thorns and the thistles All of your life, or at least most of your all of your adult life, you have longed for this life to be what you know deep inside it should be. And that's the promise of the last resurrection and the new earth. The sermon outline on page 13 of the bulletin has two points underneath this section, discontinuity and continuity. We're really going to jump back and forth between those, so my apologies to the note takers. And I'm going to begin with the second of them, continuity. In our Old Testament reading, Job said, For I know that my Redeemer lives, and that at the last he will stand upon the earth. And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God, who I shall see for myself, and my eyes behold, and not another My body, Job says, will not endure forever I know that. Yet someday I will be here. Me, Job, I shall see for myself, my eye shall behold, and not another. Job has every confidence that at the last resurrection he will be Job. Our confession of faith sums it up this way. At the last day, all the dead shall be raised up with the selfsame bodies and none other. You will be you. I will be me. Our bodies will be our bodies. This is what we saw a couple of weeks ago in Romans 8. This view is confirmed by Paul also. Now we jump for a moment into the discontinuity portion of our discussion. And we ask the question, what version of our body will we have? Will I be 25-year-old me? Will I be this me? Will I be the me I am at my death? And one of those who die in infancy, or perhaps like my cousin, who die with serious developmental disorders Those questions are answered by inference. There is no single passage that gives us a A clear-cut answer, and yet we can extend from what the Bible does teach pretty safely. Isaiah, Hebrews, and Revelation all portray the new earth as a metaphorical city. There is never any sense of the earth being restored to its edenic state. Creation will be recreated in its mature state, not in its infancy. But neither will it be polluted or spent or dilapidated. It will be no worse for where. Thus creation will be a mature version of itself, but not in its old age. And creation, as you recall, is fitted to us, which suggests something about our resurrection condition. resurrected condition, my apologies. I think the most defensible position, biblically speaking, is that our bodies will be raised as a version of our prime selves, even if that prime self never actually existed. I'm not saying you're going to be the best version that you have ever been. I'm saying you will be what you should have been So self-same bodies, yes, but maybe not a body we ever actually had. Hence the discontinuity You see, even in our prime, our bodies and brains are affected by the curse, affected by sloth, affected by sin. So in your body, so if your body's peak age was, or is, 27 Then try to imagine that prime, but with nothing going wrong. Nothing. Everything working as it should have worked, especially your morality. You know the old saying, youth is wasted on the young? We will not waste our renewed and restored youth We will explore and enjoy and connect and learn and understand and relate without sin. God said it was not good for the man to be alone. We will not experience loneliness upon the new earth in our resurrected bodies in our restored selves, for our relationships with one another will not be damaged by sin. We will develop unprecedented friendships. We will be restored to the version of us which never actually existed, but which always should have been. Which allows us to address another common question. What about those for whom their bodies are utterly lost? You know, perhaps due to fire or they died at sea Or they simply have been in the grave so long as they have decayed and decomposed. Their bodies have long since become part of whale bodies and eggplant bodies. So what of them? Well, you see, in our youth, we all had brand new skin about every three to four weeks, but we were still us. Entire bones are replaced in the young about every ten years, but they are still them. So please Don't imagine, don't, don't, uh, this idea of a self-same body, don't take it too rigidly. Don't imagine that those lost at sea or those who are burned to death are somehow going to miss out on the resurrection. You see, God does not need this particular carbon atom to make me me. And he can always substitute another carbon atom, or if need be, create an entirely new carbon atom to make me me. So we will be, you will be some version of yourself, I will be some version of myself, and God will get it all done somehow. Staying for a moment with this ca uh discussion of the discontinuity of our new bodies. First Corinthians 15 is a wonderful passage about resurrection, but it's a very long passage, so we will not try to read it all today. Rather we're going to pick out a few key parts. Paul writes in there, but someone will ask, how are the dead raised, with what kind of body do they come? Paul answers this question with a metaphor about seeds dying, about seeds being placed into the ground and new life springing forth which does not look exactly like the seed, hence the discontinuity. A kernel of corn produces a stalk. An acorn produces an oak But Paul also talks about how every type of creature has the flesh unique to it, so that mother birds produce birds and mommy fish produce fish, etc. So broadly speaking, he is saying, hey, you're going to be given a human body to each its own flesh. You're not going to be given, not going to be raised as anything other than human But don't imagine that body to be exactly what it is now any more than you expect an oak to look like an acorn. There will be changes. So what are those changes? Strikingly, Paul focuses upon the issues of moral effect and consequence He is not actually particularly worried about your height or your weight or your hip size or anything else. He says, what is sown, the body that's laid in the grave, is perishable, but what is raised, the resurrected body, is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. These are the quality these are quality differences, not category differences. They are not about our height or our weight or as I already said. Brothers and sisters, I think you need to understand that Paul's Focus here is how sin impacts us in ways that we don't even think about. Paul's attention is on the moral condition of our resurrection. So we will still be human beings, I will still be me, and you will still be you, but no longer perishable. That is, no longer subject to death, because we will no longer sin And so we will be radically different. Still male, perhaps, still black-skinned, perhaps, but having died in dishonor Because of our sin, we will be raised in glory, free from that which stole our glory. These changes will be so radical as to go beyond description But it will not alter the essence of who we are. Also in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. To the farmer who has waited anxiously through months of hard work, the first fruits are a glimmer of hope. They are the promise of more to come, a taste of what awaits In all things eschatological, Jesus is the first fruit, the forerunner of all that will follow. So we can gain an understanding of our resurrected bodies by looking at His. Luke 24 gives us the most vivid picture, in my opinion, of Jesus' resurrected body. Beginning in verse 36, we read the following As the disciples were talking about the things which have happened, Jesus Himself stood among them and said to them, Peace to you But they were startled and frightened and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me and see For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they still disbelieved for joy, and were marvelling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them. What purpose does this passage serve? Why does Luke include it? I can see no reason for it except this. It establishes the doctrine of bodily resurrection. Central to Luke's point is the physicality of Jesus. Jesus was bodily Jesus. He stood among them, Anastasia, he stood again. He made a point of his flesh and bones, affirming that he was not merely spiritual. He made a point of his scars. He didn't identify himself to them through the immaterial part of who he was, but through the material part of who he was. He pointed at his star's physical aspects Which were distinct markers of his identity. And in the midst of their pleasant bewilderment, he asked them for food and ate before them. What a strange statement. But what was he doing? He was definitively establishing, again, this idea of bodily resurrection. This was not metaphorical resurrection. Jesus was a physical human again who needed to eat. He is the first fruit, the promise of more, the hope of what's to come. Jesus was raised as Jesus with the body. And we can therefore conclude that we will experience the same thing. Continuity. You will be you and have a version of this body and of a version of this life, enjoying meals and everything else that is properly pleasurable about this life. Discontinuity. Your body will have a youthful function, though fully matured. And it will function, its muscles and its brains and everything else, as it has never functioned before, unencumbered by the thorns and thistles of the curse of sin. There's one last point I wish to address this morning, and that is the question of the timing of all of this And my apologies to the note takers, I left no space for this in the bulletin outline. Sorry about that But our last point is to address the question of when. When will disembodied souls be united to these perfected bodies we've been learning about? Well, 1 Thessalonians 4 addresses this question. I'll begin in verse 14. 1 Thessalonians 4, verses 14 to 18. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. God will descend with those who have fallen asleep. But like Jesus, and like Jesus At Lazarus' tomb. Remember what happened? Jesus goes to Lazarus' tomb and he calls into the tomb. Lazarus come forth I've heard it taught, I've heard it preached, that the reason he used Lazarus' name was so that the entire cemetery did not rise from the dead. Well, that's the effect of this right here. God is going to come from heaven, but he's not going to call into one tomb. He's not going to call just the Lazarus. He is going to cry out with the voice of the archangel, he is going to cry out with a voice at the sound of the trumpet of God, and it will be heard from one corner of the earth to another. It will be heard all the way around this planet. And if by this time we have learned to live on other planets Then it will be heard there as well. And he is going to cry out for all of the redeemed, for all of their bodies, to come forth, to rise up out of the grave, to stand again anastasia. And to be reunited to their souls. Did you catch the conflict of the passage? The dead come with Jesus, and the dead are raised by Jesus. How is it both? Well, we have to recognize that this is not two different groups of dead. Were we to make a roster of the souls that have come with Jesus? And a roster of all the bodies that are going to be called back to life, the names in the two lists would be identical Down to the very last name. This is not two groups of the dead, but two portions of the dead, their bodies and their souls The dead which arise upon Jesus' return, in a very real sense, the very same dead as those who come with them, only now we're looking at their bodies and and not their souls upon the earth What we see here is a picture of reunion of body and soul. I was out of town this past week and when I got home late last night, Tigga was pretty excited when we were reunited. Now I don't know if our bodies are going to display TIGA-esque excitement, but it is going to be a glorious reunion. So when our bodies and souls, you know, so when are our bodies and souls rejoined? Well, Jesus' second coming. This is the second coming in view here. And I do want to address briefly, and I know this is not a sermon series about eschatology, but it's right here. We're right there. Verse 17, it's right in front of us. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Where does that happen? What is he talking about? Where will we be with the Lord always? In our resurrected bodies Well, we saw two weeks ago that that's the portrayal of the new earth. God Himself will be with them as their God, and they shall be His people, and God will be their God. It is at the second coming, when we are reunited with our bodies and establish on the new earth that we then reside forever with the Lord. He will resume His practice of walking among us, as he did with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Now, why do I point this out? Because many Americans, perhaps most Americans, they read into this passage a departure from the earth But I don't see it. Where is it there? It's not there. Yes, we run to the sky to meet Jesus. But last night, Tigger ran to the back gates to meet me. Now Tiggin and I did not turn around and leave the house. No, after our reunion at the gate, because of her excitement to come see me, we then together came into the house. And we resumed living together. That's the picture of what's going on here This is the second coming and it is the last resurrection. It is the reunion of body and soul. It is the time when we are established on the new earth and we will live forever with the Lord. And by the way, Jesus himself affirms this view. In Matthew 24, Jesus is teaching about the second coming, about the Son of Man coming in his glory. And he teaches it this way. For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two men will be in the field One will be taken and one left. Two women will be grinding at the mill. One will be taken and one left. Now in Noah's day, who was left upon the earth Was it not the righteous man and his family? And who was taken off earth, swept away by the flood? Was it not the wicked man? Don't mix this up. At Jesus' second coming, we will be the ones left here. Not the ones taken off the earth, but the ones who will become the inhabitors of the earth. And it is the sinners who will be removed, and they will be put outside the metaphorical wall of New Jerusalem, and there will be angels over the metaphorical gates so that the sin and sinners may never re-enter and never again mix with the people of God, so that we forever will so that God will by his power forever keep at bay sin and sinners, so that we will be eternally pure You see, Jesus would not have been clearer. The meek shall inherit the earth, those who humble themselves and hold to him and cling to him in hope, who count on his sacrifice as being their their their entry, their passage and entry into the most holy place, into the presence of God, who are not counting on their self-righteousness, but merely on Him. The meek shall inherit the earth. You and I get this earth to ourselves free from sin and sinners. We get to enjoy creation by God's grace through Jesus Christ. Hence the close of the section. Paul says, therefore, encourage one another with these words. First Thessalonians four establishes that a day is coming wherein the souls of the righteous dead will be brought back to earth with God. Their bodies will be raised, made to stand again. Anastasia, they will be resurrected, and then we will live for all eternity upon the new earth, in those bodies with our God And we will be what was intended at the beginning. Except for a few things. Unlike Adam and Eve God's holiness will be fully manifest to us by the metaphorical walls of the New Jerusalem. He will keep sin out this time. His justice will be seen in the estate of the wicked. His grace will be perfectly revealed in the situation of the redeemed. And forever when we meet Jesus on the streets of the new earth His scars, his hands, his feet, his scarred forehead from the thorns will be an eternal testimony to the perfect love of God. Amen