In nineteen forty-seven, long time ago, nineteen forty-seven, the first episode of Candid Camera aired. Remember that old TV show? It marked the dawn of what today we call reality television. And reality has never been the same. Reality, as we know it, has changed and is changing You see, we always knew that there were, we had imaginations, that there were things that we could picture in our mind that weren't really real. But we also kind of understood that if we saw it out there, if it happened outside of our minds in the real world, then it must really be real. After all, how did God authenticate his prophets? Well, you know, Moses parts the sea, and you kind of believe him because you can see it. What happens out there is the really real. Seeing has kind of always been believing But with the rise of so-called reality television, and I'm not blaming candid camera, but many of the shows that have come since, our relationship with truth has begun to change. You see, what we see in a real sense isn't real. I used to watch the fishing shows. Now what could be more real than a fishing show, right? It was years later that I learned that those producers filmed days and days of footage. in order to piece together 22 minutes of the pros reeling in the big ones. I just always thought I was a really bad fisherman. You see, they were showing me real footage, but they were telling me a story that wasn't real at all. Fast forward 45 years, the power to tell a story, regardless of its reality, and to have it believed. has never been stronger. To reality television, we have added artificial intelligence Are you familiar with the technology that allows the production of what are called deep fakes? These are videos. That show motion, they show a person moving, they show lips moving, there are voices that are spoken, and none of it ever actually happened. I heard an interview recently with a professor, Ethan Mullock. He's a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, pretty reputable school. He related how he uh produced a video of himself giving a lecture. Only he never gave the lecture. All he did was upload a photo of himself, upload a short voice recording of himself, not giving the lecture, something else of his own voice He then typed in what he wanted it to say, and poof, out came a video of him giving a lecture he never gave. So realistic that the students who had been in his class all semester long all believed it was him. It cost him $11 and it took less than an hour. And he is a professor of sociology, not a computer scientist. It's a scary world we live in when you can make video that realistic that easily And in fact, it's all over the internet. There are videos everywhere now of President Biden saying things he never said. So what do we believe? What's real? What's really concrete and really trustworthy? You see, seeing is no longer believing And it begs the question, how can I know what's true? How do I know what I can believe? Today we began a new series, a seven-part series entitled, The Truth Will Set You Free. Even if the Lord should allow my ministry to go another 15 years, I cannot imagine I will ever preach a more important, more significant sermon series than this one. Now I'm not promising this will be the most inspiring sermon series you've ever heard. I'm not promising it'll be the uh uh uh the most inspirational, most uh moving set of sermons But it will be some of the most important topics we will ever address together. You see, Jesus said the truth will set you free. And if that's so, we'd better have a firm handle on truth. We better know what it is. So open your Bibles, please, to John 18. John chapter 18. We're going to look at verses 33 to 38. It's page ten seventy-five of the pew Bibles. Page ten seventy-five of the Pew Bibles. We set the stage. Jesus has been arrested, and the Jewish leadership has turned him over to the Roman governor. That governor, Pacus Pilate, is exploring what crime Jesus might have committed that warranted death. Now the Jews who turned Jesus over, they understood, they couldn't say to Pilate, well, he's really, really annoying. That was not going to warrant death So they leveled an accusation that a political governor could not ignore. Sedition. He's claimed to be a king. So we pick up now in verse 33. So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus, being thoroughly Jewish, answered a question with a question. Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered. And I think there's a little tinge of snark here that we sometimes miss, because Pilate answers this in a Jewish way. Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? No more questions for questions. Answer me straight out Jesus answered him, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from this world. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world. So here it is. Here's the big reveal. This is the moment of truth. Did this king come into the world to overthrow the government of Rome? To overthrow Pilate? Did he come to re-establish the throne of David? To extend it beyond even the great borders of King Solomon? That is, of course, what his own disciples were constantly hoping. But it's not why Jesus came. Listen to what Jesus says. For this purpose, I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? This is the Word of God. If we want to understand why Jesus lived, if we wish to unlock his reasons for coming. We must know this book. Let's pray. Lord, we delve into a deep and complicated subject matter this morning. Help us. Keep our minds clear. Keep us focused. Keep our ears open. Keep our hearts soft. to be molded and shaped, to be reformed according to your word, according to your truth. Lord, let my lips speak clearly. And if there would be anything that I was going to say that was wrong, let me forget it and let it never be said. So that we hear your word to us this morning, so that we understand the importance of truth. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. There is a good old boy down in Texas, a preacher who has built one of the largest churches in all the world, and he's done so on the basic theme of living the good life. Why? Well, John 10, 10. Jesus said, I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. So we had better live our good, our best life now if we're going to follow Jesus. There's a Florida pastor who got his 15 minutes of fame by leading angry picketers at military funerals. Why? Matthew 10, 34, Jesus said, I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. How sad it is that we will latch on to those statements. They are biblical, but we take them, rip them out of the text, and blow them all out of proportion. And we make statements that were said more or less in a passing fashion, as though they were somehow the most important thing Jesus ever said. But we miss what Jesus said about his life. Jesus is under oath. He's on trial for his very life. And when he is pressed on the subject, what does he say was the reason he came? To what does Jesus boil down his own human existence? I came to bear witness to the truth. Abundant life? Preach it, brother. Never mind that the very disciple who recorded that verse died in poverty. Sword, not peace? Yeah, we can march behind that, forgetting that eleven of the apostles Died not defending themselves, but humbly accepting what came to them. If only we would pursue the truth with that same level of zeal It is truth which will set us free. Not the pursuit of pleasure, not militant opposition But truth. And make no mistake, John, the disciple whom Jesus loved, the one who writes this account of Jesus' trial before Pilate. He saw, he heard, Jesus' truth claim as a big deal. Consider the themes unique to John's gospel. John alone records our New Testament reading, the truth will set you free. John alone records Jesus' bold statement: I am the truth. Only John relates how Jesus taught that true worshipers would worship in spirit and truth John is the only of the only one of the evangelists who records Jesus' great high-priestly prayer, wherein Jesus asks the Father, Sanctify them in the truth, your word is truth. Yes, Jesus promised abundant life, but which gospel made abundant life a theme? And yes, Jesus came to bring a sword, but is that the centerpiece of any of the accounts of his life? Why do we pursue those purposes of Jesus' life with zeal, but not pursue the truth? Jesus said he came to bear witness to the truth. John makes truth central to his gospel. But is truth central to the purposes of our lives? And all of this is to say nothing of the way John opens his gospel. Do you recall John 1-1? The beginning was the word. Word is a translation of logos. And logos in Greek is a loaded term. It means more than merely a semantic vehicle of meaning. Logos bears the sense of ultimate meaning, final authority, foundational truth. We might say it this way, in the beginning was the last word. For Greek philosophers, logos was the underpinning, truly true, of outward reality. Thus, John is saying that this Jesus about whom he writes underlies all of reality. He is the Logos. In the beginning was the Word. It's why in verse 3, John says, chapter 1, verse 3, all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that has been made. Is truth important in John's gospel? It is so important that it is the propositional statement right out of the gate that Jesus is the fundamental truth. Behind everything. Jesus says to Pilate, I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Jesus' best friend John takes him at his word and makes truth the central theme of his account of Jesus' life. So is truth a central theme of our lives? Pilate asked, what is truth? I think we should join him. I think we should, with Pilate, ask that question. After all, the word Christian literally means Christ, follower. If Jesus came to bear witness to the truth, shouldn't we as his followers do the same? So we join with Pilate this morning and we ask: what is truth? Now, some of you are thinking, wait a second, Pastor, I took philosophy way back in college. Don't do that again. Have enough of it. I understand. Let me ask you this simple question. When you were in your philosophy class, did the professor bother to point out that truth was a central theme of Jesus' life? I went to a Christian college, and as I recall, we were never told that. I sat through that class just like you did. But I failed to understand its importance because I failed to understand it is a theme of Jesus' life. Truth mattered to Jesus, it should matter to us. Can you imagine not caring about what is most important in your spouse's life? What kind of marriage would that be? So, why on earth would we not care about what is important to Jesus? For this purpose, I was born and have come to the earth to bear witness to the truth. So, we're going to ask today and the rest of this summer, what is truth? We're going to look today briefly at some of the most common views of truth. And we're going to poke some holes in all of them. And frankly, I'll just admit right now we are not going to conclude much of anything today. It's going to be something of a disappointing sermon in that regard For the truth is that the main theme of the sermon is now behind us. The main point of the sermon is this: truth was important to Jesus. And so it ought to be important to us. But what we are going to do now is begin to set the stage for the weeks to come To begin to wrestle with some of the issues so that we are prepared to delve into this more deeply in the Sundays which followed. So here we go. Some common views of truth and some of the problems they have Historically speaking, the most common view of truth has been called the correspondence view. The correspondence view The correspondence view of truth holds that something is true if and only if it relates to, it corresponds to the real world. Pretty intuitive, isn't it? There is a piano on this platform. That is true if and only if there's a piano on this platform There is? It's a true statement. In a nutshell, that's the correspondence view. Most of us operate according to that view of truth most of the time. We expect our propositions to correspond to reality. It is safe to walk across the street. Is true if and only if there is not a car barreling down upon us. That shirt is $42. That's true if and only if we pay $42 for it at checkout. Correspondence. Credit scores. You said you'd repay the loan, you repaid the loan, your word corresponds to reality, you have a high PICO score. That's a practical application of the correspondence view of truth. This is, in a very real sense, what you might call the duh view of truth. Of course, a statement must correspond to reality in order to be true. And some of us might ask ourselves, how can there be any other view of truth? Well, there is the philosophical problem that we're not going to get into, that of perception and being and idealism, and how do we know that we are perceiving reality as it really is. We're going to skip all of that, set that aside Let me demonstrate a more concrete problem for the correspondence view of truth. Correspondence was and is the basis of the scientific method. A proposition was put forth. The Earth is stationary at the center of the universe. Galileo Galilei pointed his telescope at the sky. And saw that that statement did not correspond to reality. That statement was false, and the scientific method was born out of the correspondence view. So we would today say things like X causes cancer, and we design tests. And if those who eat X have a higher rate of cancer than those who do not eat X, The proposition is true. It corresponds to reality. Now, where is the problem in all about? You see, any view of truth that is going to be the true view of truth has to explain all truth. Let me demonstrate the problem with the correspondence view, or one of the problems with the correspondence view. Imagine this simple question. Why is the tea kettle of water boiling on the stove? Why is the tea kettle of water boiling on the stove? Well, I could explain to you that the combustion of the natural gas releases the stored chemical energy and produces kinetic energy in the molecules right above the flame. And those kin the kinetic energy bangs into the bottom of the tea kettle and those molecules get moving faster and they bang into the water molecules and those molecules get moving faster and eventually they move fast enough that they can move apart from each other and they form gas and that's the bubbles associated with boiling and that's why the tea kettle is boiling on the stove. But you see, when my mother asked me Why is the tea kettle boiling on the stove? I had better not give that answer. If I had any ounce of wisdom in me at all, I would have to say, because I wanted oatmeal for breakfast. You see the problem? There are different natures, different aspects of truth Is it true that those molecule things are happening? Yes. But there's also a true why question that's got nothing to do with those, but everything to do with the person behind it. How do we get at that? How do we test if that corresponds to reality? You see, that's a real problem. It also turns out that there is another problem with this correspondence view. It's a fundamental logical problem. Think about it. Is it scientifically testable to say that all truth claims must be scientifically testable? I know, feels like you're back in philosophy class, back in college. Is it scientifically testable to say that all truth claims must be scientifically testable? To say that truth is only that which can be tested and verified by science is not itself a testable statement. If it's true, then it's false. Now I'm not suggesting that we jettison the correspondence theory of truth. We will return to it often, and it does have a place in how we think about truth. the world and how we view truth. But it cannot stand on its own. It has serious flaws Scientific philosophers saw this problem, and they proposed replacing it with something called the coherence theory of truth The coherence theory, this view, not surprisingly, says that truth is all the set of propositions which cohere. They are internally consistent. They do not contradict themselves. In this view, a set of testable scientific propositions along with a set of non-testable metaphysical propositions might together eventually explain everything in a comprehensive, internally consistent, cohesive manner. And according to this view, that would be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. This view didn't hold up very long, even among scientific philosophers. Why? It's got a fatal flaw. I first came across its flaw in the Hawking, Stephen Hawking book, A Brief History of Time. You see, the prevailing views of physics say that we live in a deterministic universe. The atheists would put it this way, that there are a set of physical laws out there that are described by mathematical equations, which might themselves actually be mathematical equations, and they control everything that happens. And so therefore they are going to control how we view them And what's to say they're going to allow us to come to a proper view of the truth. You see, Hawking and others pointed out that we live in a world where deceivable That we would come to a cohesive, uh total total explanation of everything and have it be wrong. How can that be the truth? Now, why don't I just spend time talking about a view, a philosophical view of truth that even most philosophers reject today? Because many of us do not reject it. We're going to wrestle with this over and over again in the next few weeks The cohesive view of truth is one many of us still hold. We might call it the semi-conven semi-conherence theory. You see, it dominates the public sphere today. We live in self-contained, competing realms of so-called truth We surround ourselves with like-minded people. So everything we hear reinforces what we believe it coheres. That our social media, in order to keep us clicking, curates the links and the feeds which agree with our views. That our political party squelches any contrary views You don't think partisanship squelches truth? Answer this. Is there a single Republican in the House who admits the truth of the last presidential election? Is there a single Democrat anywhere on Capitol Hill who confesses the scientific reality that the unborn are human? Partisanship promotes coherence, not truth. Even our smart televisions and our streaming services, what do they do? They suggest we watch more of what we've already watched. Reinforcing our view, whatever it might be. We are surrounded by those who say things that agree with us. You see, the scientific philosophers have panned the coherence theory of truth, but most Americans live by it. Just give you a little heads up right now. If we're going to be serious about the truth, we're going to be wrong a lot. And we're going to have to admit that we're wrong a lot. Correspondence view, it's intuitive, but it gives us trouble. Because we intuitively know that there's truth out there that can't be tested by science. The coh coherence theory falls short because self-consistent Coherent wrongness is a very real possibility. So where does that take us? I'm going to skip over pragmatism and a host of other views of truth, and I'm going to jump to just one more this morning. It's a view which is currently in vogue among philosophers. It's called deflationism. Deflationism simply says we should remove the whole idea of truth. Just get rid of it. Stop worrying about what is true and just say what is. Don't say it's true that there's a piano on the platform. Just say there's a piano on the platform. Who cares if that's true? Whatever true might mean. This view has some of the simplicity of the correspondence view, and it removes the whole argument over the concept of truth. You see, it deflates every question to a bare matter of fact. Why is water boiling? Because I want oatmeal. End of discussion. Nothing more to probe. Deflationism is having something of a moment now among academic philosophers, but there are plenty of doubters and skeptics, and we should be among them. You see, among other things, is if truth has no inherent value, if we can just dismiss it and get rid of it altogether and stop worrying about it, if truth is a non-entity that's just getting in the way Then why have humans, all humans, everywhere, every time they've been found, always worry so deeply about truth? You see the problem from an atheistic philosophical standpoint? If you don't believe there is any transcendent truth, by the way, if you believe there is no transcendent truth, then you immediately don't believe in God. Okay? So if you're an atheist, if you're holding this view, then you've got a tough question to answer. Why, if that's true, would evolution select for humans who worry about what doesn't exist? It's a real problem. And by the way, I brought it up not because I don't I don't think there are many of us who are holding to that. Well because like I said, it is a prevailing view out there, which means it's going to begin to creep into popular culture. It's an insidious view, and it's one that must be rejected, and we will continue to do so in the weeks to come. Deflationism is the idea that there really is no truth to worry about at all. There just is what there is. We actually will look a little bit more about that next week. So, correspondence says truth must connect to the real world, but not all truths connect easily to the real world. Coherence says the truth is a set of explanations and ideas which hang together, but just because they hang together doesn't mean they're right. And deflationism says, bah, stop worrying about truth at all, just be. But that begs the question of why we ever worried about truth in the first place. So here we are. And what I hope, actually, I sincerely hope is a bit of a discouraging discussion. I hope it leaves you feeling a little uneasy, a little unsure, a little unsatisfied. You see, I already said my goal this morning was not to answer every question. I couldn't have done that in one sermon. Not one that you would have stayed for. Instead, I wanted to do these two things. First and foremost, I wanted to establish the importance of truth, that it matters immensely, that it was the very purpose of Jesus' life, his reason for living was to bear witness to the truth. And if that's so, then we must be people of the truth, as Jesus worded it. Second, I wanted us to see that the nature and sense of truth is more complicated than it might at first seem. If we're going to be people of the truth, then we're going to have to wrestle with the nature of truth. as difficult as that might be. Now, many of us don't like the uneasy feeling that these questions can produce. And it's an instinct for many of us to just dismiss it as so much needless philosophical malarkey. Pastor, don't try to confuse me. I know what's real. And what's true is what's real, and what's real is what's true, and it's that simple. You know, I began the sermon this morning suggesting that reality TV Social media, artificial intelligence, a host of other modern inventions have created a world wherein we can no longer believe our eyes. It's not really new. That's been the case all along. None other than the great Apostle Paul wrote the following We know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. You see, as long as we live in this life, and as long as we are at home in the body, Paul says, we cannot simply believe what we see. But must walk according to a faith in something else. So what is it? What is there besides what we see? Besides simple correspondence with reality? You see, if we refuse to wrestle with the difficult questions of truth And we simply declare that truth is whatever coincides with reality, then have we not said that we're going to walk by sight? And not by faith? Have we not at that point rejected a basic tenet of the Christian faith? We are not answering every question today, but we will. In the coming weeks, we will explore the web of interconnected ideas related to truth. We will look more closely at the nature of truth. What is it? We'll come back to that next week. We will look more closely at the nature of knowledge. If there is truth, how can we know that we know it? That's a few weeks away. We're going to rustle with the question of how knowledge and truth can be extracted from this world even though we don't walk by sight And we're going to look at how we might evaluate all the conflicting claims of truth in a truth-challenged world. Lord willing, by the end of this summer, we're going to put all of this together, and then we're going to end the series by putting it all on the line. In our last sermon, we're going to look at the most outlandish, outrageous truth claim that's ever been made, and evaluate whether it stands up or not. Why? Because truth matters. Jesus said he came to bear witness to the truth. He said those that listen to him must be of the truth. And so we are going to join with Pontius Pilate and ask, what is truth? Let's pray. Lord, as we consider truth this summer as we look at this topic, as we delve into these things guide our hearts and minds, give us uh the humility to routinely and readily admit that we've been wrong about things Help us to understand your word and why it matters. And as we explore the meaning of truth, Help us to love Jesus more, to honor him better with our lives, to proclaim him more clearly to a world that is lost without him. Lord, help us to be those who bear witness to the truth, like our Lord and Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen.