On Wednesday, following the business of the General Assembly, that business which protected me from litigation for last week's sermon, after it, Conrad and I went out for dinner. And once we had eaten our barbecue, and wow was it good, uh, the waitress returned and she said it's something interesting. Our waker said to us, the banana pudding pie is to die for. She wanted to communicate how good dessert was, so she said, the banana pudding pie is to die for. Do we understand hyperbole? We Presbyterians arise from the rather careful precision of our puritan forefathers. Now, to be sure that is a blessing in so many ways. Yet I worry that we miss the Bible's hyperbole sometimes. Jeremiah cursed the day he was born. He said that the poor fellow who told his father, it's a boy Should have died for not having killed Jeremiah in his mother's womb. David wished God would break the teeth of his enemies Another of the psalmists prayed that God would dash his enemies' infants upon the rocks. Think about that. How can any Christian ever wish any baby, even those of their worst enemies? To be thrown to their deaths upon the rocks. It's outrageous. It's sickening. And it strikes us as decidedly unchristian. But it's also hyperbolic. It's exaggeration to make a point And when the center of Christianity moved northward and westward, away from its Middle Eastern roots and into Europe Bible interpreters lost sight of the idiomatic extremism of Semitic writers Interestingly, Paul and Luke, by their training and their upbringing, are the most westernized Bible writers. Which may explain why so many of us find their writings the easiest to appreciate. You see, not many of the Bible writers were 21st century descendants of the Puritans Buttoned up, reserves, carefully precise. Ironically, if we wish to be precise, we have to stop reading the Bible as if they were precise. The psalmist did not literally want babies dashed against rocks. He was expressing his emotions. Jeremiah was a righteous man. He would not execute the man who said, it's a boy. But that gave expression to how he felt. And this extreme language is not reserved for negative emotions. David says in one psalm, I, speaking of a victory over his enemies, I beat them fine as dust before the wind. Really? No, not really. David's enemies did not literally blow away in the wind. But he was stoked when he wrote that song. He was emotionally fired up about his victory and expressed that emotion in extreme language. You see, I'm pretty sure our waitress was not really willing to die for a piece of pie. But it was good pie, and she wanted us to know that. Matters of extreme importance to the Bible writers are conveyed through extreme expressions. Hell is extremely important. Which is why Jesus would say, if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better to enter life main than to go to hell with both hands. Did Jesus literally mean that? Not one person in his original audience would have thought so. They all knew what he was doing, the rhetorical technique he was employing. You see, bodily mutilation was a grievous sin, Israel, and no rabbi would advocate for it. Jesus hyperbolically commands that sin of self-revelation in order to evoke an emotional response so as to stress the severity of hell. We are not accustomed to that kind of hyperbole, to that kind of extremism in language. So let's see if we can't maybe uh uh sort through some of the excessive language about hell And arrive at an intelligent, God-honoring description of hell, which takes seriously the words of Scripture, but also takes them as intended. Let's get God's help doing this. Spirit, as we seek to tone down some of the language and imagery surrounding hell. Do not let us think it is less fearful. Instead, help us to see it as more realistic and all the more terrifying for its realism. Teach us to fear the one who can destroy both body and soul in hell, and that alleviates that fear through Jesus, not through the foolish disregard of hell. We pray this in his name. Amen. Imagine for a moment a culturally uninformed person, and they read the opening line once upon a time. And they decide that rumpled silk skin is historical. Easy enough to do, right? Once upon a time sounds like historic language, does it not? Now, what will happen to that person? Over time, as they continue to read the fairy tale genre, one of two things is going to happen. Either they are going to uh uh fail to see the symbolism and the moralistic teaching. And they are going to just think the whole genre of absurd and abandon it, or else they are going to come to grips with the mechanism, the literary technique employed And begin to appreciate it. Too many people have rejected the whole Bible because of the caricature of hell. Misunderstanding, they say things like, How can I believe in, how can I worship a God who would throw my kindly but unbelieving manna into the same eternal torture as Hitler? Too many Christians have left the faith because of that false doctrine. Other Christians, while not abandoning the faith altogether, they disbelieve that anything akin to the character. of hell which we've created. And they don't think that anything even like that could possibly be real. And in so doing, they make God's eternal justice something akin to a far side cartoon. You don't think I'm right about that? You don't think that assessment is accurate? Consider how we describe a day as being hotter than hell, or our work week as harder than it. Would we do that with any other human tragedy? Who would say this week at work was more treacherous than a Palestinian dodging Israeli tank fire? I mean come on, that's in poor taste to compare mere frustration to life and death matters. Would you ever say it's hotter outside than the ninety-fifth floor of the World Trade Center during a terrorist attack? It feels very just hypothesizing about it. And would you dare to use the Holocaust as an offhand benchmark for suffering? But the suffering of hell will exceed the suffering of any of those events. It will exceed the suffering of all of them combined. So why do we joke about hell and make light of it and use it in casual ways? For many of us, the cartoonish manner of its presentation leaves us doubting its reality. The unnuanced, unrefined picture of literal fire, wherein all are tortured actively, eternally, and equally, seems so out there that it's hard to accept. But as I prayed a moment ago, I hope this morning we will accomplish two immediate things in our collective thinking. First, We will gain a less outlandish, more nuanced, more realistic view of hell. And second, in gaining a more biblical understanding of hell That we will all be more convinced of its reality, and that it is to be avoided at all costs. If I can repaint hell in your mind this morning so that it is less caricature and more realistic, and if the result of that is that you are even more convinced of its existence, And I think this sermon will have served us well. This is all then, by way of introduction And now I want to actually try to do three things. First, I want to deconstruct our mythical caricature of hell. I then want to try to reconstruct in our minds a more biblical view of hell And finally, I want to convince us of its seriousness. We're going to deconstruct the mythology of hell, we're going to reconstruct a biblical hell, and then we're going to affirm the seriousness of hell. We've already begun the demythologizing of hell. Most hell passages in the Bible, they employ the same kind of extreme language as the psalmist. wishing for babies to be dashed on rocks, or Jeremiah wishing he had died in his mother's womb. The hell passages go over the top In order to make a point to a culture which routinely went over the top. Thus, in our Old Testament reading, we found a picture of hell, one that has influenced all of the Bible writers that followed. In it, Isaiah said, From Sabbath to Sabbath all flesh shall come to worship before me, declares the Lord. Now no one would have taken Isaiah's meaning Literally. They would not have imagined that on every single Sabbath, every single being upon the earth travel literally to Jerusalem and worship literally in the temple. No, they understood that he was painting a picture of a world that was reunited, reconciled to its God. that it was now under its God's authority, and it was at peace with God. That was the picture he was painting. So it is in verse 24 when we read, And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me For their worms shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an affordance to all flesh. Just as he describes heaven in figurative ways Which evoke a positive feeling in making us want to be there, so he describes hell in figurative ways, meant to evoke a negative feeling and deter us from it Think of it this way. Think of it as Claude Monet's sunset in Venice or Waterlilies Isaiah is giving us an impression of hell rather than a photograph of it. Jesus' teaching about hell is equally non-literal. In Matthew 25, 41, he says, Then the Son of Man, sitting upon his throne, will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. How can this be literal? Most of us don't stop to think about it. The devil and his angels are spiritual beings. They have no physical bodies How would physical literal fire affect them in any way? It wouldn't. If we take this literally, it doesn't make sense. Literalism fails to take the text seriously. Last week, we met the rich man who sat opposite of Lazarus in Hades In Jesus' parable. Now in that story, and we didn't read this portion last week, but in that story, the man wanted a drop of water to cool his tongue But he's a disembodied soul waiting in the realm of the dead. He has no tongue Obviously he was suffering, but literal water was going to be of no more help to him than he was literally suffering in literal fire. Again, literalism creates problems. Three times in Matthew, Jesus describes hell as outer darkness. Now I ask you, do literal fire and literal darkness coexist? Of course not. Which brings us back around to Isaiah's description. Can an insatiable worm live literally amidst an unquenchable fire? Of course not. There is more we could do to dispel these wrong ideas about hell. But I hope this is sufficient for our purpose this morning. My point is simply this: the Bible's descriptions of hell are generally not literal, but literary. They make use of the techniques of their day and lean heavily on hyperbole and symbolism. Thus fire is terrifying, and so it's a good metaphor to employ, but hell is not likely to be literal fire. Many of the other traditional characterizations of hell would fall away similarly if we took a close look at them. For the sake of time, we will allow that to suffice. So how do we reconstruct hell? If we have briefly looked at the the Evidence for which we might demythologize hell, how do we reconstruct a more biblical view of it? What can we say about hell? If the classic picture of all people suffering horribly and equally for all eternity by means of literal fire, with sulfur being poured into their wounds, if that is not to be taken in that way, then what is hell? And how should we think about it? For a brief moment, let's continue not with the issue, but the isn't. What isn't hell? Did you catch in our New Testament reading? Hell isn't occupied. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each of them, according to what they had done And then, if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. According to Revelation 20, hell currently sits empty, awaiting the final judgment. That is not meant for you to win the next game of Bible trivia. That has import That has significance. Do you see the glory of God in that? Last week We saw that upon his ascension, Jesus threw open the doors of heaven to the righteous, to the believers. But now we see that the unrighteous dead don't immediately go into hell. Why? Well, our God is quick to grant mercy No one suffers hell without first getting a fair trial. God is never unjust. He will forego justice at times in favor of mercy, but he never corrupts. Justice, meeting out punishment when no sentence has been pronounced. The unrighteous dead await their trial in Hades, not hell This is not the last time that we're going to see that rightly understanding the doctrine of hell is closely tied to our understanding of God. We also saw in our New Testament reading that hell is the second death. Death in the scriptures is not non-existence. Death in the scriptures is existence out of fellowship with God, out of communion with Him. Adam was told, in the very day that you eat of it, you will surely die. His death was not annihilation, it was not non-existent, it was not even at that moment physical. Rather, he was banished from his fellowship and communion with God. That's the biblical picture of death. You see, there is a growing chorus of voices who are willing to set aside 2,000 years of consistent church teaching about the everlasting nature of hell. Some of them adopt universalism, the belief that all are saved. To be very clear, all are not saved. I haven't the time to refute this this morning, but it seems self-evident to me that universalism is a most dreadful teaching. And it risks condemning many to hell. Among other things, it undermines the Bible's principal motivation for missions and evangelism. Why suffer to reach the lost if they aren't lost? It weakens the faithful against persecution. Why suffer for Jesus in this life if just denying him gets me to the same end? Universalism is a dreadful heresy. Interestingly enough, Jesus Talk more about hell than anyone else in the Bible did. And he talked more about hell than he did about heaven. I suspect God knew we were going to struggle with the doctrine and laid it out that way so that the teaching about hell would be in the red letter portion of our Bible. Hell is real. Universalism is not. The other hell-minimizing teaching out there is called annihilationism, sometimes called uh uh Ah, bottom of my head. Conditional immortality. Conditional immortality or annihilationism. In one of its more prevalent forms, it teaches that the impenitent sinner suffers in hell for a time proportionate to his sin. And then he is annihilated, utterly destroyed, made not to exist. Now I respect the effort at proportionality. But annihilationism is not death as we've already seen. And hell is the second death Biblically speaking, death is existence out of communion with God. Thus, hell must necessarily persist. It will endure. Moreover, the everlasting nature of hell is one of the most consistent aspects of its description we find in the Bible. We see the eternal nature of hell in Jesus' teaching on the subject In Matthew 25, Jesus is teaching about the final judgment and the accompanying rewards and punishments. In verse 41 of Matthew 25, he says this. Then the Son of Man will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. Now, someone might jump on that and say, Pastor, you just told us the fire is not literal. Maybe the eternality is not literal either. And if that were the only verse in that passage, I think we'd have legitimate ground for a debate and a discussion. But Jesus concludes his teaching with this summary statement. And those on his left will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Life and punishment are set in set against each other, set in parallel to each other. The only way to read that sentence logically and consistently Is that either both are eternal or neither is? If eternal life is eternal, And who wants to deny that? Then eternal punishment must also be so And if we had begun our New Testament reading in Revelation a few verses earlier, we would have read this. And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet were And they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. Ironically Everyone who believes that the devil exists also believes that he should be tormented day and night forever and ever. And most people would be willing to put, let's say, I don't know, Hitler, Stalin, Mao Tong, some others into that category as well But is this not the same lake of fire into which the dead in Hades were going to be thrown just a few verses later? Thus, hell is either eternal for all or for none. If this is not so, then proportionality, the very thing these people are looking to establish about God, proportionality is lost. For not even Satan will have committed infinite sins in a finite time. If he suffers forever and ever. Then so do all the others find it there. We circle back around to where we begin. If Isaiah's unquenchable fire is not everlasting, then by the same logic, neither is the eternal paradise he describes. The two are set parallel to each other. Hell is. It is a place of punishment, and it is eternal. But I wish to look now at another aspect of hell, one that is often overlooked. Its precision. its attention to justice, its care and concern for righteousness, and its reflection of its creator. When we talk about heaven and earth, we are careful to talk about how they reflect the glory of their creator. But for some reason we throw that idea away when it comes to hell Jesus was teaching in Luke 12, and Peter asked him, Rabbi, who are you instructing? Us or them? So Jesus tells another parable in which a lead servant, the apostles, was put in charge of other servants, the general population. That lead servant, that chief servant, he grows slack and fails to execute his master's will. As a consequence, the other servants necessarily fall short in their duties to the master. Jesus concludes his warning this way. This is Luke 12, verse 47-48. The servant, who that is, the apostles, the servant who knows the master's will and does not get ready or does not do what the master wants will be beaten with many blows. But the one who does not know, yet does things deserving punishment, will be beaten with few blows. Clearly, not all are punished equally. Thus, the classic caricature of hell might beset the servant beaten with many blows. But what is hell like for the one destined to receive only a few blows? Could it be akin to what Dante imagined? I understand that Dante's inferno is not inspired, it is not inherent, yet it is a more nuanced, more serious consideration of the Bible's teaching about hell. For Dante imagined that the first circle of hell was the most populated. Now think about it. If Jesus said to Copernaum that Sodom would suffer less than it did, Is it not easy to imagine that the bulk of the unbelieving world has been even less wicked than Sodom? Is it not possible that most of the unbelieving condemned will be beaten with few blows? Who can say for sure? Thus Dante sees his first level as the most populated by far. It is fitted with the goodly but ungodly. It is populated by those who paid their taxes, loved their spouses, did not kick stray cats, nor leave borrowed lawn tools in their own garages. These are the people who umpired your Little League games and picked up trash from a polluted river. Many of these made the world a better place, but they did not know the Lord, and so they cannot spend eternity with him. What then is hell like for them? Dante imagines them sad, melancholy, despairing for what might have been had they only known Jesus. They are hopeless. But they are not actively tortured. Make no mistake, their situation is terrible. Anyone who has suffered depression or despair for even a short time will tell you how bad it is. Can you imagine an eternity of it? I myself often despair over questions of what might have been. Dante imagines them doing so for all time. Many beside him have thought that the gnashing of teeth, so often associated with hell, is symbolic of exactly that. It is people grinding forever on what might have been, if only I had gone to church when my spouse invited me, if only I had asked for my believing neighbor more about Jesus. If only I had read the tract I was given, if only I had opened the Bible. In the hotel nightstand rather than scoffing at it. This is hell, to be sure, but this is not a portrait of a vindictive god meting out nausea-inducing torture upon those whose primarily Primary sin might have been nothing more than never hearing the gospel. Below that, Dante imagined the place of darkness and fierce winds. It is a circle filled with the lovers of the pleasures of the flesh. You see, in this life they chased desire. And so in the next life, he imagined them tossed about by forces beyond their control so that they were never able to chase anything they wanted. Their torment is real and it is eternal, and it is in keeping with their sin in proportion to it. You get the idea. On he goes, with each circle having fewer and fewer inhabitants and the torment growing more and more severe, but always in keeping with the sins of those contained therein. Dante's details are undoubtedly off the mark at some point, but he does portray a view of hell that I believe is more in keeping with the Bible's description of God's justice. Jesus said those who knew of God's will and defied it would be beaten with many lashes. Those who did wrong but never knew his will would receive a light beating. God is just And his hell will be as well. And this argument does not arise merely from the one passage in Luke 12. Romans 2 says this, he will render to each one according to his works. Galatians 6 we read: Do not be deceived, God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, That also will he reap. Psalm 62. One thing God has spoken, two things have I heard: that you, O God, are strong, and that you, O Lord, are loving Surely you will reward each person according to what he has done. And Jeremiah 32 says O great and mighty God, whose name is the Lord of hosts, great in counsel and mighty indeed, whose eyes are open to all the ways of the children of man, rewarding each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his These are but a few of the decretive testimonies to God's judgment. But the Bible is also filled with illustrative passages that talk about his judgment as well. Miriam complains against Moses' black wife, and so God makes her as white as snow. The punishment fits the crime. The list is long and it makes the point that Abraham hit, when Abraham hit the nail right on the head. Will not the judge of all the earth do what is right? If hell is the manifestation of God's wrath against sin, why did we ever imagine that it would be manifest unjustly? Anytime and every time the Bible reflects upon the last judgment, it is always portrayed as precise, as fitting, as accurate. To depict hell as the indiscriminate torture of all alike is an affront to the very nature of our God. Consider some of the other teachings from theology proper. The Bible is plain and clear: God is love. On this subject, history is equally plain and clear. God is so loving that he devised the cross To reconcile sinners. God desires the salvation of all. His heart is grieved by the sinfulness of his creatures. He takes no pleasure in the death, even of the wicked. How can we imagine how to be a place wherein God enthusiastically tortures? And we teach and believe in the simplicity of God. He is not partitioned. He does not compartmentalize his attributes. God could not administer his love or mercy, but forget his justice, thus the cross. His nature required it. God's very essence required the cross. Why? So that he could be both just and the one who justifies the ungodly. You see, someone had to pay the penalty for sin. But this God, who would not dole out mercy independent of his justice, neither will he ever meet out punishment apart from his goodness. The same God who so loved the world that Jesus died to save it, he will be the one applying justice in hell. Not some heartless potentate, but the God of love and goodness, not some sadist or psychopath, but the one who sent his son. Any Christian must realize, then, that the judgment of the wicked, about which we actually know very little, is in the hands of the one person. Who can and will execute that judgment with perfect wisdom, moderation? And even tenderness of feeling. Our hellology must reflect our theology. The Bible's figurative descriptions of hell, if taken literally, create unbelievable mythology of senseless, mindless, unending brutality. That is not hell because it is not our God. Hell is eternal punishment, and so it is hell. But it will be administered with perfect justice, absolute precision, and by a warden whose compassion always coexists. with his holiness and justice. Now, lest this sermon be taken as a watering down of the doctrine of hell, I want to conclude with a brief affirmation of the seriousness. James Joyce, the Irish writer who was so important and influential in the first half of the twentieth century He wrote in his autobiography that he once heard hell preached as the place wherein the damned were imprisoned within walls four thousand miles thick. Their bodies heaped together in such a tangle That one could not move his arm to his face in order to remove from the eye the worm that gnaws at it. The horror of the prison was increased by the scent as all the world's filth ran into it as into a sewer Added to this are the choking flames of the fire that is consuming the decomposed carcasses and of the yet unburied rotting bodies. Joy said that the priest went further, we shall not. Many have recoiled at such grotesque portrayals of hell, many to the point of abandoning either the doctrine or the faith. But that is almost always the rejection of a straw man hell. It is the refutation of a doctrine which ought not rightly exist anyway. And so the baby is tossed out with the bathwater. We have striven this morning to avoid that, for it is relatively easy. To cast aside something so outrageous and so unbecoming to God. But it is more difficult. To recoil from a doctrine of careful, precise, proportionate punishment Some might, as we have proposed earlier, say, I cannot worship a god who tortures both Nana and Hitler equally. But it is infinitely harder to say, I will not worship a God who is careful in justice. Precise in his punishments, who in compassion gives to the reprobate only exactly what his sin merited, and that only after a fair trial. A genuine doctrine of hell, one which takes seriously the Bible's hyperbole, as well as its balancing statements about God's justice. Is not so easily tossed aside. And it must not be. Mark nine 42 to 48 is one of the places where Jesus teaches about hell, and we referenced it briefly earlier. I want to read it more fully to you now, beginning in verse 43. If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life maimed than with two hands to go into hell where the fire never goes out. And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than to have two feet and be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into hell, where the worm that uh where the where the worm that eats I'm sorry where the worms that eat them do not die and the fire is not quenched. Perhaps we now understand better the evocative and excessive language of Jewish hyperbole. Perhaps we now know that Jesus' final statement was a quote of Isaiah 66. Perhaps we understand that Jesus was stirring up emotion so that his listeners would strive to avoid hell. Even if he was not describing the literal way to avoid it. Jesus' point was to stress how important it was to stay out of hell. But we need to also understand how he introduced this teaching. I begin in verse 43. Let me back up now to verse 42. Listen carefully. If anyone causes one of these little ones, those who believe in me, to stumble, it would be better for them if a large millstone were hung around their neck and they were thrown into the sea. Little ones are not biological children. It is a term of endearment, a term of tender spiritual care. Jesus uses it here. We see Paul use it. John uses it in his epistle. Little ones are those who are the spiritual followers, who, like a child, go where they are told. and do what they are shown, who lead lives without much discernment, perhaps through no fault of their own, but because they don't have the access to the teaching and the learning. And so they tend to be to be followers that do what they are taught. They are the simple majority untrained in spiritual matters, excepting And Jesus warns the twelve future leaders about misleading them, about tripping them up in doctrine, about causing them to stumble. You see, before he gives his warning about hell, Jesus first gave a warning about misteaching hell. about misrepresenting hell, about misleading people with regard to hell If we do not teach about hell, and if we do not balance the biblical portrait of hell, hell would be for us a place of great suffering. Jesus says, perhaps with his dose of hyperbole, that one would be better off at the bottom of the sea with a half-ton stone around his neck than to mislead about hell. I have no intention of toning down hell so that you fear it less and love Jesus less. On the contrary. I'm a terrible swimmer, and I don't wish to have a millstone tied to my neck. And so I want you not to stumble over this doctrine. Do not leave the faith or orthodox teaching because Hell has been made an intolerable caricature by so many, including sadly myself in the past. Both heaven and hell are manifestations of God's glory. And both will serve to bring that glory upon Jesus. For at the name of Jesus every knee will bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Hell is real and realistic. And in it, people will sit up and recognize what they missed at the cross. And from it they will glorify the justice of God by which they are there. That is a warning to take seriously. That is a reason to hold on even tighter to the one who saves us from that fate. Amen. Lord, to the degree that we have ever mischaracterized your justice and our careless descriptions of hell, please forgive us. To the degree that we have imagined Helen away unfitting, unbecoming of you, please forgive us. But as we begin to think about it more seriously, more carefully, please stir in us a recognition of the seriousness of this doctrine. And remind us of Jesus, who bore your wrath on our behalf, so that we might be set free from this destiny. We pray this in his precious name. I'm Ed