Heaven. Paradise. A tropical island might advertise itself as paradise. We might come home from a day at the spa and describe it as a day in heaven. I don't think I would do that. I don't go to spas, but some people do, and they might refer to a a spa day as a day in heaven. But is that all there is to heaven? Is the idea of paradise simply a really nice place on this earth? Our larger catechism reminds us that God's third commandment prohibits not only the vain use of God's name. but also the trivialization of his works and wonders. In other words, speaking of either heaven or hell in ways which make them less than they are also makes God smaller than he is. One cannot rightly be called a fan of Michelangelo and act like David or the Sistine Chapel are commonplace pieces of art. In the same way, when we trivialize some of God's most important works Heaven and hell, for example, we reveal that we have taken him lightly as well. Heaven matters. It is not a nice day at the spa. Paradise is not merely a pleasant week on the beach. So what is heaven? Where is it? What will it be like? What will I be like when I get there? And how can I even be sure I will get there? Over these next seven weeks, we're going to address these questions and some other related questions. And actually, it was a question that one of you put forward to me that i uh inspired this sermon series after one of our sermons in the book of hebrews a sermon which talked about heavenly things. We were in the line afterwards, and one of you made a very interesting comment to me. Something along the lines of, Pastor, I'm not sure if I should confess this or not, but I'm not always sure I want to go to heaven. Don't get me wrong, for sure I don't want to go to hell. Heaven has to be better than that. But I'm not all that excited about heaven. It seems kind of boring. I love that kind of honesty. The typical stereotype of the heaven-bound human waiting in line at the pearly gates. to get a set of wings and a harb and uh be assigned to a particular cloud to float on for all of eternity? Well that does sound kind of boring, doesn't it? Well, it's not heaven. We probably shouldn't be taking our cue, our theological understanding, from pop culture. So while this sermon series will be about what heaven is and is like, I also want to say uh to dispel some misconceptions. You know, as a general rule, when an anvil lands on the head of a cartoon coyote and his soul floats on a cloud strumming a harp. That is not a great source of theology. Don't get me wrong, I love me some Looney Tunes, grow up, grew up on those characters, but it's not the place We ought to get our understanding of heaven. Heaven is not eternity on a cloud strumming a harp. So here we go. A sermon series about heaven. And I want to be clear, this is about heaven. It's not technically a sermon series about S Eschatology. We're not going to be looking at the millennium, the great tribulation, the rapture, Jesus' second coming, etc. We are going to focus on the hope of heaven. Let's pray. Jesus, you looked forward to heaven, to your father's house. Teach us to do the same. Provide us that kind of hope. that sort of longing. Stir in us a desire to be freed from this life and ushered into the next. Amen. When I taught high school, the first lesson of the first day of every class, I think, ever, that I ever taught, was the definition of the included the definition of the course title. So on day one of biology class, one of the very first things we did was define biology, the study of life. First day of chemistry, lesson number one, the definition of chemistry, and so on and so on. So here we are in a sermon series on heaven, and it would seem logical that we begin with a definition of the presence of God. I know it doesn't fit the pattern, but as you're going to see, we have to understand the presence of God if we're going to understand heaven. So before we define heaven, let's delve into a better understanding of the doctrine of God's presence. Theologians speak of something called the omnipresence of God. The omnipresence of God. Uh uh uh Omni meaning all presence, obviously. It it's the idea that God is all pres present. By the way, there is an outline on page 13 of the bulletin. I'm going to be making reference to a lot of different scriptures. Most of them are there already and that might be helpful. So for example, one of the scriptures we're going to look at, Psalm 139, verses 7 to 10. This passage is one of the classic passages to turn to, to understand the omnipresence of God. God is everywhere. God is all present, all places, and all times. Listen to what David says beginning in verse 7. Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. An essential aspect of godness, one facet of divinity, one aspect, one part of the supreme being, being supreme, is omnipresence. Being everywhere all at once. But God's omnipresence does not teach that He is all-present in all of those places in the same way. Think about this. That same David who wrote Psalm 139 also wrote Psalm 9, where he says this: God sits enthroned in Jerusalem. David spoke of God being everywhere, and he also spoke of God being in Jerusalem. And Jesus himself knew full well that divinity was omnipresent, but that is certainly not what he had in mind, not what he meant when he promised to be present. wherever two or three gather in his name. You see, God is present here in this room, and he is also present out there in that parking lot. But his presence in those two places is not the same. In here, God's presence is more palpable, more experienced. In here, God speaks to us in a way that he does not out there. He is thus more present in here in a very real and concrete way. It's one of the reasons that over the centuries many in the Reformed tradition have felt very comfortable describing a worship service as a small glimpse, a little taste of heaven. Because in here, through his word, God is more present than he is elsewhere. Omnipresent, yes. But not equipresent, if I may coin a word. This is why theologians, in addition to speaking of God's omnipresence, they also talk about His manifest presence. God's manifest presence. Imagine for a moment you are sitting in the woods. I don't know why you're out in the woods. Perhaps you are bird-watching. Then you learn later that there was a mountain lion hidden nearby. You're walking out of the woods, you see tracks, you see some fresh droppings or something, and you deduce that just a few yards behind you there must have been a mountain lion. Now that puma, she was really there, but her presence made no difference in your experience of those woods and those birds. Generally, the omnipresence of God passes in that way. We are in danger, but never even know it. Now imagine yourself in those same woods, and there's that same mountain lion in the brush behind you, just a few yards back, and she lets out a roar. An adrenaline-inducing fear-inspiring roar You see, now her presence is known and experienced in an entirely different way. She was there on both occasions. But in the second occasion, her presence became manifest. It was made known to you. Now in the former situation, you might tell a few people, sure, being that close to a lion would be worth commenting once or twice to one or two people. But you're going to quickly forget about it. It's not a story you're going to tell over and over again. But if that lion lets out a blood-curdling roar ten yards behind you, You will never stop telling that story. It will forever have be uh impactful in your life. You see, just like that lion's presence is known and experienced in two dramatically different ways, so also the presence of God is known and experienced. differently. His omnipresence is real, but often passes unnoticed. At other times the Bible describes God's presence in ways which could never pass unnoticed. It is what theologians call the manifest presence of God. Jacob spent a night at Bethel He saw a vision in the night, a stairway coming down from heaven, and angels ascending and descending, and God standing at the top of it. And the next day what did he say? Surely the Lord was in this place, and I did not. Realize it. God's omnipresence was transformed into God's manifest presence, and Jacob could not miss the presence of God John the Revelator encountered God's presence in a fully understood, fully realized way. He knew he meant God. Isaiah's call into ministry is perhaps the best known example of God's manifest presence Isaiah 6, beginning in verse 1. Turn there if you would like, but I think it's familiar, and most of you will recognize it as I read it. Isaiah 6, beginning in verse 1. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew, and one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth Is full of his glory, and the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. Isaiah did not experience omnipresence, as real as that is, no In his case, the lion roared, and the presence of God was manifest to him in profound and unmistakable ways. Now, I want to ask a question, which I hope will begin to bring us back around to our main point. Where? Where did Isaiah have that experience? Ponder that for just a moment Where did Isaiah see God? Was it in heaven? Isaiah says plainly that the train of God's robe filled the temple. But Revelation 21 says there is no temple in heaven. Isaiah says that the foundations of the thresholds shook. But always in the scriptures, it is the earth. which is shakable, and heaven is metaphorically unshakable. And we didn't read on, but if we had, we'd have we'd have uh encountered the the account of where One seraph takes a coal and ember from the altar to use it to purify Isaiah's lips. Think about that. A coal from an altar Are there altars and sacrifices in heaven? Finally, Isaiah says that God's glory filled the whole earth. When we look at the evidence with a cold uh matter-of-fact logic It seems Isaiah met God upon the earth in Solomon's temple. And yet, some commentators, most preachers, And practically every layperson says that Isaiah took place, Isaiah 6 took place in heaven. Why? The manifest presence of God. Isaiah experienced the manifest presence of God. I think that the balance of the evidence favors seeing Isaiah 6 It's happening in Solomon's temple, but the profound presence of God immediately invokes the idea of heaven. And that brings us around to the main question of this morning's sermon and to our sermon text in Deuteronomy 26. 15. I hope you followed the theme of the scripture readings this morning. There was a prayer from Chronicles and a prophecy in Isaiah. Both reference heaven as God's habitation, his holy habitation, the place where he lives. Jesus in our New Testament reading spoke of your Father who is in heaven. Jesus knew God was omnipresent. He's speaking of God's manifest presence in heaven. I've chosen Deuteronomy 26. 15 as our sermon text, not because it says anything different from these others but simply because it comes first in the biblical order. Moses is describing a prayer, and he says to the Lord, Look down from your holy habitation from heaven. This is as close to a definition as you will find in the Bible. The Bible is not a textbook. It generally does not define the words it uses. This is pretty close. Look down from your holy habitation from heaven. Heaven is God's habitation. It is the place where God lives, where he dwells. All of these texts, plus several that I did not include, describe heaven as the place where God is. Do you see now why we needed to spend a few minutes on the doctrine of God's presence? God is omnipresent, but heaven is not. Heaven is not everywhere, even though it is the place where God is, and He is everywhere. No, when the Bible describes heaven as God's holy habitation, It means to refer to that place where God's presence is fullest, richest, plainest, most manifest. Isaiah and Jacob and John and a host of others, and maybe some of us here, have experienced God's manifest presence. Him making his presence known. Heaven is the place where that happens most profoundly, most deeply, and continuously. Thus, this is my definition of heaven. Heaven is the place where God's presence is manifest, always profoundly, perfectly, fully. Heaven is the place where God's presence is manifest, always profoundly, perfectly, fully. Now, just to be clear and to equip all of us to be able to study this on our own, I need to step aside for a moment, take a quick aside. If we are not careful in our understanding of the word heaven, we can get into all sorts of trouble. Without turning to it, recite with me out loud, even if you like. But you don't have to. Recite with me the very first line of the Bible. In the beginning, God created the heaven. and the earth. Several of you knew that. All of you probably knew that. We encountered the word heaven immediately upon entering the scripture. Then consider also Psalm 8, which was the Psalm with which we opened our worship service earlier. It spoke of heaven, and it spoke of heaven in three different ways. It spoke of heaven as the the uh a realm of the stars and the uh uh the moon and the sun. It spoke of heaven as the the uh uh uh the realm of the birds. And it also spoke of heaven as the place where God is. All three of those were there in Psalm 8. And we need to recognize that the Bible uses heaven in all of those ways. Heaven can be used of the realm of space, the domain of NASA, the place where planets are and stars are, and I don't know, other galaxies and maybe other universes are all out there. The Bible sometimes speaks of heaven in that way. That's the sense of Genesis 1. 1 that God made everything out there, that is heaven, and everything down here, the earth. Sometimes the Bible uses heaven to just simply mean sky. The realm of the birds, where Psalm 8 speaks of the birds of heaven. But sometimes heaven. is God's holy habitation. We just need to be clear that there are different uses for the word heaven. Psalm 8 encompasses all three of them. Okay, back to our study of heaven. Heaven is a place where God's presence is manifest, always profoundly, perfectly, fully. So what do we mean by that? How does that play out? Consider Jesus' distinction between heaven and earth in his model prayer. He said, Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. What makes heaven distinct, at least in part, what is one of the things that makes heaven different from earth? It's the manner in which God's will plays out. God's will happens differently in heaven than it happens here. Why is that? Well, I suspect that every parent among us can give an answer, as well as all of us who used to be children. Why is it that things play out differently in heaven? Let me ask you this, dear former child. Is mom's will carried out differently when her presence is manifest before you? Do children carry out mom's will differently when they think she's not there? Well, of course. The way that mom's will is carried out often depends on the sense of her presence. One of the distinctions of heaven is the way that God's will is carried out, because God is manifestly present there. Adam would not have done what he did in the manifest presence of God. Adam sinned in the omnipresence of God, but not in God's manifest presence. No sin could be done in God's manifest presence. When you see the lion, when you hear the lion's roar, when the lion's Strength and power and might and speed are made plain when they're manifest, you don't taunt the lion. You don't antagonize her. God's will is carried out differently in heaven because his presence is experienced differently in heaven. Thus, the well-known song, it's a couple of decades old now. Becky opened up our time this morning with it. It asks a series of rhetorical questions. Will I dance for you, Jesus? Or in awe of you be still? Will I stand in your presence, or to my knees will I fall? Will I sing, hallelujah? Will I be able to speak at all? It's a poetic artistic expression of the reality of heaven. God's presence will be known to you In a way you have never experienced it before. And you can't possibly know how you're going to react. You can't possibly say right now What you will do when God's presence is fully known. Oh, you will not sin. His will is done in heaven differently than it is on the earth. But as for what you will do, you can only imagine. Heaven is a place where God's presence is manifest, always perfectly, profoundly, fully. So where is heaven? Where is that? Where is God's presence? Profoundly manifest. Well, heaven is a place of God's presence. Moses defined it as God's abode. Jesus upholds this view in his description of the Father's house with many rooms. So there is out there somewhere a place where God's presence is manifest. It is plain and obvious and full and profound. That is heaven. But where is it? I want to give a two-part answer. Each part will, on its own, be unsatisfactory. Each part will leave you wanting more, but come back in the future weeks, we will get more. That is a shameless plug. to be back in worship. I will never be ashamed of encouraging us to be in worship every Sunday So, where is heaven? Well, the first thing we have to do is admit that we don't know. There is simply nothing in the Bible which tells us where heaven is. It's not here, now. It's always out there. It's usually metaphorically up in the scriptures, with hell being metaphorically down. The heaven of God's habitation is sometimes associated with the heaven of Nasser's domain, that is space, but not rigidly and not firmly. In other words, we don't have any idea where heaven is. We cannot answer the question. But there is another consideration when asking and answering the question, where is heaven? Allow me to put it to you in the form of another question. Which aircraft is Air Force One? When we say, when we refer to Air Force One, most of us think of the well-known Boeing 747, you know, with the blue stripes uh painted down the side and the presidential seal on it But eighty plus years ago, when presidents first began taking uh uh uh uh uh air tra using air travel began to fly, uh there was this confusion that arose over the question of a single plane bearing the designation or the call sign uh uh of the president. And an obvious solution presented itself pretty quickly and it has stayed in place over these 80 years down to this day. I can see some of your faces already that some of you know the answer to the question. When asked which plane is Air Force One, the correct answer is Whichever plane the president is currently on. Air Force One is whichever plane, whatever plane, whatever aircraft. The present is current president is currently on. So when President George W. Bush famously landed on an aircraft carrier That two-seater fighter jet was for that short time Air Force One, because the President was on it. I think you can see how this ties back into our discussion. Where is heaven? Well, it's in one sense, we don't know, but in another sense, it's wherever God's presence is manifestly known. I know it's a bit of an unsatisfactory answer, but we will come back and get into this a bit more next week and in the weeks after. So we don't know exactly where heaven is, but in another sense, it is the place where God's presence is manifestly known wherever that might be. Another question we should ask and answer is the question of, is heaven spiritual or physical? Is heaven a spiritual place or a physical place? You know, given that we don't know the location of heaven, our this our last question might seem odd, but I didn't want to leave this unaddressed, this question of the spirituality or the physicality of heaven. Because we don't know the physical location of heaven or where it really is, I think a lot of us tend to default to an assumption that heaven is a merely spiritual I want you to turn to these passages because they are important and they present an interesting challenge for us. So first turn to John 424, John 4, verse 24. It's on page 1056 if you're using that red pew Bible in front of you. John 4. 24, page 1056. And I will give you just a moment to get there. It's not a particularly long verse, and in fact, um Our elder, when he was praying earlier this morning, he actually referenced the second part of this verse, so I'm only going to read the first couple of words, first three words. John 4, 24 Look at it with me. God is spirit. God is spirit. The King James Version offers a nuanced difference, but it's justifiable given the original Greek text. The King James says it this way: God is a spirit. Now, if God is a spirit, meaning that he does not have a physical body, and if heaven is the place where God dwells, then heaven must necessarily be a spiritual place. And I think that's in keeping with the view that most of us have. When we die, our bodies remain here, and our spirits or souls, the immaterial portion of us, they enter. Heaven. Heaven must necessarily be a spiritual place. But is heaven only spiritual. Turn over in your Bibles if you would now to 2 Kings 2 verse 11. 2 Kings 2, 11. If you're using the Pew Bible, it's on page 362. three sixty two of the Pew Bible, Second Kings two eleven 2 Kings 2. 11, here we go. And as they still went on and talked, that is, as Elijah and Elisha went on and talked, behold. Chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind whirlwind into heaven And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen, and he saw him no more. Elijah famously did not die. He was escorted into God's presence, that is to say, into heaven, without dying. Genesis 5. 24, it's noted there in the outline of the bulletin. I don't think you need to turn there. Well can do so if you want. Genesis 5. 24. says this. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Now on its own, that verse is not particularly striking, but if we put it into the context we find it to stand out like the proverbial sore thumb. You see, all of the ancestors before Enoch and all of his descendants after him Are all described in the same pattern. And the days of John Smith were 824 And he died. And the days of Bill Jones were 901, and he died. Dozens of times we have that exact pattern. And the days of so-and-so were X many years, and he died. And thus, when we get to Enoch, it says God took him. For thousands of years, for millennia, it has been universally understood That this means he did not die. Even unbelievers and skeptics, Bible doubters, Bible deniers. They don't believe that Enoch didn't die, but they do agree that that's what is meant by the author. Enoch didn't die. Finally, Luke 24 uh 50 to and 51. Luke 24, 15 and 51, page 1052 of that Pew Bible. Luke 24, 15 to 51, page 1052. Luke writes, Then he, that is Jesus, then he led them as the disciples. Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them. While he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried into heaven This is the resurrected Jesus. This is the same Jesus who just a short time earlier had showed Thomas his hands, his scarred hands. at his pierced side, who had eaten a piece of broiled fish in their presence. This is the bodily raised Jesus. And he ascends into heaven. Enoch, Elijah, and Jesus are all in God's presence. Physically, bodily. That means, among other things, their bodies and souls were not separated. And it's essential to our Christian faith to confess that to be true with regard to Jesus. If he did not enter heaven, body and soul, Then we never will. You see, he lived the life which met the law, he died the death which paid the price. He arose victorious over death, creating a new race of men not subject to death. Thus, if he does not continue to this day as one who is both body and soul, united Then our faith is a lie. So I ask again: is heaven spiritual or physical? It obviously has to be both. When we say that heaven is out there, we don't mean that it is merely a spiritual plane of existence. No, it has a physical reality to it. At least three human beings with their bodies intact live there. So there is a physical place outside of, beyond, above our cosmos. Not sure, not sure where. But it's there. Is heaven in a different physical plane or a physical dimension? I don't know, maybe, sure, could be. We don't know. The point is that heaven is spiritual because it accommodates God, who is spirit, and it is also physical because God, the Son, incarnate, also abides there. Maybe I shouldn't uh uh uh confess this, but I do want to share with you. It's been interesting in my own thinking to come to grips with, to really grab hold of the reality of the physicality. of heaven. I know I'm a pastor. The spiritual realm should be a very real realm for me. But we human beings tend to get caught up with the physical, don't we? We tend to be focused on that which is concrete and tangible. And it is a profound thing for me to be reminded, to be, to see that heaven. is a concrete physical place. Somehow it has kind of made heaven a little more real for me So, God is omnipresent. He is present everywhere, but he makes his presence manifest. He makes it known in certain times and places Heaven is the place where God's presence is manifest always fully, profoundly, and perfectly. Heaven is out there somewhere. But we don't know for sure where. But it is a place which is both spiritual and physical. It has a dual reality to it, just as this very room does. In one sense, that kind of is the completion of this morning's sermon. And I know it's not all that much information about heaven, but there will be more to come. I couldn't fit it all in this morning, so I had to draw the line somewhere, and this is where I'm going to bring it to an end. But before we go, Before we leave, I want to at least tease out one additional thought, be it ever so briefly. We will flesh this out more in the weeks to come. Think about this. If heaven is the place where God chooses to manifest his presence If it is the place of God's residence, if it is his holy habitation, then what must it be like? You might be quick to say, I don't know. But I would encourage you to ponder this for just a moment. How many of you, show of hands, how many of you have ever been, have ever visited Bill Gates? House. Anybody? Yeah, I didn't think so. I would have figured you'd have told me about it by now. No hands are up. Nobody here has toured Bill Gates House. Anyone here ever visited Elon Musk's house? How about Jeff Bezos? We don't have any sense. We don't know for certain what those are like, do we? But if you were offered an opportunity, you'd take it in a heartbeat, would you not? Why? Because you know those are going to be some pretty amazing houses I mean, I have never been to Bill Gates' house. I've never met Bill Gates. I don't know all that much about the man, but I promise you that is going to be one seriously tricked-out house It is going to be beautiful in its architecture. It's going to have some top flight tech. Probably have a gorgeous infinity pool. It's going to be on some great mountainside and in in you know I don't know suburbs of Seattle probably. I don't know. But it's going to be an amazing house. The same with Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos. When you have that kind of money, when you have that kind of power and prestige, you tend to make Some amazing places to live. So I ask again, if heaven is the abode of God, what will it be like? Do you really imagine that heaven is going to be boring? Do you really believe that the place where God chooses to make his presence known? Would fail to capture your imagination, would fail to bring to your uh bring interest to you and be something of of Something you would want to see and experience. Heaven is God's holy habitation, the place of his manifest presence. Think about what that means for what it must be like. And come back in the weeks to come as we learn more. O Lord our God, look down on us from heaven, your holy habitation. And in so doing, open our eyes to the glorious hope, which is ours in Christ Jesus. the hope of eternity spent in the fullness of your manifest presence. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.