Opening your Bibles to Revelation chapter 21. Revelation 21 will begin here in a moment in verse 9. It's on page 1, 2, 3, 4. In the Pew Bible. It just couldn't get any easier than that, could it? Page 1234 of the Pew Bible, Revelation 21, 9. Sermon writing, as you fully understand, is writing. And like any other writing, there are those weeks where I sit in front of my computer and nothing comes to mind. And it gets very frustrating. There are weeks when the sermon practically writes itself, and then there is this week, where six different sermons wrote themselves, and I could not pick between them. I spent the whole week starting a sermon, throwing it away, starting another sermon, throwing it away. This morning I got up and edited another sermon and I threw it away. I don't know what I'm going to preach. I have nothing in front of me but the text of the Scripture. I've studied, I've thought, I've prayed, I've wrestled. We're going to see how the Spirit leads this morning. And so we're going to begin by asking for that leading. Let's pray Lord God, you did promise to your disciples, to your apostles, that when they did not know what to say, that you would give them the words. I ask that for myself this morning. I am not an apostle, I am not one of the twelve, and yet, Lord, you are still faithful to us. So guide us this morning. Help us to understand this scripture for what it is, your message to us about who we are in Christ Jesus. Lord, if there should be anything that pops into my mind which is out of line with your message, strike it from my lips. And if there should be anything that I had not previously thought of which is central to this your message, let it come to my mind. And in all of us, work a willingness and openness to hear this message, this message which might be completely new to some of us. Give us a humility to admit that our previous understanding may have been wrong. That we need to hear what it is that you're saying. We ask this for the glory of Christ, for the edification of his church For the building up of truth within us. And we pray this in His name. Amen. I don't know if you have ever decoded an encrypted message. My guess is most of us have at some point. It may have been as simple as the back of a cereal box back in the day. You figure out what each of the little symbols mean, and all of a sudden the message comes to light that it turns out lucky charms are magically delicious. Okay? Now I didn't say it was going to be a top-secret message, but it was an encrypted message. It was a message that you had to decipher. Perhaps you had an algebra class where you had to figure out what n equaled, and then you had to figure out what o equals, and then you had to figure out what a equaled, and then by getting solving all those equations, you could then take an array of numbers Convert them to letters and decode the message. I actually had a history teacher who made for us a Rosetta stone. in English and Egyptian hieroglyphics so that we could decode hieroglyphics. It was a fun exercise. How do you know when you've successfully decoded a message? Well, typically you know when the message you get makes some sense, right? You may start out thinking you have decoded a message because the first word is sister and you're thinking, well, I'm on to something here. But then you read, sister, banana, tickle, veil And you think maybe I'm not on to it. Maybe I just haven't decoded it properly. When it comes to the book of Revelation, and particularly Revelation 21, we have to decode a message. And many will decode the message only in light of Revelation 21 and not set it in the context of the wider scripture. And they get a word like sister, and they think, aha, it makes sense. It's a sensible word. I must have decoded it correctly. But they don't consider how it compares to Ezekiel. That we read in our Old Testament reading. They don't compare. Consider how it compares to Revelation 17 that we read in our New Testament reading. They don't think about how it compares to the prophecies of Isaiah and the teaching of Jesus and on and on and on And we end up with that nonsensical message of sister banana tickle, I don't remember what I said, doesn't matter. All of them worries, but together it makes no sense. If we're going to decode Revelation 21 properly, if we're going to understand the message of God to us, then we need to find the key to unlocking it And then making sure that what comes out is a sensical message, that it actually contains some meaning And it turns out it's not that difficult. For the decoding key, the encryption key, is right there at the beginning. It's just that we glance over it so quickly. We read this passage, we hear this description of a city, we hear golden streets and pearly gates and all of these wonderful things, and we quickly decide that it's all about a city It's a city called New Jerusalem. Jerusalem plays such a prominent role in biblical history. New Jerusalem must be the capital city of the new earth. And that's what chapter 1 starts out, chapter 21 starts out telling us about, about the New Earth. So this must be a description of the capital city of New Earth. But we miss the decryption key And we glide over it, and we end up with a message that doesn't actually make sense. Let's see if we can't get at a better, more biblical understanding of Revelation 21, beginning in verse 9. Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the lamb. I'm going to stop right there. For if we are going to take what follows, as it's often taken, as a literal description of a literal city, we've got a real problem. For how do we make sense of this sentence? If this is a literal city, Then what is this all about? What is the sim. Then clearly the angel is speaking to John in some kind of symbolic language, if it's a literal city. For he does not say, I'm going to show you a city. What does he tell John plainly? I'm going to show you the bride. The wife of the Lamb. And all of a sudden, everything that follows is unlocked for us. For even the most basic student of Scripture, by the way, even the most corrupt and defiled student of Scripture, those who study it not as believers, but as complete skeptics. Everyone knows who the Lamb is, for it can be none other than Jesus Christ. And we know it's not a literal lamb, because even the descriptions of this lamb that came earlier in the book of Revelation were metaphorical with the number of heads, the number of horns, and all the issues that were connected to the lamb. And so we know right away that this is a metaphorical symbolic passage. The Lamb is Jesus. He was slain for the sin of the world. He fulfills the Old Testament tabernacle practices and temple practices of blood being shed for sin. And he completes it and brings it to its end. This is talking about the wife of the Lamb. And the Lamb is Jesus. And all of us know full well who his wife is, who his bride is For before the foundation of the world the father entered into a covenant with the Son, and he said to his son, I will find you, I will elect for you a bride. And the son agreed to go to the earth and redeem her out of her fallness. On our own, we are part of the prostitute of Revelation 17 We are either part of the prostitutes, we are those who will allure others to lead them astray, or we're the ones who are led astray. By a culture that defies God, by a culture that has the imitation of God, for we see in Revelation 17 the same things we're going to see here, precious jewels. gold, pearls, all of the things there that describe the prostitute, the one who is a user and is used And now they're going to come back, but not as a prostitute, but as a bride. Not as one who is used and discarded, but one who is loved and kept Not as one who is a user, but as one who is beloved. And the gospel message is that Jesus Christ moves people out of the the the category of Revelation 17. He takes them from being among the human beings who are used and users And he transfers them into this city, into this bride, a beloved, faithful people for whom he died. The bride of the lamb, the wife of the lamb, can be none other than the church Across all of the scriptures, Isaiah portrays the people of God as the wife of Yahweh As does Hosea, as does Jeremiah, and as does Paul, and as now does the book of Revelation. Across all of the scriptures, it is the people of God who are the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And so we have a choice. We can figure out what this means and take the rest of the passage literally. Or we can take this as telling us what it means and begin to understand and unlock all that follows I think you have an idea which way I'm already leaning, don't you? And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain. In chapter 17, he was carried away in the spirit to a wilderness. We have some parallels. And he showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God. having the glory of God. It radiants like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. Now what do we begin to notice? First of all, again, the metaphor is a city. I suspect that John was actually seeing a literal city, but all of it was to be interpreted in light of this introductory statement. It's all a metaphor for the church. And the first thing we notice is that its glory is not its own. The church does not, in and of itself, possess glory. The church is a bright and shining thing so long as it reflects the glory of God So long as it uh reveals and shows him forth to the world Came down out of heaven from God having the glory of God, not the glory of itself. In verse 12, it had a great high wall There are boundaries to the church. There are limits to it. Those who would say that there is no sense of church membership anywhere in the Bible have not considered passages like this. There is an inside and an outside to the church. It has parameters, it has limits. But more than that, the limit is not merely a boundary line, it is a great high wall. The church is protected. The church is defended. The church has around it that which will keep it safe. With twelve gates, and at the twelve, and at the gates twelve angels. Angels at the gates. Where else in the Bible have we seen angels guarding entrances? You can think of at least two places, one of which is going to jump probably in most of your minds. Do you remember what happened in Eden? When Adam and Eve sinned, when they fell, when they disobeyed God, when they were made corrupt by their disobedience. They were no longer allowed to commune with God face to face. They were no longer allowed to walk with him in the garden. God had created this earth for a place where he would dwell with us. And we violated the terms. And a cherub, a type of angel, was placed at the gate at the entrance to Eden to keep us away. It is suggestive, is it not, that behind these gates, behind this angel, there's something worth protecting. There's something worth guarding. But there is another place, less familiar to us, but more familiar to the original audience of the book of Revelation, where angels guard entrances. Go back and read either the book of Exodus or the books of Kings and Chronicles. Read of the description of the tabernacle, read of the description of the temple. For on the veil which guarded the most holy place, the presence of God was behind that veil, and sown into that veil were cherubim. Angels guarding the entrance to the presence of God. And in Solomon's temple, cherubim were carved into the doors and then plated over with pure gold. Angels defend the holiness of God. They defend His presence. From anything corrupt entering. We have a picture of the bride of Christ defended, her holiness kept, her purity protected But it is also suggestive of the presence of God in her midst Had a great high wall with twelve gates, and at the twelve gates twelve angels, and on the gates of the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed, on the east three gates of the north, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates. Go back to the book of Exodus, how the tribes were set up around the tabernacle, three in each direction, the three gates on each side, very reminiscent of that. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. Once again we are affirmed that the Lamb here must be Jesus, for only he has twelve apostles. And what we have here is a picture, a picture of the people of God, of the church. I have used the phrase church several times, but I have not said the New Testament church. This is the church from all the ages. One people united forever. The representative heads of the Old Testament church are the names of the gates. The representative heads of the New Testament church are the names of the foundations. But the point is that without both, the city would not be what it is. For without Israel there'd be no way in because there would have never been a Messiah And without the apostles, there would be no foundation on which we could build. We would not have the Word of God in the New Testament. This is not a picture of eternal separation, of eternal division, of eternal chasm between Jews and Gentiles. It is quite the opposite. Paul has told us back in Ephesians that Jesus Christ destroyed the wall of separation that had arisen within humanity. And here it is a picture of all the people of God making up one city For throughout the scriptures, the imagery of bride and of husband is always the bride in the Old Testament was unfaithful, but the husband, Yahweh, continued to be faithful. If he is a faithful husband, how can we imagine that he has two brides The imagery falls apart, the metaphor fails. He does not have an Old Testament bride, Israel, and a New Testament bride, the church. He has but one bride. It is a unity. It's not, by the way, it's not a replacement. The church does not replace Israel. But true Israel is the church and the true Israel. They're one and the same. And if this is the picture that God has of his people for the in the age to come, for all of eternity, then let us not rejoice in the divisions that exist. I understand That for as long as we exist in this fallen, broken world, we are going to have divisions. We are never going to resolve the questions that keep us apart. But let's not rejoice in those things. Let's not be excited that we are separated from our Baptist brethren, from our Methodist sisters. Let's not imagine that that's a good thing. Let's not take pride in the fact that we are distinct from them. It ought to sadden us, even if we cannot overcome it in this world and in this life. It ought to break our hearts that the people of God do not yet reflect the unity we find in the age to come. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width And he measured the city with his rod, 12,000 stadia. Its length and width and height are equal One of you is going to rejoice, all of you need to understand, but one of you is going to particularly rejoice in the understanding that the perfect shape in the scriptures is the cube. The cube is the perfect shape, according to the scriptures. And this city is portrayed as a cube, equal in every dimension We do have one other cube described very plainly to us in the scriptures. Do you recall where it is? In Solomon's temple, the most holy place is a cube. The presence of God is that perfect shape. And again, we aren't steeped in tabernacle and temple teaching, but the original audience would have immediately connected this to the most holy place. That the presence of God is in this city, among these people, among the bride. And the 12,000 stadia, if you have a Bible that has translated that That's converted it into meters or miles or feet to scrack it out and put twelve thousand stadia For the irony is this, if the rest of the passage is not translated, we're clueless. But if this is translated, we're clueless For the significance is the number 12,000, not the actual literal height And this begins to show where the message is nonsensical if we try to be literal. For if we translate this into miles, we get a number of 1,380 miles. This city is 1,380 miles high. Do you know the highest continually inhabited place on this earth? The small city down in the Chilean Andes Mountains, it's three miles above sea level That means ninety-eight I'm sorry, ninety-nine point eight percent of this city is uninhabitable for human beings 1380 miles high. Our atmosphere extends to 62 miles. 94% of the city is beyond the atmosphere. We've got man-made satellites cruising at 104 miles. The city's going to get hit. And you say to yourself, well, okay, but it's the new earth. Things are different there. But if things are different there, then what do we do with Romans 8? Saw last week that it's this creation that's groaning for redemption. It's this creation that is longing for the day that it'll be set free from the curse. And if God is just going to sweep this creation aside and make a new earth that is totally, completely radically different, so that a thirteen hundred and eighty-mile-high city is just commonplace Then what do we make of Romans 8? How is this earth going to be freed? How is this earth, how is its groaning and its desire going to be met? You see, we got a problem. If we take this overly literal, it messes up how we understand other scriptures. Because it's not meant to be literal. It's 12,000 stadia. It's not 1,380 miles. It's 12,000 stadia. And while we are not doing a systematic study of the book of Revelation, I hope you can make sense of the number twelve We've already seen twelve gates and twelve foundations. Twelve is consistently across all the pages of Scripture, the number of the people of God, twelve tribes, twelve apostles, twelve gates, twelve foundations. 12 times 12, the 144,000 earlier in the book of Revelation, this 12 and its multiples are symbolic of the people of God. And the number 1,000 is an incredibly important number in the Bible. It is the number of a huge quantity. A non-specific huge quantity. It is the biblical equivalent of the word bazillion I used bazillion with our kids a lot. I have told you a bazillion times not to leave your Lego bricks where daddy's going to step on him and hurt his feet. Not a real number. How do we know? For the Lord owns the cattle on a thousand hills. Why it's not here to confirm this, but I visited Wisconsin enough to tell you there are more than a thousand hills with cattle just in the state of Wisconsin. Does that mean that God owns a small section of Wisconsin and nothing else? Clearly not. Clearly, the point of saying that the Lord owns the cattle of a thousand hills is that the Lord owns a whole lot of hills and a whole lot of cattle. Better is one day in your courts than a thousand elsewhere. So should we trade off the courts of heaven if we can get a thousand and one day somewhere else? No. With the Lord, a single day is like a thousand years and a thousand years are like a day. Is it a mathematical equivalency? Of course not! And by the way, by the way, how many wives did Solomon have? Don't answer out loud. The Song of Solomon, chapter 6, verse 8, says he has 140 wives and concubines. Do we have a contradiction in the scriptures? I don't think so. I think the point is that 140 wives and concubines is a whole heap of mess of wives and concubines, worthy of the hyperbolic number 1,000. The point wasn't that he had literally a thousand wives, is that he had way too many wives 12 times a thousand, twelve thousand stadia is the people of God, and there's a whole heap and mess of them. It's like saying there's a bazillion Christians In the age to come. And the point is that we would understand, especially that we would understand, teeny tiny little short harvest. But this ain't it. This isn't all that there is. We're not so small and feeble as we might seem That the people of God are uncountable. There is a myriad, multitude of people and tongues and nations. That will one day inhabit the new earth. And the joyous faces will go on seemingly forever in every direction And the songs will reverberate from a bazillion voices. That's the picture. That's what's being told us He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, 12 times 12. This wall is going to defend all the people of God. Old Testament, New Testament, they're all going to be inside of it, and they're all going to be defended. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold like clear glass. I think most of you know that gold is not pure, is not clear like glass. The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. Here's that reminiscent of Revelation 17. The prostitutes, the whore of Babylon. The culture that lures us away from God, the enticing nature of the corrupt one, looks a lot like the goodness. But here we see the true beauty. The first was Jasper, the second sapphire, the third agat, the fourth emerald, the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysalite, the eighth barrel, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysophrase. The eleventh Jasonth, the twelfth amethyst amethyst. That's easy to say when you lisp. The twelfth was amethyst. There we go And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. If we take this literally, we gotta find oysters that are at least thirty feet across Twelve ti uh sorry, twenty-five times larger than the largest oyster ever found. It just doesn't align with what we know about the new heaven being a recreation of this. The new heaven and the new earth, being a recreation of this earth. And I saw no temple in the city. And now things get really tough for us. For what did the book of Ezekiel say about the end times? What did we read in our Old Testament reading today? That there's a temple. That there's a temple. And the proportions, we didn't go back to Ezekiel 40 and read all of this, but the proportions of Ezekiel's temple are such. that it cannot possibly be the second temple rebuilt after the exodus. Not if we're going to take it literally. So that we have a problem. Ezekiel says that in the new heaven and the new earth there's a temple, and Revelation says there's no temple. You see, if we casually, carelessly take this literally, we get a nonsensical message. But if we understand the encryption key, the code, it's the church across all the ages. All those who have been elect by God, all those who believed in Him, all those who hoped in Him by faith. Are all here. And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light And its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and the gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. God created day and night, light and dark, and he said it was good Darkness, nighttime, is not inherently evil. So why would there be no night in God's recreation? Well, Pastor, it's clearly symbolic. No, not if you take it literally, it's not. And if you take it literally, then you've got a problem. Either the night was bad back in Genesis Or there really is no need to do away with it here. And of course the answer is it's symbolic of evil. That darkness is a picture, a symbol of evil, of wickedness. This is not saying that literally there will be no night or day, day or night in the new earth. It's saying there will be nothing evil. By the way, again, if we take it literally, we run into all kinds of problems. For God, for Isaiah tells us That God promises that his worshipers will worship him from new moon to new moon in the new earth. If we take this literally, that there is no moon, then what do we do with the end of Isaiah 66? But if we understand the symbolism, the picture of purity, the picture of no wickedness Then it all makes sense. And it goes together so readily. They, the nations of the world, will bring into it the glory and honor of the nations. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. An astute student would ask a pretty obvious question after our discussion last week. I said basically that the new earth is Earth 2. 0. It's essentially this earth, but without sin, without the effects of the curse. Take away all that is wrong and all that is evil and leave behind everything that is good and then enhance it with a bunch of good stuff we haven't even imagined But that begs the question. Adam and Eve lived in a perfect world. They lived in paradise. They lived in a garden. And they fell. Is the new earth at risk of that? Will we mess it up again That two of them couldn't get it right are a million bazillion of us housed in a building that's meant to hold 12,000 stadia worth of Christians Is there really a chance none of us will mess it up? Yes, that's the point here. That God in his grace to us is going to protect us. We did not take that serpent, grab him by the neck, walk to the edge of Eden, and fling him into the wilderness the way we should have. But God will guard us in the age to come, so that we will not fall again. Nothing unclean will enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false We will not risk, be at risk ever, of a second fall, of a slip back in to this world Chapter 22. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal flowing from the throne of God. We now see the hearkening back to Ezekiel and then back past Ezekiel, back to Eden. The rivers of Eden, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb, through the middle of the street of the city, also on either side of the river the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month Ezekiel didn't see one tree with twelve kinds of fruit. He saw a bunch of different trees, each yielding fruit in its given month. The point is not a literal interpretation, the point is provision. That God is going to take care of his people, that he is going to quench their spiritual thirst, that he is going to nourish them with the food of life. Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. We will have the life that we truly need. We will have what will sustain us for all of eternity. Our spiritual longing will be met fully, completely. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see his face, the beatific vision, and his name will be on their foreheads. In the context of Revelation, where the mark of the beast was on people's foreheads, the symbolism here appears to be that of how we think, how our minds work, our forehead being right above our brain And the idea being that those who are in the new Jerusalem, those who are part of the age to come, those who are upon the new earth will think godly thoughts. They will think of God and about God and like God And their minds will be transformed. The very thing that Paul challenged the Church of Rome to do will be done and completed. We will think in radically new ways. And night will be no more. They will need no light of sun lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. There's a lot of debate about what that means. Reign over who? Reign over what. Paul alludes to this in his writing to the Corinthians, that we will judge, we will be judges in the world to come. I suspect, given all the parallels we have to Eden and to the garden and to Genesis 1 and 2. That this is basically saying we will finally be the stewards of creation we were supposed to be. That we will be those who rule over and subdue the earth the way we always should have. Adam was told to cultivate and keep the garden. Cultivate it, develop its resources, mine its precious things. Keep it. We will finally mine the resources of this earth without polluting a single river. We will finally take down the trees we need to take down without ever leaving a land to be washed away by erosion. We will finally rule over and subdue the earth. We won't subdue it, it'll be subdued. We will finally rule over the earth the way we were supposed to From day one, benefiting from its resources without ever contaminating it, without ever polluting it, without ever perverting it, without ever leaving it waste behind us So that when we are done developing a natural resource, the place will be as desirable as it was before we began. No longer will we have to give away property next to an open-faced mine because it's worth it. We will be the stewards we were supposed to be. And he said to me, these words are trustworthy and true And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. An affirmation that all you've been shown, John, is true. It's real. You've been given a tour by these angels, but I am telling you, they were my angels. I sent them. They spoke on my behalf. And behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. I've made the argument for why we need to understand this symbolically, but it does beg the question: what should we get out of? There are a number of things to understand. We already touched on one of those. We have to understand the beauty of the gospel. We have to understand what Christ has done for us. That on our own, in our fallen sinful condition, we would be a part of Revelation 17. We would be a part and parcel. We would either be the whore of Babylon or we would be consorting with her. But in the way you look at it, it ain't a good situation But the gospel takes us out of Revelation 17 and puts us in Revelation 21. And if you don't know which entity you're a part of, if you don't know whether you're a prostitute or bride You gotta talk to me after the service. You gotta grab one of my fellow elders. You gotta understand the power of the gospel. To move us from Revelation 17 to Revelation 21. What else should we take away from this? I would encourage us To de Americanize our view of the church To de-Americanize our view of the church. Do not imagine that America is New Jerusalem Do not imagine that if we just get the election right this fall, it'll all be fixed Frankly, if we start to analyze America objectively, she's looking more and more like the Horror Babylon that she is. I'm not proposing that we hate the America. I'm not suggesting that we trash our nation. But we must be able to distinguish between that Which is the church, the New Jerusalem, and that which is not. For there is a definite wall, a boundary between them. We must de-Americanize our view of the church. I'm going to suggest also that one of the things we've got to take from this. Is an understanding of the significance of what it means to be the bride of Christ. It's astounding to me how people will talk about Jesus' bride. The things they'll say about her, about all of her shortcomings, about all of her failures, about all the ways she gets it wrong, and we aren't doing a complete study of Revelation, I get it But we go back to Revelation 2 and 3. The book of Revelation admits that the church is flawed. But why do we feel so free to talk about her flaws? If you come to me and say, I really love Jesus, but man, that church It's hurt my feelings. It's done me wrong. It didn't provide for me. It did-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da. Just stop and imagine what that how that conversation would go if you were talking that way about my bride. I like you, Scott. You're a pretty good preacher. I'm on board with what you're doing there, but boy, that Becky. And you got about two seconds to dodge it, or I'm going to smack you in the kisser. I'm gonna walk up on stage and slap your face. And you need to be more afraid of Jesus than you are of me. It's his bride. And by the way, I'd be willing to die for Becky, but I have not died for her. He died for her. He gave his life for her to redeem her, to make her this. This is how he sees the church as stunning, as beautiful, as awe-inspiring We don't need to sit here and imagine that the streets of heaven are gold and go, oh, heaven's an amazing place. We need to go, wow, the Bride of Christ, the church is that She's that beautiful. She's that stunning. And we need to begin to think of her that way. You know how how we get it backwards so often? We all tend to think of ourselves as the good thing in the church, on the one redeeming quality to sure harvest. And all you all got it wrong. But this is a picture of the whole being beautiful. And I gotta deal with the fact that I'm not. It's interesting how many people will tell me, not here, I don't get this so much here, but more broadly, in the bigger church. How many people will tell me things like, well, the church just needs to be more like and then fill in the blank. So what are you doing about it? Why is it that we're the church, when it's blessing and goodness and happiness, all the good stuff should flow to me personally? But when we see something wrong with the church, well that's not on me. I'm not a part of what's wrong with the church. I'm only ever a part of what's good about the church. Maybe, just maybe. We need to flip that around When we're frustrated with the church, what am I doing about it? Why am I not fixing that? And when we're frustrated with the church, we need to turn back here and go, this is how God sees her. Stunning, beautiful beyond words, gorgeous in every facet We also need to realize how important the church is to God. Find any craftsperson, anybody who makes anything, and ask them to show you the things they make. Ask Brad to see, tell tell you about his turnings, ask Drew to tell you about his pipes, ask Naomi to tell you about her jewelry. And they're going to tell you, they're going to show you the thing they're proudest of They know they only have your attention for a short time, and they're going to bring out the one thing, this is the thing I made, that's the coolest of them all And in this short description of the new heaven and the new earth, God does not reveal to John how Jupiter is going to look in the future. What black holes are really like. What the Grand Canyon will be when it's even more grand. He has our attention for but a brief moment. And he says, this is the thing you gotta see. You gotta see my bride. You gotta see my church. You gotta see how stunningly beautiful she is. As we think about heaven, as we think about the age to come, be encouraged by this. Think about this. How many of us have wanted to be able to go back to our 12-year-old selves and say it's going to get better? All those pimples are going to go away. All those social fumblings and faux pas, you're going to get over them. We want to go back to our 12-year-old self and say it's all going to be better. Well, we are the preteen adolescent church. Not yet all that we're supposed to be, not yet grown up, not yet the fullness of the bride of Christ. We are but engaged to him. Our own constitution talks about how this table is our engagement to be the Lord's. And this is a message from the future going, it's going to get better. Don't give up on your church. Don't walk away from the church. Don't imagine that you're going to find something better somewhere else because this is what the church is going to be, all of it, in its totality. Which means you are going to be like this. Well, you're part of the church. She can't be this unless you're this. Your struggle with sin is going to be gone. That thing which drags you back down day after day after day for which you hate yourself, for which you cannot forgive yourself. It must be gone, or this couldn't be the church. For nothing unclean will enter So tell yourself right now it's going to get better. The day is going to come When I individually and we collectively are going to be what we want to be, what we ought to be, what we aspire to be. This is the beauty of New Jerusalem and the picture we're given, one of encouragement and hope and longing. For there is no way God the Father would choose for his son a bride that was anything less than absolutely perfect Lord, thank you for this encouraging message for this Just profound vision of where the church is headed, what we will be, what we sort of really are already, yet we are what we are becoming. Encourage us individually and collectively. In this vision, let us see a bride worth serving, a church which worth working for, which is worth sacrificing for because you sacrificed for her. Help us to to long to become and be these things even now And help us to be encouraged. When we are down, when we are discouraged, when it seems like the world is winning, your bride is stumbling. Help us to remember who she really is, and how you see her. We pray this in Christ's precious name.