Please open your copy of God's Word to Acts chapter 2. Acts 2. We'll be starting in a moment in verse 22. Acts 2, 22 through 42 is the text we're going to look at this morning. And as you're turning there, I'll give you a little refresher of what we covered last week because In one sense, we're picking up in the middle of Peter's Pentecost sermon. And yet there's no doubt that at this point in his sermon, he changes directions. He takes a new tact. And so last week we considered uh how uh uh uh the Holy Spirit came and the things that marked the coming of the Holy Spirit And we considered the uniqueness of the day of Pentecost, things that marked that day and that day only. But nevertheless, because of the entire church being there It was a recognition and a and an acknowledgment that the Spirit had descended upon the people of God And there were questions about that, and Peter addressed those questions and answered them. He pointed to the prophecy of Joel and he said, See, this had been foretold, see, it has now come to pass in your midst. Now at this point in verse 22, Peter changes directions. He has ended the first half of his sermon with the, in verse 21, they're saying that that all who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. And now he takes the sermon in a new direction and begins to define what it means to call upon the Lord. And this is a sermon in terms of evangelistic sermons, probably the arguably the most important evangelistic sermon ever preached. If for no other reason than its success. 3,000, we're going to read at the end of this passage, 3,000 converts that day in immediate response to this sermon. Not to mention those who went home and over time considered it and came to the Lord eventually. Now there have been other, you some of you say, well, I've seen the Billy Graham Crusade and there were 3,000 people who went forward there, but I'll remind you that at this point the church only numbered 120 people. This was a 2,500% increase in the church in a single sermon. And with all due respect to Dr. Graham, he never increased the church by 2,500% in a single sermon. And so as we consider evangelism, this is a sermon we ought to look at. As we consider, you say, well, I'm not going to preach. No, you may not preach in the way that Peter did, but nevertheless, the content of this sermon can have great value, even as you talk to your coworkers, as you share with your neighbors, as you look forward to Thanksgiving and Christmas with family members who don't know the Lord. So we're going to take a look at this sermon and its evangelistic content this morning. Let's begin reading. I'll read and you follow along. Acts 2, verse 22. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs, that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know. This Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. God raised him up, loosing the pains of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. For David says concerning him, I saw the Lord always before me For he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced. My flesh also will dwell in hope. For you will not abandon my soul to Hades or let your holy ones see corruption. You have made known to me the paths of life. You will make me full of gladness with your presence. Brothers, I say to you with confidence about the Patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God raised up, and of that we are all witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit He has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heaven But he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls, and they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread. And the prayers. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. God, we do ask your guidance into your word. Let us understand your message from it. Give me the words to say. Let me not be merely an imparter of information, but let me be the mouthpiece of your spirit this morning, convicting us. And guiding us and pointing us to this Jesus, whom you raised up, whom you made both Lord and Christ. that we would see him raised up, that we would recognize the need to raise him up in our own evangelism. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. There is much that could be said about this sermon. It is certainly a brave sermon. It was just a few weeks earlier that Peter was the denier of Christ, and now he's the definer of the Christ. It was just a few weeks earlier that he was the liar among Christians, and now he's the leader among the Christians. It is a brave sermon, but I'm not convinced that that's necessarily the key aspect that we need to go model in our own evangelism. It is a bold sermon. To stand among the Jews at their festival and say that they are sinners, that they kill God's Messiah, that's bold. But I'm not certain that boldness is the hallmark and the key to the evangelistic success we see here. It is blunt. He's very forthright. This Jesus, whom you crucified, God has raised from the dead. And it is bountiful, as we already said. 3,000 souls. 2500% increase in Christians on that single day. This is the sermon that every pastor hates to read about. You know, none of us we can't measure up to this. How can any of us hope to preach with this kind of evangelistic success? And that, nevertheless, there is much in here that we need to consider and to take with us as we consider how we share the gospel with others. But as I looked at this sermon, I found myself, and I can honestly say as a pastor, I don't think I've ever had this happen before. But as I was reading this sermon, I found myself quoting Tina Turner. That doesn't happen too often as a pastor. Now many of you here are way too young to remember this, but her big hit out of the eighties was what's love got to do with it? And I in fact I with all apologies to uh to Miss Tina there, I borrowed that as my sermon title. What's love got to do with it? I was struck by what was not in this evangelistic sermon. For if you ask the vast majority of Christians today what should be the fence as I talk to my mechanic waiting for my car to get fixed. What should I talk about? And of course most of us will say you've got to talk about love. God loves them. Jesus loves you. And yet Peter makes no mention of love. And you say, well, Scott, that's one sermon. If you do a search on the entire book of Acts, you will find that the word love never appears. Sixteen recorded evangelistic sermons, and not one of them. involves the word love. At least four different, maybe five different preachers, depending on who exactly preached a few of them. And not once does the word love appear. So what's love got to do with it? And we have to ask ourselves, well, if they're not preaching love and we are preaching love, so why the disconnect? And Pastor, are you really saying that love's not important? No, as you're going to see, as you're going to see, this sermon actually, though it doesn't use the word love, it does conclude with the concept of love. But I want us to think about something here. Peter was highly effective on this day. The book of Acts and the sermons recorded there were highly effective, and love is not mentioned. And again, I want to quote Tina Turner. You see, she describes love in that song. She says, what's love but a sweet old-fashioned notion? She goes on to say, what's love except a second-hand emotion? And she's right. We live in a society that doesn't really understand love. But that's going to be the leading theme of how we try to reach them. We're going to take a concept they don't understand, that they abuse, that our culture has reduced to something that is merely physical At best. And we're going to use that as our leading edge of our evangelism? Love? So we've got a situation where we're saying that's how you got to reach the loss, but they don't even understand what love is. Then you look at it and you say, well, the other problem you've got is this. I worry a little bit if we keep telling them that Jesus loves them, Jesus loves them, Jesus loves them. I wonder if some of them are scratching their head going, Great, I'm good to go, so why do I need to go to church? Why do I need to hear anything else you've got? If Jesus loves me, aren't I good to go? What's love got to do with it? So let's take a look at this sermon. Let's Break it down and consider what is there, those elements that we probably should glean from it, and that we should employ as we share the gospel. with the lost. And by the way, as we share the gospel with ourselves, as we preach it to ourselves and remind ourselves of its value, we probably should have it right So there are three things that I want to point out about the gospel. Three elements from Peter's evangelistic sermon here that I think we ought to grasp. We're going to talk about the fact that it is historical. The gospel is historical. It is historic and it is transcendent. The gospel is historical, it is historic, and it is transcendent. Let's look at how these show up in this sermon. First of all, it is about things that are historical. They happened. Real things happening to real people rooted in real history. Notice right off the bat what we see there. In verse 22, Jesus of Nazareth. Not of Never Never Land, or of Narnia, or from a galaxy far, far away, of Nazareth. A real person from a real place And in fact, this is the most common attribution given to Jesus throughout the book of Acts: that he is from Nazareth. Now, that's not that striking to us today. We're accustomed to being to Jesus being referred to as Jesus of Nazareth. But for Peter to say that in this crowd is a little shocking For you may recall that the Jewish leadership, the Jewish intelligentsia, those who had studied their Bible knew full well that the Messiah did not come from Nazareth. We see the argument in John 7 where the Pharisees say, can anything good come from Nazareth? He doesn't come from Nazareth, he comes from Bethlehem. Peter does not stand up here and say, you know, try go to a long explanation of all the details, well, okay, he is actually, he was born in Bethlehem. No. He says, that's really it it's all true, and Luke takes care of it in his gospel and makes sure as make sure makes sure that we know that But Peter says, I want you to have the right person in your head. You know this itinerant preacher that's been storming the countryside for the last three years, the one that everybody knows as Jesus of Nazareth I want no confusion. That's who I'm talking about. Jesus of Nazareth, a real person whom you know who really lived. among us. It is historical. It happened. And then verses in 23 and 36, you crucified him. You killed him. A real event in real history. It was just a few weeks ago. You were all here. Many of you were here for the Passover. It was very common for the pilgrims of that day to come for Passover and to stay through Pentecost. It was by the time they traveled back to their homeland and came back around for Pentecost, they might as well have stayed. Travel was slow back then. Many of them to whom he is preaching were there when Jesus was crucified is historical events that really happened By the way, we can't develop this. You read this text, there are at least fifteen different excellent sermons in this text. We can't possibly develop all of them, but it is worth noting in passing the uh the overlap of both the divine sovereignty and human uh will. Uh verse 23, this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. So often we when we are stymied by issues of sovereignty, it's because we have an either-or approach to things. Either it's God's sovereignty or it's man's free will. And as Luke writes this, he sees no contradiction in saying both are at work. The sovereignty of God had planned from eternity past that these events would take place. And oh, by the way, you're responsible for them, you did them. And the two merge seamlessly in Luke's theology. And we need to get to that point in our own theology. It is historical. It happened. It's a real man from Nazareth. Real events occurred in his life. You crucified and killed him. And then something else very real happened. God raised him up. Verse 24. Notice that Peter gives no apologetic defense for the resurrection. He does not try to convince them that it occurred. Now, I think there is some value. We are far enough removed from these events. There may be some apologetic wisdom to establishing the historicity of the resurrection. But in that time, when all these people knew about these vents, when everybody was talking about it, when it was clicked, he just says, hey, it happened It's a historical fact. I think sometimes our own witness is dulled by the fact that we're not 100% certain of the certainty of the resurrection. We're not as convinced of it as we need to be, as sure of it as we ought to be, and we don't declare it with the plainness and the boldness that we must It really happened. You know, if Christianity is a historical religion, if it is about people that really lived in places that really existed and events that really happened, then we must be a people who care about historical reality. We've got to be careful how much we get caught up in foolish debates online about whether or not the moon landing really happened. When we look like like knuckleheads with regard to historic events and then turn around and say, believe in my Jesus, who really really existed in history, uh We've got to be a little careful as Christians. We cannot be mixed up in those who deny things like the Holocaust. We cheapen history and then we say our religion is rooted in history And we must be careful about political history. We've got to have the the grace and the wisdom and the commitment to truth to own the history of our politicians. Yeah, I voted for her. Yeah, she's really screwed up I'm not gonna deny that she made that mistake. I'm not gonna de It happened. I wish now I hadn't voted for her But it happened. When we sweep history under the rug, we devalue our own religion and undermine its authenticity. It is a historical religion. It happened. But it is also an historic religion. It happened and it's important. Now that in one sense, everything that happens is historical, it's part of history. But only certain things are regarded as historic. You'll be listening to a sports cast of some kind, and the announcer will talk about, uh and they'll sometimes misuse the word, and you talk about historical, but they'll talk about something being historic Well, every single at-bat, every single pass that's thrown, every single ball that's kicked is part of the history of the game. But certain events stand out in the history of the game. They are important and they are historic events. Christianity, what Peter is preaching about here, these things that Luke records for us are not only historical, they are also historic. What sets them apart? What makes them unique? What makes them special in the history of this world? Well, verse 22 we see Peter saying that that uh uh Jesus was attested by mighty works and wonders and signs. We're going to talk a lot more about that in Sunday school this morning. If you're able to stay, I encourage you to be a part of that. Mighty works and wonders and signs. It was attested by these things. In other words, he wasn't just any old person in history. He was a special person in history. He was an historic person. marked out, set aside by God with these miracles. Now we addressed this briefly a few weeks ago, but it's worth repeating that it's one thing for me to stand up here and say Jesus did miracles. You can't prove me wrong. It's a whole other thing for Peter to stand in that audience on that occasion and say it. This is just fifty days after the crucifixion of Jesus. Everybody there, well not everybody, many of the people there Knew firsthand the ministry of Jesus of Nazareth. And if he had not healed the blind And raised the dead, and changed water to wine, and walked on the water, and calmed the storms. They'd have called him out. Peter, I was there that day at Galilee. That was not a storm. That was a light breeze. He's a carpenter. He doesn't know what a real storm looks like. No. Peter is talking to those who saw these things, and he declares the attestation of God about Jesus through miracles. By the way, it's interesting, the Talmud, the the Jewish writings that kind of collect together the traditions that developed around their law, the Talmud uh kind of finalized in A. D. 500 Acknowledges the miracles of Jesus. It does not say that they did not occur. It simply assigns them to darkness. That he did them by the power of Satan, not by the power of God. That he did them because of evil spirits, not because of the Holy Spirit. But it does not deny the historicity of the miracles of Jesus. These things happen, they're historical, but they were unique in history, they are historic We go on and we read that he was attested by God because of the resurrection in verses 24 and 32. God not only gave him power and marked him out through miracles, but when you killed him, God overturns your verdict God stepped in and said, nope, he doesn't deserve death and raised him from the dead And Peter says, we are all witnesses. All 120 of us here are witnesses of that. And oh, by the way, many of you know that the tomb was found empty Many of you know that the Roman centurion, the Roman guard that had been put there had all kinds of excuses about why that tomb was empty. You know. He was raised up from the dead also. It is historic events. And then Peter, in verses 33 and 34, he alludes to the ascension that he has now gone to the right hand of the Father. That this is historic. That yes, among the Jews there was some history of people coming back from the dead. Elisha had raised some people from the dead, and none of them were disputing Elisha But now Peter goes on to say it wasn't just that he was raised from the dead, it's that he was taken into heaven at the right hand of the Father, and we know he's there because he promised to send the Holy Spirit. And why are you all gathered in front of me right now? Because you see the Holy Spirit. You see the activity, the speaking in tongues, uh all this commotion. You see the effects of the Holy Spirit. That's why you came and asked me what this means and why I'm preaching to you at this very moment. It is a historical religion, these things happened. It is a historic religion. These things are important and unique. in history. One last comment. In verses 25 through 30, and then again in 34 through 35, Peter makes uh he leans on prophecy. He says, not only is this historic for what occurred in the present tense But it's historic because of the fact that it was foretold. That this was seen way beforehand. And he can comes to this prophecy the the the the the the Our call to worship, Psalm 16 this morning, and he points to the Psalm and says, folks, you all know that doesn't apply to David. Because it says you won't let the holy, your the the the your holy one see decay, you won't leave his flesh in Hades. But come on, we were all little kids back in third grade. We took a bus tour, we went and visited David's tomb. It's right there. By the way, there is evidence in history that David's tomb had survived well into history. It's lost to us today, but it appears to have been known at least up through the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. Okay. So he said, come on, we all did this as kids. We all went to David's tomb. I mean that's just if you live in Illinois, you go visit Lincoln's tomb at some point in your school career. If you live in Jerusalem, you visit David's tomb. It's what you do. Which means this psalm didn't apply to David. It applied to David's greater son. And who is it whose flesh did not see decay? Whose soul was not left among the dead? Well, that's Jesus of Nazareth. It is historic in the way it fulfills prophecy Our faith is historical. It surrounds people and events that happened. It is historic. These are events that stand out in history that are important, but it is also transcendent. Again, I'm going back to the 80s, so let's see, we did Tina Turner. Now we're going to do Miracle on Ice, the 1980 hockey game. If you've not if you didn't live through it, go rent the movie, the DVD, download the DVD not DVD, but uh download on Netflix or whatever. It's it's a good movie. That was historical. It actually happened in real time, on a real sheet of ice, in a real place. U. S. amateur hockey players defeated the greatest hockey team the earth has ever seen. It happened. David slew Goliath that day in Lake Placid, New York. It was not only historical, it was historic. It was a special, important, unique event, but it was also transcendent. If you were alive then you will recall that the the importance of that game spilled well beyond the boundaries of that rink of that sheet of ice, well beyond the uh people who cared about hockey Well beyond those who cared about sports. For in the midst of hostages being held in Iran, in the midst of oil prices going through the the roof and lines of gas pumps in the midst of an economic collapse in our own country, this event transcended those things. And Peter says that the life and death and resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ is transcendent. It happened, it's historical, it was important, it's historic, but more than that, it is transcendent. It matters to more than just us Jews here this day in Jerusalem Its importance goes beyond these things, for look at verse 36, and this is the key verse to all of this. All the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him, Jesus of Nazareth, both Lord and Christ. It is a transcendent set of events. He is not simply a special person in our nation's history. He is the Lord. The one who is over all things. The one who is to uh who transcends our nation's boundary and spills over and is the Lord of all the other nations. It is the Lord of Us today and all those who will come after us, he says. It is both for us and for our children and for those who are far off This is a transcendent set of events. He is Lord. How does Paul bring this up in Philippians 2? Because of his obedience, because he was obedient unto death. God has given him a name that is above every name. That the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, and every tongue confess. Now, what are they going to confess? What is the name above every name? We're going to confess, he is Lord. Everyone is going to confess that. Everyone is going to confess that. Buddha will one day declare that Jesus is Lord. Muhammad will one day declare that Jesus is Lord. He is not the Christian Lord. He is not our God, though he is our God, and it's not inappropriate to say that, but he is not strictly our God. He is. God. He is Lord. And He is Christ. Peter says to these Jews, You've been waiting for the Messiah, you've been looking for the anointed one. That's what the word Christ means. Here he is. As we think about How to share the gospel with people, we need to consider this sermon. We need to establish the historical reality of the events of Christianity. And we need to proclaim them as certain events. We need to recognize that these events are historic. They're unique, they're special, they're important, and we need to acknowledge that they are transcendent They carry weight well beyond my own life, our own church, this community. Even the universal church, they are transcendent and impact every single person's life. And we need to develop ways to share that. We need to find ways to talk about that And if we're doubtful about the historicity of these things, then we need to shore that up in our own minds. And we need to be able to tell others about this. I opened up with the question, what's love got to do with it? And I told you we'd come back around to that, and that we would see the concept of love. For how does Peter close out this? He has preached this sermon. He has talked about the historical events Their historic nature, their transcendent reality of them, and the people say, now what do we do? And he says, you must love God. You must love God. You say, well, Scott, I don't see that word there. But you see the word repent, and you know what the word repent means. It means to turn away from, to turn in a new direction. He's just said you are the killers of the Messiah. Well, what could be more opposite of killing the Messiah than loving the Messiah? What could be more uh a hallmark of repentance Then turning from the one you despise and embracing him, loving him. And he says to them, repent. Turn away from the hate you had. And come and love this one. We see love in the repentance that they By which they respond. And we see love in their devotion in verse 42. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. And the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and the prayers. These three thousand I don't like in my Bible, I don't know where your paragraphs are divided. I don't like the paragraph division in my Bible. I don't think it belongs there. This is talking about what these 3,000 did after they came, after they repented, after they were baptized. What did they do? They devoted themselves to more of the same They so loved the message they had heard that they devoted themselves to more of that teaching and to more of that fellowship and to more of that communion that we're going to breaking of bread that we're going to partake of in a few moments here. It's not so much that Peter doesn't care about love, it's that his message is This is what you were as a sinner. This is what God has done in sending the Christ, what the Christ did in dying in your place, how God attested to him by re- raising him, and now you respond in love. You now love him and respond to him. You know, I hear people say things like, you know, I love Jesus, but I can't stand the church. These people, when they responded in love, when they repented, they fled. They fled to the church. They ran to the church. They devoted themselves to the church as the bride of Christ. You can't hate someone's bride and claim to love that someone The love called for in the gospel is that we would love the one who did all of this for us. Let's pray. Lord, work in our hearts and minds that we would recognize the historical reality that these things really happened. In real places to real people in real time. This is not mythology, it is not legend, it is not fairy tale, it is not creative writing. It happened. As we grasp that, as we get a hold of the historical reality of this, let us see its historic nature. And its transcendent impact. Because of what happened here, Jesus is Lord and Christ over all. And let us be moved to tell others about that and to share that reality with them. We pray this all in His precious name. Amen.