Turn your Bibles, please, to Zechariah chapter 7, Zechariah 7, as we continue our sermon series called Hope, The Prophecies of Zechariah. It was December 7th, 518 BC when the this chapter was first preached. Almost two years since Zachariah's last recorded ministry. Reconstruction of the temple was underway. And in fact the people could see the walls growing taller almost weakly, and they were getting excited about its completion. In fact its dedication is now less than two years in Zechariah's future. The scriptures record the dedication of this second temple in 516 B. C. A completed temple was an important milestone in the spiritual life of the people, but it was not without risk. Think about that for a moment. Having a temple carried with it risk. Well, we heard from the prophet Jeremiah just a few moments ago how Jeremiah offers this mocking refrain. The temple of Yahweh, the temple of Yahweh, the temple of Yahweh. We have that, so we're good to go. We're home free. Look at the building. God must love us because he's built his temple among us And Jeremiah, that former prophet, warned the people not to hope in the temple, but in the one to whom the temple pointed. Zechariah now comes to us in chapter 7, and he gives that same warning again. Not to hope in your religion per se. But rather in the one about whom your religion and around whom your religion is focused Here at the Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church, we believe the Bible to be the only infallible rule for faith and for practice. If you want to know what to believe, if you want to know how to live, if you want to recognize when your religion has gone wrong, when it is false and when it is true, then you must know God's word. I invite you now to hear the inerrant, infallible, authoritative word of Almighty God. In the fourth year of King Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zachariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Chiselev. Now the people of Bethel had sent uh uh Shezar and Regamelech and their men to entreat the favor of the Lord, saying to the priest of the house of the Lord of hosts and the prophets. Should I weep and abstain in the fifth month as I have done for so many years? Then the word of the Lord of hosts came to me. Say to all the people of the land and the priest, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and in the seventh for these seventy years, was it for me that you fasted And when you eat and when you drink, do you not eat and drink for yourselves? Were not these the words that the Lord proclaimed by the former prophets when Jerusalem was inhabited and prosperous? With her cities around her, and the south and the lowland were inhabited. And the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, render true judgments. Show kindness and mercy to one another. Do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor. And let none of you devise evil against another in your heart. But they refused to pay attention, and turned a stubborn shoulder, and stopped their ears that they might not hear. They made their hearts diamond hard, lest they should hear the law and the words of the Lord of hosts. And the words of the Lord of Hosts had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets. Therefore great anger came from the Lord of hosts, as I called and they would not hear So they called, and I would not hear, says the Lord of hosts. And I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations that they had not known. Thus the land they left was desolate, so that no one went to and fro, and the pleasant land was made desolate. To him who has ears to hear, let him hear. Let's pray. Spirit revealed to us the message of this word. Let us hear the warning from the prophet Zechariah, and so not fall in to that same sin by your grace in our lives individually and in our collective life as a church. Let us be guided by this your word, so that we will be beacons of faithful and true religion here upon this earth. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. As we consider this text before us this morning, we're going to see three key points. We're going to see, first of all, in verses 1 through 7, the fountainhead of false religion. The fountainhead of false religion. In verses 8 and 8 through 10, we're going to see the fruit of faithful religion, and then finally we're going to see the fate of future religion. The fountainhead of false religion. The fruit of faithful religion, and the fate of future religion. The fountainhead of false religion is always a failure to recognize the seriousness of sin. Let me say that again. The fountainhead of false religion is always a failure to recognize the seriousness of sin. You see, when we see sin as a minor problem, with which we just need a little help. Then a weak God, one of our own making, crafted in our own hands, is sufficient. When we don't see ourselves as horribly befowled Then we think that perhaps if we deliver a few meals to the poor and and maybe do a few other good deeds, that that'll be enough A little cover-up, a little rouge, a little makeup. God won't see us for what we really are, because we're not really that bad after all anyway The fountainhead of false religion is always an under uh estimation of sin. Did you catch what happened here? The men of Bethel, which means house of God The men of Bethel send to Jerusalem a contingent. And they say, you know, go up there to Jerusalem. Go to that new temple under construction. Go to the prophets who are there. You know, Zechariah, Haggai, go to Joshua, the high priest, and ask a question on our behalf. And the men go and they ask this question. Now, in and of itself, asking a question is not an inherently bad thing, obviously. But and and and their particular question was becoming more and more relevant So let's grow quickly understand what they're asking about. They make a mention of a fast in the fifth month. What was this all about? Well back in 586 BC, almost 70 years before this message is delivered, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, entered Jerusalem. He laid siege to Jerusalem He breached the wall, he entered the city, he breached the wall of the temple, and he raised the city to the ground. He burned the temple, he tore it down. He tore down the walls of Jerusalem and he left it in rubble. And with the temple gone, when the people were hauled away to Babylon, they had taken up the custom of, on the day that the temple was destroyed, in the fifth month, They would fast. From sundown on the one evening to sundown in the next evening, they would deny themselves all food. And it was to be for them a reminder. The pains of hunger were to be for them a reminder of the spiritual emptiness that had brought about the destruction of Solomon's temple. But the new temple is almost complete. Do we need to continue to mourn the loss of the old temple with the new one on its way? I mean, after all, it's a little weird to keep talking about my ex-girlfriend now that I'm going out with you. Do I keep talking about the other temple? Do I keep worrying about it? Do I keep mourning it? Now that the new one is up or at least close to being done. That's the question. And it seems like an okay question. But do we catch how Zachariah responds? He doesn't really even answer their question at all. Rather, he blasts them for what they're asking. Why? What's going on? Well, you see, they come with this attitude of, hey, we've got it all worked out. We've got this religion thing figured out. We're good to go. We're in good shape. All we need to do is iron out this one little nuance of doctrine Get this one little kink of our theology fixed and we're good. That's all we need from the house of God. We've come to the temple. And that's all we're asking for, is a little help with this nuance of doctrine. But that's the irony of the situation. You see the fast in the fifth month. was supposed to be a reminder of the destruction of the temple, and the destruction of the temple was supposed to have been connected in their heads to their sin You see, they should be coming to Jerusalem, they should be coming to Haggai and Zechariah and Joshua the high priest, and they should be saying, We lost Solomon's temple because of our sin. And now the new temple is nearly complete, and we don't want to lose it. Help us with our sin. Can you prophets tell us what we need to do? We're struggling with lust and we don't know how to overcome it. We're still tempted by these false gods of the nations around, and we don't want to fall back into that. We talk negatively about one another, we backstab and we gossip And we know we shouldn't. And we know we should give our tithes to the temple, but we covet and we want these things and we don't want to let go of them. Can you help us with our sin? We know it's because of our sin that the last temple was destroyed. We don't want it to happen again. The fountainhead of false religion is an undervaluing, an underestimation of the seriousness of sin. They come to Jerusalem going, we've got it all figured out We got it all worked out. We're in good shape. All that we have left to do is to adopt this one little eye. Do we continue fasting or don't we? And if you'll answer that, then we're golden. We're in good shape. And the prophet says to them, you have no idea how bad off you are. I can't tell you the number of times in my own ministry where I've had this exact experience. A man comes and all he wants to do every time you talk to him, every men's breakfast, every time, every fellowship event, every time you talk to him, he wants to take up the debate. Pastor, you know, is the Westminster Confession, is that infralapsarian or superlapsarian? You know, the document reads like it's infralapsarian, but a lot of the divines, they wrote as superlapsarianism from that position and I'm not sure. Stop it. Stop! Man, you don't have a full-time job to provide for your family. You're not keeping the creation mandates. Stop! Your children don't respect you. Stop! You don't serve the church the way you ought to. Stop! When we take up these these inane, ridiculous debates over these little nuances of doctrine and theology. More often than not, they are an attempt to hide our sin. They are an attempt to put a little makeup on how bad off we are. And Zechariah rips it off and says, you are a mess. And you're wrestling and debating over a little doctrine. He said, you don't understand you've got your religion all wrong. It's not about the fast. Are you really fasting for the Lord anyway? He asks the rhetorical questions, and the answers are obvious. They're exactly what you think they are. Are you fasting for the Lord? No. Are you eating and drinking for yourselves? Yes. Your fast is a selfish fast. So stop it. Now some of you are going to stop me and go, whoa, wait a second, Pastor. A selfish fast? How can that be? Isn't the fast all about giving something up that we want? How can that be selfish? Some years ago I was teaching a Sunday school class in church history, and we got to the stage where Constantine legalized Christianity in 313 A. D. And something interesting is revealed in the writer, in many of the writers of that day. The records that we have, those written records that are still available to us, many of the Christian writers actually mourned the legalization of Christianity. You see, they had now lost the opportunity to be martyrs. Now you may be thinking to yourself, wow, they're pretty noble. They really wanted to be martyrs. But don't go down that path. Because when you read more closely, when you continue to wrestle with their text, what you begin to realize is that many in those days were going to their death. For the name of Christ, and then going to hell. They were going to their death for the name of Christ and then going to hell. For their hope was in their martyrdom. Their hope was not in Jesus Christ. They were convinced that if they were martyred, God had to let them into heaven. I mean, what more could we possibly do on this earth? We've done, we've given them the utmost. We've given our lives. We died for Jesus. And they waltz up to the pearly gates going, of course they're going to be thrown open for me Things that appear to be selfless can be very, very selfish. And the people of Zechariah's day. were fasting, not out of their mourning over their sin, but because it was much easier than dealing with sin. I fast one day out of one month, out of a year I check it off my list, I go do what I want for the next 12 months. I come back, I do it again, and I'm good to go And they had such a small view of sin that they had developed a false religion. Oh, it went by the name of Christianity. It had the appearance of true religion. But Zechariah blasts it as false. What are you and I doing? Are you convinced that your work in the nursery, your singing with the music ministry, your your teaching of Sunday school is enough to get you in? Is that your guarantee? By the way, I don't speak only to you. I speak to myself. This is a sermon I preach to me. If you don't think this is a temptation for pastors, you don't know pastors very well. After all, God has to let me into heaven. Look what I do for a living. I mean, come on! If anybody is guaranteed to get in, it must be me. And our hope becomes in the things we do, we're convinced that if we just work those things out, we'll be good to go. And we don't fall before a holy God And say, help us! We're wretched sinners. What do we do? The men of Bethel should have come to the temple with sacrifices and said, I know the temple's not complete, but we are such wretched sinners, we have got to make an offering. We have got to make it a good thing. to make a sacrifice. Okay, the altar's not built yet. Could you at least just pray for us? That's not what they do. They come saying, we got it all figured out except for this one little thing. If we fix that, we're good to go. The fountainhead of false religion is always the minimization of sin and the glorification of ourselves. And Zechariah turns and he reflects what Paul wrote, what we read in our New Testament reading this morning. He says, why are you doing what you're doing? Whatever it is you do Whether you continue in the fast or you give up the fast and celebrate the return of the Lord to his city, either way, do it for him and for his glory. Whether you eat or drink, do all for the glory of God. If the fountainhead of false religion is the minimalization of sin The text now goes on in verses 8, 9, and 10 to tell us of the fruit of faithful religion. What does true Christianity look like? What does it really look like in the land when the people are obedient in doing what they're supposed to be doing. And in verse 8 we see this. The word that came to Zechariah saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Zechariah turns to people and says, Now listen, I'm going to summarize for you what God requires. And he says these things. And they reflect very closely what we just read in Jeremiah 7 earlier. Render true judgments. Show kindness and mercy to one another. Do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor. And then that the Buddha, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart. The group from Bethel has come up and said, you know, we've got it all worked out. Our sin is all taken care of. We just have this one little ritual practice to figure out and we'll be good to go. And the prophet says, you have nothing worked out You're not even close. You're not even in the conversation. Look at your sin. It's the evidence. There's no fruit. The fruit of the Spirit is not among you. And he calls them to task. The fruit of a faithful religion. The the isn't present in Bethel. The fruit of a faithful religion is now what Zechariah focuses on. Let's break it down. Let's take a look at it. What does he say there? In verse 8, we read this. He says, render true judgments. What might true judgments look like if we were to practice them in the local church? And by the way, before I go on, I suspect I gotta stop there. I'm gonna guess that a lot of us, when we first read this, what we heard was that means the justices in the land have got to be accountable to God And everybody else has got to get it right. But Zechariah actually talks about among you. Twice there. One another. He's really not looking at the broader society. He's looking at the microcosm of how do you live with your neighbor Day in and day out. It's really not about how do you get along with the Moabites and the Edomites and all the people in the lands around you. It's how do you get along with each other? Sure Harvest, this is asking us to look at how we relate to one another. Not how do the men and women in black robes yielding gavels. What do they do? What do we do? So what does it look like to render true judgments? True story. Member X is found out to be involved in a pretty heinous sin. In due time, the elders of that church get involved. And they confront Member X, who admits to the sin, but refuses to repent. The elders wrestle with what to do. The sin is going to harm Member X, and if it gets out, it's going to harm the broader bride of Christ. Something has to be done. For the good of the sinner and for the good of the church, it has to be dealt with. And they make a ruling. They remove Member X from his or her place of leadership. They take Member X out of the music ministry. They They uh uh pull member X back from the Lord's table until such time as that member repents. And then what happens is Member X goes out in the hallways and on Facebook and social media and begins to badmouth the elders. They're mean-spirited. They don't understand forgiveness. They have no clue what Christian love is all about And this member begins to talk and talk and people begin to rally around the member and they begin to go, oh yeah, we're sorry to hear that you're hurting and begin to love on this member. And they begin to render judgments. Yeah, those elders, yeah, they should be forgiving Now they should be loving. Meanwhile, the elders desiring to honor God keep their mouths shut, don't talk about it, don't gossip, don't go down the hallways, and Nobody knows the truth of what's going on behind the scenes. Nobody knows how bad this sin is or the fact that the person is unrepentant. But we judge the elders. Can't remember who it was, but it was quite a while ago. A Presbyterian minister said, anytime there's a trial in the church, the first thing on trial is always church discipline itself. And we render false judgments. We render judgments about our elders when it's things we don't even understand. We don't know what's going on. And we say to God, yes, you may have ordained these men to be the elders over us, but we have a better sense of how things should be done. Render true judgment. The passage goes on and says to show kindness. This is the Hebrew word Hesed Oh a Hebrew word worth learning, worth knowing. Hesed is the I it's used throughout the Old Testament. It's the idea of covenant love, covenant kindness, covenant faithfulness. It's this idea that because God bound himself to his people in a covenant relationship, he shows them kindness, he shows them love, he shows them mercy. He is not merely tolerant of them. but loving and kind toward them. That's that. And that's the word that's used here. And what Zechariah is saying to the people God has loved you, despite all the ways that you have broken covenant. He's kind toward you, Hesse. Can you not be kind to one another? Sure, that person has offended you, they have sinned against you, but you've sinned against God even more. And his standard is much higher than yours, and yet he shows Hesed. Covenant kindness, loving kindness toward you. We not show that toward one another. And what of mercy? Do you understand the great degree to which God has been merciful to you? How you have been spared what you deserve? Yes, maybe you've done something to wrong me, and yes, maybe in one sense you deserve my ire. But in light of the mercy I've been shown, can I really not show you any mercy? Verse 10, do not oppress the widow, the fatherless. Surely, Scott, we don't oppress widows. I mean, come on, it's the church. We don't oppress widows. How many churches this morning will not sing even one song the widows know? We gotta be cool. We gotta be hip. Don't care if grandma doesn't know the songs. We're gonna sing them anyway. How many churches say, yeah, we're not sending out paper newsletters anymore? That's pretty old. Grandma, you got to get our church app and download the newsletter. And so the widows of the church don't know what's going on in the church and they are oppressed. They can't participate, they can't be a part of it When we make those subtle little decisions. Do we want a church that appeals to young people? Absolutely. But let's figure out a way to do that without oppressing the widows. When we have a father-son football game, does somebody make sure the kid whose dad took off and left the family that somebody picks him up, brings him to the game, makes sure he gets to participate, gets him home safely? Are we looking out for the fatherless? I don't have time to take up sojourner and pour But I would like to briefly address this, let none of you devise evil against another. You say, Scott, again, we can't be guilty of that. We don't devise evil against one another in the church. Another true story. Young man comes to the presbytery of which I was a part and he wants to be ordained to the ministry and he takes all the various exams and writes all the papers that are involved and he he he uh does fine in all five of the uh of the written and oral exams. He the three papers, two of the three papers are excellent. One of his papers is judged to be substandard. Unacceptable. Not up to snuff Now, in my opinion, there is nothing a Presbytery does that is more important than guarding the ministry, and it was right that we not pass him. So he went and he rewrote the paper. He took the advice that we had given him. He resubmitted the paper to the committee and it was very good. Huge improvement. He listened to everything we suggested and he incorporated it and forget we talked to him and said, Are you up oh yes I I didn't just do it to please you, I understand where I went wrong in the first paper and I am thankful that you made me read. Okay. We send it out to the dissenters in the presbytery, those who had spoken against his ordination. We said, please read this. Because we do not want to bring this man up on the floor presbytery and fail him publicly again. Let's, if we're going to fail him, let's do it behind the scenes. Let's not embarrass him again. And everybody reads the paper and they get back to the committee and they all say, yes, we love it. It's excellent. Absolutely, we will support his ordination. And we have now talked to every single one of the presbyters who was at the first meeting where he failed, and every single one of them has said, yes, I can support his ordination. So he's going to pass. So we take it to the floor of the presbytery. We re-examine. We open it up for a few more questions. Nothing surprising happens. We get ready to vote. And one of the presbyters, a pastor in our denomination. Walks to the microphone and says, I think it's important that the Presbytery know that he failed at the previous Presbytery meeting. What did that accomplish? Just an hour earlier, we'd approved the minutes from the previous meeting. It was right there that he failed. And I know the word Presbyter means old man, but our memories aren't that bad. It was only four months ago. We were all there when he failed. Why on earth did anybody feel the need to go to the microphone and publicly embarrass him and say, it's important we know he failed? Because we like to feel superior. We like to feel better than other people. We are evil. And we devise evil against other people to make ourselves feel better. And Zachariah says, that's what you're doing. That's how you're living your lives. And when you come to God's temple, don't come thinking you're going to work out the nuance of religion. If you're not bearing out the fruit of faithful religion, then recognize your own sin. And come pleading mercy. The fountainhead of false religion is the underestimating of the seriousness of sin, and thinking we can get by with a little something a little cover up here or a little touch up there. The fruit of faithful religion is the way we love one another, the the the the way we care for one another, the The way we play out our lives, that we reflect God's mercy to us and our mercy toward others, God's kindness to us and our kindness toward others, that we do not devise evil against one another. Then Zechariah takes up the fate of future religion. What's going to happen if we continue on this path? If we don't amend our ways, if we continue to be a people obsessed with surface things, with academic discussions, and not of heart issues. What's going to happen to us? And we read starting in verse 11. They refused to pay attention and turned a stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears that they might not hear. They made their hearts diamond hard lest they should hear the law and the word of the Lord of hosts and sent by the Spirit of the former prophets. Therefore great anger came from the Lord of hosts. As I called, and they would not hear, so they called and I uh and and I would not hear, says the Lord of hosts, and I scattered them. with a whirlwind among all the nations that they had not known. Thus the land was desolate, so that no one went to and fro, and the pleasant land was made desolate. Do we recognize that this is the bleak future of Shore Harvest Presbyterian Church? If we fall into the trap of thinking it's all about uh the gains of religion, the outward appearances of religion Nuanced theological debates. If we fall into the trap of thinking it's about that rather than our heart issues, rather than the real sin, this is our future. Bleak and desolate. And some of you are sitting out there going, whoa, whoa, wait a second, Pastor. I'm a good Calvinist and Presbyterian. I know I can't lose my salvation, so what are you talking about? Not talking about individual salvation. Zachariah was not talking about individual salvation. He was saying that the church as a collective whole would be lost. That the ancient people of God were scattered and lost because they were not faithful. The question is not about your salvation. The question is about this church and the salvation of the generations to come and the salvation of all the lost and dying of the Eastern Shore who will not hear if we are not faithful. Because we will become a desolate land in which no one will go to and from. So what do we do? Pastor, we can't. I know I'm supposed to love, but I don't And I know I'm supposed to care for the fatherless and the orphans, the widows, but I I I I don't. I can't always have time. I always feel like I can't even know how to sometimes And I'm supposed to show mercy, but what do I do? So is things hopeless? Are we lost? And this is where we've got to remind ourselves where we find Zechariah 7. In case you're mathematically challenged, it comes after Zechariah 1 through 6. A message of hope. Zachariah is not saying that things are hopeless. He's saying they're hopeless if you continue to ignore your sin. But if you see your sin, if you see it for what it is, if you recognize the danger of your sin. Then you get to rest in the hope of all the visions that have come before. You know that God's uh horsemen are riding to and fro, and that he is aware of everything that's going on on the earth. And you know that the horns of power of our enemies are going to be disturbed. Destroyed by him. You know that he is going to make himself a ring of fire to protect his people, that he is going to strip off your filthy robes and put on his clean ones. That you are a brand plucked from the fire, and not even your own sin can keep you from being saved at this point. You know that he provides a stream of oil to fuel the flame that we might be a brilliant lamp in a dark place. We know that his law will find out our sin and correct us, and that one day our wickedness will be winged away to a far-off land. We know that he is both our king and our priest, that the crown will one day rest on the head of the mediator. He will rule over us and defend us. And we know that the chariots of God ride forth from his heaven to accomplish all of these things upon the earth. Zechariah's warning in chapter seven is a warning to fall back on all of those things. To admit our sin, to confess it, to own it than to say, I am hopeless. Unless you, Jesus, put your righteous robes on me. And then there's great hope. Then all that weight is lifted off. Every week, almost every week, we confess our sins as a part of worship. Why? Not as some mere liturgical act, but as an opportunity to be reminded of the gospel. For when we take our sin seriously, when we see it to be as bad as it really is, then we throw up our hands and hopelessness in ourselves and go, I can't do it. And then we're reminded that we don't have to do it, that it's been done for us. Zechariah, even in chapter 7, Is still bringing hope to you and to me. That when you see your sin, that's when hope begins. That's when you recognize your need for a savior, for someone outside of yourself to come in and intervene on your behalf. That's the only time there is true hope. Let's pray. Lord help us to see our sin. And not try to cover it up with a little makeup, not to try to hide behind debates and theology and doctrine. Not try to hide behind the good deeds that we make up to do for ourselves, but to see our sin. And let that ugly picture drive us to our knees, not in hopelessness, not in despair, but in renewed recognition That we need Jesus. We need all the promises of Zechariah 1 through 6. We need everything that has been shown to the prophet we need in our lives. And help us to rejoice that it's you've provided it all. That when we get To Zechariah 7, when we get to this message of our sin and our corrupted religion, we also remember all that you've already promised. Let us proclaim this to ourselves, let us proclaim this to our loved ones, our neighbors, and to all the earth. For it is in fact good news. It is the gospel. We pray this in the powerful name of our risen Savior. Amen.