Please turn in your copy of God's Word to Acts chapter 1. Acts 1. Last week we began a fall sermon series in the book of Acts called The Work Continues. This week we're looking at Acts 1, verses 9 through 11. I'm going to read from the beginning of the chapter, rereading what we considered last week, but it gives us the context in which we find this week's verses. And so I wanted us to have that in place. So please join me at the top of Acts chapter 1, verse 1. In the first book, O Theophilus, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. And while staying with them he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You heard from me, for John baptized with water But you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem And in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. And now this week's text. And when he had said these things, and as they were looking on, he was lifted up And a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven, as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. This is the Word of God. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Spirit of God, open your word to us this morning. Reveal its importance, its significance, its life-changing truth to us this morning. Let my words be yours, and if I speak anything that is out of accord with you, let it be stricken from each mind here. So that we leave this morning with your truth resonating in our ears, in our minds, and in our hearts. We ask this because of Jesus. Amen. Many years back, my sister-in-law Carrie was uh uh talking with her oldest daughter, Megan. and was trying to get Megan excited about the impending fifth birth birthday party that was on the horizon. Honey, aren't you excited? We're gonna have cake and ice cream and people are going to come over. You're turning five. Isn't that exciting But a short time later, Carrie found Megan crying. She was sad. And as mom started to investigate, said, honey, why are you crying? What's wrong? It was all Carrie could do, all that mom could do to restrain her laughter, when through the sobs my niece said, I don't want to turn five. Well, why not? Because you said when I was four I could have gum Think about that one for a moment. Megan did not understand that gum was a privilege for four and beyond. It wasn't restricted to just being for, that gum was part of life after being for And my sister-in-law tried to comfort her and say, honey, you'll include gum, and turning five includes a lot of other wonderful things. You get to learn to ride a bike, you get to start school soon. Life is going to get better That works. I think that's an illustration of maybe how the disciples saw the ascension. They stood there asking themselves, why does he have to go? We liked having him here with us. We like gum. We don't want to enter the next stage of church life without him. Why does he have to go? And like my niece, they failed to understand that he was still going to be with them. Gum was still a part of life But that in the next stage there would be so many things that were so much better. That turning five is glorious And the ascension of Jesus is glorious. Let us consider this morning four important aspects. of Jesus' ascension. I have summarized them with four simple alliterated words so that maybe they'll stick in our minds. Maybe they will resonate and go out of here with us so that when we reflect on the ascension we're reminded of its importance The ascended Jesus sends. The ascended Jesus sits. The ascended Jesus stands. And the ascended Jesus saves. He sends, he sits, he stands, and he saves. Now you're looking at the outline on page eleven of the bulletin and you're following what I just said and you're saying, Well wait a second, Pastor, you're only looking at the ascension. There's more in these verses. And there is, and I wish we had time to take all of it up in turn. But I have, as I was studying and preparing, I became increasingly convicted By the fact that the ascension is not properly appreciated. Or at least it's not been in my life and in my ministry that it needs to be something we get. The Ascension's a big deal. After all, it makes it into the ancient creeds of the church. In these summary, condensed statements of the essential truths of Christianity, the Ascension makes it Of all the things that get left out, the ascension's there. Now some people will say, well, the ascension's only recorded in two places. It's only in Luke and Acts. It's only in two books. It's not that big of a deal. I would point out that that's the same number of books where we find any account of Christmas. And twice as many as we find the account of creation. It's not how many times it appears, but how important it is in all the texts that come after it. Creation is assumed on every page after Genesis 1. And the ascension is assumed on every page that comes after Acts 1. And so we must understand it. The ascended Jesus sends. He sits. He stands, and he saves. Let's consider them one at a time. The ascended Jesus sends. Flip back a couple pages in your Bible to John chapter 16. We're going to look at verse 7. John 16 And a focus on verse 7. Jesus says something really interesting here to the disciples. Now John 16, this is in the uh the final days, even the final hours of Jesus' earthly ministry before his crucifixion. So he's nearing the end of his time with the disciples, and he was only with them 40 days after the resurrection. So this is very near the end of his time on earth. altogether. And in verse 7, we read this. Nevertheless, I, this is Jesus speaking, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. Jesus says that he has to go so that he can send the Holy Spirit. The ascended Jesus sends the Holy Spirit. Now you may say to your some of you will point out the technicality going, well, wasn't he talking about his death there? And to be sure he is, but if we were to read the fullness of John sixteen, we would see that the the ascension uh the his departure from earth is also rolled into this and incorporated in the broader context. So that he is saying that part of his reason he goes is so that he can send the Holy Spirit. The ascended Jesus Now why? Why is that important? Well it's related to what we saw at the end of last week. You will be my witnesses. In Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. Now, Megan, my niece, was worked up about gum in the next stage of life with really no good reason. But put yourself in the shoes of the apostles. Might they have a legitimate reason to be worried about Jesus' departure? Well, a few chapters earlier in John, or just in the previous chapter in John 15, Jesus says these words: Apart from me, you can do nothing. Apart from me, you can do nothing. And now they're apart from him. He's just left. He's just gone. You don't think maybe they had a legitimate reason to be a little concerned to stand there going, why did he have to go? And yet he says that he sends the Holy Spirit. You see, if they were to go into all the earth And Jesus in chapter 14 of John makes a statement about uh if you abide, if I abide with you, you will bear much fruit. If I abide with you, you will bear much fruit. If Jesus stayed on earth physically How could he abide to the uttermost parts of the earth? How could he abide with the disciples as they went into Samaria and Judea and to the ends of the earth We sometimes forget that in Jesus, God the Son took on humanity forever. He is, now, and will always be a human being. And there is nothing in Scripture that suggests that he does not bear all of it what it means to be a human. Which means that he is confined in time and space in his physical body. He can't abide with the church as it goes to the uttermost parts of the earth if he remains here physically. And we would have created two classes of churches. Those where Jesus physically is present and those where he isn't. Guess which one everybody wants to be a part of? So that the reality of the gospel going forward would be impeded by Jesus remaining physically on the earth. Now some of you are going, wait a second, Scott, he was God. He wasn't limited by that physical body. But that's to have the false idea that God has no limitations. God cannot be limited by anything outside of himself, but he is limited. He cannot lie, he cannot learn. He cannot change. And the list goes on and on of the things that God cannot do. He chose in the sun to take on a human body. And so was limited in his location. But in his going and sending the Spirit, now the power of the Spirit could go forward with them into the ends of the earth and could be with us here today and our brothers and sisters at every church on the Eastern Shore and on the Western Shore and throughout North America and South America and the Eastern Hemisphere and the Western Hemisphere That he could be everywhere with all those who were believers. The ascended Jesus sends. The ascending of the Spirit is also related to what's called the economy of the Trinity. Now, the three parts of the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we cannot do a full-blown lesson on the Trinity. No way. But the three parts of the Trinity are essentially the same. They have the same essence. They are ontologically the same. Their being is God. They are divine. But their economy, their works, we use the word economy to talk about our our productivity, our work, what we do Their economy is not the same. Now, to be sure, there is some overlap in the way Scripture words things, but there is a distinction between the work of the members of the Trinity. God the Father ordains who will be and specifically with regard to salvation. God the Father ordains who will be saved Jesus redeems and pays the price for. God the Son provides redemption, and it is God the Spirit who applies that redemption. to those the Father has ordained and the Son has redeemed. So that in the coming of the Spirit we now have the application of power to preach and proclaim the gospel. In the coming of the Spirit we have the application of life by which we might receives the gospel. And in the coming of the Spirit we have the application of the desire to live the gospel Because that's the work of the Spirit. More on that in the chapters to come in the book of Acts. The ascended Jesus sends. The ascended Jesus sits. Last Monday, our elders met. We call it the session. When Congress meets, we say they are in session. The idea of session comes from an ancient legal term, a Latin legal term, sessio, to be seated. You're familiar with this? When everyone is gathered in the court, we all know the court is not in session yet. And then the bailiff says, all rise. The honorable judge so-and-so, he or she walks in, takes their place, sits down, and now court is in session. And everybody else may take their seats. That is when we talk about the ascended Jesus sits Theologians use the word session. They refer to the session of Jesus. That he went to heaven and sat down. He began to take up his place as judge and king and ruler. He took the seat of power and authority. You know, it's interesting. In our Old Testament reading today, we got to see the heavenly perspective of Jesus' ascension. In Acts, we have the earthly perspective They water standing there, he's going up, all of a sudden the cloud takes him, and he vanishes. But we read in Daniel, how do we read it? With the clouds of heaven. Notice the seamless transition. From what Luke wrote in Acts. With the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, a human being And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and language should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. When Jesus ascended, he was seated. He sat down at the place of power and authority and rule. And took up his seat. Real quickly on these things that Daniel points out here, the Son of Man When that's the most common term by which Jesus refers to himself. Others refer to him in other ways. He usually refers to himself as the Son of Man. And he's pointing back to this text right here. He's reminding everyone that he is the one Daniel saw. Secondly, we see here that the Son of Man who entered into heaven and who was seated next to the ancient of days was given dominion and glory. God says to the prophet Isaiah, I will not share my glory with another I will not share my glory with another. And yet Daniel saw one to whom glory was given in the presence of the Ancient of Days. What is the only conclusion that we can come to? He's not another. He is God. So we see here the deity. of the Son of Man clearly set forth. And finally we see his rule and his reign. Why does that matter to us? What is the application to our lives of Jesus' session? That he is seated in heaven. Well, when bad things happen, it can be hard to wrestle with the fact that Jesus is in control of everything. He's ruling over everything, and this happened to me. I lost my job. My spouse left me. My child died. And Jesus is in do is in session. He has dominion? As hard as that can be Stop and think about the alternative. He didn't see it coming. He couldn't stop it. He didn't care. None of those are better. It may be hard to accept that Jesus is in control and reigns over all things when bad things happen in your life. But it's far worse to imagine that he's not in control. And so we have to trust. We turn to him in prayer. We don't run away from Jesus in those times. Rather, we we double down and we say, Why, O Lord? Show me why this is happening. Teach me what I should learn from this. Show me how to glorify you in the midst of this. Jesus' session is helpful when bad things come into our lives. And it is helpful when difficult things enter our lives, even though they may not be bad. Children here today, it's not always easy to obey parents. As a guy who struggles with speed limits, it's not always easy to obey any authority. And yet the difficulty of obeying authority comes back to, do I really believe that Jesus is in control? That he put that authority in my life and that he did it for my own good. Do I really believe that Jesus put a speed limit on my street so I don't have to live with the guilt of killing somebody? He loves me enough to protect me from myself. And so the difficulties of authority are made easier when we remember they're given to our lives because Jesus loves us and is in control. The ascended Jesus sends The ascended Jesus sits. And the ascended Jesus stands. Seems like an oxymoron. You just said, Scott, he sits, but now you're saying he stands. Take a look at Acts 7. Verses fifty-five and fifty-six, and yes, in a future sermon we will come back to this in more detail. But for right now, flip over to Acts 7, verses 55 and 56. And I can't find those in my Bible. There we go. Okay. The context here, um uh a man by the name of Stephen, uh uh one of the early deacons in the church. has had a powerful ministry. He's been dragged before the Jewish authorities and condemned as a heretic by the Jewish authorities. They are now going to execute him by stoning. by heaving rocks at him until he is dead. Not a good way to go. And in verses uh fifty-five and fifty-six we see this, but he, Stephen Full of the Holy Spirit, the one sent by Jesus, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus Standing at the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Who stands in a courtroom? Once the judge has taken their seat, once the court is in session Who stands? Who stands in Congress? Once they have taken their seat and Congress is in session, who stands? Is it not those who are trying to persuade? Those who are speaking to the body that is in session? Is it not the attorneys that stand in the courtroom and argue their case? What Stephen saw was Jesus. Attorney at law, defending him. The courts of the earth may have accused and condemned Stephen But the final court of appeal justified him, declared him righteous, and none other than Jesus stood up to do it Jesus, we are told, is an advocate, a name for an attorney. That's what attorneys are. 1 John 1, uh uh chapter 2, verse 1, we read this. That's one of those I probably should have had marked ahead of time, sorry. 1 John 1 2 verse 1. My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. An advocate, an attorney, a lawyer, one who stands there and argues. One who says, no, not guilty. Not guilty. The price is paid. He's been redeemed. The judgment lifted Not guilty. Jesus stands in heaven as our advocate. He stands in heaven as our attorney. He stands in heaven as our justifier. How does Romans 8. 34 say it? Who is to condemn? It's a rhetorical question, Paul asks. Who's going to condemn us? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. The one who is seated in the place of power and authority and dominion. The one who is in session over all things. Nevertheless is willing to get up and fight for you and for me. When I sin against his royal rule. When I defy his right to tell me what to do, he doesn't condemn me. He stands up and fights for me. And says he's justified, he's forgiven, he's cleared of all charges. So that you and I may have the confidence that Stephen had, that when that last stone falls and we shut our eyes for the final time, we will be ushered immediately into the presence of the Almighty. Because the ascended Jesus stands there fighting for us. The ascended Jesus sends the Holy Spirit. The ascended Jesus sits in the place of all power and dominion and authority and glory. The ascended Jesus stands advocating for those who are his. He sends, he sits, he stands, and finally the ascended Jesus saves. The ascended Jesus saves. You may not have read ahead yet in the book of Acts, but there is an interesting dynamic in this book The cross plays very little place in the proclamation of the gospel in this book. It's not that Luke doesn't believe the cross to be important. He assumes the cross because he talks a lot about the resurrection. There is no resurrection if there is no cross. But as Luke recounts the early days of the church, his focus as he tells how the gospel was proclaimed, his focus is not on the cross as it often is with our gospel proclamation. Now I'm not saying that we shouldn't proclaim it that way But I do want us to recognize the significance of how Luke portrays the gospel proclaimed. And the focus in the book of Acts, as we're going to see time and again. is on the resurrected and ascended one. It is to the resurrected and ascended one that the power of salvation is given Salvation belongs to our God and to the Lamb who sits upon the throne. Now, I quoted Revelation, but that is a theme throughout the book of Acts. We often use the illustration of a court where someone is found guilty and given a fine, a charge against them. And we say that Jesus is like one who comes and pays the fine on your behalf, and that's a good illustration so far as it goes. Luke says, take it a step further. If you show up at court and you tell the judge, I don't have to pay the fine because it's been paid, what's the judge going to say? Prove it. Really? Yeah, because I've never heard that one before. Prove it And with the point here with Luke in the Gospel of the Gospel of Acts, that kind of is. The Acts of the Gospel. The point here with Luke in the book of Acts Is that it is to the ascended Jesus that salvation belongs. He's the one that turns to the court and says, yes, it's been paid. Yes, Scott Shaw's fine is paid in full, his debt fully redeemed. Oh, and you want to see the receipt? Look at my palms. We don't get to arbitrarily apply the work of Jesus to ourselves. How arrogant is that? But the ascended Jesus is doing it for us. So why would we worry? He saves because he has power He saves because he is the one who paid the price, who is standing there fighting for us. And he's the one who says, here's the receipt. I paid his price. We're going to see on page after page as we go through Acts that it is the resurrected and ascended and glorified Jesus That is at the center of the proclamation of the gospel. And I'm not saying to do away with the cross. I'm not saying we shouldn't have it here and here and other places. What I am saying is that if we stop at the cross, We miss the glory of the one who ascended. My niece Megan was afraid to enter a new stage of life. Because she was afraid that the glory of gum chewing was behind her. She didn't understand that better things awaited her. The disciples stood worried, asking themselves, why does he have to go? Why does he have to leave us? And he says, because better things are coming. Number one, I'm not leaving you. I'm sending my Holy Spirit to be with you, to give you power to proclaim the gospel, power to receive the gospel, power to live the gospel. And I am ascending to sit on the throne of all power and dominion and authority and glory at the right hand of the Father. Have confidence. Know I'm in control. Know that I'm there at every turn of your life. And I ascend. To stand in that heavenly courtroom and argue your case, to be your advocate, to be the one who justifies you. And I ascend. To be the one who saves, who brings it about, who nails it down, who makes it sure. So that it cannot be lost. The ascended Jesus sends, sits, stands. And saves. Praise be to his name. Let's pray. Jesus, thank you for leaving this earth and taking up your place on the throne. for sending your Spirit to be with us so that you would abide with us wherever we go. Thank you for being in control of every detail of our lives. Thank you for your everlasting dominion. Thank you for standing and advocating for us. For every time we doubt and every time we defy So long as we hope in you, we are cleared, declared innocent, made free. Jesus, thank you that through all of these things working together you bring about our salvation, that you save us. Let us see throughout the rest of Acts the glory of the salvation that belongs to our resurrected and ascended Lord. We come to you because you've said we could, and we ask this to be applied to our lives. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.