If you have your Bible with you, let me encourage you to turn and follow along with the reading of God's Word for today in Psalm one hundred and forty-five. There are twenty-one verses in Psalm one hundred and forty-five, and I'll be reading all twenty-one. Let me remind you as uh as you turn, as you read and as you listen, um that this is God's holy and inerrant word and that um uh Uh if we want to learn how to live a life that's pleasing to him, uh if we want to learn um uh what he has done for us and continues to do for us, if we want to learn how to um uh to uh live in this world, we need to know. And understand God's word. Psalm 145, beginning at verse 1, I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness. They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness, and shall sing aloud of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made. All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your saints shall bless you. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power, to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works. The Lord upholds all who are falling, and raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord. And let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever. May God be pleased and blessed with the reading of his word. Let's pray together. Lord, there is so much here that tells us about you. We want to see that. We want to see you. May your word by your Spirit be driven deep into our hearts, so that we may love you and praise you and worship and serve you. In Jesus' name, Amen. I'm grateful again for the opportunity to share God's Word with you. Let me begin by asking you: what is there in your life that you do every day? What is there in your life that you do every day? Well you get up every day and you go to bed every day. You eat food and you drink and you eliminate waste. There are a lot of things you do every day Many things that you do every day, most of which are habitual, come naturally and without thinking. Now, habitual is not bad. There are bad habits, but there are also good habits. You have to build a habit to brush your teeth, build a habit to wash. Um and I'm told that uh particularly once you get to be an adult, if you want to establish a good habit, it takes about twenty-one days of repetition to do it Why doesn't it take that long to establish a bad habit? I don't know. So what is there in your life relationally that you do every day? Well, every day I try to remember to tell Julie that I love her. Other things um I do frequently, but not necessarily every day. What about spiritually? Pray every day? Read God's Word and have devotions every day? But do you praise every day? Do you praise every day? Here in verses one and two of the Psalm we just read, David says, I will extol you, my God and king, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name for ever and ever. There's a determination on his part to praise forever and ever. Now, we won't live on this life forever and ever. I don't think that comes as a surprise to any of you. But if David says he's going to do that forever and ever, he's saying he's going to keep on doing that even after he dies. One commentator said that for a Christian, praise is the only thing that will continue in our lives forever and ever. Today we conclude our summer series on the Psalms, tuning into God's music, with Psalm 145. It is the beginning of the final section of the Psalms that are called Psalms of Praise. 145 through 150. It is a fitting close to the Psalms. After all the um uh the different Psalms of uh of Lament and um uh and uh supplication and all the other types of psalms that um that have been there, it is very fitting to close with praise to the Lord. The title of Psalm 145 is simply a song of praise. David. In Hebrew, as all of the other Psalms, 146 through 150, begin with praise the Lord, in Hebrew it is the word hallelujah. From halel, which is the most common Hebrew word for praise, halelu, halelu, Which is a command for you to praise, and Yah for Yahweh. Hallelujah. Yah is praise the Lord. Praise Yahweh Praise ye, praise me the Lord. So since Psalm 145 is a song of praise, and God's people will be praising him for all eternity, It comes as no surprise to you for me to tell you that this will be a message about praise. So as we begin, I anticipate that there may be two negative reactions to my just having said that. Some of you are going to think, okay, this sermon's going to be a guilt inducer. David says, I will pray every day and I don't, or praise every day, and I don't praise every day. So He's going to make me feel guilty about not praising as often as I should. Or you may decide, since this is going to be a message about praise, this will be totally boring. After all, if heaven is simply sitting on clouds, strumming a harp, singing praise, that doesn't sound very exciting. In fact, that sounds boring. Let me ask you this. Remember the things that you've celebrated in your life? The championship of your favorite team. which by the way for the Orioles will probably not happen in my lifetime again. Your success on a final exam, your acceptance into college or grad school. Your hiring for the job you've been looking for, your wedding day, your children's wedding day, the birth of uh of a child or each of your children. Remember how you felt. Remember how terrific it felt for those things? Isn't it too bad that couldn't last? What if it could? We've praised and thanked people before, but eventually we stopped. Now, maybe because we got tired, or maybe because we found out that the character of the people we praised didn't match their actions That has certainly come out over the last several years of sports figures, things that we um uh we've were really looking up to them about. We found out that their character didn't match their actions. People in the entertainment industry the um the same way. In this psalm, David is promising to praise the Lord every day, forever and ever. He begins the psalm that way, and he ends the psalm that way. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord. And let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever. And he urges the same for all of us. Verses four through um through seven, um uh he talks about um uh praising Um the um one generation commending your works to another and declaring your mighty deeds and the um specific things to um praise about there Verses ten through twelve, all your work shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your saints shall bless you. And it talks about the aspects of God's kingdom there. And of course, I already read from verse 21, my mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever. Praise doesn't come naturally. And if we're going to do something that doesn't come naturally every day forever, we need to ask three questions. Whom? Why? And how? Whom to praise? Well, you're probably thinking this should be the shortest point of all the three. At least you hope so Praise God. Look at how David identifies him in verse 1. He identifies him first as God. Hebrew word is El. or Elohim, the transcendent one. But if we're praising God, which God? Well we're told in verse 2, the Lord. And in verses 3 and 8 and 9 and 10 and 13 and 17 and 18 and 21, praise the Lord, that God, Yahweh, his personal covenant name. You know that whenever you see in the Old Testament the word Lord in all cats, it is for the word Yahweh, the name that um that God revealed to Moses in the burning bush. We saw in uh the call to worship all the gods of the heathen or idols, but the Lord, Yahweh, made the heavens. That God, that personal covenant God. Not just that God in general, but specifically he says, my God. David had a personal relationship with God. It's more of an incentive to praise one that you know and that you have a personal relationship with. And we're told that he is king. He is the sovereign ruler of the universe. We're told about his kingdom in verses 11 through 13. His kingdom is the place where God rules. Now, we're not used to thinking about kings because we don't have them in the United States of America And we don't treat um the rulers that we do have in the same way that um uh people in other parts of the world or in uh uh in other times were to treat the king. But God is king. God is the sovereign ruler over all. And David praises him that way. We need to remember as we praise the Lord, we need to remember as we consider the Lord that he is king. Not only is he God and we are not, he is king and we are not. We are told to praise his name. In verses 1 and 2 and 21. His name identifies who he is. So when we praise his name, we are praising him. Now Why am I making such a big deal out of identifying whom to praise? Partly because we don't naturally praise God. We praise others, at least until they let us down. And sometimes we're so busy focused on ourselves that we don't think to praise God. Alistair Begg said, big men have little gods But a big God does not despise little men. So the Psalm specifically praises Yahweh, the Lord, the King. and calls him great in verse 3 with a greatness that is unsearchable. That word unsearchable has a couple of different translations In the message, the phrase says, there are no boundaries to his greatness. In the NIV, it says his greatness no one can fathom. Literally in Hebrew, there is no searching with the eyes, which is why we have in the ESV and so many of the other translations. unsearchable. Now it doesn't mean that we can't search. We are to search the scriptures and to see in them about God's greatness. But no matter how much we search out God, we will never come to an end of Him. We will never know all that there is to know about God. Now the Bible never uses the word infinite, but that's what this is talking about. His greatness is unsearchable. His greatness is infinite. And whatever is true about God is infinitely true. His love is an infinite love. His sovereignty is an infinite sovereignty His righteousness and justice are infinite righteousness and justice. His holiness is infinite holiness. And all the rest of his attributes. So if we're to praise someone forever and ever, we need to be sure that we have the right one to praise. Did you ever have someone that you held in really high regard, almost an idol, and let you down Well we can't keep replacing one idol with another, although certain TV shows and a lot more of them um uh these days try to do that every year We need to direct praise to the right object. David identifies him in verses eight and nine when he says The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made. This reminds us of how the Lord identified himself back in the book of Exodus, chapters 33 and 34. In chapter 33, Moses was coming before the Lord after the incident with the golden calf, when God said, I'm not going to continue to um uh to lead you, I'll send an angel to um to go with you And it is really for your good, because if these people continue like this, I might destroy them. Well, in verse 18 of Exodus 33, Moses said, Please show me your glory. And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name the Lord, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy to whom I will show mercy But he said, You cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me where you shall stand on the rock. And while my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen So then, when he got Moses ready for this, it says in Exodus 34 and verse 5, the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped. This is the first picture given By the Lord himself, of who he is. And it is repeated for us here in Psalm 145 in verses 8 and 9. If you want to see my glory, Moses, the Lord said, you need to know who I am. Eternal praise requires that the one that we praise is worthy of it. We need to be sure to get his identity right. Don't waste your life exalting the wrong God. Don't waste your life exalting the wrong thing. This God The Lord, the King, my God. This is the one we need to praise. Secondly, we need to know why to praise. What is it about him that deserves our praise? How do we know that he is worthy of our praise? So much of the psalm gives us the reasons that God is worthy of praise. This is an alphabetical psalm Not alphabetical in English, alphabetical in Hebrew. Each verse begins with the next successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet. There are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. Now, some of you who are not math majors Have looked and seen. 21 verses, 22 letters. Something doesn't fit here. Actually, in the Hebrew, one of the letters, the letter Nun There is no phrase that begins with the letter Nun. Now, the translators of the ESV and the NIV and a couple of other translations went from some manuscripts that I think were not the first manuscripts and stuck another phrase there in at the end of verse 13. In my ESV, it's there in brackets. And the reason that it's in brackets is that it probably wasn't in the oldest manuscripts. There's nothing wrong with it. There's nothing untrue about it. Um but it wasn't originally there. So you're thinking, all right, what happened? Did we lose the none verse? Probably not. Um It may be to remind us that at best our understanding and praise of the Lord is incomplete. So this psalm would be an incomplete picture of the alphabet. We need to focus not on what's not said, but on what is said. We praise him because of his works. We praise him because of his actions. We praise him because of what he does. There in verse 4, one generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. Verse 5, on the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wondrous works, I will meditate. Verse 6, they will speak of the might of your awesome deeds. And I will declare your greatness. And so it goes on. For most of the verses of Psalm 145, the deeds, the actions of God are mentioned We praise him for his work of creation. We praise him for his work of providence. Verses 15 and 16 say that the eyes of all look to you. You give them their food in due season, you open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. God did not, as some people used to believe create everything, make it to run so well on its own that he could go off on vacation for the rest of eternity. No. God continues to work in and through everything that he's made. to do good, to provide good for his people. His works demonstrate his character. Because of what God does, it says in verse seventeen, the Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. Not just his actions toward creation in general, but specifically his actions toward his people. Look at verse 18. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all those who love him. I know I didn't read all of verse 20. We'll get back to the second half of that in a little bit. We are to praise him because of who he is and what he's done and what he continues to do. Some people have summarized this by praising him for his greatness in verses 3 through 6 and his goodness in verses 7 through 9. And the rest of the psalm expounds on the themes of the Lord's greatness and goodness, in his kingly rule, in everything that he does. But before we leave this point and consider how to praise the Lord, there is one more thing to consider. Verse 17 tells us he is not only kind, but he is also righteous. Verse 20 tells us not only does he preserve those who love him, but he will destroy the wicked. Although everything that God is, he is infinitely We cannot simply pick and choose the attributes we like and minimize or ignore the ones we don't. There are some people who do that who say Because God is love, they conclude God is only love. Well the Bible does teach that God is love But the Bible teaches that God is light, that God is holy, that all the other things that the Bible says that God is, he is. We had a great Sunday school series last spring on the attributes of God, taught by Stephen Lawson from Ligoneer Ministries. God is gracious and merciful in verse 8. Abounding in steadfast love, the Hebrew word tesed, his steadfast love, his goodness. But it says slow to anger. It doesn't say no to anger. Slow to anger. There are limits to God's patience. There are limits to God's mercy. Romans 2 elaborates that on a little bit. So if you have your Bible, turn with me to Romans chapter 2. I'm going to pick up at verse 3. Do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience? not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. But because of your hard and a penitent heart, you're storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. He will render to each one according to his works, to those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. It is not true that God is either kind or just. He is both. He is both. Those who ignore his kindness, those who never come to repentance, are the wicked that he will destroy. God will ultimately punish the wicked, those who never turn to him, who never call on him in truth, because he is holy and just and righteous. Why would we praise him for his righteousness if it leads to the destruction of the wicked? Because in his righteousness, although he cannot ignore sin, or sweep it under the rug, he can and does punish sin by transferring it to another, to his son, our Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, for our sake he made him bec a sin who knew no sin. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. A verse that's called the Great Exchange. God did not ignore sin. He took the sin off of us and laid it on his son. He took the righteousness of his son. And applied it to us. What us? The us who have come to Him by faith, the us who have admitted our sin, agreed with God about it, asked for mercy, repented. Come in the only way that God has provided through the Lord Jesus Christ. God's people praise him not just for what he does for creation as a whole, but specifically for his salvation. He also hears their cry. and saves them. So we've seen whom to praise and why to praise for his works, for his character, for his salvation. Now the Psalm tells us how to praise. Look at the verbs that David uses for what he and we by extension will do as a result of who God is and what he does. Yes, I know. I talked about nouns and adjectives and verbs last week. I was not an English teacher. I don't pretend to be an English teacher, but when the verbs are there that are so important for us to know, I'm going to highlight them Extol in verse 1 means to exalt, to lift high, to make much of God, to bless in verse 1. And verse 2 and verse 21. Now that's a little bit of a surprise to us. We understand how God can bless us. How can we bless God? I mean who um scripture says who can give to God anything that um that he doesn't already have? He owns the cattle of a thousand hills But when he blesses us, he does things for our good that only he can do. When we bless him We proclaim his greatness and goodness, and God has made us to do that for him. Of course, Jesus said that if we don't, God is able to raise up stones to do that. Um but uh w We are the ones who bless him by proclaiming his greatness and his goodness to him and before others. Praise, we're told in verses two, three, and twenty-one. Thanksgiving, adoration, telling God not only that we love him But how wonderful we um uh he is. Praise greatly, loudly, effusively, praise in song. Psalms were the songbook of God's ancient people Commend in verse 4, you will commend his works from one generation to another And this is a very important point to make off to the side here, where it says one generation shall commend your works to another. You and I are here because someone before us has commended God's greatness to us. We are not the beginning of an understanding of God. It is not that we need to jump back over the thousands of years till the Bible was written and ignore everything since then until our day. No. We are built upon the generation before us, and the generation after us is built upon us. People wonder what the next generation of church people will be like in this country. That's why it is so important to make sure that we commend the works of God, declare his mighty acts from one generation to another. That's why Sunday school is important. That's why youth group is important. That's why the training that Christian parents do in their home is so important. Declare in verses 4 and 6. We talk about, we tell others about, we meditate in verse 5. We don't just talk about God, we think deeply about Him. Pour forth and sing aloud. Some of you like me are just as happy to um uh to be singing along with a lot of others. It is why whenever I have the opportunity to preach, I always tell the person who gives me the microphone, be sure to have this turned down during the singing. You can turn it up when I'm talking, but have it turned down during my singing. But we are to sing aloud to God and to give praise to Him. Give thanks, it says in verse ten. Everything should give thanks, but saints, God's people, should do more. You ever noticed in our society that people talk about being grateful or being thankful? But they don't say who they're grateful to or who they're thankful to? It doesn't make any sense to me. I don't know know about you. How can you be thankful without knowing who it is you're going to thank or wanting to find out who it is that you're going to thank? You may get a surprise gift. But if you're anything older than six or seven years old, you're going to want to find out who gave it to you. If you're younger than that, you know, all you want to care about is the gift, if it's a really nice one. But when you get older than that, you want to find out who gave it to you We need to proclaim the Lord in part so that people will know who they need to be grateful and thankful to. Verses 10 and 11, to speak, to make known. Verse 18, we call on him. We call on him in truth. Verse 19, we fear him. Verse 20, we love him. And notice that progression from verses 18 through 20. To call on him leads us to fear and reverence him, and to fear and reverence him leads us to love him. It is not by accident that David wrote it in this way. How do we praise God? We praise God by doing all these things that David talks about in this psalm. We praise God with how we talk to him. We praise God in how we talk about God to others. Now, we're not going to do that until and unless we're convinced that he's worthy of it. that we have personally come to know and love him through the Lord Jesus Christ. John tells us in his gospel, no one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. We wouldn't know anything about God except for the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. It is only through Jesus Christ that we have a relationship with God, only through Jesus Christ that we're allowed to praise Him in the way that um that we should, from the whole heart, sincerely, in spirit and in truth. And we're not going to have a lot to say to him or to others about him unless or until we come to know him better through learning and obeying his word in the Bible. Why do we do the things we do to produce good habits? Why do I wear a seatbelt? It isn't just because I might get pulled over. It is for safety's sake. Why do I brush my teeth? Why do I comb my hair? These are good habits to build consistency in our lives in areas that will be good to do all of our lives. There's another thing to this too. John Piper in his book, The Pleasures of God, quotes a man named Henry Scougal with these words. The worth and excellency of a soul can be measured by the object of its love. The worth and excellency of a soul can be measured by the object of its love So as we love and praise God more and more, God is making us more and more like Him. We see that from 2 Corinthians 3, verse 18. We all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. As we focus on God, which we have to do to praise, God is changing us to make us more like Him. Isn't that true in other areas of life? I mean, how many times, if you know the parents, can you identify the kids when they come towards you? Because they act just like 'em or they look just like 'em. And as the former teacher, I can tell you there were many times at parent conferences that I knew who the parent was when they walked in before they identified themselves because they looked just like their kid Now this is this is not getting into the apple doesn't fall far from the trees, but um uh that's certainly a corollary. Okay So if you agree with David that God is worthy of your praise, not just here today, but forever and ever, don't bemoan all the days and years that you haven't praised him This is not designed to make you feel guilty. Start now. And ask by his grace that he would enable and remind you to do it every day, not out of duty. But because of who he is, because of what he's done, because of what he's done for you. God is worthy of our praise All we can do in praising him and so much more. Let's pray. We praise you, O God, for your greatness, for your goodness, for your wonderful works to the children of men. For your salvation in Christ, not only for what you have done for us and are doing for us, but what you will do for us, to make us more like Christ, to be with you forever and ever. When the distraction to this world and the sin in our lives will no longer be there and keep us from obeying you fully, loving you totally, and praising you every day. Help us to get a good start at that right now. In Jesus' name, Amen