Isaiah writes in chapter eleven, Then a shoot will spring from the stem of Jesse, and a branch from his roots will bear fruit. The Spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the Spirit of Wisdom and Understanding, the Spirit of Counsel and Strength the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. And he will delight in the fear of the Lord, and he will not judge by what his eyes see, nor make a decision by what his ears hear, but with righteousness he will judge the poor. and decide with fairness for the afflicted of the earth. And he will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked. Also, righteousness will be the belt about his loins, and faithfulness the belt about his waist. And here, as Isaiah prophesies about the coming Messiah, the Christ. He prophesies of his wisdom, of the fullness of revelation that would come as he comes with knowledge, with righteousness, delighting to do the work of God. And how that knowledge and righteousness, the revelation of God's will, will slay the wicked, will be a stumbling block to those who hate God, will be an offense. And uh And a threat to those who do not love God and who do not seek his purposes. And as we gather together this morning, as those who love God as those who seek his face. Let us turn now to his word as we find it in the book of 1 John. I realize that uh your bulletins say Galatians 1 through 10, and uh normally on the first Sunday of each month we have uh Paul Wolfe with us to uh lead us in the preaching of God's Word. Um, but as many of you know, his wife is expecting twins and I received a call this morning uh at eight o'clock and and Paul said that I might want to bring along um uh a backup sermon that we had uh discussed in uh uh in advance, just in case he was still planning on coming. Um but then at uh nine fifteen I received another call and um sure enough they're headed to the hospital and so uh Paul's not going to be able to be with us, but we rejoice with them at the coming of their twin sons. But let's uh turn to the book of 1 John as we continue our series in 1 John. And we'll be reading in First John chapter three And we'll start reading in verse 11. And we'll read 11 through 24. Let's stand out of reverence for the Word of God. And before we read. Let us pray and ask God to luminen our hearts and our minds to understand his revelation to us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word. And Lord, we thank you for your Son Jesus Christ, the Messiah, who has come in the spirit of a council of strength. Spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. And Lord, just as Christ delighted to do your will and did it perfectly. So, Lord, as we look to your word, we pray that you would teach us to delight in who you are, to delight in what you would have us to do. And to strive, to, as Paul said, to beat our bodies and to train, not for an earthly race. That has a crown that will fade. But Lord, that we would train and we would run a spiritual race, a race out of love and thanksgiving for the great salvation that you have given us in your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, I pray that you would be with us especially now as we come before you on your day, in the presence of your congregation, the body of Christ. Lord, we pray that you would bless your word, that it might not return void. But Lord, that it might edify us, that it might glorify you, and Lord, that you would be well pleased to use it to our sanctification, even as your Son Jesus Christ prayed. And it's in his name that we pray all these things. Amen. First John 3, verses 11 through 24. For this is the message which you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Not as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brothers were righteous. Do not marvel, brethren, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He who does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. We know love by this, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. For whoever has the world's goods, and beholds his brother in need, and closeth his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him? Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and truth. We shall know by this that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before Him. And whatever our heart condemns us, for God is greater than our heart and knows all things. Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. And whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. And this is his commandment: that we believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another just as he commanded us. And the one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. And we know by this that He abides in us, by the Spirit, whom He has given us. Thus ends the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. Please be seated. As we've been going through our series of 1 John, we see that John is writing to believers who have been confronted with false teaching, with heresy. He talked about the Docetists, from the Greek word to seeing, which who had come out saying that Christ just seemed to be man. He was really some sort of spirit or apparition. And from that they deduced that religion and the material word were totally separate. That's they could have be very spiritual, they could have a religious experience, they could be very holy in the realm of the Spirit, and yet in the material realm execute all sorts of wickedness with impunity. And as John writes to these believers, as he exposes these false teachers who had actually left the church because of Of what they saw as an inferior belief, as an inferior religion, John writes to reassert the gospel truth To comfort those believers who have been assaulted and are confused by this false doctrine. And to show them the marks of a true believer, what someone who knows God looks like. And to tell them about true spirituality, not something that's man-made or fabricated, but that which has been revealed by God. from the beginning. And so as he writes, he asserts the humanity and the deity of Christ, the deity in He that which was from the beginning. That eternal word of life that was with the Father and was manifested to us. And the humanity of Christ, that which we have seen, which we have heard, which our hands have handled. And John writes the purpose of the gospel, not that you might uh go astray and do wickedness, not that we might do what we seek to do, not that we might have some sort of spiritual uh experience. But he writes in the first chapter that we might have fellowship with God the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And he writes to fellow believers that they might have fellowship with each other, that they might be in fellowship with the Apostle John, and that the churches might love one another. And so as John undertakes these tasks, we see that he he gives a series of tests by which one can uh see the work of God within them. They can see whether th they are a true believer or not. And they can know how God works in the hearts of men. And remember, he sets forth that God is light, and in him is no darkness, none. He asserts the holiness, the purity of a perfect God. And then he shows the connection between the spiritual uh and the material, and saying that those who know God will walk in the light. Those who know God will be changed in such a way as that they will desire to do the things that God has commanded That they will walk in the light, that they will obey God's commandments, that they will love one another, that they will love their brethren. And so we see John sets forth the test of love, love for God, and love for our brethren. And in unfolding this and unpacking it, he sets forth a test of righteousness. That as he talks about obeying the commandments of God, and as he asserts that those who love God, will obey his commandments, even as Christ said, we see that there is a is a test of righteousness, that those who are made righteous Will do righteous things. And just as uh we know from the scriptures that man is born in sin, and we sin uh because we are sinners, because of our nature, our actions flow forth from that. So, when our nature is changed in Christ, when we become new creatures, as our nature changes from being a sinner to being righteous in Christ Jesus, So the things that flow forth from our nature change. And we begin to do righteousness. So John sets the forth the test of love, of righteousness, and also of belief. Remember we talked about John warns them that the He said, beloved, as you know, just as you have heard that Antichrist is coming, even so many Antichrists have already come. And as we uh as he speaks of those who are against Christ, the little meaning of that word, um, and as he warns them against those false teachers who have been besetting them. So he sets forth the work of the Spirit in their lives, that they might know the truth, that they might grow in their knowledge of the truth, and that they might be preserved. and abide in the truth by the work of God's Holy Spirit. The test of belief. And here, uh John's book is uh is very much of a a Hebrew style as opposed to a Greek style. I think we're more familiar with the Greek style, being a Western civilization, and that of a very orderly logical uh flow, where we have point A, point B, point C, and then end. But John's is more of the Hebrew style, which is more of a spiral where he might hit A, B, and C. And then hit them again and in a different order. C V A, A V C. He hits the same points, but he begins to narrow his scope. And just as we saw that John spoke of the light And then spoke of the commandments of God, and then love for our brethren, as he begins to show us the character of God and how God would have us to act as new creatures. So here he begins to narrow in on our view of loving one another and loving God. And so as we look to this passage, we see first of all, and I realize that the points are not in the back of your bulletin, so I'll be giving them to you uh one by one and making sure that they're very clear. Our first point is that hatred is the fruit of the world and the mark of the unbeliever. And remember, um As by way of review too, we know that John, in fighting heresy, states things both positively and negatively to make himself abundantly clear in what he's writing. And he says here that hatred is the fruit of the world and the mark of the unbeliever. And we see this in In verse 11 and following. For this is the message which you have heard from the beginning: that we should love one another. That's God's standard, that's God's law, that we should love one another. But he continues, not as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brothers were righteous. Do not be surprised, brethren, if the world hates you. John is saying here that not only is God's standard for us to love one another, but that the world has not done that, and that the world will hate. He says, do not be surprised that the world hates. And the reason he gives is the example of Cain. Now obviously that's a a reference back to Genesis, and I think it behooves us to go back and and kind of unpack that reference to see what he's talking about. Remember that Adam had two sons, Cain and Abel. And after Adam fell, after his communion with God was broken, remember there was a break of communion even between himself and his wife Eve. That uh when God came in the garden, uh we see the the break in his relationship with God and that he hid himself Whereas before he had walked with God and God was his friend, he was afraid of God, and he hid himself. But God finding him and calling him out begins to question him about the fall and which God knew had taken place. And what does he do? But he begins to blame his wife. And so in in the fall we see the break of in the relationship of man with God and also man with man. That's uh that sin breaks those relationships down. And what does God do for Adam and Eve after this conversation? But he makes for them clothes from animal skins. And many commentators think this is the beginning of the sacrificial system of Old Testament Israel. The picture of an animal being killed. To show that man's sin deserves death, that man deserves to be killed for his rebellion against God. And as we begin to read about Adam's two sons, about Cain and Abel, we see that the Bible says that at the end of the days, and most likely at the end of the week, they came before God and they both offered sacrifices. And we see that Abel's sacrifice was of of an animal. And many scholars think that this being the example of God was most likely the command of God. And God was well pleased with Abel's sacrifice. But you remember, Cain offered vegetables and fruits and plants. He did not offer the sacrifice that is in line with the example of God And God was not pleased with his sacrifice. And just as John writes here, that Cain's deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous. So we see in in this beginning of the book of Genesis, the beginning of the two seeds, the seed of the righteous, those who are known by God and who seek to please God. And the seed of the wicked, those who are at enmity with God and would please themselves. And just as Cain rose up against the commandment of God, after God had warned him, Of his peril and slew his brother. So we see the world at enity with God, rebelling against the word of God. Not paying any attention to it, setting it aside, and openly, overtly rebelling against the person and the word of God. And we see that the fruit of the world is hatred. And it is the mark of the unbeliever. Now, John alludes to this in verses 14 and following as well, as he talks to the Christians about their former state. In verse 14, he says, We know that we have passed out of death into life. That before they were a Christian, that they were in a state of death. In verse 15, he says, everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. That not being in Christ, being in the world, being a sinner, That which flew flowed from our nature was sin and is sin. And here he uses the sin of murder. And um if you you know we we see the summary of the law and the Ten Commandments, and uh the catechism says that uh just as there are positive commandments uh given in the Ten Commandments, there are negative ones implied and vice versa. Uh and as Jesus takes those from the realm of the outward to the realm of the heart, we see John um endorsing that uh and the spirit Telling us that in this verse 15, that everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, that hatred is tantamount to murder. And the world, as it uh operates in its sinful rebellion, uh So executes its rebellion in such a way, both outwardly as we see in Cain, but also inwardly in our hearts Sin is not content with uh to be boxed into uh only outward deeds, but it has invaded our hearts and our minds, our thoughts, are all under uh the purview of God that He sees them, He knows them, and we are accountable for not only the things that we do, But for the things that we think and that we say and that we feel. And as we see John condemning that realm of the world, that realm of death, that realm that would murder. We also say, we also see in verse 17 that God has called us out of light uh into light, out of darkness into light, to to act in such a way as uh manifests the change in our nature. That just as he's called us from being um sinful and from uh indulging our sinful nature uh to acts of sin and wickedness against him. So he's made us new creatures. He's made us righteous in Christ, that we might practice righteousness. And so we see as our second point. That love is the fruit of the Spirit and the mark of the Christian. Just as the world does not know God, nor can it do so because it is given over to its sinfulness. But so in Jesus Christ, we are new creatures. The old things have gone. Behold, new things have come. That we are different, that our nature has been changed. Now not perfectly, as we've talked about the different states of man, we know that before the fall Adam was able to sin. And Um but after the fall, that he was not able not to sin, that uh the post fall state of man is not being able not to sin Which, if you uh take away the double negatives, it means that we sin all the time. But in Christ, we see the nature of man that we are able again not to sin. Now, not perfectly. As we we saw in the preceding chapters, that John says, if anyone says that he does not sin, he's a liar. But yet in Christ, as our nature has been changed, From that of original sin and unrighteousness and rebellion against Christ, as we've been made new creatures, so God enables us to practice righteousness. And thus to love God. We see uh here we see in salvation that restoration of those relationships that were broken at the fall And just as uh Adam's relationship with God was broken, and he ran from God and feared God in an unhealthy way, so in Christ. Our relationship with God is restored. What does John say in the first chapter? That we might have fellowship with God the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And our relationship with man might be restored. Just as Adam was broken with his own wife. Yet in Christ we might have fellowship with one another through the love that is given us in Christ. And that's our That's how we're able to do it practically. Well, how how are we to feel love for people who are unlovely? There's some people that uh because of their similarity to our personality, because of our station, or because of the circumstances, that it's very easy to love. They might be particularly winsome and have gifts from God. But what about those people who aren't lovely? Who aren't particularly winsome. How do we love them? How, as believers Do we show love for them? And John tells us how we might love and why we should love. Even in verse 16. We know love by this, that He, meaning Christ, laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. You see here, John doesn't just say, You should love your brethren, you should be polite to them, you should acknowledge that they are your brothers and not disown them. What does he say? You should lay down your life for the brethren. Because Christ laid down his life for his people. And as we understand our state, uh In Christ, as we understand what the gospel truly is, as we understand the sinfulness of sin, as opposed to those people who would say, oh, it's totally disconnected from spiritual things. Sin's not that big of a deal because we're concentrated on spiritual realities. But the reality is, material sins are a big spiritual deal. The Bible says that the wages of sin is death. And it's not just talking about a material death. Sin did bring death into the world, but it's talking about an everlasting Torturous death in hell. That is what our sins deserve. That is the threat of death that we are under in our Father Adam. And yet, Christ, who is God, who was with God from the beginning, and that means he was in paradise. He was with the Trinity, enshrouded in pure light. He became a man He was born into a world that was fallen, to a people who did not esteem him, but shunned him, who took our iniquities upon himself and suffered that those pains of hell, that everlasting torment for all of his elect was concentrated on Christ the Messiah As he died on the cross. And God the Father, as it were, turned his back on his son That we might have fellowship with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ, and with one another. And as John unpacks what it means to love our brethren, he says, how can the love of God be in anyone? Who would not love his brother after we have been loved so much? After Christ has given up more than we can ever imagine to save us from that which would exhaust us. entirely. How can we not also love our brethren? Our example is Christ. His self-sacrificial love. If we have known what that is, if we are in Christ, then we must necessarily Have a love for others, realizing that we have gone from death to life. When uh in the Beatitudes um Christ says, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Many commentators think that part of that meekness, part of that humility, and not thinking of ourselves, is realizing that we were dead. And now we're alive. And anything that we might gain over the level of death that we have deserved is gain, is gravy, is icing. Because we were dead. We were condemned to die in eternal death. And we have been given new life in this world, and the hope of everlasting life in the world to come And is as we look uh at what the Bible says about that that pearl of great price, that treasure, which is worth more than anyone can imagine. We should give everything that we have for it. Everything, including our love for one another. And John says, But whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him? Because we've been loved with such a great love. Because God has not spared his only son. But it's given him up that he who knew no sin, he who was innocent, who did nothing wrong, who fulfilled the law perfectly, That God gave him that he might become sin for us. That we who have transgressed God's law, who have rebelled against him in thought and word and deed over and over and over again. Yet God has given his spotless son that we might become the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Because we have been loved, let us love as Christ has loved us And as John says that we should not shut up our hearts against our brethren, so let us love openly, freely, abundantly, with all God has given us. As he says in verse, then the following verse, verse 18, little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and in truth. You know, as I stand before you expounding this text, I'm a hypocrite because I'm doing so in tongue, and yet as I look at my life, I see uh A deficiency in my deeds, a deficiency in my heart, in the truth of my love for the brethren And yet, as we look to Christ, not trusting in these things as works unto salvation, As we look to Christ for continual forgiveness of sins, for for his unmoved righteousness on our behalf. As we look to Christ and are broken again and again because of his love and because of our hatred, let us spur one another on to love and good deeds. Let us remind each other of the grace that is ours, of the reward, of the eternal inheritance that we have with God in heaven. And let us love one another. Let us manifest the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. And just by way of quick application, this is a great area to practice. And you know, we must acknowledge that as sinners and even redeemed sinners, that um as our sinful nature is still present, the fruits of the Spirit don't come naturally to us oftentimes. As we said, it's not easy for us to love just out of the goodness of our hearts, because our hearts are corrupt. But yet, as the Scripture tells us what the fruits of the Spirit are, as the Scripture unfolds the character of God and the love that was shown to us, let us practice the fruits of the Spirit. That we might be loving to our brethren, that we might be patient with one another, that we might be gentle with one another. That's a fruit of the Spirit that gets short shrifts. That we might be gentle with one another, that we might be kind to one another. And as Christ summarizes the uh the fruits of the Spirit in saying that we should love one another uh love each other as we would have we would do unto others As we have been loved. And children, do you realize that God calls you to love your brothers and your sisters, your parents, by showing your obedience to them, and even people outside your family, that God has called you to love them, to be kind to them, to be gentle with them. And fathers, as we lead our families, God has called us to be a model for them. To lead them in the way of love by showing them love ourselves, by being patient with our family, by being kind to them. At one point uh I think at the end of Colossians, as Paul is going through um uh talking to husbands and wives, he tells um husbands to love their wives so that their prayers may not be hindered. And, brothers, as we love one another, God is well pleased with us. And uh his love that he has shown for us is is made manifest. People can see it. It's one of those things that people notice, and we can see the Spirit of God at work in loving one another. But as we resist that spirit, as we don't love, as we give ourselves over to the remnants of our of our flesh. That hinders our relationship with God, that hinders our prayers, as it would be, before God But let us, as we see the great love of Christ on our behalf, as we see the sacrifice that He made. As we understand his eternal love for us, that which was from before the foundation of the world, which was from the beginning, and is now with us. So let us love one another. And lastly, and finally, love gives us assurance of faith. John, as he writes, he says We will know by this that we are of the truth, and will assure our heart before Him. By this he means by loving one another. As we love one another, we will know that we are of the truth. As God enables us more and more to love one another, those are some of the fruits of the Spirit, where we can see the fruit in other people's lives, and they can see it in our lives, and we will assure our hearts. before him. Now in verse 20, um he continues in it. And he says, In whatever our heart condemns us, uh Connected, and we will share our heart before him in whatever our heart condemns us. For God is greater than our heart and knows all things. And here he's talking about our sin, our lack of of obedience to his word and loving one another. And just as uh When we're young Christians especially, we tend to gauge our faith by how we're feeling. And when we are having a really good day, we think we're doing really well. And when we're having a really horrible day, we despair of our faith. And yet we know that the reality of our faith is not built upon our our emotions It's not built upon the day-to-day walk of our Christian life, but our faith is built upon an unshakable foundation. It's built upon three things. The work of Christ on our behalf. Who can add to that? Who can take away from it? No one The election of the Father from before the foundation of the world. Again, with all of our of our failings and our shortcomings, we cannot touch the election of the Father. And finally, the Spirit abiding in us. John says, as he wraps up in verse 24, we know by this that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us. By the election of the Father, by the work of the Son, by the presence of the Spirit, that is our assurance And love is a manifestation of those things. It's not a work so that we might attain that level, but it's a manifestation. As our nature has been changed, so the things that flow from our nature have changed. And we go from works of self-centeredness, of wickedness, to works of love and of righteousness, of obedience. And as God takes out our heart of stone, He gives us a heart of flesh, that we might feel love for one another, and that we might realize that God is at work within our hearts. Changing us, shaping us, molding us, that we might know him, and that we might love him and have fellowship with him and with one another. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for the great salvation that you have given us in your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, we thank you that even before the foundation of the world, that you have predestined the people to be drawn unto yourself. Lord, we thank you for such a great love that has given your only son for us, Lord, that we might uh receive his righteousness and that our sin might be carried and paid for by him. And Lord we do thank you so much for uh your spirit, Lord, that great counselor. Who abides in your people, who enables us to know the truth, who enables us to grow in our knowledge of the truth and to abide in the truth. Who preserves us in your truth, and who assures our hearts that when we have doubts, that when we are condemned by our hearts rightly for the sins that we have committed. Yet, Lord, we know that you are greater than our hearts, and that you know all things. And that you have drawn a people unto yourself for your great glory and for their good. And Lord, we thank you for this. Marvelous love that you have shown us and pray that you would help us to go and to do likewise. For your glory and for the good of your people. In Christ's name, Amen.