Behold, the Virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife, but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Here Matthew, as he often does, quotes from the Old Testament. Matthew is writing to the Jews to show and to prove from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. And we see that just as Joseph received the word from the angel and obeyed, so Matthew, as he relates this story, shows how Isaiah the prophet foretold he who would be born. who would be named Emmanuel, God with us. And even as uh Joseph received words, so let us turn to the word of God, as we have it in the scriptures. And we'll be continuing our series in 1 John. We'll be reading 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 through 12. And let's stand in reverence for God's holy word. And before we read, first John fourth verses seven through twelve, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word that has been revealed to us. Your word which testifies to your grace to men. Your word which testifies of the coming of your Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, of the great salvation that we have in him And Lord, your word which shows us who you are and what you would have us to do, how you would have us to live, how we may glorify and enjoy you. Lord, I do pray that you would grant us your grace now as we read your word and as we study it. Lord, I pray that you might be at work in our hearts and our minds, that you would be changing us, Lord, that you would be transforming us. and to new creatures in Jesus Christ. Amen. First John chapter 4, verses 7 through 12 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. By this the love of God was manifested in us, that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, so that we might live through him. And this is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has beheld God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. Thus ends the reading of God's holy and errant word. Please be seated. Which is the greatest commandment? There are many commands in the Scripture, and the law of God stretches from the Old Testament to the New Testament over thousands of pages. uh several books. And so as we think about the question, which is the greatest commandment, it's a difficult one, if not an impossible one, for us to answer. Some might be tempted to say, well, all commandments are equally valid. Others might say, well, there are some that might be greater than others, but we we can't know that. And yet, when this question was posed to Jesus Christ, the God man, he did not hesitate. But he said the greatest commandment is this, that we should love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our mind, with all our soul, and with all our strength. And he didn't stop there. And he said, And the second is like unto it, that we should love our neighbor as ourselves. And so as we are reading John's epistle As we are reading this defense against the false uh teaching of the docetists, those who deny the person and work of Christ. We come to a place where John seeks to apply what we have learned about who God is and what God has called us to do. And in a typical structure in Scripture, he tells us what God has done in the first chapters. He's been revealing who God is, that God is light. That God is a holy God. That's the picture we get in light. That Jesus Christ was both God and man, He that which was from the beginning, and that which we have seen and heard and our hands have handled. And even in this microcosm of a passage that we read this morning, God sets forth who God is. We get this great statement that God is love. And then John draws application out of that. This isn't the first time that John has talked about love. We saw it in chapter 2, verses 7 through 11, as he talked about The true light which has come into the world and which is already shining. John has talked about love in chapter 3 and verses 11 through 18. In conjunction with that eternal life which we have been given. And now, in this passage, we see that love is a part of God's nature. And just as John has been drawing parallel parallelisms between who God is and how he calls people to live, That because God is light, because he is holy, he calls his people to work walk in holiness. So here Because God is love, God calls his people to love one another and to walk in that love. And we see that because all love is from God, true believers are evident by the love of God being manifested in them and perfected in their lives. John first lays out the commandment, but we're going to take a step back and look at what he says about who God is, and then look at what John tells us to do as a result of that. We see that God is love. And love is not only one of God's activities, it is part of who he is. It's part of his nature, part of his character. It's not just one of many activities that God does, but it's something that pervades all of his nature. So uh When we read God is Love, it's a very famous statement of the Bible, but it's often a misused statement in the Bible that God is love does not infringe upon God's light. God's love does not affect his holiness. Another God-is statement that we read is in Hebrews chapter 12, we read that God is a consuming fire. And it's a picture of God's justice that as a fire tests metals and brings impurities to the surface. So God is a just God. He is a consuming fire. Now, how does that fit with God's love? They mesh together in his character so that when God judges, he judges lovingly. He judges according to the goodness of his character. And so as we examine God as love, as a good God, We should not let that infringe upon the other a aspects of his character. In fact, we should see the other aspects of his character in his love and how he operates and who he is and what he has done. And we see um as we look at the passage uh and we think about who God is, uh I always uh my mind drifts to the catechism, that great definition of God as a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable And it goes on to list all his his attributes. And yet, have you ever noticed that love is not in the list of attributes? Now the catechism is not inspired, but why didn't the the Westminster Divines uh include love in those list of attributes. They included uh uh infinite, eternal, and changeable in his in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. But where is love in that list? Well, the truth is that love is enclosed in God's goodness. And if we ask ourselves, what is love? It's goodness shown. And just as we say that God is love, we realize that God is a good God. And as we look at God's other attributes, that He's all-powerful, that He's all-knowing. Those would be terrible attributes indeed if God were not good, if God were not loving. And so as we come in And see what God says about Himself through His Word. We we learn that He's not only a just God, that He's not only a holy God, but He is a good God. God's nature is good. And we see from the scriptures also that God alone is good. When the rich ruler came to Jesus, he said, Good teacher. as a preface to his question about uh what he must do to uh inherit eternal life. And uh Jesus stopped him at at that statement and said, Why do you call me good? No one is good but God alone. And in the same way that only God is good, so only God is loving. Love is not something that God created, but it's something that God is, and something that God communicates to his people. And we see that just as God alone is good, so God alone is loving. And he alone loves truly. And he communicates that love to those uh he has drawn to himself. And so as John is uh trying to uh give uh these believers a picture of What those who know God look like. He turns to the subject of love and says that all love comes from a relationship with God. It's not just a knowledge of God. Remember, James in his epistle said that the demons know there is a God, and yet they tremble. That they're not saved by that knowledge. That n that knowledge does not affect them in a positive way, but they tremble at it. But those whom God has known in his Son Jesus Christ, those whom He has drawn to Himself, Because God is love, because God is loving, He communicates that attribute to them so that they love. Now, how does God do this? How does God communicate his love? How does God show his love for us? Well, there's many ways in the scriptures. One is just his creation. I'd encourage you to read Jonathan Edwards, has a great exposition on the creation of God and how God in creation manifested his glory in creating all things. And creating us as people. God manifests his love and his providence and his guiding of all things. And God manifests his love in giving us a purpose and creating man to be with him. And yet, as we see with the fall, man falling from his communion with God, man falling from that uh estate wherein God has created him. So we see God shows his love for his people, not only in who he is, but in what he does, in redeeming his people unto himself. And that's what John picks up here in this passage. That God shows his love by redeeming a people to himself. In verse 9, it says that by this the love of God was manifested in us, that God sent his only begotten Son into the world. That we might live through him. And that's really what uh the celebrations of of the season are all about. That God sent his son into the world. Imagine what a humiliation that is for an infinite, eternal, and unchangeable God, he who is in paradise, he who is perfection, to be born into a fallen world. To be born into a world that hates him. To be born into a situation where even as a child, kings are wiping out entire cities to try and kill this child. And yet God sent his son into the world that we might live through him, that we might have life. It says in verse 10, and this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Both of these are really talking about God sending Christ for atonement. And as we hit upon that word propitiation in verse 10, It's a good point to stop, and it's a difficult word, but it's an important word theologically to show us what God has done for us, how God has shown us his love. And so as we look at the word propitiation. Uh children, that that's a hard word even to pronounce. But if we think of synonyms or other words that might help us understand this word, um God sent his son to be an atonement. Another hard word, but an accurate one, is expiation. God sent his son to cleanse us from our sins and to give us the righteousness of Christ. This word is used a few times in the Bible, but we've seen it once in the Epistle of John in chapter 2, where it talked about Jesus Christ being our advocate, he who comes alongside us to help us. He himself being the propitiation for our sins. But it's also used in Hebrews chapter 9, and it's translated in the English mercy seat. And this is a reference back to the Old Testament. And uh as the writer of the Hebrews uh is describing the temple of the Old Testament and the the sacrificial system of the Old Testament He describes the outer part of the temple, and he gets the holy of holies, and that which is behind the veil, and as he describes the cherubim above in the presence of God, and uh the Ark of the Covenant. He comes to the climax and he talks about the mercy seat which is on top of the Ark of the Covenant. This was the place where the high priest, having made sacrifice, would splatter the blood. And just as uh there would be the the Shekinah glory cloud, the presence of God above the Ark of the Covenant. And in inside the Ark of the Covenant, we know that some of the things that were placed in there were the broken tablets of the Ten Commandments that Moses came down and smashed when he saw the people engaged in idolatry. Between the broken law and the presence of God was the mercy seat, splattered with blood to make atonement for the people. That though they have broken God's law, that though we all throughout time have sinned against God yet Through this propitiation, through this cleansing, we might have fellowship with God. And as we see here, as John writes in verse 10, This is love. In this is love. Here, John gives us a definition of love in theological terms. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. And uh the sacrificial system, um again, it it is a helpful illustration of what would happen, that uh the high priest would put his hands on the the pure sacrifice. thus transferring his sin to the animal. And uh so that that would be the atonement for his sin, because the animal would then be killed. But remember, the animal was to be one that was without blemish. There was to be a um a level of purity about that sacrifice. And that purity would be transferred in a sense to the high priest, that that then that with the sin gone, that would be the cleansing that would um That would enable a high priest then to enter the presence of God, but only once a year, and only with the shedding of blood on his behalf and on behalf of the people. So as we look to what God has done in sending his son, at this time of year we celebrate him as a child. But as he's saying, he was a child, but yet a king. A king who gathered his people, a king who fought for his people, a king who died for his people, who shed his blood, that we might be purified of our sins. He took our sins upon himself and died so that our sins might be atoned for. And through his righteousness, through his stripes, we are healed. This in this is love. God not only shows us his love by who he is and by what he has done in atoning our for our sins, but he doesn't stop there. He justifies us, he proclaims that we are righteous. And he washes us, and he gives us, as it were, pictured in the scriptures, raiments of white, symbolizing the purity that we have in Christ. That though our sins were as scarlet, yet he has washed them whiter than snow. And though uh we were in what the psalmist describes as a murky pit, a miry pit, falling in our sins, he has lifted us up. He has set our feet on a rock. He has given us a sure foundation. That is Jesus Christ our Lord. And he has adopted us. As we read in chapter 3, he has called us children of God. And that is what we are: children of the Most High. And he as children, he feeds us with the riches of food. He has given us every spiritual blessing that we need in Jesus Christ our Lord. And he prepares a place for us in heaven that we might Be with him unto all eternity, that in his love we might fulfill that purpose that he's created us for. To have fellowship with God and with one another. And so, as we see God's great love for us, as we see the fountain or the river that flows to us from God, His great love for us and His Son Jesus Christ in cleansing us from our sins. In saving us from death, and in saving us unto new life in this world and in the world to come. So He calls us in that spirit to love one another. God calls believers to love one another. And he says in verse 7 and 8, For love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. It might be stated logically in this way: everyone who knows God and is born of God loves. If we love, if we know God and are born of Him, therefore we should love. And if we call ourselves believers, we must pay attention to this command, to those who know God and who have been born of them, as we call ourselves children of God, as we gather in his name to seek to know God. You must see that that one of the marks of a Christian, one of the marks of those who have been forgiven for their sins, one of the marks of those who have been loved much. Is so to love. Even as God has communicated love to us in His Son Jesus Christ, so He calls us to love one another, to communicate that love to each other. And we see that all true love is connected to God. Only in Him um are we able to love It's he who gives us the desire to love, the desire to love one another, because we have been loved ourselves, even to the unlovely, even to those people who aren't uh popular, those who aren't esteemed in our eyes naturally or esteemed in the eyes of our culture, because we have been esteemed by God. When we deserved to be uh killed, when we deserve to be cast away, when we deserve to be punished with the full extent of punishment for our sins. God loved us and drew us to Himself. And so we ought to love even the unlovely. And our desire stems from God's love to us. God gives us not only the desire to love, but the ability to love. We have been made alive in Christ. And He has given us His Word to show us how much we uh have to be thankful for. How much we have been loved. And so he commands us and gives us the ability to love one another. And also we have A great capacity to love from God. But just as the scripture in searching out the love of God says it's beyond height and depth and breadth and width. That there's you can't measure it out. It's so large. So that that love that we've been loved with that is uh beyond the expanses of this world. So that is the capacity that we have to love one another. Because we have been loved with that great love. John in his typical fashion, lest he be misunderstood states this uh also negatively in verses and verse eight by saying, the one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. The picture there is that if you are connected with God, if you know God, if you have been born of God, then you will love. Because God is love. It's impossible to know God and not to love. It's impossible to be born of God and not to show love. The unbelievers are isolated from God, who is the only source of love, and so they are unable to love. They have no desire to do so. And they have no capacity because they do not know the love of God in Christ Jesus Now this uh this verse 8 is not saying um in a works-oriented way, if you go out there in love, then you'll be saved, and if you don't, then you're not saved. That's not what he's saying. He's talking to believers and saying that the fruit of the Spirit is love. And that if the Holy Spirit abides in us. If we are in Christ Jesus, then we will love because God is love and He has loved us with an everlasting love and drawn us to Himself in loving kindness. But the fruit of the unbeliever is not love, is an absence of love The hatred of the world is a common attribute of the unbeliever, as John had talked about in the last chapter. And so, the one who does not love does not know God. We see not only that God is love, and not only does God call us to love one another, but he says something interesting at the end of these verses. As the believers love one another, the love of God is perfected in them. You see this in verse 11. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has beheld God at any time. But if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. John says that no one has seen God at any time, and how many times of reading through the scriptures have we wished that we could see what Moses saw on the cleft of the rock? How many times have we wished to be Isaiah or Ezekiel and seeing this great vision of God coming with the cherubim and the seraphim and the voices crying out? How many times have we wished that we could be the Apostle John, who had a vision of things in heaven? And yet John acknowledges that no man has seen God, that we don't see him this way now on earth. But if we love one another, that God abides in us. And if we love one another, God's love is perfected in us. That as we love one another, as we relate to one another, as God has given us the ability to do, the capacity to do, and the desire to do. The love of God is manifested in us. It's present. You can see it. No, we can't see God. We can see God at work. And so often uh in our spiritual lives we don't we don't see God working in our lives. Um because uh much like if we pass something on a day-to-day basis, we might not notice changes Or we don't notice our own children growing because uh it's so gradual. And yet others as they look on, as we s look on at to other believers and how how they're living. Um who they are and how God is is perfecting his love in them. We can see God at work. If you've ever seen a hardened sinner, then repent of that sin and turn in purity to God. You've seen God at work Have you ever seen a hater of God, someone who doesn't like to talk about spiritual things, who uh doesn't honor the word of God, who doesn't want to go to church? Turn in humility to God and to begin to crave these things, to love these things, to be gentle, to exhibit the fruits of the Spirit Than you see God at work. And not even in things this dramatic. When you see someone that does something that costs them for no earthly reason or benefit, You've seen God at work teaching his people to love one another because they have been loved. When you see someone who is cheerful when they're sick or in dire circumstances, when you see someone who is trusting when all signs of a situation point to despair, you see God at work. When you see someone who is showing loving kindness towards someone who is unlovely for no benefit, for no reason, for no earthly reason, why are they doing that? Believers love one another because you have been loved. Because when we were unlovely, God loved us. Because while we were still sinners, God sent His Son that we might become the righteousness of God through His death, through His atonement for our sins. And through his glorious resurrection and ascension up into heaven, God has so loved us. So let us love one another because God is love, so that we might. uh have the the love of God perfected in us, that it might be a tangible thing. When Christ was praying for his church in uh John chapter 17, uh he prayed that uh That God might make believers one, that they might be unified, and that they might love one another as it were, that the world might see God in the church. And so, as John calls believers to love one another, he says again in verse 12: No one has beheld God at any time, but if we love one another, God abides in us. And his love is perfected in us. And we have a view of God at work in his people as they love one another. Well, as we seek to have application to this, let me just say uh briefly, fathers, heads of households. Love your family. Love your wives. Not just on your anniversary, not just on special times, but every day, and especially when things aren't going well. When there's no earthly reason for you to be satisfied with the state of your home. Love your wives that they might see God at work in your heart. Leave them In the way that they should go. Lead them in being a loving husband, being a loving father, so that they might see God at work in your heart. Wives, love your husbands, even when they're being poor leaders, even when they're not being kind as they ought. Love them that they might be one without a word, and that they might be humbled by that glimmer of God at work in your heart. And children, do you know that you're called to obey your parents out of love for them, and out of love for God? And that even when it's hard to obey them, even when you don't want to obey them, especially in those times, obey your parents. That you might glorify and enjoy God and His will for your lives. And as we gather together as a household of believers, let us love one another. Let us be truly a body of Christ. And as Paul described the church as a body with many gifts and many parts, let us not say when when one part is injured, that's the foot's problem. I'm a hand. I that's not my area. Let us h help one another, let us care for one another. Let us love one another, that the world might see that God is in us, and even unbelievers outside the church, those who, frankly, are oftentimes blasphemous in their conversation. Those who desire things that are worldly, those who are often self-centered in their mannerisms. Why should we interact with them? Why should we spend time with them? Because God, when we were still sinners, drew us to Himself. Let us love those who do not know God. And let us always be ready to give a reason for the hope that we have, for the love that we have. That they might see the goodness of God And for our good. In Christ's name. Amen. As we come to this time of uh of prayer, uh I'm gonna ask Marco Pika to come and And lead us in prayer both for those traveling during the holiday season and also just for time with with family and friends that uh at this time where the world's focus is towards uh cr Christmas and this holiday that uh that God would give us many opportunities to share Christ with those who do not know him and um and our relationship with family and friends. Mark, if you'll lead us and then I'll close this after a time of prayer. Father above, we do thank you for the season, for the uh the opportunity, Lord, to remember that you did enter this world and you took on human flesh. to to pay for your people and to make us your people. Lord, we we pray that as we enter into the season that you would make us more aware of these things, that you would make us more aware of these spiritual realities. Lord, give us grace to never forget them and set them aside because of the season, but rather help us to believe them more fervently and firmly because it is the season. And Lord, we we pray as we as we gather with other members of the family on this holiday that you would give us the grace to be Christ-like. That Lord, our deepest desire and hunger would be to reflect your nature, to reflect your love. to reflect your truthfulness, to reflect, Lord, uh righteousness in all that we say and do. We would pray, Lord, that you would give, Lord, those that we are with. who are unbelievers the grace to see you in us. And we pray, Lord, that you be pleased to turn hearts to yourself. We pray that you would soften them. And yet, Lord, those that would be angry, because they have sensed the aroma of God in us, we pray that that all that we would, Lord, uh respond rightly to that, that such anger We would seek to deflect, that we would seek to absorb, Lord, out of love for you. Give us grace, Lord, to be your people in those settings. Lord, we do look for your gracious hand upon us that we would also be, Lord, vehicles to remind people why this season is the way it is. Grant us, Lord, not to be caught up in sentimentalism, but rather continue to look to the core of why this is Christmas. Lord help us to see that and place that firmly in front of us. And we pray for your blessing upon our gatherings with friends and family in this season. Lord, be pleased to refresh us in our lives with you that we would reflect. the joy and love authentically. Give us grace, Lord, to be an authentic people before you and before others. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for the gift of your Son Jesus Christ. Lord, that in him we might have deliverance from our sins. And in him we might have um Peace with you and joy in the Holy Ghost. And Lord, that we might enjoy new life in this world, that we might be new creatures. And Lord, that we might live not in hatred of you, not in fear, but Lord in love for you and for one another. And Lord, I pray that you might grant us your grace to help us to realize how thankful we should be, how grateful to you for your great gift, how loving we should be to one another. Lord, show us how much we have been loved, that we might expand our ability to love, our desire to love, and our capacity to love, Lord And I pray that you might glorify yourself and your church, Lord, that as we love one another, the world might see that you are in us. And Lord, that we might strengthen and encourage one another for your glory and for the edification of your body. We do pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.