All right, I think we're going to get started. Alright, thanks for joining us tonight and uh thanks for all your prayers this weekend. I think it's been really a a blessing to everyone involved so far. And we trust that God will provide for us further. Um so Paul's gonna lead us in um you know giving us this uh congregational interim report Um I think it'll be helpful in the assignment to come and then um I think he'll give us more details on all this to um as it goes on. But if you have any questions, um you can use the the microphone here. Um and that way everyone um on the internet everywhere I can hear. So I think that's it. Thanks, Paul. Thank you. So one of the things they teach you in seminary when you're training to be a pastor is that if you have to throw a rock to hit the closest person to you, it demonstrates something either about your breath or s or or something. So anyhow, I did it. You know, we're s sitting back. That's good. David Coin. I love it. Um, well, I want to thank you for being here. Tonight, those of you who are in the room and for those of you joining us via Zoom, thank you very much. I just want to say it's been a really good four days for me. You know, it's been full days and a lot of uh conversations and a lot of things to think about, pray about, you know, work on, all that stuff. But I appreciate very much the privilege of working along and walking alongside you guys. So I've enjoyed it. Uh I will tell you that and um it's um it's it's really um a a privilege, you know, uh an honor to serve and the kingdom and to serve the body of Jesus Christ and your church is the one that I get to serve this week, you know. So praise God for that. I I want you to know how much I appreciate that and uh the privilege of it. So I'm going to pray for us in just a moment, but this is what we call an interim report. There's a lot of times at this juncture people want us to tell them a whole lot of other things, more detail or final report-oriented types of things. I'm not going to do any of that. I'm going to be interim report oriented. My hope in this is just to give you a sense of what I've heard, a sense of where I see you right now. And then a sense of how we move toward December. First week of December, I'll be back with you. That week I'm going to get to spend five days with you instead of four And we got a lot of work to do. I'll sketch that work for you here in just a few minutes so that you can know what it is. One of my goals in this is for you as a congregation, congregations are not always in phase two. You know, they don't do a lot with us in phase two. Sometimes they don't see us even. until Sunday, which is the fifth day of us being here. It's the last day of our work together. And so you may not see me in December until the sixth. on that Sunday. That would be normal, you know, uh for most folks, because we're doing a different type of work at that time than we've been doing this week. And uh again I'll outline that for you here in just a few moments. But the um if you if you if you put the first slide up, um the the nature of this word interim report is I'm I'm trying to stress that right now. Because it's a big deal to us that you understand I'm not trying to give a final report because we're not done. You know? Um that's the Sunday text. That's not the right slide deck. It's the one that says interim report and assessment. And did you have I thought you had that one up earlier. Maybe I'm the one that saw that and just thought that's normal. And um Let's make sure we have it here. There you go. Great. Perfect. The backgrounds and so forth are all identical between the two, so it's you know easy to eas easy to do that. Um But the interim report is interim, that's the focus. And then the second piece is the assignment. That's going to be the major thing I talk with you about tonight. And why. I'm going to give you, before I give you the assignment, and I have it, it's printed, I'll hand it out to you. For those of you who are in Zoom land, you can get a um um what is it called? An email with it attached. Brian has that and he'll send that out. But I want you to I want you to get it. I actually want you to do the assignment. That's what my appeal to you will be is to actually dive in and do it. And I'm going to walk you through it so that you understand what I'm asking you to do. And I will tell you, I'm not asking you to do anything that it takes, I know some of your scientists. And I've actually worked with rocket scientists before. And you know, I've said, but it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure this out was the kind of a comment that this guy raised his hand and he said, I am a rocket scientist. And I said, Oh good. So pretty cool. But anyhow, so so does that make sense what we're what we're doing tonight? Okay. Um so let me pray for us and then and then we'll dive in. So Lord, um first thank you for what it means that we have life. Um you are the giver of life. What it means that we have breath and we have faith Faith is a gift from you. That we have repentance. Repentance is a gift from you. We would not naturally trust you or naturally turn from our own sin. On our own. We never do that. You have to work in us and grace us and give us mercy in order for us to experience that. And we have, and we do. I thank you for the privilege of what it means to be in your church and to be Christians, to be part of the body of Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray as we talk about where we are in process right now, as we understand what's happening next, at least a sketch of it. And as we begin, as of today, we begin preparation for that work in December. I pray that you just give us a sense of your presence, confidence, and faith in you, that what we're doing is going to be not only helpful, but opportunity. Opportunity for the gospel to actually work. For what you're up to in each one of our lives, in our families, and in this congregation. As we seek to do that thing that we noted in the blessing on Sunday, that we get equipped in every good thing to do your will. Lord, your will is what we're after. Make that clear. Grant the grace of that as we work hard now, as we prepare well, as we stay focused where we need to focus. So Lord, give me the ability to communicate these things effectively Give each of us the ability to understand them effectively and then anoint them so that what you're up to here will be accomplished. I pray in the strong name of Christ our Lord. Amen. So the next slide just says interim report. And so I'm going to focus there and then a little bit later I'll take you to the assignment and walk you through that. Um I learned a number of years ago that when we're doing this work in the middle of the work, which is where we are right now, that a congregation of people including those who we've interviewed, some of you we've interviewed and some we haven't interviewed, um, but including those we've interviewed needs to understand where we are in process. I need to understand at least a sense of what what I'm seeing right now, what I think right now So I've learned to do two things in this early piece. One is to describe strengths that I see. A lot of times when conflict comes our way, and it could be personal conflict It can be marital, family, or congregational conflict. When conflict comes our way, we lose a little bit of confidence. You know, going, why am I experiencing that? Or why is this true of us? Or we that bad? You know? What is that about? And we forget The very things that God has given us and granted us, you know, like faith and repentance, the two things I just prayed about. I mean, I prayed about that because they're true, and I prayed about that with strategy, if you will, intent to say, remember. Remember why you have faith and remember why you are able to repent of your sin. And when you think about that text from Sunday, and bitterness actually taking away the ability to repent of sin, it ought to scare us, you know. And so we get into that scenario, and there are times when we lose confidence and we wonder, do we have strengths? And I want you to know I've seen a lot of strengths. A lot. I'll name two or three of them just so that you get a sense of what I what I see. Like one of the things that was really clear to me The Saturday before noon. I mean before noon I saw this, you know. But then all the way through, including each and every one of the individuals that I talked with, and its sincerity. There's a sincereness about you. It's a genuine sincerity. That's an amazing strength. Do you know when when others look at us and they don't see sincerity, what do they see? So you have it. I mean it's it's in you. It's obvious. And I genuinely appreciate that, you know? Sincerity about the nature of God. Sincerity about the nature of what God is up to inside your life and in your relationship. Sincerity about the health of the local church and about your participation in the local church. Sincerity about gaining God's will for you as you move forward from here. Sincerity about all of those things. I mean, one of those things is Desire for reconciliation. You sincerely want reconciliation to take place with you and others and with among others and in your congregation. That's wonderful. That's a strength. I will tell you there's times when I work with the church I can't say that to them. You know? And I can say it to you. It's a strength. No strength you have is knowledge. You are knowledgeable people. It was not hard for me to recognize that. Not only because you knew some of the things that I was going to talk about, and I know you've been taught in those areas, and some of you have read Ken Sandy's book or you've been through small group series or you know those kinds of studies and that kind of stuff, I get it. But that's really good. There's a lot of churches I walked into, you know, and I say, you know, have you read The Peacemaker? It's one of our questions on the intake form. You might remember that from the assessment time. Have you read The Peacemaker? And they go, I don't think I've ever heard of that book. They don't know those truths. You know? They may have general knowledge of them, but not the kind of knowledge that you have. You know, you have a deeper knowledge of it. It's good. That creates a platform upon which we can work. You know, it's powerful, you know. And then the third one, um this is probably the one that if I'd only named one, I would have named this one. I mean, I think you have, of the churches I've worked with, you have one of the best senses toward and of and desire for your ability to glorify God. You have one of the best senses of that that I've seen in local churches. You want to glorify God. Man, I I I you know you can't you can't teach that, you know. Well you can teach the concept, but you can't infuse that into the life of a person who says, I want to glorify God no matter what it means. I want to glorify God no matter the outcome. I want to glorify God even if I lose. You know, some of us in our individual meetings this week, we quoted that passage in 1 Corinthians 6 where the Apostle Paul says, why not rather be defrauded? When I taught that passage as a as a pastor, the title of my message on that passage was Choose to Lose. There's a reason to lose at times. Not win. If I'm committed to winning, I won't be committed to the will of God. I won't be committed to the glory of God. I'll be committed to my outcome I know what a win is. I can define a win. I can tell you what a win is. I'm committed to that. And I'm not saying that I'm not saying you don't want to win. I'm not saying you're not committed to a particular outcome. But I am saying there's this underlying sense that the will that the glory of God is more important. than all of that, you know. That's that's really good. Honestly, uh you know I said it to you on Saturday, but I don't believe I can help a person who isn't committed to glorifying God. I don't I don't believe I can. I don't give up, don't get me wrong. I don't give up. But I test and I bring and I challenge and I encourage and I, you know, I don't force. And I say, so if God wanted something different than you wanted, would that be okay with you? That'll be okay, yeah. And some of you are nodding right now, yes, it would be. And I see that in you, you know Now I know it gets challenged because here, and so strengths, you know, I see a lot of strengths. There's three. Now I want to talk about not weakness. I don't call it weakness. I don't even believe it's weakness. I think it's a challenge. You have a challenge. And I'll just read you what I wrote. It's really simple, and then I'll comment on it. But the challenge You tend to stay focused on the position on the issue. That's your tendency. An issue comes up, you know what the your position is on it, and that's what you talk about. You stay focused on it. When someone asks you about it, I I would ask you questions, and some of you just went straight to the position on the issue. And that limits your ability. Here's the reason it's a challenge. It limits your ability to get to your own heart, to get underneath the issue itself and get to your heart. And you get underneath the issue itself to discover what the Philippians chapter 2 verse 4 interests are. That you might have common interests with that person that is your opponent right now. Or they're on the other side of, you're in an unreconciled relationship. And when we stay positioned focused on the issues, it limits our ability. It may eclipse our ability. Many people just don't even think about What's going on inside their own heart by way of what's their log or or idolatry or where how did they contribute? You know, and like one of the most natural ways that we contribute to conflict. is when we say something to the other person and we expect them to hear exactly what we said, know the intent of what we said, and believe that they know what we said. And we don't even test it. You know? We don't even expect it. And that's what issue position focus does. I mean, I know what the truth is. That's how we say it. I know what this is about. This is what it is. Just listen, you'll agree. You know? And that kind of focus keeps us from diving to the level of the heart. We some of us, you know, don't even see the need to do it Or when I ask, how are you doing it? Have it started yet. It's not there. What needs to happen is something else. And I go, no, no, no, no, no. It doesn't. You know, when you have a position on the issue, especially in relational terms, it means there's a speck in your brother's eye. And as soon as you see the speck in your brother's eye or in your sister's eye, you're hypocritical if you're not diving to the level of your log. That's what Jesus said. And then the means by which we do it, you know, progression of an idol is our means by which we do it, you know, follow that path that we talked about on Saturday. I mean, learn to do that, but when I stay positioned on the issue, and that's my focus, I don't go there. I don't even have time. Sometimes I don't have the energy to go there. And I'll tell you, it takes focus, it takes time, it takes energy to actually get to the level to where you see down here. And God has to do something for you and in you for you to be able to see it or you'll never see it anyhow. That's why, you know, this whole fist over the head thing, that's why some people will say, I do not believe it's there. I don't see it. Well, what's so unusual about that? You know, commonly we would call it blind spots. You know, if you talk about it by way of a of of um You know, dynamics, if we say it's a perspective, my perspective doesn't allow me to see it. You know, my view doesn't include that. Like my view right now has two open doors and a clock at the back of this room. And your view doesn't. They're different. And I don't have that view that you have. I have that view. And it limits me. Is when we stay issue position focused. We get limited and we don't dive to the heart. And when you deal with the Philippians 2 thing, I mean if you don't understand the interest of the other person and godly interests, what are they really interested in? They may be common interests, they may be common you know, um uh um complementary interests, not the same, but complementary, or they may be contrasting interests. They don't even seem you can't even figure out how you would do them both. You know, but if you don't understand the interest of that other person, don't know what their interests are, then you can't serve those interests, and you're commanded To do so in Philippians 2. 4. Look out for your personal interests, but don't just look out for your own interests, but also the interests of others. So you have to be able to name that interest. And if we stay issue position focused, we just don't go there. We don't find the time to, the energy to, all that stuff. And it's not what we're after, because we're focused there, and the change of focus has to take place. In preparation, that's what we're attempting to do. That's why it's personal preparation. We're attempting to help people move from that focus of issue position. I go, you know, I mean quite frankly, if you guys were going to solve the issues that you have by talking about your position on the issue and making a case for the defense of your position on the issue, if you were going to resolve those issues by that means, you would have already done it. It's not going to resolve. All it does is keep me from diving deeper. All it does is keep the other person seeing us in disagreement Because they don't see the same thing. I'm telling you, I see two doors that are open and a clock. You don't. You see whatever I don't even know what's behind me. Now remember, don't get me wrong, not quite losing my cognitive Just you know, abilities yet, hopefully. But I don't see it. It's not mine. Does that make sense? So this is a challenge, and it's a challenge for all of us in conflict, honestly. It's a difficulty. And so interim report Those are the things that I see. I am encouraged. I I think there's a way to get past the reason I'm talking about this particular challenge is because I believe this challenge has to change. That tendency to stay position focused on the issues has to change. Or how I don't know if you're going to make much progress. Now because you're sincere and because you're knowledgeable and because you want to glorify God, I believe you will. I believe you will. And and the assignments I'm going to give are going to help you do that. I think. Okay? So when I come back, we're going to do three or four things in that week. Some of those things you will not be part of. Some of you will be part of those. But the first thing that we do when we come back is what we call an application workshop. It's three hours long. And we take the principles that we taught this weekend. We take a case study. We read the case study. And then we do table exercises applying one of those principles to that case study. There's three main characters in the case study, and each table will choose one of those characters and apply at least two of the principles that we talked about to that character in the case study. And it's a way to learn how to handle those principles in a way that you are discovering what's going on inside the heart of that person. How do you get underneath? What does that look like in me? That application workshop is really important. Matter of fact, we started doing it about 10 years ago. Two of our conciliators went to, I think it was Hong Kong Pretty sure it was Hong Kong. Working with a Christian school, it was an expat uh expat school, so it was all English-speaking people, people from three different continents, by the way, but nonetheless English-speaking And so their board was in conflict, and the two ladies that were going to go do that work, both attorneys, by the way, so they're really s you know bright people, you know, uh articulate people. And people who know how to form things, you know, know how to know how to progress and process process through things. And they just said, when they were when they were praying about and thinking about that, they said, we need to help them get their arms around how they do this. And so that the first time that they actually apply that principle isn't to themselves or to the person that they're at odds with right now. Not the best time to for that to be, you know, the first time you deal with it to be that person. And so we created this case study. One of our conciliators, she lives in California, names Kristen. She wrote the case study, and it is really, really designed well. It's a well-designed you know, case study. And it's it's helpful because it's so simple and yet not simplistic And so the ability to dive underneath it is there. And so we do that. And it changes things. I mean, we're we're told by people the most important thing you did for us in this whole conciliation process. was the application workshop. We're told about that. I mean it surprised us, you know, that we were told that. So we started doing it because of that one thing. I started doing it in churches and I've never stopped. Never stopped. Just really, really helpful, really impactful. The second thing that we do when we come back is what we call premediation coaching. There will be some people There will be some people who we who are mediation parties, and we will sit down and spend an hour and a half with them. taking next steps in preparation in how they get to uh effectively walk into the room and share their issue with people. Sometimes we don't know how to say a hard thing. We have a hard thing to say, but we don't know how to say it. So in that pre-mediation coaching, we actually have a four-step process that we share with the person. We uh we work walk through it with one of their issues, then they go home that day and they put that issue in play through those four steps. so that when they walk into the mediation room, they're prepared to share their issue in a more effective manner. It streamlines it, it lessens the amount of time it takes to have discussion or to get the issue in play. And it brings it gets us to the point, gets us to the point quickly. So those are the kinds of helps we're trying. We're trying to help that person get ready to effectively be in the mediation work that we do. Now mediations we're probably going to do five. I can name more. I can certainly name eight, but we will probably have time to do five, and I'm I'm still working through the structure of that. So um not sure exactly yet structure-wise how that's going to work out, but but uh the mediations would take place then On that Sunday, on Sunday morning, we're going to have an opportunity to report. Now, I will be able to report to you what happened during the week and what process was and you know, those kinds of things. My prayer is that God will work in those mediations so that the mediation parties will stand up and report and share what happened. That's my prayer We can't force that because mediations are private conversations. Did you know that? Mediations are private conversations. And the only thing that can be shared out of the mediation is what the parties to the mediation agree to share. So the last piece of a mediation we ask the question, what's reportable and to whom? Now when they have a husband or wife at home, we know they're going to go home and talk to their husband or wife. So we talk about how do you do that? What can you do When there's a congregation that might need to be reported, I simply ask the question, do you believe reporting to the congregation is important? And when they say yes, then we want them to stand up and have that report. Now we help them do that. There's different ways we do it. I won't go into those details because there's Too many of them to talk about right now, and they're not germane to this, because all I'm trying to do is give you a sketch of that week. But my hope is that you hear on that Sunday substantive things so you know how this went. That's my hope. I just can't guarantee it because mediation parties have total control of that. And there's times when they don't share things. And they don't have to. And quite frankly, they shouldn't. Because it's theirs. You know? Remember that little owner? Um steward metaphor that I've talked with you about on what confidentiality is. I don't own what happened in the mediation. I observed it, I listened to it, I helped mediate it, I helped process through it, but I don't own it. They own it. So they have to decide who hears it and how. And mediation parties have to agree to that by by definition. They have to agree to that. So, but that report, that opportunity to do that is I I'm praying that God graces us and that he works. This is why preparation is so important and why your role, which I'll talk about here in a moment, your role in all of this is so important. Even when you're not a mediation party, you have a role, and there's a particular thing I want you to do, and I'll make a case for that here in a few minutes, and then I'll ask you, will you do it? But your role in this is a big deal, you know? So because God has to work, and and and hopefully we see some really wonderful things. Um, can't guarantee it. You know, don't know what's gonna happen. How could I, right? Not a soothsayer I don't know how to predict the future. I don't know how to read anybody's mind. I don't even want to, you know. All of that. I don't even know what God's going to do in it. You know, I've watched people in the mediation process harden their heart. They get harder and harder and harder. And it it's just it's a it's scary I mean the hardening of the heart is resistance to God. And they're going there. They're doing that. Not today if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. As in the day of provocation. In other words, soften your heart. Don't have a heart of stone, have a heart of flesh is one of the ways the scripture speaks to it, right? I mean, that's what he wants. He wants a sensitive heart. He wants a responsive heart. And when we get there, I mean that's the hope. But we have to pray for that. We have to prepare for that. We have to work hard for that. We have to say, God, how do you just think about it now? That strength you have. Focus on glorifying God. Which would glorify God more? This is not a hard question, right? Which will glorify God more? You have a hard heart or a softened heart? But we have to pray because you don't know. And especially when when we get committed to something other than God's will or God's glory or God's outcome. When we get asked that question, if God wanted something different, would that be okay with you? And the person says no. I asked that to a man, this is wow, 16 years ago. One of the first, it was the first court-ordered mediation that we did in Florida. I asked a man who had been an elder for 42 years. Now that was longer than I had been a Christian at that time. You know, 42 years an elder. And I said, you know, sir, I mean I was trying to be respectful and all, you know. I said, sir, what if God wanted something different than you just described? You know I mean, what if he really made that clear? Other people think that's true. What if that were true? I mean, would that be okay with you? I mean, I was asking him that question. You know what he said to me? He said, yeah, that'd be okay as long as God wants what I want. Do you realize how hard your heart has to get to make that kind of statement? I mean it doesn't even make sense, does it? Like no. So process wise uh that's process, okay? Um Now I don't know if you I know there was one question a little bit earlier and I asked I I asked for a pause. I don't know if you have a question about something I said. Um I don't want to go into the weeds a lot because I want to get to our next thing. But if you have a if you have a question about something that wasn't clear, you can step to the microphone and ask that question, okay? Right to shout. Oh there is well they want the other people to be able to hear it and they're recording this, so if someone's not here they will be able to hear this if they desire to. So the workshop, is that a whole congregation thing? Is that a subset of congregation? Great question. It's designed for mediation parties. We want all the mediation parties to be in it, but we do not personally mind if it gets broader than that. And we invite other leaders, other people. I mean for for us, the room can be as big as you want it to be. Because well, I mean we're not mediated in that room, and we're not going to talk about what your issues are or identify who's in what mediation. I mean you won't hear me tell you who's in which mediation. You won't hear me, I don't have the privilege of doing that. I mean they may stand up and say we mediated together. Okay, that's theirs, you know? But yeah, but so yeah. Okay, any other questions about what we've done so far? Okay, so go to the next slide. The basis for the assessment. Before I share the assessment with the assignment with you, I want to share with you the basis. Now go to the next slide. Here's the Old Testament Now, this is Proverbs. It's a principle. It's a wisdom principle. It is hundreds and hundreds of years before the New Testament, you know? And it's the same thing, isn't it? As in water face reflects face, so the heart of man reflects the man. Your heart is who you are. Your heart is who you are. And if you don't dive to the level of the heart and understand what that heart looks like, you don't know yourself. And the deeper you can dive, and the more often you can dive, and the more elements of how you understand your own heart, the better you will know yourself. And unfortunately, because of how we live Christendom in America, we don't go there very often We know about it, but we don't go there very often. We actually recognize that face reflects faith, so the heart of man reflects the man. We don't necessarily believe that And we defend it by saying, I didn't intend. I didn't intend for that to happen. I didn't intend you to think that way or you respond that way. You know, we go to the defense. of what we intended or didn't intend, you know? Instead of just going, hmm, that was me. That was my heart. And so according to Proverbs 27, 19, that is me. What my heart looks like is me. And I know that is scary. Especially when you think about Jeremiah and the heart is deceitfully wicked. You know? I mean, wow. And the the challenge of Ephesians 4 of putting off and putting on, you know Put off the old man, put on the new man. You know? I mean it's hard. Galatians 5 and the challenge of the flesh I mean it's amazing. So I just want to give you a picture of it. And you've probably seen this picture before. So go to the next slide. Just one click, please. And so here is this iceberg, right? And there it is. We look at that and we go, Wow. You know, stay away from that baby, right? Even if you're in the Titanic. Maybe especially if you're in the Titanic. Stay away from that baby because there's something else happening. And You have to look beyond the obvious. When we look at our own lives, when we think about what we are going through in life, I mean we know how to do how to describe ourselves. That's what we think And we'll tell you how we see ourselves and how we describe and why and what the defense of all that is. And we're talking on the top of the water. You've got to see beyond it. So click one more time and just look at that. There's more underneath than there is above. And it's not just true of an iceberg. It's true of me and you. That's why God deals with the heart. That's why he's committed to deal with the heart. That's why he commands to get to the heart. That's why practical humility is understanding that other person's interest and serving that interest just as passionately as you serve your own interest. And if you're not doing that, you're missing the point of why Jesus came into this world, because he's our example of that very thing. I mean, the power of it is amazing. And we we just think, uh, oh, I'm okay. That's what the world thinks. They even wrote a book called that, right? It's not us. We have to die there. We have to go there. And just look at that picture. It's really kind of interesting because you can go down and then go under it, and you still are not at the bottom of it. I mean, it's got contours inside of it. The heart is deceitfully wicked. Who can know it? I mean, how do you get there? You know, you don't get there on your own. You get there because of the grace of God and the work of God. What he's up to inside of your life and what he's doing inside of me and all I mean that's why you g that's how you get there. So what's the means by which you get there? Now you know what I'm about to say. You already know we talked about it before, as a matter of fact, and I'm going to talk about it again. I do not mind repeating myself at all. Because I'm not trying to teach you something right now or tell you something right now. I'm asking you to apply. So go to the next slide. And here it is. It's in that personal exhortation in Hebrews chapter 4, where the apostle writes, and he says, strive to enter that rest. There's a Another translation is that use the word diligence for that word strive. Be diligent. I think diligence, striving for, is the right item, so that no one may fall. Do you realize that that means that you could? You could fall. Some of us don't believe we will because we've been walking with Christ a long time. I mean, the day I gave my life to Christ, September the 8th, 1969, I was transformed. I gave my, I mean, I It wasn't just a general knowledge that I had at that time. I knew that I wasn't just receiving a Savior and the forgiveness of my sin, but I was accepting the Lordship of Jesus Christ in my life. Day one, I knew that. And I can fall. And it's scary. It is scary how Christians fall. And sometimes we we and honestly, we always fall in our heart before we fall in public. It always is preceded. That's one of the reasons why getting and expressing that diligence is so important. And the writer of Hebrews is trying to say so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. And he's reflecting back to chapter 3 and the story of the children of Israel In the book of Hebrews, this is chapter 4. He doesn't want you to go down the same path where they hardened their heart. And I'll tell you, I can fight over things that I believe, and I believe I'm right about. And miss God's grace, and miss his, miss, I mean, miss, you know. So what's the means by which it's the word of God. So I have to get into the Word of God so that the Word of God gets into me. It's not just me getting into it, that's fair, but getting the Word of God into me so that it can discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart, because only it does that. You can't discern the thoughts and intentions of your own heart. Yeah? I mean, honestly, I think I know myself pretty well. You know, I do. I think I know myself pretty well. But I do not know my own heart. And when I say, man, I know myself, I am deceived. Who can know it It's a rhetorical question, right? Who can know it? It means no one. You can't. And the things of God are spiritually appro you know assessed, right? This is 1 Corinthians 1. It's really fundamental. It's foundational Christianity. I get it. It's foundational Christianity. But so often we think we're in that position to know the thoughts and intentions of our own heart. And that's why we end up using that word, I didn't intend, that statement, I didn't intend that. And it's like a defense, like now it's okay because I didn't intend it. It's still not okay. Because it's what you did, or it's what the person experienced, you know? I told a couple of you I had a staff guy who ended up taking my place in the church that I was a pastor of and uh you know about two years before that, didn't know it was going to be two more years, but about two years before that We were getting ready to hand the baton to him, and man, there was a real issue that popped up in it, you know, and we dealt with that issue and dealt with it really effectively. But in the middle of that He looked at me, you know, I've s I you know, he I I asked him to respond to me. Now I was his mentor. He called me his mentor. I was his boss. You know, I had total control over I mean I did, I had total control. I could have fired him in a heartbeat, you know. Um just not doing something I asked to do, you know, asking to do. I I had that kind of control, you know. And I s you know, I asked him to do something, he didn't do it, and I I was saying, why didn't you do it? You know. And then he talked about me after that. Something that I did that pulled out of him a sense of fear. It was amazingly powerful fear. because of how harsh I was toward him. Now if you asked me, had I treated him harshly, I would say, no, I don't think I did But he experienced harshness at my hands, and I had to accept that what I did was received harsh as harsh. So the only way he would see that is that I treated him harshly Does that make sense? So I learned from him that my intent was not to treat him harshly, but he was treated harshly, so I had to own that I treated him harshly. And I did. You know, that's the process. I mean that's that engagement with what God is up to inside of us so that we can get to the place to where we understand the thoughts and intentions of our own heart. I mean, because honestly I don't believe I treated him harshly. But did I treat him in a way that I should not have treated him? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It was disrespectful. That alone is enough, you know. And I wanted something. And my idolatry, and it was what I wanted. I wanted it way too much, and I wanted it for him, and I required it of him. And if you're not doing this, you think you're getting the baton? Not a chance. I have total control over who's going to take my place. I did. Does that make sense? But without God's work in me, I would never see that. Without the scripture taking me to the place to where I can see my heart differently than I presently see it, I would never see it. Never, never see it. That's the work that has to get done. And that's the work that I want folks to do here. You know? Go to the next slide for me. So there's an assignment that I'm going to hand out to you here in a second. Those of you who are in Zoom land will get a word document of this via email. But I'm going to hand it out. It's based around Colossians chapter 3. And I'm going to take you through it. I will take you through one section of it. You'll see it. It's not hard. Honestly, it's really simple. There's a biblical part to it where I'm going to ask you to read the book of Colossians, and particularly chapter 3. There's a section of Colossians chapter 3 I'm going to ask you to meditate on every day. So you read it every day. The text that we pull out from it, I want to ask you to meditate on it every day. That's Joshua chapter one type of meditation. Okay And then I'm going to ask you to pray. You know, think about what does that do for what does that mean to you. There's questions inside of it for that you can jot down answers to and so forth. But pray between you and God. And then there's interactive actions. that I'm going to ask you to take. And sometimes it can just be you and one other person where that person prays for you or you pray for them or sometimes it's you doing what the text, whatever that part, that daily part. of Colossians 3 is saying, I'm going to ask you to apply that specific part of Colossians 3 and then do it yourself and then apply it together with someone else. Okay? So it's not a hard assignment, honestly, but it's an assignment that I want you to to grasp and understand. So if I could have a little bit of help and just hand these out and as we um Yeah, great, thank you. Thank you. Um as you as you get it, you'll note that the first two pages is a letter from me. And basically the letter is setting into context where we are in our process right now and why I'm asking you to do this assignment. So I want to give attention to that right now and tell you one element of this before we look at the assignment itself. When you get it, I want you to write a word down. It's in the letter, but I want you just to write this word down on the top of one of the pages or somewhere where it's prominent and you can see it. And it's the word refocus. Refocus. Thank you. One of the things that we know in conflict situations is that my focus needs to change. I'm focused on one thing, maybe issue position focus, like we talked about earlier, and it needs to change to something else. And I'm going to ask you to do that. I want to ask you to refocus. And I'll tell you why in just a second, but let me give you another example of what refocus is. One of the things that I do not want, and I'm asking you as the congregation of the church. to not do, not participate in, just not do. What I do not want is any issue that you know of that's gone on over the past number of months and weeks here at the church in the lives and relationships. That and maybe issue that you even have with someone else. Maybe you're the one that has the issue with the other person. I don't want you just talking about those issues and describing why they're true and defending why the I don't want you to do that anymore. I want you to refocus. And all I want you to refocus on is Colossians chapter 3 and the specific elements inside of Colossians chapter 3. You know, um, as you think, as you as you think within yourself, so you are, you know, it's one of those kind of things. I've become what I think. I mean, honestly, um I I think that's true, but I also think that how I think, and I've got to be careful, like like Romans 12, 3, um, not to think more highly of myself than I ought to think. But to think so as to have sound judgment. I mean how I think is very important, okay? But it's kind of like we end up getting ourselves in that position where we say, but I believe this. This is my faith. This is my belief. So since this is my belief, I'm good. So here's my point. I don't think what you th what you believe is that important. I think what you do demonstrates what you actually believe. So when we gossip, when we talk about someone else's problem and they're not present, When we talk about the issue and we're just, you know, it just gets worse, it makes us more anxious, or it makes us more tense, or it's just part of the problem. We're just expanding the problem When you do that, you got the wrong focus. And that behavior has to change. And I'm asking you to change it. Now, you can change it 400 ways, I guess, but what I'm asking you to do is a common way That all of you as a congregation would be reading Colossians chapter 3 and participating in actions by way of reading, meditation, prayer, and in an interactive kind of thing with each other so that you can actually refocus. Now before I show you that part of the assignment or one of the parts of the assignment so that you get the picture of this, I want I want to tell you one more reason. People who are going to be in mediations in in December when we when I come back and when we do the mediation work, they're getting a different assignment. And I will tell you, their assignment is a whole lot more complex than this one. It's harder than this one. And they've got a lot of work to do. So what I don't want them is to get distracted off of that preparation assignment that I will give them. And all of a sudden have to be defending something that they did or said or walking back through an issue that happened last month or two months ago or whenever it was. I don't want that to happen. I want there to be a refocus for you as a congregation on this assignment, to live this assignment out, to work through this assignment, just let it become something that guides you and how you communicate with each other. It's just one thing. I mean it's just not it doesn't have to be the only thing you do, but do it. And and it's a common one, so all of you as a congregation would be doing it together. So now you know what's happening among you and you don't have to worry about what's happening among you with other people because they're all doing the assignment. And the benefit, a is that it gives the mediation parties the opportunity to actually prepare for that mediation conversation. I won't work with an unprepared person If a person won't prepare, I say, tell me now, don't tell me later. That that's that's real. Because if God doesn't work and if they're not really engaging God over their heart and getting underneath, you know, down to the bottom part of that iceberg, I mean we're we're kidding ourselves to think we're going to make progress in a mediation. I've watched people do that that way and it's just disastrous. I don't want to be part of that You know, I want to see something where the grace of God actually stamps it and what God can only do is actually being experienced in the life of that person. And too many times, when we first started doing this work, we didn't give assignments like this years ago. And we would come back and, you know, uh a pastor, for example, would uh or an elder, it happened both ways by the way, lay elders as well as uh vo vocational elders. would would come back and I say, So how'd preparation go? And we ask, you know. How'd preparation go? And he says, Well, it went okay, but You know, we had to have this meeting the other day because of the issues came back up and people were asking questions. So we had this congregational meeting, and it just zapped me, all my energy was gone, and so I didn't really do the assignment for two days. I go, please don't do that. Please don't do that. You know? That's what I'm asking for. Now in a few minutes, once I show you one part of the assignment, then you'll get a sense, I'm going to ask you, will you do this assignment? And when I ask you that question, will you do this assignment? Those of you who are in the room, I want you to verbally answer the question. I want to hear it, okay? And you can say no. Honestly, you can say no. But I just want you to answer the question. You at home, just answer the question to the screen. I'm good with that You know? Um, but I'm going to ask you if you will. And it's a willingness question. Does that make sense? Okay. Now, from the beginning, and these pages aren't numbered, go into the fifth page, I think it is. At the top of the page, you'll see assignment for November 18 through 23. Now you'll notice that each one of the sections of the assignment has a set of dates. Those are the dates. I want you to do that particular piece. So on November the 28th, you'll read Colossians each morning. You'll read Colossians each night. By the way. I personally believe that Christians today have lost the spiritual discipline of reading the scripture. Excuse me. I really wasn't trying to get choked up or cry right then. We've lost the spiritual discipline of reading the scripture the way it was written. And epistles were written meaning to be read at one time. I mean, you should read the first four days of this. I'm asking you to read all four chapters of Colossians, all four of those days. Just read it over and over and over and over again. And then after that, it's just Colossians 3. Okay, so it's a little simpler. I started doing this. I was trained to do this, by the way, by my pastor that I when I became a Christian, you know, his name was Peter Lord. I don't know if you've ever heard of him or not, but he wrote a bunch of stuff on prayer. meditation and so forth, scriptural meditation. And um but anyhow he taught us a process to do that where we read and read and read and read and read. When I started s reading over and over again, like the book of James I read the book of James over and over and over again. When I got to the 50th reading, I started understanding the book of James. Now I had translated it from the Greek. I had preached all the way through it. I mean, I know a lot, but the reading over and over and over and over again, just reading it, letting it say what it says. Not trying to study, not trying to interpret, just reading it, let it saturate the mind, saturate the soul. There's there's that's a huge deal. When I got to the hundredth reading of James, I could tell you what it said. But before that, I would have told you parts. I didn't see the themes inside of James. I didn't see the pathway inside of James that I see now. It's huge. Hebrews the same thing. I know it's 13 chapters long, but when you do Hebrews, if you do that, you know, you can do it differently, but if you if you do the whole 13, it takes a while. You know, but I'll tell you, it is a valuable journey. We need to learn it. So this is a spiritual discipline I'm asking you to do by reading it. Not just read it to get it read. You know. Read it and you say, what'd you read? Well, I don't know. I wasn't even thinking about it. I just have to read it. No, no, no, no, no, no. Read it and read it and read it and read it and read it and watch Bappa Joe Meditation, like Colossians 3, 12 through 17, that's the part. Write it on a piece of paper or put it in your electronic You know, um uh notes and take it with you so that you can actually meditate on those verses, just churn them over and over. It's a Joshua 1. 8 kind of churning. That's what that meditative word in Joshua 1. 8 says. It's almost like God was saying to Joshua, you know Joshua, you can live in the wilderness. without meditating on my law day morning and night, day and night. But you can't go into the promised land This is an essential for the promised land. And it's meditation, and we've lost that. We've lost it. It needs to be recaptured. So part of this is a hope that that would start happening for you. Okay? Now look at the prayer, the personal prayer. Focus on Colossians 3, 12 and 13. And then for a day or whatever, you'll do verse 12. And you know, reflecting on 3. 12, make a list of the ways you demonstrate, think about yourself, you demonstrate the five qualities listed in verse 12, which are compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience. Then make a list of three or four people with whom you have a hard time demonstrating those five characteristics. You know, so it's a real type of interactive kind of thing for you. Then the interaction with another person. Pray with someone about how you might better demonstrate these character traits to others, especially those with whom you have difficulty time doing so. That's application. Well, you know that. It's not hard, you know. You know that, but you have to actually do it. And then verse 13, reflecting on Colossians 3. 13, make a list of those. against whom you have a complaint. That's what verse 13 is about. Then list reasons why you should do what verse 13 says. Bear with them and forgive them. Ask yourself why this might be a challenge for you. And then with someone else, ask someone to pray for you, asking God to change your heart to one that is more like his, forgiving and patient. with others because that's who he is. Does that make sense? So it's not a hard assignment. It's just a specific assignment. It's one way and in and all through this assignment. Every verse in Colossians 3. 16, you'll apply like that. You'll do something with like that. So you read it, you meditate on it, you pray. You you take an action with it and you get interactive with someone. And not all of them are just having someone pray for you. This one just happened to be that. Sometimes it's a it's a different thing to interaction. You'll see those throughout that. Does that make sense? Any any questions about is that I mean if that makes sense then I'm good. If you have a question then ask away. Brian? I think it's mine or new or two. Sorry. Uh when we ask someone to pray with us, I guess that would be something very more general. You wouldn't want to get into like gossip or details. Like 'cause you're talking about you know, someone who was the challenge for you. Yeah, you don't necessarily. Yeah, you you you don't have to say, Hey, I have a hard time with you know, Paul. You know. I wish he you know. Another question. Yeah, come on down, Mark. Thank you. I'm assuming you mean with believers Yeah, yeah, especially there's unbelievers that I have a hard time with, but it's kind of irrelevant to the situation here. That's another matter. Yeah. I I'm thinking in the context of the church here. I I do agree with that. Okay. But let me let me go back to the first one of the assignments, November 4th through 7. You'll notice when that starts. When is November 4th? Tomorrow. That's right. That's what I'm asking. And you look at Colossians 3. 1. You have been raised up with Christ. On the Colossians 3. 1 middle of that page. Under November 4th through 7. Recall how you came to know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Write a sketch of the events that led you to him. Then the interaction is read your sketch and tell someone. How you came to faith in Christ. Well, you could do that with a non-believer. That's called witnessing, right? That's a good thing. You could do that with a non-believer. But but the prayer piece and many of these things, I mean, do it with each other. I mean, honestly, I actually want you on this this next three days I actually want you to talk with each other, reminding each other how you came to Christ. In conflict, those things just go away. We we assume them or presume on them. I think presume on them is probably more accurate. And it shouldn't be done. I mean, read Colossians 3, 1 to verse 1. You just get it right there. My life is in Christ. It's not in me. My life is in him. That needs to be a reflective thing that we do, you know? And those kinds of remember memories and I mean honestly what we have we we hear this all the time, but what what churches say to us is this was so refreshing. This was just really refreshing. It allowed me to calm down because all the issues that we have and the questions that I don't understand It just it just made me anxious. It frustrated me, it confused me. Just think about anxious, frustrated, confused, and that's the characteristics of the people in the church. Not good. You know? And when we put our focus here, it's kind of like Philippians 4, 6, right? Be anxious for nothing. And it's the replacement principle. Instead, by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known to God. And prayer, by the way, is a general word for prayer. Supplication is like the Old Testament, pour your heart out before the Lord. You know, it's a very intent, specific kind of prayer. That's what he's talking about in that by that word supplication. It's not just like another word for prayer, just two synonyms. No, one means any kind of prayer. I think there's seven different types. You know, this one is just really, I mean, it's I call it regurgitation. I throw up before the Lord. This is hard. I don't know what to do with this, you know? I don't know what to do with this. Does that make sense? So so the replacement principle is part of the purpose of this assignment, is kind of what I'm saying. Okay, ready for the question? W will you do this? Good. Thank you. Thank you. Um I really do appreciate that, you know. Genuinely. I mean, I know you I know you don't know me well. I mean and I mean, why would I ask you to do something like this? You know, I've tried to tell you why in my comments, you know, I've tried to say this is why You know, but I mean it for your good. I you know, I mean it for the health of the church. And honestly When we get ourselves into where you guys are right now and where some of the characteristics are that are going on here and have gone here for a while, things need to change. And this is one of the ways that you can intentionally. And by way of effort, change, by way of that diligence of Hebrews 4, 11. You know, make sure, strive for, be diligent. That no one would follow that same example of disobedience, no one. And when we can point out a person who has fallen into disobedience, a verse is for us. Because that should no one. I mean the whole point of that diligence is that no one fails And conflict just almost automatically, it almost automatically means somebody's falling into disobedience The heart needs to be, oh God, change that. You know. Not just a discussion as why, but God changed that. Change me that I'm not that person. And you don't know. You don't know. I don't know either about me. So in the next couple of days, the mediation, those who are in mediations are going to get an assignment from us. Brian may send it, by the way, or I may send it. It'll be, he and I are talking tomorrow. And uh I've got one more step to take. I'll do it on the airplanes when I fly tomorrow uh in processing what this should look like and then we'll talk and then uh I'll get the assignment to him and or send it to you. But If you get an assignment, it means you're going to be invited into a mediation. And I will tell you, as I've told some of you, if you get the assignment, please dive in. It's dated, just like this one's dated. It'll be dated Dive in immediately and start doing it, even if you don't even know who you are being asked to mediate with yet. So members of the church, understand. When a person's going to be in a mediation over the next three or four days, they may not even know who I'm asking them to mediate with yet. It's not the point. The point is personal preparation. That's the point. And if you dive there, if you start getting and making progress there, then we're going to be good. You know, we're going to watch God work. If you have to wait to figure out who you're in mediation with before you decide to do it, then That just tell me. I I'm I'm fine not doing it. You know, honestly. I'll accept it. I accept no I do, I accept no. No's okay. You know, and you know why? This is my last no. Do you know why no's okay? Because we have a sovereign God who never loses control. He is not out of control. He is not anxious. He's not lost. I mean, never. And I can trust him. I can trust him. Even when the no comes. Even okay? So Lord, take these things that we've done, take this assignment, take the work that we're going to do with mediation parties. And especially their work in diving into the other assignment, grant all of these fine folks grace and mercy Grant that us, each one of us, me, I need you so desperately, just a strong sense of your presence. And the clarity of what it means to submit to you, humble ourselves, humble myself before you under the mighty hand of God. May that be what we do. Even as we don't know answers, even as we wonder what's going on, all of those things, Lord, may we trust you now as we enter a process that has dynamics to it and requests in it. Lord, give us grace in that. Give Christ Reformed Church grace in that. And as we think about December and prepare for December and come back together and do that work together, Oh my, I pray you surprise us. I pray you work so deeply and you reveal so much to each one of us. That it's surprising to us and it's surprising to others. And what you do relationally, you're the one who heals. You're the one who calls us to reconciliation. We know it's totally possible. So may you get us ready to experience what only you can produce. Uh grant the power of that I pray. And I thank you for that. Trust you for that in the strong name of Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen. God bless you. Tomorrow. So I'm as soon as I get home, I'm going to send that out to everyone on the list so they all have that to start. Okay?