When Skip and I would meet, uh we'd talk about the possibility of a building and um and uh saw these things unfold and uh see God's blessing in that. So So I rejoice that I'm actually able to be with you here this evening. Um as we come to this portion of Scripture, The reason that I started to study it was really a self-counseling project. I came to this scripture because I needed it. I wasn't concerned at the time of preaching it to anyone else. My wife and I and our family were going through a particularly difficult circumstance in our life. Recently found out that uh my uh daughter and son-in-law are barren and uh they're the only children we have, and so uh that meant that uh in God's providence, at least naturally we weren't going to be able to have any grandchildren. And in finding that out, it really took me by surprise. On how much in this area of my life I was struggling with God's providence. As I continued and dealing, knowing that truth When other people that I would meet, even close friends and those in our congregation, would come and tell me that they were having another grandchild. I would find myself, my heart, instead of being happy with them, rejoicing with those who rejoice, I found myself on the outside smiling But in the inside, it felt like I was taking another bitter pill. And I found myself struggling at all and ultimately with God. Through most of my 46 years of being a Christian, I didn't come to Christ until I was a teenager I've slept soundly amidst the many turmoils that we all face in this broken world, agreeing with this quote from Charles Spurgeon, who said, When we're going through a trial, the sovereignty of God is the pillow to which you lay your head. And I know enough about this congregation and what you believe about the sovereignty of God that for many of you, that has been a great pillow to lay your head on during difficult times in your life. But I found during this season of my life, it was a rock. I felt like I was hitting my head and my heart and my soul against a rock. And uh I continued to struggle with that until thankfully one night um during our devotions we were having We're reading a devotional by Ed Welch as he was commenting on the scripture. He wrote this. He said, children are notoriously poor at waiting and persevering. It is the older, wise man or woman who can take the many hassles of life in stride without grumbling and complaining, with contentment rather than resignation. And he really had described the spiritual state that I was going through. I was resigned to it. After all, I know that God is bigger than I am, and I'm not going to fight against his will. Right? And I knew that theologically So I was resigned to it, but I wasn't finding any contentment. He had accurately described my spiritual state of being like an immature child. The truth was, I was more like a spiritual spoiled brat. While I had resigned myself to submit to God's will, I was far from finding any contentment in it. I believe that to the watching world, my neighbors, our congregation, and even my family, you would have thought that I was entrusting myself to God, and I was doing that outwardly. Well, inwardly I wasn't finding rest in him. How good it is that God has given us his word to be profitable for teaching and for reproof and correction and training in righteousness. To mature us and equip us in that which God has done with this passage that we're going to be looking at tonight in Psalm 131. So as I read it, I'll ask you to follow along, Psalm 131. And many of the commentators who write uh trying to explain the scripture. Ones like Charles Spurgeon, you've already heard, and James Montgomery Boyce, they say this about this small psalm. They say this. This is one of the shortest psalms to read, but one of the longest to learn. This is one of the shortest Psalms to read, but one of the longest to learn. So follow along as I read from God's Holy Word, Psalm 131. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up, my eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me, but I have calmed and quieted my soul Like a weaned child with its mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth. And forevermore. Let's pray. Our Father and God, would you indeed work within your congregation this evening? I believe that my brothers and sisters at times find themselves like me, running to that sweet pillow of your sovereignty And yet, because your will is different than ours, it seems hard. Or at least to us it is, even though you mean it for our blessing and for us to find comfort. And we thank you that you use the saints through history, our brothers who've brought us your word to speak to us. You've spoken through a person and a life to us by your spirit. that we might find uh even what uh the psalmist David speaks about tonight uh calm and rest for our souls. Would you do that for any tonight that uh that might find themselves in their own hearts and lives struggling with your providences, which we know are always good. Uh you you have said that you're working all things together for your people, and they are good as you conform us to Christ. But O God, as we don't always look by eyes of faith, we look with our own eyes and Can't figure these things out, your your providence seems hard. So would you grant much grace to us tonight and lead us by your scriptures that we might find comfort even in our Savior Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, our brother David here gives us Three admonitions, three directions, three encouragements to how to calm and quiet our own souls in the midst of difficulty. And our brother David was one who knew of difficulty. David, for at least a whole decade of his life, he was already anointed by the prophet Samuel to be king uh when when uh David's when Saul's uh reign ended. But these ten years were not uh uh an easy ten years were ten years where he was hunted down where he was uh sought to be killed uh by Saul and he found himself hiding and and uh and uh acting crazily and lying and all kinds of difficult circumstances. And he had what he knew God said would be good, he would be anointed king, and yet here he is running like a dog from Saul for his very life. And so David, our brothers, writes this, had to have his own soul calm and quiet at many different times. But here he gives us direction how to do that. And the first thing that he tells us is to have a calm and quieted soul, you need to humble yourself before the Lord. That's what David speaks of in this first verse, Psalm 131. 1. He says, O Lord, My heart is not lifted up. My eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. A brother saw a brother David knew that he only hope was not in his own strength. He he repeatedly says, our hope isn't in it isn't in kings, it isn't in warriors, and it isn't in our armor, it's not in horses, it's not our battlement But our hope is in the Lord, and he came here humbling himself and confessing that even though things were hard, that God knows better. He says, I'm not going to try to figure out all of these things. I'm not going to try and set God straight in this. Instead of fighting God's timing of his will, David chose to humble himself. and confess that God, his creator, whom he served, is was the one he served, that he was the created one. And that he was to worship as creator. All right, the Apostle Paul, you remember, going through all the difficulties that he went through in his own life and ministering. uh being shipped wrecked, being beaten, being stoned, all those things that he listed in ministry. And yet in Romans chapter 11 Instead of trying to figure all these things out, he breaks out in that doxology. You know, at the end of the chapter it says, Oh the depth and riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments. How inscrutable his ways for who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that it might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To God be the glory forever. Amen. And so, brothers and sisters, I want to point you to that wonderful pillow of God's sovereignty, but the way that you will Find your rest there is not by trying to figure out all the sovereign plans, by humbling yourself and trusting yourself to him as you struggle trying to figure it out in your own life. Tim Chalys, in a blog that he wrote, described where I have been And it stopped me in my tracks when I read it because I understood as I read it that what I was trying to figure out God when I was struggling with my own bitterness and his providence in my life and in my family's life What I really was raising up was my own heart and my own wisdom and my own desires. They were an idol within my own heart that was competing with the Lord God Himself. And that might be happening with you when you struggle with a certain maybe your job isn't going the way you want it. You know, maybe your children aren't behaving the way that you will want it. Maybe your health You know what you fill in the blank at times when you struggle with God's sovereignty in your life, where you have a plan. And he isn't following your plan. Of course, we know that's not the way it is, right? He's the creator, and we're his creation. But we want to ring the bell, the little prayer bell, and have him follow our wills. Tim Chowley said this and where you might find yourself struggling and listen to this because It it might even describe you. He said it this way in talking about how these competing desires become idols for us. He said this. I saw it the other day. I saw the thing I wanted. That thing I am sure that I need, that thing that holds the key to my happiness. With it I will be complete. Without it, I'll always be lacking. There it was, right before me, so close, but it wasn't mine. It was there, but just out of reach In that very moment, the thought passed through my mind. If God really loves me, he would give it to me. God doesn't love me enough to let me have it. Has that ever gone through your mind in dealing with God? God, if you really loved me, you would answer it. You would give it to me. And it shocked me that I found myself there asking that same kind of question. It was because my soul wasn't humbled before the Lord. In that instance, instead of worshiping God the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, I had chosen to lift up my heart and worship the own holy trinity. The Trinity of me, myself, and I. Mine avenue of hope finally came When in repentance I looked to Jesus, the son of David, and prayed as he taught us to pray, your kingdom come, your will be done. But we have to humble ourselves to do that, and we struggle with this because we know God, we know all the right theological Words, we know the confession, and yet we're made of this stuff, and we struggle with it. And our brother says: to get out of the struggle, you have to humble yourself under the mighty hand of God. Then he goes on and tells us the second thing that we have to do in these kinds of situations is to have a calm and quieted soul before God, you need to hush yourself before the Lord. You need to stop the quieting and bickering that's going on in your soul and hush yourself before him. And he describes what this hushing is like. He says this. Look at Psalm 131, the second verse. He says, But I have calmed and quieted my soul like a weaned child with its mother. Like a weaned child is my soul within me. Now notice what David had to do. It didn't happen automatically. There wasn't just this thing that came upon him. And all that David's calling us to do here, he was having this struggle, so the first thing he had to do was be humble enough to hear God, and now he says, you need to do this. You need to calm yourself and quiet your soul before the Lord, like a weaned child with its mother. Some of you have gone through that weaning process as a child, and some of you have weaned your children. It's usually not an easy thing. It is a struggle. James Montgomery Boyce says it this way. When David says that his soul is like a weaned child, he's not saying that he has always been content with God, or merely that he is content with God now. He is reflecting on the difficult weaning process in which a child is broken of its dependence on its mother's milk, and it's taught to take other foods instead. Weaning is usually accompanied by resistance and struggle of the child's part, even by hot tears. and angry are accusing glances and a fierce temper tantrums. And it's difficult for the mother But the weaning is necessary if the child is mature. David is saying that he has come through the weaning process and learned to trust God to care for and provide for him. Not on David's terms, but on God's terms I'd like you to turn to the book of Philippians with me. Philippians chapter four. And as we go to Philippians 4, I want to remind you, as I've already said, about remind just thinking of Paul for a minute as he was sent in all these missionary journeys, so many of them, i th there weren't instant conversions. There were very few times when the first thing that happened was conversions like like the like the the lady that was selling the purple dye as he ministers outside the city and she comes to Christ or the Philippian jailer after the time of difficulty in jail he comes to Christ. But it's usually in the midst of all these difficulties. And Paul, as he writes to the Philippians, we believe is in jail. Between jailers writing this, but notice what he's writing after all these difficulties, even writing where he probably doesn't want to be in jail. But notice what he's writing to us. Philippians chapter 4, starting in verse 11. He says, For I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low. I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And beloved, of course, were to run to Christ. But Paul is saying, I had to learn this. I had to learn to calm and quiet my soul. I had to learn that even though I was feeling this way, I had to bring my heart and mind to line up with God says this way. He said this, I was feeling that, I have a choice then. Am I going to live by my feelings and let them reign me and be God? Or am I going to go to God humbly and say, oh God, help me to calm and quiet my soul and trust your good and precious promises? And so if you, like me, find yourself struggling, it's not to be overwhelmed and say, there's this struggle. That happens in a broken world this side of heaven. you will go through, and if you're not now, most likely have and will in the future go through similar struggles with God's providence in your own life. But there's a learning process there that we change and don't have to stay there as we humble ourselves under God's good hand, but also purposely calm and quiet our souls. Jeremiah Burroughs, some of you might know of his book on the rare jewel of Christian contentment, says this as he defines what Paul does In what David did and what Paul learned in this contentment and calm and quieting his soul, he says that Christian contentment is that sweet inward Quiet frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. And so what you have to do is literally, don't be surprised if it doesn't come automatically. We're not Christian robots. We automatically have these feelings. We have temptations from Satan. We have pressures from the world. We have our own. sin in our own lives that still struggles with this. And so it raises his head. God's doing this. I don't like it. It's not in my plan. You could stay there. Or you could say, I'm going to, by God's grace, humble myself in this situation and calm and quiet my soul by saying, This is what I'm feeling. But this is what I know to be true, and rest in God's good, as it says in Jeremiah Burroughs said, as God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. And that's how you get from the difference between just being able to say, Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good, for those who love God and call him to his purpose. Right? And sometimes, you know, you someone may even set it that way to you, right? But it's different than the one who comes beside you and cries with you and but yet says, you know. Isn't it good? But even though you feel that way. Even though you don't understand. Your heavenly Father, you're his child, his work in all things. Together for good, because you love him. David goes on to tell us the third thing that we need when we're finding God's sovereign work in our lives, a hard pillow to find rest in. He says it in verse 3. He says, to have a calm and quieted soul, you need to hope in the Lord. Look at verse 3. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth. And forevermore. And we find David actually doing that when he had ten years. before God's promise of him being the next anointed king. And through that ten years, Saul is chasing after him and ready to kill him. And David had two different opportunities once in the in the in the in the in the cave of a of Ingeti and another place where he could have killed Saul. He could have ended this chase after his life, the bitterness in God's providence that he was facing. But he said, I'm not going to stand in in God's And in what God is doing in my life, because I know what God would have me do. He would not have me raise my hand against the anointed king now. So David did what he knew God would have him do, and he didn't sin in killing Saul and ending the difficult situation. But he trusted God in that. And that's what made David. That's one of the things where we see David being the man after God's own heart. And that's where it is for you, where you and I will trust God's will, even though it is hard for us. It seems bitter. We don't understand it. That we humble ourselves under God's mighty hand and his providence. That we purposely calm and quiet our soul with the truth of what we know about God And we purpose to find our hope in Him instead of the circumstance that our eternal God, who is our Heavenly Father, has promised to love and care for us. David is only one of many examples. I want you to just take and think. We're not going to turn to these scriptures, but you know these stories now. And I want you to think about these difficult and hard providences that our brothers and sisters in Christ, that our believers in the old and the new covenant found themselves in, where we know that it would be so easy for them to struggle, and yet the testimony was where they got to by God's grace as they went through these very similar kind of steps of humbling themselves before the Lord. Is choosing to purpose to believe him and calm and quieting their souls with his truth, and hoping, not in the situation as they see it, but in the Lord. Do you remember Daniel? Daniel was never safer from the rage of King Darius or enabled to sleep more soundly than when he was in with the Lord in the lion's den Shadrach, Mesho, and Abendigo found themselves out of the soldiers' reach, most secure and at peace with Jesus in the midst of the fiery furnace. The disciples facing the temple on the lake found rest and refuge, looking to the Lord with them in the boat as he spoke to the storm and calmed the sea. Paul and Silas were never more secure from the crowds that were seeking their life than when the Lord guarded them in the prisons. In the Philippian jail, as they sang his praises. One that I think of that speaks to me. Out of all these that I often go to is Jacob. You might remember that Jacob lost Joseph early on. And uh Joseph was the the favorite of his twelve sons. He lost them early on, and he and that broke and and hurt him all of his life. And now at the end of his life, Towards the end of Genesis, Jacob, there's a famine in the land, there's no food for them. He sent some of his sons to Egypt. to find grain and buy grain. They come back. They found the money in the the sacks. They had to take it back so they so they could still buy food and get it and they came back this time and the Prime Minister of Egypt kept Benjamin from coming back. And so this is a horrible situation now because J Jacob isn't sure. He's lost Joseph. Benjamin, his other favorite son, is now caught in Egypt. They're not sure they'll have enough food. Uh they're not sure they'll ever be able to buy it. He thinks that the the the he the that the Prime Minister of Egypt thinks that his sons are spies. He thinks, how are we going to ever buy enough food? What are we going to do? And at that very time, he cries out in the scriptures in Genesis, Everything is against me. But what was the truth right then? What was the truth that he didn't have a clue to? Is that that very prime minister in Egypt was who? It was Joseph! God had before him and sent Joseph there, and at that moment when he was saying, everything is against me, what was true? Everything was for him. But he couldn't see it. But he was never had things lined up better for him than when he was saying, everything is against me. Charles Spurgeon says this to calm our souls. He says this, the believer is absolutely sure that the invisible hand is always on the world's helm. And that wherever providence may drift, Jehovah steers it. The reassuring knowledge prepares him for everything. He looks over the raging waters and sees Jesus treading the billows And he hears a voice saying, It is I, be not afraid. He knows also that God is always wise, and knowing this, he's confident that there can be no accidents. No mistakes and nothing to occur which ought not arise. He can say, if I should lose all, it is better that I should lose than have, if God so wills. The worst calamity is the wisest and kindest thing that could befall me if God ordains it. Well, beloved, I thank you for looking with me to David. See how the Holy Spirit worked through his difficulties in life to help us calm Our own souls. But that's not enough. David's great. I'm so glad that God is put there. But let's look further. And learn from the Son of David, even Jesus Christ. Hebrews says this about Jesus. And as I read it, I want you to first think about Jesus because he is the ultimate son. Who had to have his own soul weaned. We don't think of that, but what was Jesus doing in the Garden of Gethsemane, that very last thing that he does As a human being being made of the same things that you and I are, he knew that he was going to the cross. He knew of the horrors of the crucifixion. He knew even more than that, that there would be this separation between God and man of some nature that we can't fully understand. where God turns his face from him and the fellowship they had from all eternity would somehow be broken and turned away from it. He knew that he was going through that There was some measure, not sinful, but some measure that he's saying, Lord, if there is another way, let's do it. But God said, no, there is no other way. We have planned this from all eternity. And our Lord Jesus, purposed and calmed and quiet his soul, and his own, is the scripture in a sense, we'll look at it, we'll almost call it a weaning process. He had to do. And thankfully, when you and I don't have our own souls calmed and quieted, When you and I at times are acting like spoiled little brats, we're not thrown out and unadopted because Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Son of David. had weaned his soul even at the last where he's able to say as he goes to the cross, not my will. But your will be done. And when you and I struggle, we're not thrown out. We need to repent of it when we see it, but we're not thrown out because of Jesus' perfect obedience. Is the obedience that Christ is filled for us, that Christ has filled, and God records to our account. I'm going to end by looking at this, where it talks about the process of Jesus being weaned, calm and quieting a soul for us when we struggle. And that's where our hope is. And as we look to what he's done, Then we see, oh Lord, how good to have such a Savior. May I even calm and quiet my soul, because what have you done with your Son? For me, your child. Hebrews says it this way in Hebrews 5, verses 8 and 9. Although he, Jesus, was a son, he learned obedience. through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the eternal source of salvation to all who obey him How wondrous it is. Beloved, because I would love to tell you tonight that I'll never find God's providence a hard pillow again. I trust that I'm maturing, that the sanctification process is going on, and that I'll trust God and walk by faith Instead of walk by sight, but I know myself. And I know that I might find myself thinking that God's sovereign and perfect plan is a bitter pill for me at times. But thanks be to God that Jesus was weaned in that sense, and his perfect obedience is what stands for me. And if you are in Christ, it stands for you, and that's where your hope always is. And doesn't that want to cause you to repent and say, oh God, how good you are? Let's turn to Him. Our Father and God, I thank you for your good and perfect will. I thank you for giving us our brother David who would list for us, who lays out for us the steps in repentance that we need to take when we're acting like spoiled children. When we're finding your providence a hard pillow to rest upon, and that we might come back and look to our Savior Jesus, who perfectly obeyed, for when we don't, That it move move our own hearts to see that you are good. When we start to question your will and how you deal with us as your sons and daughters, we would remember How you dealt with your perfect son, the one you love for all eternity in our stead, and know that your love is good in all circumstances So would you work a work within us tonight? Give us great hope in Christ. And we thank you for what you're doing in all things. And we pray that you would enable us by seeing your scriptures and those who have gone before us to walk by sight. To not walk by sight, but walk by faith in our living and risen Lord Jesus Christ. Amen