As you can see from the um from your bulletin, I've entitled this A Christian Hope for the New Year. And I'm telling you using as my text all of John chapter 9. Now I was given a request that um I not gear this the subject matter towards suffering. I've I'm told that, okay, I've worn that subject out, at least for the time being, so let's change the subject a little bit. And interestingly enough I'm not going to speak on suffering, but rather, almost using the same text, let's go to the flip side of suffering, and that of hopefulness. What I'll do is read progressively as we work through John chapter 9. So if you'll uh bear with me the slight change of pace in how we do things, what I'll do is read and comment as we go. One of the interesting points about John 9 that I think is reason for hope is that a blind man is sitting. And what he's waiting for, we don't know. But what happens, Jesus happens upon him. And what does Jesus do? Jesus grants him sight The one thing that he wanted most, right? So I think my uh one of my major comments here is that God can do the unexpected when we least expect it. And he often does so. And we ought to live hopefully. Now there's much in this chapter, and one of the reasons why I wanted to give this exhortation was because in my own devotions Um I have a once through the a one year through the Bible, which I think I I usually cram about one year into four, so I don't quite get through it in a year, but it was in This particular chapter that I probably spent two weeks just reading the same text because it seemed like every time I read John 9, there was something new that just kept popping out of it. And so I thought, wow, what a rich text. Look forward to that time when I can give an exhortation and maybe share some things that may be of benefit. So that's that's why it has been selected and that's why I'm here tonight. So let's just dig in. John chapter 9. And actually what we need to do is go back about one verse or two to the end of chapter 8. And as you can see if you have your Bibles open, he's gotten into this big discussion with the Jews. And he culminates in saying, before Abraham was, I am. And at that point they say, ha, this is gross blasphemy. They pick up stones to stone him, but he And I'll read the text, verse 59. Then they took up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by So that takes us then to chapter nine. I think that we can connect these two. I'm not I'm not sure that they are time-wise, so I I'll leave that caveat that these are may may or may not have happened exactly Immediately after one another. There may have been a period of time. But it is interesting that if you look at ch uh verse 59 of chapter 8 and verse 1 of chapter 9, that word passed. is used in in both verses, which maybe suggests that these happened immediately after one another. So let's go at let's look at verse at verse 1 of chapter 9. Now as Jesus passed by Remember, he's just gotten away from the Jews, right? He saw a man who was blind from birth. And as you can read from the text, Jesus passes him on by, neglecting him forever. Is that what it says? No. Doesn't say that at all. Does he pass him by period? No. He uses the occasion. He's just he's just escaped men who want to stone him. What is he doing? He's using this new occasion now as a teaching situation. What does he do? He notices the man um first. Uh you might ask yourself the question Do we, and I think the answer is obvious to we who are reformed folk, do we notice Christ or does he first notice us? I think that's a rhetorical answer to this crowd is we understand that it isn't we who seek Christ, it isn't we who go begging on our knees looking for him, it's not we who spend our days reading and pouring through books looking for the Savior know what we what I think is mostly our case here for folks sitting in this room is that he found us. We were in a situation, and perhaps we don't even know the hour of our coming to Christ. Some of us do, and not all of us do, but some of us can recall the very hour when all of a sudden our minds were quickened and he found us. And similar in the situation, a blind man is sitting there, and Jesus passed by him. And in that sense, Jesus finds him. He notices the man. So let me read. Now as Jesus passed by, he saw a man who was blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Now notice the question is posed to Jesus, and here it wasn't an intentional thing to try to corner him with his response, but As is fitting with Jesus, what does he do? He says, neither. You're wrong on both counts. Right? He says, you're not correct in your assessment of the situation. Jesus answered, neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in him I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. The night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. And I think that in these in this short period, uh short uh series of verses, Jesus is laying the f the gr the foundation for why he's doing what he's doing. He is showing himself to be the light of the world. And he is, like Pastor Coffin spoke to us this morning, and Jesus frequently speaks, does he not? Not thus saith the Lord, but he speaks from what is going on in the events around him. And in this case, he not only says, look and observe a particular thing, he's saying, observe me. Let us do and observe here. So this question is posed to him and what is his answer? The answer is neither one. Now he's not saying that neither the man nor the parent sinned, but he's saying you're not getting to the heart of the issue here, is I think his answer. He doesn't get pushed into this traditional thinking of the day, which is that somehow these bad uh occasions, these bad uh punishments, so to speak, are the result of sin. Now why should they have known better? They should have known better because they have the scriptures, do they not? They have the book of Job, do they not? They have the book of J have the book of Genesis, do they not? They have these things in the scriptures which clearly teach that God does bring up on occasion hard times So it brings blessing out of them. So they didn't have to necessarily ask Jesus, well, who sinned, you know, in a simplistic sort of a way, who sinned the man or the parents? There's a third alternative here, if not more. And Jesus says, no, neither one. It is that the power of God may be displayed. As I spoke last week on suffering, I asked the question, would you be willing to put up with suffering if you knew that the power of God would be displayed either in you or in someone near you in some magic hour? And I hope the answer is yes to you. But let's turn it the other way. Would you like to be that man whom God visits at some point this year and just accomplishes something miraculously wonderful? And I think in in that sense we need to live hopefully. But let's go on with the text itself. That's an application of the text in my opinion. So Jesus sees and employs this situation and then employs it to picture a sermon, and the sermon would be, his sermon would be called the I Am the Light of the World. And what follows is his sermon that he is the light of the world. Now, let's ask ourselves the question here. There's a blind man sitting there, right? Let's at least allow the possibility that the blind man is hearing them. You know, Jesus, the disciples are gathered around this man, and they ask Jesus, who sinned, this man or his parents? And Jesus said neither. So they stop and they're gathered around this man, and we we uh we shouldn't presume that he's deaf, right? I mean we know that he's blind, but we're not told at all whatsoever that he's deaf. And I would suggest to you he just might be hearing all of this. So what is he hearing? He's hearing Jesus, who says, Neither this man nor his parents sin, but that the works of God should be revealed in him. I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. The night is coming when no man can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Now, if you're that blind man, you're thinking, whoa, what is going on here? I just heard him say, I must work No, but but prior to that, verse three, but that The works of God should be revealed in him. Now do you think that man's ears perked up big time? I would think they would. This man's thinking, whoa, what is going to happen here? Let us see. I think that I think I would suggest to you that hearing that though prepares him for what comes later, for what compares comes immediately. Right? Because what does come immediately? Very strange series of events. Right? We see if you're trying to take notes in this, I've just spoken of the occasion and the and then the situation, and now we read of the action of Jesus. So what does he do? He spat on the ground. Now I don't know about you, but how many occasions do you recall someone spitting and you saw this as a glorious moment of the holiness of God revealed? Ah. If you're like me and you went to junior high class, uh you know the bad kids spit on you and you just put up with it, right? Now maybe girls, ladies, you didn't go through this, but we guys did. The bad kids did whatever they wanted to, because they knew they could beat your head in if they wished. You were powerless to do anything. So usually getting spit upon was a part of the routine of being a little kid. In a junior high class. So here we have a situation. Jesus spits on the ground. What onlookers look on this and say, wow, the greatness of God. I would like to think they're asking the question, what in the world is going on here? And especially the man who's just been told that the works of God be revealed. He's saying, okay, I'm not quite sure how to connect these two, but I'm curious. So Jesus spits on the ground. What do we know from other portions of Scripture? What does Jesus say about what comes from the mouth? Matthew 15, 11. What comes out of the mouth is absolute filth Regarding men, right? Out of the heart and thus out of the mouth flow his obscenities, his curses, his evil But out of the mouth of God Himself, what comes but absolute purity? I would suggest to you that here we see Jesus testifying to himself that he is God in the flesh. As we will see as this unfolds, this is a direct testimony that He is God in the flesh. By his words, by his actions. Only God could spit and such be pure and clean and healing, right? What does he do with it? What happens here now? And when he had said these things, he spat on the ground and made clay with the saliva, and he anointed the eyes of the man with the clay. Well, what does this remind us of? Does this remind anyone of Genesis? How did God form the man? He formed him from the dust of the ground. What is Jesus doing? He is reforming the man, marred by sin, marred by the sin of a sinful world, right? And reforming him in the same way. What is he doing? As we read from John chapter 1, verse 3, what do we know of Jesus? What was his role in the creation? All things were made through him. And without him nothing was made that was made. So what we read in these opening verses of John is that God the Son was the one who was the creator. He was the one that worked did the work of creation. And here he is echoing that work by a work of healing, of recreation for this man, right? Again, what is he doing? He's pointing to himself. Those who have eyes to see and ears to hear are getting an earful and an eyeful. Are they not? And let's ask ourselves another question at this point. What's going through the blind man's mind? Does he object? Now, if somebody just walked up to you and spit on the ground and made some mud and wanted to put it on your eyes, I don't think you'd probably not put up with it, is my guess. So again, I think we have to think that the man heard what Jesus was saying, and it struck him powerfully. And he says, I don't know what's going on here, but somehow I think there's something big about to happen. And I don't know exactly what this man is doing. I'm going to permit it to continue. I believe there may be something here, right? I mean, I think we have to believe that this man knew something was happening in order to acquiesce to it, right? He acquiesced. Did we hear him protest? Do we hear him say, uh uh uh uh sir, uh don't do that. Uh I'd rather you not. Um my eyes are just fine. I'd rather rather not have the stand in my eyes. It's quite painful, sir, even for me. Do we hear any of that? No. Nothing of the kind. So already we see, or do we not, seeds of faith already taking hold, if they have not taken hold already. The man is going along trusting what he's hearing from Jesus. And he said to him, and Jesus said to the man, go wash in the pool Siloam, which is translated sent. Okay, so I need to go to this pool. Help me get there folks. It isn't like it's right there. It's a little ways away. He had to walk to it. And he's thinking to himself, what's going on here? Okay, but I'll I'll do it. I will do it. He has told me to do so and I will do so. Does he object? Do we hear any objections from him? No, he walks. He goes to the pool of Siloam. He is a willing participant And he goes and what happens? So he went and washed and came back seeing. Now he's really wondering what's going on, isn't he? Okay, this man just went through this series of things. I heard these things, I did these things, and now all of a sudden I see I am not quite sure what all happened here, but this is powerfully significant. And he recognizes something powerfully significant has happened. He becomes the talk of the town, as we see in verses 8 to 12. Therefore the neighbors and those who previously had seen that he was born blind Or his blind said, isn't this not he who sat and begged? Some said, this is he, and others said, nah, he is like him. And don't we face that all around us? There are those who who see the things of the gospel and agree readily to them, and there are those that are skeptics, just as we see Skeptics in our day, there were skeptics in his day. And ah, he is like him. He said, I am he. Therefore they said to him, How are your eyes opened? He answered and said, A man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to the pool of Siloam and washed. So I went and washed, and I received sight. Then he said to him, Where is he? And he said, I do not know. He obviously didn't know where Jesus went. He just went blind to the pool. There he's able to see, and Jesus did not make it a point to be there at the pool when he received his sight. Now one commentator said, you know, there's a another hint of of goodness there in that when we do our good works We ought not to be quick to hang around to get the pri get the praise for it. So a little a little a little observation by what's the guy's name? The big commentary set, but now the word escapes me. Matthew Henry. Excuse me. Matthew Henry, thank you. Matthew Henry cited that uh observation which I thought was interesting. Thank you, John. So now what happens? Pharisees catch word of this, right? Do you think that he just sort of volunteered himself? He just decides to go stand before the Pharisaical board, just volunteering himself. He says, go walks before them. He says, hey, y'all. Something great just happened to me. I don't think so. I don't think so. Somehow they became aware of this and they want to know what's happened here. What is going on here? What is this man Jesus doing now? They brought him, who was formerly was blind, to the Pharisees. Now it was a Sabbath when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. And the Pharisees also asked him again how he had received his sight. He said to them, He put clay on my eyes and I washed and I see. Isn't it interesting that Jesus does lots of things on the Sabbath, does he not? Why is he doing this? I I I I think what Jesus is doing is obviously through the pages of Scripture, through the Gospels, he is in complete disagreement with the Pharisees and their perspectives on the Sabbath. He's ramming it in their face. He is disagreeing with them and he is disagreeing with them in a very upfront way. And they will not like it whatsoever, as we'll see. Well, if if we continue to read the Gospels, we'll recognize that Jesus takes a lot of heat for this. But Jesus, who is God Himself and Lord of the Sabbath, doesn't like the fact that men misuse his law and translate it into something that was never meant to be. So he's taking it and he's saying, I'm not agreeing with you all. You are absolutely wrong, and I'm going to get in your face with it. Therefore some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God because he does not keep the Sabbath. And others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was division among them. They said to the blind man again, What do you say about him? Because he opened your eyes, and he said, He is a prophet. So the man continues, does he not, to voice things that are echoing that of belief. He could have easily have backed down from such a testimony, could he not? He could have easily said, I I don't know. I don't know who this man is. I I'm not sure how he could do what he did. But what does he say? He is a prophet. He is speaking to the Pharisees, to the leaders. And he is speaking rather boldly, is he not? Does Christ call us to be bold people? Or does he call us just to be shrinking people in the face of opposition? Well, he calls us to be bold people. So we who are his who've had hearts changed, we ought to be bold people. We will be disliked. He said he is a prophet. But the Jews did not believe concerning him that he had been blind in receiving his sight until he called the parents of him who had received his sight, and they asked them. So now it has been shifted to the questioning of the parents, right? We know as parents answered them, And they asked him, saying, Is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind. But by what means he now sees we do not know, or who opened his eyes because we do not know. He is of age, ask him, he will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already had agreed already that if anyone had confessed that he was the Christ, He would be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age. Ask him. Now we can we can very powerfully slam the parents. But I think that there's uh there's two ways to see their response. And yes, we can say they they shrank somewhat from defending their son, right? They didn't want to be put out of the synagogue, so they said, ask him. However, they did testify, yes, he is our son, and yes, he was born blind. Now, could they have waffled on all these points? Could they have skirted with the truth and somehow completely evaded the wrath and the anger of the Pharisees? And I would say the answer is yes. So we need to take their responses looking at both aspects here. They did direct the responsibility to the sun, but at the same time they did not back down from the direct questions they were posed to them. So I think there is I think there is uh there is positiveness there in what they said. The Pharisees are looking for a way to discredit this miracle And now having asked the parents, have they found a way to discredit it? No. They still haven't found what they're looking for Right? They're trying to throw this guy out. They're trying to figure out a way to explain it other than the explanation they've been given. And they haven't gotten to that yet. So they ask him again. They bring him back. So they again called the man who was blind and said to him, Give God the glory. We know that this man is a sinner. And he answered and said, Whether he is a sinner or not, I do not know. One thing I know, that though I was blind now I see. Then they said to him again, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? So he's getting a little smart with them, isn't he? But he's very bold to this to this uh group this leadership body of men. Then they reviled him and said, You are his disciple, but we are Moses' disciples. We know that God spoke to Moses as for this fellow, we do not know where he came from. The man answered and said to them, Why this is a marvelous thing, that you do not know where he is from, yet he has opened my eyes. Now we know that God does not hear sinners But if any one is a worshipper of God and does his will, he hears him. Since the world began it has been it has been unheard of that anyone open the eyes of one who was born blind. If this man were not from God he could do nothing They answered and said to him, You were completely born in sins, and are you teaching us? And they cast him out. So he's chastising them, is he not? And note how they respond. In arrogance, right? In absolute arrogance, somewhat prophetic, you are completely born in sins. Well, who isn't? It's just that they don't recognize that they are Now this may have been simply because they believed that because he was born blind, he was born in sins, but I think it's quite interesting that their words are absolutely true, right? He was born in sins as they were. And they're the ones who don't see, right? I guess there's an application here as well. Do you listen to people who speak to you? Do you believe that God can speak through everywhere? From brothers and sisters you know, from a spouse, but from someone off the street. Can God so bring a coworker to speak to you a word that you need to hear and listen to? I would be very careful. and very uh uh very cautious of instantly dismissing others' words. We don't know when God is speaking to us. Therefore we ought to assume That every word spoken to us could be from the Lord, as he's saying something to me that I need to hear, to take heed, and to act upon. Let us never be so arrogant as these Pharisees. We can, God can communicate his truths to us in the most unusual of ways, and we ought to be open to hearing notes. But we take from this text that they cast him out. They excommunicated him from the worship of the time. So what does Jesus do? He goes on his way. He doesn't really want to be part of this ongoing mess he's created, right? No. What does he do? He goes back and he finds him. Right? Once again, Jesus finds the man. Let's read. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, He was looking for him, right? He said to him, that is, Jesus said to him, Do you believe in the Son of God? He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him? And Jesus said to him, You have both seen him, and it is he who is talking with you. And then he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped. Him. So he recognizes who Christ is. It appears from the pages of Scripture he's been given the gift of faith. He knows who this is. He worships him as God as he is. Right. And we see a man come to faith. He calls him prophet. And now he calls him his Lord. Lord, I believe. And then he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. And Jesus said, For judgment I've come into this world, that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may be made blind. Now we get to a real sad line. Then some of the Pharisees who were with him heard these words and said to him, Are we blind also? And Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no sin. But now you say we see, therefore your sin remains. Jesus is basically saying, since you believe you see, you are blind. You do not see at all So he declares the blindness of these Pharisees And we know that in our own lives that many are blind around us. We need to ask ourselves that question. Do you think yourself one who sees? And I would suggest a test of one who knows that he sees is do I see my sin for what it is? Do I see our need for that savior? This blind man needed someone who had the power to give him sight again. Do we see a need for a savior? If we think of our sins but little, and we think that we're not all that bad, then I'd suggest you're still blind. Young ones, children, do you see yourselves as Not all that bad. You know, you're pretty good. You're pretty obedient to your parents. And you may well be. But I would suggest to you that you have hearts that are dreadfully in need of a savior. Do you see yourself as in dreadful need of a savior? If you see yourself in dreadful need of a savior, then you have eyes to see, and they have been given to you by the Lord. If you think you're not all that bad, then I think that you're still blind. It was quite a text and it was quite interesting for me to just keep reading it and keep reading it and keep seeing things that I had never seen before. So let me get to some applications and I'll close. When you read the scriptures, and I and I trust that you do, on a regular basis, When you read the scriptures, do you read it knowing that God can give you the notice of new things again and again and again and again? Never enter a text believing that you understand it. I know this text. I know it like the back of my hand, duck soup, piece of cake. That's a dangerous, dangerous attitude to have. I would suggest that when you open the scriptures, pray for illumination. But as you read it, recognize that God may enable you to see things that you have never seen before. And I would read the scriptures then, hopefully, that God will open your eyes to new things. As you get older, and as the Lord gives you sight of things in this world, I would suggest to you that's another vehicle through which God gives us eyes to see. All of a sudden texts take on new meaning. As we grow older and our experiences grow, enter the scriptures then, expecting for the Lord to show you. Pray that he would show you. I've just had my kids read that little pamphlet, Seven Minutes with God. I'm sure we've read it before, but we'd re I've I just found it recently. I thought, well, let's reread it It's a nav pamphlet, and basically the encouragement is, if you don't meet regularly with the Lord, can you spare seven minutes? You spend 30 seconds to pray, you spend 30, sorry, three minutes to read, and then I think you spend the following three and a half minutes praying, or else it's three and a half reading and three minutes praying But they're saying their point is that you can spend time with the Lord in only seven minutes a day. And the question to you is, do you? Do you spend seven minutes a day with the Lord? I would suggest you start that practice in the new year. It isn't too much. For his children to spend seven minutes a day with him And if you do, I would suggest you might find that time growing. But start with seven minutes. If you want to start and use your watch to time yourself, that's fine. But I would suggest you begin that habit of seven minutes a day with him, as a minimum Um and this is uh for parents but also for children. For parents to use occasions to teach your young ones. I know I try, I'm not sure my young life my children and Sam successful, but we watch movies together and then I ask them about things that have spiritual references and ramifications. It's a good opportunity to chat. But when we see events in the news, do we use those as occasions of of discussion? When we see things around us, do we use those as occasions for discussion and discussion and teaching? As you recall from Joshua in Joshua 1, the point was that as you are going, teach them, teach them as you walk on the way, teach them as you do this, teach them as you do that It ought to be an ongoing thing that we teach our young ones. Parents, are you doing that? Teach them in an ongoing way. And finally, I'll get back to m one of my original points, and that was that Last week I spoke of the man who endured this difficulty, this suffering, right? The suffering that was But unto joy ultimately. Well now let's let's state it in that other way. Is do you do you think that the same God who is able to happen upon this blind man Plan from eternity can also bless you in marvelous ways through this year. I would suggest that if you have no hope whatsoever in your heart that God can work. Marvelously and wondrously, do I think that you're off the mark of the scriptures? I think God calls us to live hopefully. What does 1 Corinthians 13, 7 call us to do? It speaks of love hoping all things, does it not? I think that there's, and I'm not, there may be more than uh one meaning for hope in the scriptures. And what I'm using hope is in the way that we more typically use it, in that we live with a biblical Christian optimism. Right? We don't live optimistically because we choose not to be pessimists. We live optimistically because we understand who rules all and who can bring about events in a heartbeat. that are marvelously wonderful. And I think we ought to live hopefully. We don't know that this blind man lived hopefully, do we? We hope that he did, but we don't know that he did. But he certainly provides us an example, does he not, that God can in a heartbeat change our lives Where there may be disappointment, discouragement, hardship, it can change that. We ought to live hopefully. And as uh Pastor Coffin reminded us this morning, Matthew 7. 11, and I'll part I'll uh part. I will end with this. What does Matthew 711 read? Ask, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. Or what man is there among you if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone, or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent, if you then being evil Pulls no punches. Know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? I think we need to always carry in our minds that God desires to give good gifts to His own. He wants us to ask for them, but He does desire to give good things. Let us in this new year live expectantly and hopefully. Let us inquire of him, of those good gifts, and then live hopefully that he does give such good things. Let's pray, shall we? Lord God, you give us such marvelous scriptures, and and I I I confess it as you as you showed me this text over and over and over, it was marvelous to continue to see new things. Lord, we pray that you would bless us each, Lord, with a marvelous sight of your word. We pray that you would bless us, Lord, in a myriad of ways. We pray that we would look expectantly as we As we listen to sermons, as we sing hymns, as we converse with brothers and sisters in Christ, as we walk in our days, grant us, Lord, a hopefulness and an expectancy that only comes by knowing that our Heavenly Father rules all. And indeed loves us more than even our earthly fathers and earthly parents loved us. Lord, Father, you are perfect, and grant us to dwell upon that. And grant us, Lord, to be an optimistic people because we know you. And we pray in the name of Christ, the Savior who healed us from our blindness and our sin. Amen.