For leading us in prayer. Our passage this morning is from 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 1 through 6. If you have Opened your Bibles, I commend you to do so. In just a moment, we will uh rise to read and hear the Word of God. Peter has just given us, his readers, and those that he wrote to originally, who may be suffering, a powerful example From Scripture regarding perseverance under persecution. Noah, having been the target of ridicule for building a Barge in the middle of dry land for about a hundred and twenty years was vindicated by the judgment and salvation provided by the Holy Spirit. Spirit. It may have been so tempting for him to give up and throw in his law with his mockers. After all, they were so Few. There were only eight of them who believed. The thought that he was mistaken could have gone across his mind at some point. Maybe he got it all wrong. Maybe he was hallucinating. In the end, Noah, however, persevered. and was saved. Throughout generations, Christians have been exposed to some form of persecution that has ranged from From ridicule, being ostracized, physical harm, and all the way to being martyred for the faith. When you do experience or are potentially being faced with some form of persecution for your faith. What sort of attitude do you think you should have? What frame of mind should you possess so that you will come out on the other end, perhaps in Pain or experience loss, but standing tall and firm in your faith. In fact, does suffering do something for you? That's what Peter has been talking about in the letter. Let's take a look at our passage this morning and see what Peter has to say about this issue. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? It is from 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 1 through 6. Hear now the word of God. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, Arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So, as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised When you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. And they malign you, but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination by the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, minister to us now the Word of God. Help us to understand better the priceless gift we have been given in Christ. Help us to appreciate the Cost. Help us to give up all things and suffer for it because we see its value. Change and conform our hearts and minds to see ourselves. As our Heavenly Father sees us, so that we may live in truth and for his glory. And we ask these things in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. In verse one, Peter is calling his readers to examine their life. Lives by looking to the sufferings of Christ. He resumes from verse 3:18 in the previous chapter. The suffering of Christ in the flesh, and to our willingness to follow in his footsteps For it was in his suffering that brought us to God. And as little Christ's disciples, we are to follow his example Obedience to God the Father, and if it is that we should suffer for our faith, perhaps, God will use that as an instrument to draw others unto himself. Through the crosswork of Christ. Now, there's a subtle shift here in emphasis. It is to the idea of avoiding sinning when we are willing to suffer for our I'll go ahead and elaborate that for us shortly. He says that we are to arm ourselves With the same way of thinking, this means that we have to think the same way that the Lord did about obedience and suffering. Now this goes back to chapter 3, verses 6 17 and 18. And he said there that it is better to do right and suffer for it than to do wrong. It is better to return good for evil than to return evil. For evil. Now, there's a motive for this. His readers, you and I, should be willing, just like Christ did, to suffer for doing the right thing because. Whoever has suffered in the flesh, he writes, has ceased from sin. Now we have to unpack what this means ceased from sin. In order to do that, we have to qualify the statement. Because if it stands on its own, it simply is not Not true. When one becomes a Christian, it does not mean that he has ceased from sinning. No, we continue to be tempted and at times surrender to the temptation of sin. Not only that, but more specifically, there are many who have experienced pain or some loss for their faith, but have committed Since we have been talking about Noah, we could look at his life as well. After he came out and saw the recreated creation And went through a great deal of persecution, he still sinned, did he not? There is no evidence here that Peter means to say that pain somehow Purifies a person as if to insulate you from sinning. The thought would be a natural one, I think, as I'm sure you've heard it say that pain, strength Strengthens you or hardens you. Now, in and of itself, it may be true for some, but there are times when pain causes some to become Defiant, rebellious, and even doubt God's intentions. In order to get at what Peter means here, we have to say within context He has just said in 317 that it is better to suffer for doing right, if that is God's will, than for doing Wrong. Therefore, whoever has suffered for doing right and continues to do right, that is in some cases Returning good for evil. The person that persists in obeying God in these circumstances has made made a clear break from sin. Ceased from sin just cannot mean that he sins no more More. And in this case, we're not talking about martyrdom as a result of persecution, where in that case you would be in glory and sin no more. But that's not what Peter has in mind. Here. So, what does this say about the person? The person who is being persecuted and continues to obey. Under persecution. It says that this person's profession to follow Christ is evidenced by a continued Obedience, to obey God's ways. It is more important to Him to be in communion with our Heavenly Father than to avoid pain, injury, or some sort of loss. Therefore, what Peter is pointing out, and I quote Dr. Wayne Grudom in his commentary on 1 Peter, which I'm indebted to. Quote, thus following through with a decision to obey God, even when it will mean physical suffering, has a morally strengthening effect. Effect on our lives. It commits us more firmly than ever before to a pattern of action where obedience is even more important than our desire. To avoid pain. And then he then expounds, Peter that is, upon this and its purpose, or should I say, its benefit So that for the balance of your life, the rest of the time in the flesh, you are not making decisions based upon your emotions. Or your feelings, but rather upon the firm foundation of obedience to God. That really can be where the challenge to victorious Christian living can be, isn't it? That's the major challenge. I think we should pay face. How many times do we make decisions in life that are based upon our appetites, our passions, our feelings? And then look back after the pain and think to ourselves something like, you know, sin is a bad idea I know better. Or the proverbial, you dummy. Making a decision to continue to obey under suffering. Can strengthen our commitment to God afterwards. For the balance of our earthly lives. Now, we have to press the pause button here for just a moment. It is certainly true that when we first come to Christ, we are making a commitment to follow Him and to abandon our old ways. That's the repentance part of faith and repentance. We are giving up our old worldly ways and committing to follow Christ. What Peter is not saying is that there's some sort of a second or perhaps a third commitment point for salvation. But there are times when Christians will endure hardship, depending upon where they live in the world, or whom they are employed by, or whom they are married to. For their faith. And neither is he saying that every Christian everywhere will regularly be experiencing this. But he is writing to the church, and he is addressing the Christians who are and had to face this reality. He wants them to know. He wants you to know that when you are experiencing suffering for your faith and continue to do so, And yet you are obedient to God. In the midst of that, there is a strengthening effect for your faith that brings Glory to God and makes it easier to fend off temptation to sin in general. And this is what Peter points us to next. Next, that temptation to sin in the next verse. Peter says, for the time that has passed sufficeth. Why is it that Christians should not live by or be guided by their passions, presumably? sinful passions. Because as Christs, we should be guided by our desire to live by the will of God He is telling us that time of sin, the time of sin that we lived under is sufficient before we were saved. We should not look forward to or indulge ourselves in any more sinful lifestyles. Do you know Christians like that? Mind you, I did say Christians. I'm talking about Christians indulging in sin And sinful lifestyles, finding justifications to gratify their flesh Perhaps you have heard it, or maybe you've said it yourself. Just one last time. Who is it going to harm? I've been doing this for years, and no one has gotten hurt. I'll ask for forgiveness later. Oh, my flesh is weak. If God doesn't want me to do it, He would give me strength. By the way, that one's a doozy. We now put it on God for not stopping us from sinning. We really are very clever artists. And he is clear about, Peter is clear about what these sins that were indulged by ourselves are. I'll just point them out. Living insensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies. Drinking parties, and we're not talking about lemonade and lawless idolatry. There's no need to go into detail about What these things are. We know what they are. Furthermore, Peter continues to be consistent in the way that he views the church and the new Israel. Don't know if you caught this. The new holy race before God, the living stones, the royal priesthood, the new temple, the new Israel. He sees Christians As the community of believers, including ethnic and non-ethnic Jews, as the new Israel. And all unbelievers he mentions here as Gentiles. We're no longer Gentiles. As far as Peter is helping us define ourselves. This is what you used to be. And Those sins in your life are done. In verses four and five, he moves to the reality. That those that persist in sinful behavior will give an account for their behavior before the judge, who judges the living and the dead. Since before they were saved, these sinful behaviors were considered normal. But now that they are saved, now that we are saved, they are rightly. We are rightly abstaining from these sins, and their neighbors, unbelieving neighbors, are are surprised that they no longer wish to partake or join them in their debauchery. That ever happened to you After you've gotten saved? How your old friends treated you? When you told them, I can't don't want to do that anymore. I have. Well it it it mostly didn't go well. At times they just didn't understand And at times they tried to get me to come back to that life. And when it was obvious that I wouldn't, the friendships ended. Peter uses language that is reminiscent of what just used as an illustration with Noah He says, they are surprised when you don't join them in the same flood of debauchery. The NLD translated, I think, better. He says, plunge in with them into the same flood of dissipation. Those that are engaged in this type of lawless behavior think that what they are doing is okay. And that they think that you are weird in not partaking with them. I can understand it. If Noah or any of his children. Wanting to give up at some point. After a couple of decades, you know, you may think this is for the birds. I could use a little debauchery. I'm out of here. But it's another. When you're on the boat and the rain has started You don't take a plunge into the water after the ark is floating, right? Well, you know, We're sort of there now. You and I, Christians, when you think about it, we have this recorded for us What it went on in Noah's age. And just not that. Jesus was prophesied about, and that's been going on for more than 120 years. He came. He fulfilled the requirements of the law. He died. He was resurrected. and ascended to the seat of power, and as the King of Kings, he rules now in succession. But we've been told that he's coming back one day to make all things right. If you believe in Christ and believe the promises of Scripture. The inevitability of Judgment Day. Well, it would be like you're on the ark and decide to jump into the waters after the rains have gone. There is no other way of saying this that than simply that this would be foolish. Dare I say it would be the poster child of stupidity Peter is reminding us that to partake of this kind of behavior is like Noah giving up and plunging into the water after the flood has come. How absurd of Noah to do that. And just as absurd it is for a believer to do that. Today, given the knowledge that we have, given the evidence that we have Now, for those who continue to reject Christ and not repent from their sins, they shall have to give an account. of their actions. Just as judgment came upon those in Noah's time, surely, judgment will come upon this generation as well. No one, whether living or dead, shall escape judgment from God. Noah's experience should remind us that judgment will come and No one will escape it. And Christians will be vindicated. This language reminds us that God can come At any moment, when we least expect it, and therefore we should be ready. Peter states that not only the living will be judged, but also the dead This means that death will not enable anyone to escape God's judgment. Now you may be asking, why does Peter Even bring this up. And I think a clue to understanding why Peter does bring this up here is because there was confusion about the afterlife. Would be like. People were concerned that if they died beforehand, they would miss it. Perhaps Peter is addressing a concern about those that die before the judgment. So he addresses here that the dead also will be judged. The last verse for us today, verse 6. States that for this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead. That through that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. So it's possible that some wondered about Christians who had already died, perhaps for those who were persecuted for their faith. Since this is the current topic of concern. In this passage. Now we should, however, caution ourselves against being so definitive regarding the verbiage that are dead. Not just those that are dead due to persecution, I mean. He begins with, for this is why the gospel was preached. The reference is back to the previous verse. Final judgment. Another way of saying this is: because of the final judgment to come, this is why the gospel was preached, referring to those who believed in Christ. And then later died. Dead means those who are dead now As in when Peter is writing. However, they were alive when the gospel was preached to them. This is similar to the passage previously discussed in 319. I don't know if you recall, where it was to the spirits who are now in prison. Right? Do you remember that? Actually the NIV does have this verse containing the word now. In its translation, to help us to understand that. It reads, For this is the reason the gospel was preached even to those who are now dead. So as it relates to the last phrase, becoming a Christian did not guarantee that you will escape physical death. Except, of course, the last generation when Jesus returns. All humans are subject to the judgment of Adam. The first covenant head. And that judgment is physical death. Those who are saved by but dead Now we're judged by human standards. But in contrast to that judgment, Christians were preached the God. gospel when they were alive. So they could live and be saved from the final judgment. Finally, in regard to the Spirit, can also mean in the Spirit. Realm. Christians were preached the gospel so that we can live in the spiritual realm, in this case, after Christian After we die. And this interpretation would be entirely appropriate as we pointed out that Peter referred to the spiritual realm for when he, that is, Jesus. proclaimed repentance through Noah in Noah's generation. Now, there's a common view out there that states this verse means that the gospel was preached to those people after they died. In effect giving them a a second chance at salvation. But just this just doesn't fit the Context. And it doesn't fit the broader teaching of the scriptures. Think about it. In verse 5, God warns people of the judgment And then later we find that they have another chance. I gotta say that that's that's a warning without any teeth. Right? And that's not much of a comfort if you're being persecuted. Right? Also, there really isn't much of a motivation to give up debauchery to sin If you know that you have another chance after death. But not only that, but it's not much of an incentive to what? To continue to suffer in persecution. Why return good for evil when facing persecution When that person will have another chance after death. So what he is saying here is that it is the same gospel. That they heard, that you have heard and have saved you, and will save you when the Lord comes to judge. Death is not a get out of judgment card for anyone. The gospel enables Christians to live alongside Jesus for an eternity. The gospel enables Christians to judge alongside Jesus on the day of judgment The gospel enables us to live in the knowledge that our suffering is not in vain, but rather, if it is God's will for us to suffer. We should do good. And a consequence of suffering, a consequence of suffering is that it may have a morally strengthening effect, so that we may be able to overcome temptation with greater vigor. Let's pray. Dear Father, help us to recognize that our greatest battle in our lives is not poverty. Wealth, suffering, comfort, or anything like it. It is our battle with temptation. Strengthen our minds and our wills to just say. No. Help us to be lifelong consumers of the milk of the word. May we never look elsewhere to nourish our soul. Grant us the grace we need to continue to obey your word when we may be in a situation where we are being persecuted for our Faith. Strengthen our resolve, we pray. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.