I love that hymn. I think uh I can't think of a better way to enter the pulpit than to uh reflect on those words. Oh, thank you. You know, uh my first pastor, Glenn Connect, used to say, sometimes God knows when we need a good starving. I never thought I would enjoy breathing freely so much after having to have uh masked once. So thank you for that reminder, Cliff. This hymn we just sang is a wonderful hymn. It makes me think of Mary and Martha and how they both sat there with Jesus. And Martha was distracted by many things. And that's the gift of the Lord's day. He says, come back. Come back to me and don't be distracted. And be like Mary. Listen to my word. Mary was happy and content. And she's a great example to all of us in that sense. So I want to send greetings to you all who are visiting via Zoom. And uh, you know, you've heard this last week that our president is sick and we're called in Scripture to pray for our leaders and we need to pray for him, and we need to pray that he might know Christ as well. The other thing I want to remind us is that our Lord, our leader, the Lord Jesus Christ, has not changed one iota from last week You and I have grown old, a week older. Some of the kids might have lost a tooth or something. Maybe some on Zoom or some here have had a loved one or yourself has heard sad news about your health. But our Lord Jesus Christ has not changed one iota. He is still seated at the Father's right hand. He is incorruptible. He has overcome death, and death will never have any dominion over him. And so that is our hope and that's our joy as we come to morning. We live because he lives. And so as we come on the Lord's Day, that's a great reminder that we're looking forward to his return. His sure return, but he will come and he will redeem us forever. That final part of the salvation that we have in Christ. So every Lord's day, we're getting closer to that salvation. As Paul says, we are nearer now than when we first believed. And that is absolutely true for every believer as we move towards that day when the Lord will come. Well our text this morning is John 9. I know it is a fairly lengthy text, and I'm going to try to go at it with a good clip, but I'm going to hopefully not do it in a boring way. So would you please stand for the reading of God's Word and I'll pray for us and then we will hear from God's Word. Our Heavenly Father, we have this great privilege that you have set before us to hear the word above all words. The word that you have deemed fit for us to hear, that it is not the word of man, it is your word. God breathed, it came out of your mouth for our good and our nourishment. And everything you do is good. And so we ask that all the good purposes that you've given your word for, and particularly this passage By your grace, by your spirit, as we've already sung, would be ours this morning. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hear the word of the Lord from John 9. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents? that he was born blind. Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud and said to them, Go, wash in the pool of Saloon, which means scent. So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, it is he. Others said, no, but he is like him. He kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes. And he said to me, Go to Saloon and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees asked him again how he had received his sight. He said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see Some of the Pharisees said, this man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, how can a man who is a sinner do such things? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, what do you say about him since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight, and asked them, Is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age, he will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, He was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age, ask him. So for the second time they called the man who had been blind. And said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I know, that though I was blind, now I see They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, why this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and you would teach us, and they cast him out. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, we see, your guilt remains. Amen. Please be seated. In our last two sermons, we've talked about the idea of God being light. And it stems from Psalm 36. 9, the second part particularly, and Psalm 36. 9 says, For with you is the fountain of life. In your light do we see light. And last week we discussed how the Word of God is light. It's a light into our path. That God has given us His Word to help us to live in this world as his people. It's unique. It's different from the general revelation that we have in the world that displays his glory, that uh it shows his eternal power. and his his his godness, but it does not tell us how to be saved. It does not tell us how to get back to God. And it's in the word of God alone that we learn that. The Word of God is a great benefit to just plain worldly wisdom. The book of Proverbs is a great gift to help us to live wisely in this world. But even above that is that it tells us of the way of salvation. It tells us that God has done something. It's a glorious thing. It's a marvelous thing. It's a wonderful thing. He has sent his son in the likeness of man to pay for our sins, to live a righteous life, and be the source of life to all those who believe in him An incredible, wonderful truth that we have only in Scripture. The only place that we have it distilled is in the in the Word of God in that sense. And you will hear there's no other place, and it's the only word that is true and binding in the world. When Jesus comes again, all other voices will be silenced, but everything that has been said in Holy Scripture, everything that Jesus has ever said will absolutely stand just as he has said it will. And so as we immerse ourselves into the Word of God, we see this is another dimension of life. And we see it in this passage today particularly We learned that we have a soul. We learned that God is holy and we need a savior and that there has been a savior promised all throughout the Old Testament. All throughout the Old Testament, beginning with Genesis 3. 15, of the seed of the woman who would crush the head of the seed of the serpent. And over and over again, as we move through the history of redemption, we see this pattern all throughout scripture. We get glimpses, almost like when you go to the movies and you get the previews of a movie. It's not the whole movie. But we get these previews all throughout scripture. The Messiah is coming. The Messiah is coming. I can't help but think of towards the end of the. the movie Oklahoma, whatever you think of the movie Oklahoma. And I hesitate to even comment on movies because there's things they're not good at them and I understand that. But usually if music moves me, I like it. And I've always liked that song, Oklahoma, you know, Oklahoma, Oklahoma. And it keeps building up and building up and building up. And it's just like the Old Testament. It's like the Messiah is coming. He's coming. He's coming. And then in the fullness of time, he comes. Jesus comes and he's here. And it's this wonderful, glorious light show that the Messiah is coming and there's data points that would say this is who he is and this is what it'll be like. But we see in the New Testament over and over again, and sadly often, it's the religious leaders that miss the point They miss this light that has been there from the beginning of Scripture. We've already, if you've ever read the through the book of John, we see back in John 3 that Nicodemus is a teacher of Israel, and he doesn't know from the scriptures that you need to be born again. You need to be born from above. And I think I've shared this with this church before. I was glad Jesus didn't ask me that question many years ago. I was like, I don't know what he's talking about. But if you read through the Old Testament, particularly in Ezekiel 37, we see this situation where Ezekiel prophesies over the The dry bones, lo, they are very dry. And they come together, and they and there's life out of these dead bones, like extra dead in a sense. And so it is an amazing thing. And so, but but Nicodemus is like, you're a teacher of Israel and you do not understand this. And it shows how important the Old Testament is. The Old Testament is life for us today as well. It gives us greater fullness into the gospel. We realize how far the foundations go. Of this hope that we have in Christ. As we've heard a lot from Ephesians, we're going to hear some more from Ephesians today. Before the foundation of the world, that's the foundation of our salvation in Christ. I remember speaking to a youth camp one time and I thought, I'm going to do like a my my book ends are going to be Once Upon a Time and They Lived Happily Ever After. And I was trying to show how scriptures like that. And so I started at Genesis and tried to walk through to Revelation. Then I'm reflecting on Ephesians. It's like, not once upon a time, back in eternity. The foundations are before the foundation of the world. He chose us in Christ to be holy. And so that light had to dispel the darkness of our own thinking. And that's what the scripture does. It dispels the darkness that we have by nature because of the fall. And before I go directly to the text, and I'm going to go at a rapid pace here, I did mention last week that we need to rethink the effects of the fall. That the effects of the fall are catastrophic. It was a catastrophe That they still linger with us today and every one of us. Even as we're God's people, there's still remnants of the fall that need to be sanctified in our affections, in our thoughts, in our words, in our deeds. And it's the washing of the word over and over and over that eradicates that. Some of us are old enough to remember the uh the Christmas catalog from Sears that would come out every year. I love to read that thing to see all the new toys, you know, all the myriad of toys. But they had this one thing called a rock tumbler. And you put these rocks in a jar and you put some kind of an abrasive in there and had a motor and it would spin over and over and over. And then when you got done, it was all shiny, you know, they're all smooth because the abrasive had done its work. And that's what the Word of God is like as we spend time. We don't see it, it's not like in great uh uh movement sometimes, but slowly. Over time, Lord's day after Lord's Day, day after day, it shapes us. It shapes us and molds us into the image of Christ. And so the Word of God is so important, the Old Testament and the New Testament, and we need to know it. We need to know it. And so in our passage today, we have a very sad and amazing story. I don't know how to explain this. An incredible story. I could Preach three or four weeks on this one passage, but I'm going to try to do an overall summary, but I may get back to it eventually at some point in time. And so if I had a title for this, I've already said it's a deadly blindness, and I will get to that later, but if it's an overall consideration, it would be Reflections on the Most Essential Scene. reflections on the most essential scenes. And then my three points under that would be types of seeing, the cost of seeing, and the glory of seeing. Types of seeing, the cost of seeing, and the glory of seeing. First, the types of seeing. As we enter this passage, We pretty much have two parties. We have the blind man who is blind from birth, and we have the Pharisees. And the Pharisees have eyesight. They have the physical eyesight. It's a great gift from God. We spoke about last week. We get to see all the beautiful things that are in the world with these eyes. I recently bought my wife some moms, these yellow moms, and they were getting kind of wilted. Put some water in them, put them out in the sun, and they, you know, they come back to life, and they're just glorious beauty. And the Pharisees could see those things. They could see it with their physical eyes. They had that sight. But not so for the blind man. The blind man couldn't see a thing. Last week we referred to going into like a rigged caverns and you go into a room and they turn the lights off and you can't even see your hand in front of your eyes because there's no light source. And from birth, that's what it was like from this for this man. Now, kids, maybe you've liked to play sometimes. You close your eyes and you start walking around the room like this. And you can all you can do is kind of feel things, and it's kind of fun to do it for a little bit. But this man never saw anything. He never saw his parents. He never saw the sun. He never saw his own reflection. And he never saw Jesus at first. And so we have these people here who can see physically, and this man here who can't see physically And so there's different types of seeing. There's different types of seeing because in the end it's going to be flipped. The blind man's going to see. I mean, the blind man's going to see, and the Pharisees are going to be declared blind. And so we have to ask, what is he talking about? And again, the word of God expands our minds to see there's something more. It sheds life on reality. We do have a soul. And our soul is in darkness in some sense because of the fall of man. In Ephesians 2, it talks about the darkness. I think Mark read about this. And all men by nature are in that state because of the fall of Adam. There's not one person in the world save Jesus, and Adam before the fall, and Eve before the fall, who has not been affected by that. And so we have these types of seeing. We have this physical seeing where you have to have eyes at work. And the Pharisees had it, but the blind man did not. He had been blind from birth. He was a beggar. Now I want to just make a comment here and hopefully I'll get to expand on it in future weeks. But one pet peeve The Pharisees always had was this thing about doing things on the Sabbath. He did it on the Sabbath. He can't be of God. He did it on the Sabbath. Now when I had to work through this passage, I was kind of like, I kind of get the Pharisee's point. I'm missing something. But as I thought about it and worked through it, I thought, what is the Sabbath? It's a rest. It's a rest. Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath. I may start weeping, but I'm not ashamed of it. Just think about, this man saw nothing. He saw nothing. And in an instant, as he comes back, he sees everything for the first time. What a sensory overload! What a sensory overload. What a mercy to this man. This man that could all he could do is beg because he was blind. He couldn't do anything else. And earlier in John's gospel, we see the same type of thing when Jesus heals his paralytic for 38 years. Oh, he did it on the Sabbath. What did he do to this man? He gave him his legs back. He let him walk again. There was rest from all that burden that he had sitting there with all these other invalids all the time. And I know there are some who struggle with physical maladies now of one type or another. And we're longing for that day when we get our new bodies. There will be a relief. It may take longer than you expect or think, but we're still going to get those new bodies. But there's there's there's a sense that we ought to mourn and grieve over the hardness of their hearts. They're all concerned about this Sabbath thing, but they don't even get it. The Sabbath is looking forward to a rest, the eternal rest. And they're complaining about this man being healed on the Sabbath, this great blindness that they have. And so the two types of seeing are the physical seeing, but then there's the spiritual seeing. That there's something more important that remedies the effects of the fall. drove us into darkness. That drove us into self-destruction. And Jesus came to reverse that. If I'm not mistaken, J. R. R. Tolkien has this wonderful word he made up. You catastrophe. I love it. If you go to Wikipedia, you'll see it. And basically he's saying Jesus reverses the catastrophe, which is exactly right Jesus reverses the catastrophe. Jesus always has life in himself. Jesus is always the life giver. And Jesus in his work, in his redemptive work, brings about this new catastrophe, this reversal, which is glorious And so in the beginning, the blind men, the blind man doesn't see physically And the Pharisees do. But Jesus goes and he heals this man. And now he's going to be healed because he did exactly what Jesus said. I'm not going to go into how he did the process, except this. If you remember, Jesus spit and he took the saliva and mixed it with the mud And we see there a reference back to Genesis, that man was made out of dust. This is the second time that Jesus, in his miracles, in the book of John, at least Has pointed back to Genesis. We see when he healed the paralytic, he says, get up and walk He healed this man by divine fiat. Let there be, let there be, we see in the book of Genesis. And Jesus does the same thing No intermediate, just get up and walk. And he gets up and walks. And the man doesn't even you know him just he seems so disillusioned or whatever. He doesn't even answer Jesus' question when he asks, do you want to be healed? Want me to heal you? That's how pathetic this situation was. And yet Jesus says, get up and walk, and he does. Just like when God said in the beginning, let there be light, and there was light. And you go all the way through Genesis 1 at the command of God. All these things come to be. But here we see him mix his saliva with the mud, and he it heals his eyes. And again, it points to his divinity. It harkens back to the book of Genesis, that this is not just a man. This is a God man. And so the second point is this cost of seeing. The man is healed. Glorious day. He sees light now. He can see all these beautiful things that he never saw before. He finally sees his parents. He finally sees other people. He sees the son. But he still hasn't seen Jesus. Because when he went, he was blind. And he came back seeing. But it's here we need to see the cost of seeing. This man had been acted upon by Jesus in a glorious way. We ought to rejoice that he just got his sight back in some sense. But then troubles start. The man is reviled, his parents distance themselves from him, and he's excommunicated. What a day for this man. I mean, it must have been one of the most difficult days of any man, apart from our Lord Jesus Christ or Jove in the history of mankind to have so many things happening so quickly. He gets his sight, you think it's a great thing, and there's opposition to a simple testimony of what Jesus did. He never lies. He testifies three times in this passage. He never lies. He always speaks the truth. He says it again and again. And he's reviled. His parents distance themselves from him and he's excommunicated. The Pharisees, who are supposed to be the teachers of Israel, are beating up on him. They're criticizing. You are born in utter sin. One commentator said, what they're saying is, we know why you're blind, because you were born in utter sin. But at the beginning of the passage, we know that's not the case. He's not blind because of his sin. He's not saying he was sinless like Jesus, but that's not why this is going on. That's not the reason. That this man is blind. It wasn't like you sinned and now you're blind. That happens sometimes in Scripture. There is that connection, but not here. But they say, yes, it is You were born in utter sin because you're blind. That's what the implication is, in some sense. And so these teachers of the law Or like his biggest enemy. But then we see we hear the sad thing about his parents Now we we can understand this. I'm sure everyone in this room has failed. When you are called to have courage, you've failed in some measure We all have things we're ashamed of, I trust, where we we should have stood up for someone or something and we didn't. We were afraid And his parents were threatened with excommunication. And if we take that seriously, we can understand why they would feel that way. Maybe like Martin Luther. That if anyone said he was the Christ, they would be excommunicated. And so they were afraid. And so what they do is they kind of throw their son under the bus They throw their son under the bus. Well he's a he's of age. Ask him. Don't let me we're going to separate ourselves from, yeah, he's our son. Yeah, he was born blind. But ask him. Ask him. And what a sad, sad commentary. You know, parents are like your cheerleaders. Parents are your advocates. Your parents are like shepherds. And he They just kind of distance themselves from him. They could have said, he's never lied before. Why don't you just take his testimony? He's never lied to us. I know he's blind, but he never lied to us. Never. We don't hear that. You weep over that, just this disengagement of his parents. And then the thing that his parents are are worried about and afraid of, he gets it. They cast him out at the end. This authoritarian this authority, the Pharisee, to cast him out, he's excommunicated. He did nothing wrong. He didn't sin. He spoke the truth. He was a faithful witness with that little bit of light that he had, that little bit of testimony. He became a witness for Christ the first day. What a sad, sad story. But this is the pattern that we see all throughout Scripture, that the godly will suffer for righteousness' sake. The godly will suffer for righteousness' sake. And if you're a Christian and your testimony is small and you're a Christian and you have this incredible testimony, you're going to suffer if you're faithful for Christ. You cannot get away from it. We're not above our teacher. Philippians 1:27-30 says, Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit. With one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel, and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction. But of your salvation and that from God. And here's verse 29. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. Engaged in the same conflict that you saw that I had and now here that I have now. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. That there is a twin Stran, that believing and suffering for Christ go hand in hand. The word is gratius there. It's grace. It's grace to you, not only to believe, but to suffer for Christ's sake. And we see this in the apostles. They're in prison or they get beaten and after a while it's like they they rejoice that they were counted worthy to do this. That's what God does in his people. It's like, oh, I get to suffer for Christ Praise the Lord. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying it comes immediately, but the only cause that's going to last is Christ's cause. And if you're on his side, if you're a faithful follower. You you you get to share in the glory and the suffering. You get to share in both of them. And so this man who just has a smidgen, a smidgen of a testimony, is faithful and he suffers greatly. Because of it. So there's types of seeing, there's the cost of seeing, then there's the glory of seeing, the glory of seeing. We read at the end of this passage in verse 35. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him Jesus said, for judgment I came into this world that those who mate who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind. This man who for the first time sees Jesus and Jesus sought him out. You see the grace there. He sought him out. He wouldn't be able to pick out Jesus in a lineup. But Jesus comes to him and speaks to him. And when he sees it's Jesus, he he bows. He worships. Now that would have been blasphemous. That would have been wicked. If Jesus wasn't God, we see the Apostle John bowing to an angel in the book of Revelation. We see people trying to bow to Paul, I believe, in the book of Acts. It's like, no, no, no, don't do that. Don't do that. But Jesus is the Son of God, and we should worship him. We should worship him. He believed in him. He believed in him and he worshiped him. The glory of believing. To worship God in truth, in spirit and truth. But that's not all that he had. That's not all that this man had, because as we'll we've talked about before and as we'll hopefully see in future days, John's purpose of his gospel. He gives us his purpose statement in chapter 20, verses 30 to 31. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name That's what this man did. He not only worshipped him, but now he has life in his name because he has believed in the Savior. He's believed in the Messiah. It seems like this all happened in one day, but what a glorious day. Hard things, but glorious things. And so now this man who is blind physically and blind spiritually has both back. And in the end, he's the one who's really seeing. He's the one who's really seeing. But we also hear the sad and the deadly blindness of the Pharisees as we close this chapter. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Their guilt remains. That's a short statement, but it has a lot of import. They are guilty before the Holy God. And unless in God's providence some of these men, and we know not all of them were wicked, the Pharisees we know, I believe it was Joseph of Arimathea, said he was a righteous man. There were some exceptions, and we don't know about Nicodemus. He seems There's positive things about Nicodemus, but, and also Paul was a Pharisee, but we see that the majority, it sounds like, were unbelieving and their guilt remained. They had the Son of God before their eyes. They had the light of the world before their eyes, and they didn't see him for who he was. But it's not a neutral blindness. It is a culpable blindness. It is a culpable blindness. And if you reject the Savior, you will bear your own sins. You will bear your own sins, and that's why Jesus came to save you from your sins. Again, the incredible blindness, and I will end with these things, the blindness Of the Pharisees. D. A. Carson, who has a really wonderful commentary on the book of John that I go to every day, literally. He says this, he says, they do not remember the ancient promises that one of the signs of the dawning of a messianic age is the restoration of sight to the blind. And then Carson quotes these three passages from Isaiah, Isaiah 29, 18. In that day the deaf shall hear the words of a book. What book is that? It's the Word of God. It's the Old Testament. And out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see. Isaiah 35, 5. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. And finally, Isaiah 43, 7. I am the Lord, and I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations, to open the eyes of the blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon. From the prison, those who sit in darkness. That is what Jesus has come for, and that's what he's doing. And nobody will thwart his hand The final comment I will leave and I'll ask a question is Matthew 15, 12 to 14. Jesus is talking to his disciples about what defiles a man, and they say, you know, the Pharisees were offended when you said these things. This is what the scripture says. Then the disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying? He answered, Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up. Let them alone. They are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit. But see, God has given us his word as a record that we might always have his light. This is why this day is so precious. This is why his word is so precious. It is always and will be a light into our path because it talks about the light of the world, who is Jesus Christ. And the question, as John would have us consider, is where where do we stand with the light? Are we like the blind man who by God's grace, or maybe even today, comes to see Jesus for who he really is? Or are we like the Pharisees? Ah, he's just the son of Joseph and Mary. We know he is. That's all he is. A truth or a lie. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Your word always accomplishes its purpose. We read this in Isaiah. It does exactly as you please. And in your people, it changes us. From glory to glory, the glory of your Son Jesus Christ in conformity to him. We ask, Father, that we would have the words that we've sung today so far and heard sink into us. The words of the confession that we read earlier. That we would have the words of the scriptures to sink into us. And we would have the words that we will end with sink into us by your spirit That we might give glory to your son, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.