If you haven't turned, opened your Bibles to our passage this morning, let me invite you to do that. Even now. So as we mentioned, today is the second Sunday of Advent season, and the emphasis of this Sunday is peace. The peace that Christ has delivered and will deliver. And the passage this morning is from the Gospel of John, chapter 14, and verse 26. seven is primarily and singularly focused upon the peace of Christ Let us turn our attention to our Lord's word now. And would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? The following is from the Gospel of John, chapter 14, and verse 27. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated, and as you are seated. Please join me in prayer and a prayer of illumination this morning. Be with us now, Holy Spirit, as we open and gaze into your holy Word. Open our minds to understanding the truth of God. Reveal Christ to us and the wonders of the gospel. Convict our hearts where and when we fall short. Grant us grace and work in us a changed heart to reflect the character of our blessed Savior. And it is in His name that we pray. Amen. So the the Greek translation for the word peace is actually uh irony. Or Irene. Some parents name their children peace from the Greek word. In my life, I've come across, and maybe you've come across Many Irene's because that's where and what the word Irene and the name comes from. It means peace from the Greek. Now the Greek Hebrew I'm sorry, the Hebrew translation of peace is something that most people are are familiar with also. It is Shalom. Sa the the ancient people of God named their children uh similarly as we do Irene. In fact, the name Solomon is derived from the word shalom. Solomon basically means peace or man of peace. For us as Westerners, the notion of peace tends to focus on the notion of serenity. Is that not what comes to your mind? mind when you think of peace, serenity, and in some cases, enjoyment of a life that lacks friction, difficulty, and conflict. It can also mean that we We are living in comfort. When our comfort is disturbed, we interpret our lives as being unpeaceful or chaotic. Shalom has been and continues to be the Hebrew sentiment that is expressed both when people greet and depart from one another. But shalom is much more than just A simple hello and a simple goodbye. As you dig deeper into its meaning, you're going to discover that it expresses a very profound sentiment. Shalom has been defined as May you experience the wholeness of life that comes from knowing and being at harmony with God. Let me repeat that. May you experience the wholeness of life that comes from knowing and being at harmony with God. Now, in our text this morning, the Lord states that the type of peace that He offers is not like What the world offers. He points out that there's a contrast that exists between God's peace and the world's peace. Now, of course, there are similarities between them, but we're going to focus on the distinctions so that we can understand better what this piece is that Jesus imparts to you and us. Dr. D. A. Carson states in his commentary, there is sufficient hatred, selfishness Bitterness, malice, anxiety, and fear that every attempt at peace is rapidly The world promises peace and waves the flag of peace as a greeting. In the end, it cannot give it. There's a type of piece sort of political in nature. I recall back in college, my history professor stated that in all of recorded history Mankind has experienced global peace only about 5% of the time. Now think about that. Almost all of documented time there has been some armed conflict between mankind, except for a very small sliver. Of it. So let's focus a little bit more on this distinction. The world has a form of this peacemaking called peacekeeping or peacekeepers. The United Nations, the UN, sends military units into a part of the world where a truce has been called between combatants in order to maintain this peace. Now let me read off to you a list of regions and countries that today, currently, have UN peacekeepers. The Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan, the Central African Republic. They are in several places in the Middle East and North Africa. In Europe, there are peacekeepers from the UN in Kosovo. In Asia, in Kashmir. All these places Are there for UN military forces to maintain or keep the peace? And let me just say: this is not an exhaustive list There's quite a other few places to go to as well. Now many have speculated that there will be a call to the UN for peacekeepers When Ukraine and Russia have negotiated some cessation of hostilities Question. What do you think happens when the peacekeepers are no longer welcome? Do the compatents typically maintain the peace? Well, our history has demonstrated that oftentimes hostilities pick right back up again. One thing that we can learn from this is that they are not peacemakers. They are peace keepers. Now, many of us have have heard the Latin word for peace. We hey, you know, we've got to do the hat-trick. We did Greek and we did uh Hebrew. Now let's go to the Latin for the word peace. It is pucks. Not as in a pux upon your house. It's a different type of pucks The term that reminds me of this word is when it's used historically for the peace of Rome. Perhaps you've heard it as well, Pax Romano. Indeed, Rome achieved and maintained the peace. No doubt, but they achieved it with a brutal exercise of military conquest and maintained it by an ever-present and unforgiving sharp sword Outside of political peace, the world offers another type of peace. It is in the form of things that we ingest. One form or another. Really, what I have in mind is so broad from relaxing herbal tea to an abuse of alcohol Pain meds, and a whole host of illicit drugs, each promising to soothe our anxieties or numb our existent pain So that we may have some measure of peace. Now, what I have in mind is not the type of pains that come from genuine injury, but as a result of strife. which ultimately has to do with sin. Certainly these sources of relational strife and anxiety come from a variety of places, but the peace that the world offers doesn't To actually address the real issue that brings about genuine and lasting internal peace for the soul It either covers it up or it helps us to cope. Whether we cover it up or do something to cope with it, we can agree that the peace the world has to offer. offer is only illusory or deceptive. We can't even say it's temporary because it's not It's not a lasting peace. It only blinds you, numbs you to the conflict that has arisen from The hostility that exists between yourself and your neighbor. The hostility that exists between yourself Yourself and God, the hostility that exists between yourself and yourself It really is remarkable how we can be at enmity with our neighbor, God and with our ourselves. But such is the nature of men. Our conscience pricks us and we berate ourselves, harm ourselves, and sometimes we can be our own. worst enemies. Are you experiencing any of the above today? Are you angry at yourself, your neighbor, or even God? As it relates to being at hostility with God, Romans 5:10 is very clear. In demonstrating to us that we are at enmity with God. James 4:4 tells us the following You adulteresses, now James is speaking of the church, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? God. Therefore, whoever wants to be friends of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Peace with God is the most significant type of relational peace. One must have in order to experience the fruits that come from it. With genuine believers It can be elusive. Because sometimes when we sin, we don't confess and we don't repent. Unaddressed sin in our life constructs The wall between ourselves and God. So as Christians, we are susceptible to relational strife when we don't deal with our sin. However, when we are at peace with God, the likelihood of peace with our neighbor and ourselves is much more possible and likely. This is because the vertical relationship with God affects our horizontal relationship with man. And that includes ourselves The Lord Jesus introduced the notion of peace on the Sermon on the Mount. In Matthew 5:9, he taught: Blessed are the peacemakers. Not the peace keepers. Blessed are the peacemakers. What is this blessing? It is that they will be called sons of God. The world's ways do not result in enduring fruitful solutions where justice is brought to bear so that truth True, long-lasting peace, the type that penetrates the crevices of the human soul, can be applied. Simply stated, the world, by definition, cannot offer you shalom, the peace of God, because it is at enmity. With God. To look to the world to have peace with God is just sheer foolishness. To understand the Beatitude, we have to recognize that the only people who are capable of and have an interest in delivering the peace of God. Which comes in the form of the gospel are none other than Christians. Jesus, the Son of God, was the one that brought About and made peace possible between man and God. So you see, that is why we proclaim the gospel, and when we proclaim the gospel, gospel, we are called the sons of God. Because it is the gospel that brings about peace between God and man. Let me introduce a model that helps us understand the type of peace that the Lord is making reference to when he says, My peace I give to you. It has three parts and it is linear for those of you who are taking notes. It starts with justice, which is then followed by or leads to peace, and then that is followed and leads to Love. Justice, peace, love. So let me first say that if we are at peace, it means that there is no conflict present This means that there is justice. We don't have a claim or conflict or concern that needs to be addressed. We are at peace with one another. Secondly, something comes after we have peace. Love. For without peace, love, genuine love, cannot either exist. Or flourish. Yes, we can fake it, but it's not the type of love that causes us to be vulnerable. It's not the type of love that that flourishes amongst people. So now let's take a look at the first of the three Justice, the presence of justice. Within the context of man's relationship with God, we are the offenders God has not sinned against mankind. We have not been offended. When we sin, we incur a moral debt against a holy and righteous God. As we continue to pile up our sin, our sin debt against God, God's anger also continues to increase. Just like there can be no peace between men without justice, there can be no peace between God and men without God receiving justice We understand this, right? How can we have peace with anyone who hurts us or offends us? We can't We may even be in situations where we are able to tolerate physical pain and emotional pain, but we don't really have peace. Peace. Justice must be served in order for true peace to exist. There are many judicial buildings all across America today that have a motto that one way or another communicates the following. Without justice there can be no peace. It's no coincidence that judges are called what? The Justice of the Peace. At the end of the day, we have to recognize that Justice must be served so that we may have peace. Question How are we, you and I, moved to demand justice when we're wronged? What causes us to demand justice We literally what? We feel anger, don't we? That anger moves us, it motivates us to be made whole again, to have. justice. And we must have it in order to recover the relationship that has been broken by sin. Otherwise it will not be the same Human beings, you and I, who are made in the image of God, we get our desire for justice, as well as the emotion of anger, from God. God desires justice and is angered by sin. These are what's called communicable attributes. Things that God can and does extend to his creatures. You and I. We don't have the time today to discuss the differences between man and God and how anger achieves its end, but let's just say for our purposes For today, that we both experience anger, and its purpose is to move us towards justice To rectify wrongs done to us so that reconciliation may occur, or to address a wrong. Period. Question How can a finite creature like us pay back An infinite being like God. If you really think this through, you'll come to discover that we can't can't. A finite cannot pay an infinite. A finite can pay a finite, perhaps, right? But a finite creature can't Cannot pay an infinite creature. We are helpless. This is the result of it. We are incapable of making restoration In this life, no matter how long we may live, because we are finite As finite and limited beings, we can only make things right personally by standing under the gaze of God. And receiving the punishment for our sins throughout eternity in hell. Now, this may sound like bad news to you. And you would be right. This is bad news. But that's how you will pay for your sins, so that God will have justice. This is a very sad dose of reality. You may be feeling helpless. If you are, I've got some good news for you. The question is: Is there another way for me to make peace with God? The Bible answers that What is needed is a unique being who represents humanity by being fully human. And also possesses the divine quality of being in it. That precisely is who Who Jesus is fully human and fully divine By Jesus offering himself as a substitute, a sacrifice for his people, the anger of God would be satisfied. When God punished Jesus on the cross for our sins, he propitiated the just wrath of God. See, Jesus. Hebrews tells us. Therefore in all things He had to be made like his brothers, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. God to make here's this word propitiation for the sins of the people. First John 4 10 picks up on In this is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us. And sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. See, by satisfying the demands of, here it is, justice, the Lord Jesus made it possible for his people to have peace with God. You see, he paid the price of justice for his bride, so that you and I may experience the joy that comes from having. Peace with God. Now in verse twenty-seven, the Lord states that He is giving us His peace. Let's not forget that this is happening in the upper room, discourse. Jesus is about to undergo his trials, which will culminate upon the cross He is facing his impending death. He says that he is leaving us with his peace. This is to properly be understood to be his beque Jesus is bequeathing his followers peace. When we reflect upon the Old Testament prophecies of the coming Messiah, we are told that he is the Prince of the Of peace, and he will bring about peace. In this passage, he is leaving it behind for him. He is about to secure this peace on behalf of his followers upon the cross and give it to them. Let's look at Isaiah chapter nine, verses six through seven. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called one. Wonderful counselor, mighty God, eternal father, and there it is, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of this government. War of peace. The Lord Jesus, the prophesied Messiah, is about to go and secure this peace for his people. But it will come. At the cost of his life. He must die What's really happening on the cross? See, his dying upon the cross is the payment for our sins. See, this is good news that Allah Allows us to have peace with God. Upon the cross, Jesus satisfies God's justice He propitiates God's anger. This means that what Jesus offered to God was anger Acceptable and sufficient to satisfy his wrath and turn away, propitiate God's anger Did you catch that? Acceptable and sufficient? He was acceptable because he was both man and God if it's even hypothetically possible if we are born sinless as a human being and live our lives without committing sin, it It would not be an acceptable and sufficient sacrifice for more than one person. Because we We are finite. Because Jesus is infinite, his sacrifice is sufficient for and efficient for all those whom God elects to save. Do you see the distinction? Do you see why Jesus, the the the Savior, had to be both man and God? In order to turn away God's anger, to propitiate his anger. And we know it was good and acceptable because justice has been spoken. Served, and we now have peace with God. Now we need to clarify something here. Just because the Lord made himself a proper and sufficient sacrifice for sins. It doesn't mean that everyone's sins have been forgiven. This would be a form of universalism. We must do what the The Lord Jesus said when he exploded onto the scene of his redemptive of redemptive history. He said what? Believe and repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. So the key is that we place our faith in Jesus and commit our lives to following his ways. That's it. It's faith. Transferring your trust in what you think that you can do to enter into a right relationship with God and what Christ has already done. For you. There's no way that you can pay and have peace with God. It'll take you an eternity. That's hopeless When you think about this, when I think about this, I don't think this is good news. This is really good news. Praise the Lord. I have hope. You have hope. And this is all by faith and faith alone. Now, if you're seeing this today Like your eyes have never seen this before and believe it. Won't you trust Christ? By faith alone, so that you can experience the peace Christ has to offer you that comes from being in a proper relationship with you. So it is this peace, his peace, that of being in In a relationship with God, God the Father, Jesus, bequeathed to us in his death He said, My peace I give to you. He gave this to us at a price. It was at The price of his life. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we we thank you. We thank you that you made a way For us to have peace with you. For otherwise we could never have peace with you. We thank you for your son. And we thank you for the sacrifice that he made of himself for us. Lord Jesus, we thank you. We thank you for dying for us. You paid the ultimate price, so that we may have peace with you and with your Father and with the Holy Spirit We pray for those here today, and for those perhaps who are watching on the live stream, who don't have this peace. We pray that you would Extend it to them, that you would extend your grace and open their eyes and have them come freely, choosing you To be their savior, as we have done. And so we pray this for their good and for your glory. And we ask this