Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and your majesty, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach your awesome things. Your arrows are sharp. The peoples fall under you. Your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. Listen, O daughter, give attention and incline your ear. Forget your people in your father's house. Then the king will desire your beauty, because he is your Lord. Bow down to him. As we come and are taught by the King, as we bow down to Him, and as we forsake our sinful ways. and take up the ways of our King. Let us turn now to his word to receive instruction from his hand. Our scripture text for this morning will be uh from the book of first John. First John verses one through four. And as we turn there, let us stand for the reading of God's Word and for prayer. Before we read, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank it that you have given it to us. You have used holy men carried along by your Holy Spirit to give us the very words of God. And Lord, just as you have inspired your word, and just as you have gathered it together and preserved it. Lord, so we pray that you might illumine our hearts and our minds, that we might see you, that we might see your character revealed in the pages of Scripture And Lord, even as the Apostle Paul on the road encountered Christ and asked, who are you, Lord? And what would you have me to do? So, Lord, as we come before you now, we pray that you would show us who you are and what you would have us to do. We do pray all these things. In Christ's name, Amen. 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes. what we beheld and our hands have handled concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness, and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested to us. What we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also, that you also may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we write, so that our joy may be made complete. Thus ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated. As we come, uh we're going to be doing a series on first John and uh The letter of 1 John is a bit different from the epistles of Paul. Paul's traditional style was the style of the day in the first century. That he would come and he would announce, first of all, who the letter was from, Paul. Would give any credentials that that writer had, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he would announce who the letter was to. To the Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. And then he would give a greeting to them, grace and peace from our Lord Jesus Christ. But John doesn't use that style. John's letter is very different in its form, in that he does not announce himself. He does not announce his credentials. He does not even say who the letter is to. And there is no immediate greeting at the front of the letter. But just as John here says that he is giving witness, he's bearing testimony. So as in a court of law, when a witness steps up to the stand, it's important to know who they are. And and what their credentials are, what their authority is to say um what they're saying, what their experience has been, that they are able to bear testimony and to give witness. So today Uh we want to take a look at the life of the Apostle John in preparation for reading his letter to see his testimony, those things he's pointing to, those things that he has seen, those things that Scripture tells us that he has heard. And concerning the word of life, Christ. And um as we think of the writers of the Bible, those men that God selected to uh To write down and record his holy word. In the New Testament, Paul often jumps to our mind because he wrote a lion's share of the epistles. And there were other uh writers as well writing the gospels. Luke was another one. But after Paul and Luke, John uh wrote uh several of the books of the Bible in the New Testament. And not only that, if you look at the New Testament, the books can be divided up into different segments. We've got the the history of the life of Christ in the four gospels. And we get the uh the book of Acts, which is unique in itself, the history of the early church. Then the instruction that uh That God gave through his apostles in the letters of Paul and the letters of John and the letters of Peter. And then the book of Revelation, which is a combination of history, instruction, and eschatology. And yet John crosses the gamut of all these. He wrote the Gospel of John, that history of the life of Christ. He wrote the epistles of John, that instruction given to the early church. He's the author of Revelation, that w which looks back and which looks forward. And we say in a very unique way, That God was mightily used the Apostle John in revealing himself to the church. Now there's background information that we can glean from Scripture because John was one of the the pillars of the early church, he was uh not called upon like Paul was to defend his apostleship. So that we don't have uh a section where John is defending himself and he goes through his credentials as an apostle and he he goes through how he was called in the ministry. But we see glimpses of it both in his gospel and other gospels and other places in Scripture. And we know that he was his father was Zebedee, and he was a fisherman. His fishing business was in the Sea of Galilee, and his father was wealthy enough that he owned his own boat and employed men. And his mother's name was Salome. And she was one of the band of women who ministered to Christ. She was at the cross and afterward was going to the tomb to pour spices on Christ's body. His hometown was Besseda, which basically means house of fish, because it was a fishing town. And um John, along with his brother James, were fishermen, and they were partners with another family, Simon Peter, and his brother Andrew. But God called John out of these normal circumstances, um, out of this biography that could have been um anyone in the first century or anyone in in that region, it's very common to be a fisherman. But God called John to use him in a mighty way, not only in the first century, but to us, John, his writings we still have. And John not only proclaimed to the early church, but he proclaims to the church today the gospel of Christ. So as we look at his life Let's notice first of all that God called the Apostle John to be one of Jesus' early disciples, that he was there from the beginning. In Acts chapter 1, when the uh apostles gather together and they want to replace Judas as one of the apostles, they're trying to think, okay, well, who should we Yet what should be the qualifications of the person that would become uh the twelfth apostle? And in verse 22, we see that um their qualifications was that person should have been there, should have been an eyewitness, beginning with the baptism of John, until the day that he was taken up from us. One of these should become a witness with us of his resurrection. Someone who was there at the beginning of Christ's ministry, as Christ was baptized, as he was sanctified for the work to which he was called. And this sanctification of the in the baptism of Christ is not a sanctification in of sin where he is uh enabled more and more to live under righteousness and die into sin. That's how we think of it in terms of our believers. But it's a setting apart for the work. It's a making holy or dedicating to the work that Christ was called to. And so at the beginning of his ministry, he was baptized by John to set him apart for his ministry and the work of the Messiah. And John was there, we see. That John's Gospel recounts in the very first chapter that as Jesus came to the Jordan where John the Baptist was um was baptizing. That John saw him and said, Behold the Lamb of God. John records that Andrew and another disciple began at that time to stop following John the Baptist and begin following Jesus. Now, as you read John's Gospel and the writings of John, you see that John's mention of himself is conspicuously absent. He's very accurate on his details. He's very accurate with the names of others, but whenever he refers to another disciple or that disciple, he's usually referring to himself And just as we know that Andrew and John were partners in fishing, so from the textual evidence Uh we see that Andrew and John were some of the first to to leave following John the Baptist and by John the Baptist's own instruction to go follow Christ. See, after that, Andrew went and found his brother Peter and brought him to Christ. The next day, Jesus found Philip, and Philip found Nathaniel. So we see John as one of the earliest disciples was able to record the coming of the disciples to Christ. And um as one of the earliest disciples, he was there from the beginning, witnessing the very uh Beginning of Christ's ministry, not only his baptism, but the first miracles, the wedding of Cana. John was there and records it in his gospel, where Christ gave instruction to the stewards. And that they set filled the ceremonial jars with water and they drew it out and they took it to the um to uh the head table. And he records the reaction for us because he was there and because he saw these things from the very beginning. Not only did God call John to be one of Jesus' earliest disciples, he also called them to be one of his closest disciples. Now we know from the Gospels that Christ had many uh followers, if you will. After he fed the five thousand, it says there were throngs and multitudes that followed him. And we see in Luke chapter 10, Jesus sending out a group of 70, two by two, to go and to preach the gospel and to minister in his name. And certainly John was a part of the twelve, that's what we normally think of, the twelve disciples that Jesus had around him. And um and like the twelve, John was uh he was a human. The point of this sermon is not to exalt uh the apostle John as as above uh uh the rest of men, but it's it's to exalt Christ and how uh how Christ used the Apostle John. And as we look at the life of John we see him making mistakes Remember that several times uh Christ groaned within himself and said, How long must I put up with this unbelief? And his in his own disciples, in his own twelve. We see a couple instances of this. Luke chapter nine. Uh John came to Christ and said, We found this man and he was casting out demons in your name, but I told him to stop because he he was not following us. And Christ rebukes him. says, uh that he corrects that idea, that false notion of um that you must be one of the twelve, that you must and said, He who uh speaks in my name Will not soon speak against me. He who is not for us is against us is for us. And right after that, again, the Apostle John and James As they came to the Samaritan village that would not receive Christ, turned to Jesus and said, Do you want us to call down fire upon them? As Elijah did. And Jesus again corrects them and says, you don't know what manner of uh of ministry I have. Again, uh just as he said uh to Py uh to uh Pontius Pilate, if my my kingdom was of this world, my servant would fight. And John is certainly ready to fight, but Christ corrects him And in Matthew 20, we see John and James coming with their mother to ask Christ for those places on the right hand and on the left, those places of Of authority and of honor. And Christ says, that is not for me to give. So we see not that John was a perfect man, but that Um he was one of uh one of the twelve, one that Jesus called unto himself to reveal himself. And um just as Jesus rebukes John, so he rebukes some of our false notions. I mean in in some in a literary sense, uh John is a foil in these instances. Now, uh the Bible is literature, it's true literature, but it uses um The techniques of literature are are within it. And a foil is someone who uh who makes mistakes, and we learn from their mistakes. And just as uh in the Sherlock Holmes stories, where Watson is always asking uh Holmes, how did you do it, Holmes? How did you know this? How did you know that? And Holmes explains it to Watson. So he explains it to the reader. And as we look at the life of John, the mistakes he makes. The mistakes about uh being quick to wrath The mistakes of forbidding those people who are not in our immediate fellowship of of doing anything in the name of Christ. Those mistakes of wanting honor and preeminence among men. So we learn from the life of John. So we see John was one of the twelve, but not just one of the twelve, he was one of the three. And uh he was part of that inner circle. We see it different times that Jesus called to himself Peter, James, and John, uh, to go with him and to do things that he didn't call the other twelve um to do. One of the instances is in Mark chapter 5 where Jairus' daughter was sick, and as they're going there, they get word that she had died. And Jesus tells Jairus not to doubt, but only believe. And as they get there, Jesus puts everybody out of the room except for the parents and Peter, James, and John. And he raises Jairus' daughter from the dead. John saw that. He was an eyewitness to the resurrection of Jairus' daughter. Another instance is the transfiguration in Matthew 17, where he leaves the other disciples behind, but he takes Peter, James, and John with him up on the mountain, and he is transfigured before them. And as Peter stammers, not knowing what to say, John hears the voice from heaven, this is my beloved son. Listen to him. John heard these things. He saw these things. He knew Christ intimately. Not only one of the 70, not only one of the twelve, but one of the three. And he was not the spokesman as Peter was. We often find that as the disciples are traveling along and as Jesus asks various questions, that Peter will speak up. Speak for the twelve, that he will be the one to verbalize a response to the answers to the questions that Jesus asked. That was not John's role. But we do see a closeness of John with Christ. He calls himself in the in his gospel, the apostle that uh the disciple that Jesus loved. And we see at the supper in John 13, when Christ announced to the to the group that one was going to betray him. Peter motioning to John, who is one sitting next to Christ, and not only sitting, but leaning upon him. Peter motions to John to say, ask him who it is. And it's John who asked Christ. And Christ does not withhold it, but he tells him, it is he who dips the bread in the cup with me. And we see at the cross that John is there. John was one of the only disciple recorded at the scene of the cross. And as Christ saw that disciple and saw his mother, he entrusted the care of his mother unto that disciple. Now um the scriptures uh as far as uh entrusting Mary to to John, um the scriptures are silent about Joseph after the birth of Christ, and there's nothing mentioned throughout the ministry of Christ, whereas His mother is mentioned, so it's um assumed that uh that Mary was a widower by that point and that uh Jesus as her eldest son in in a sense was fulfilling his responsibility. And he entrusted that. To that disciple who was close to him, the Apostle John. And the scriptures tell us that John took her into his house from that time on. And not only at the supper and at the cross, but after the resurrection. In the book of John in the 21st chapter, when the disciples had gone fishing, Peter had said, I'm going fishing, and they all said, We're going with you. And uh like an echo of of the previous miracle of at the beginning of Jesus' ministry, he yells from the shore to throw out the nets on the certain side. And as they do, they can't call in the fish because there's so many after they've caught nothing all night. And John immediately recognizes it's the Lord. And he was the first one to realize what was going on, to recognize Christ appearing to them after the resurrection. So we see that just as uh God called John to be an early disciple of Christ, he also called him to be a very close disciple of Christ. One of the twelve, one of the three. And to have these occasions to see things that not everybody saw. And to be places where not everybody was. Well, thirdly, God called the Apostle John to be an eyewitness of Christ's gospel. If we look at the first uh chapter of Hebrews, we see that God has revealed Himself in various ways in various times. But in these last days, that is from the resurrection of Christ to his second coming, that he has revealed himself through his Son, Jesus Christ. Hebrews one, verse one and two, read, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions, and min in many ways. And these last days have spoken to us in his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And Peter clarifies this. This is talking about divine revelation. How God makes himself known. And in 2 Peter. Verse 1, I mean chapter 1, verses 16 through 21, Peter says, For we did not follow cleverly devised tales when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For when we received honor and glory from God the Father, such an utterance as this was made to him by the majestic glory. This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. And we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. And so we have the prophetic word made more sure, to which you do well to pay attention. As to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts. But know this first of all: that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. And John is one of these men, as God has in these last days chosen to reveal himself through the person of his son Jesus Christ. So, in the providence of God, he used the Apostle John to reveal himself, to move him by his Holy Spirit to record for us the very words of God. And he was not just an eyewitness of of Christ's ministry. We've already looked at several instances that he witnessed that were unique. And that he has witnessed the gospel of Christ really from start to finish, from the beginning of Jesus' ministry. Through his death, through his resurrection, he ran to the tomb with Peter. Through his ascension in the first chapter of Acts, you see him on the Mount of Olives as Christ was taken from them, and as the angel. gave uh tidings of his return. And we see him in a very unique way again in the book of Revelation, seeing Christ glorified in the heavenly realms. and seeing those elders falling down before him, casting their crowns at his feet, and singing songs of praise and glory to him That God called the Apostle John to be an eyewitness of Christ's gospel. And lastly, God called the Apostle John to lead in the first century church. Just as he was an integral part of the ministry of Christ, so after the ascension of Christ, John was a pillar in the church. The book of Acts, which records for us the time of Christ's ascension through the missionary journeys of Paul, has often been called the continuing work of Jesus Christ in the Church. Because that's what it is. It's it's the apostles of Christ as they interact with the people and as they they minister and proclaim the gospel. We see the church expanding in Jerusalem throughout Samaria. And then expanding from Antioch with Paul and Barnabas and Paul and Silas. And we see that in the midst of these events, that John is there. Now again, um he's not uh front and center oftentimes, and coupled with Peter, sometimes we don't even recognize that he is there. But he was there with Peter when the lame beggar at the gate beautiful was healed. John was arrested, and he went before the Sanhedrin. and was whipped and released, and warned sternly not to preach the gospel. John traveled to Samaria with Peter after Philip the Evangelist had gone and spread the word, and the church there was beginning and flourishing. He went with Peter. And he encountered Simon the sorcerer, the magician, whom Peter rebuked. John was there with Peter. John saw his brother James arrested and executed by Herod. James was the first disciple. um to be killed, the first of the twelve besides Judas. And John bore witness to that. John was at the most likely at the Jerusalem Council. Again, although he's not named, as Paul looks back from Galatians, Galatians 2. 9, calls John a pillar of the church at Jerusalem. So we see him in the midst of the Church of Jerusalem interacting with the churches and their questions throughout the world. John lived in Ephesus later on, where he wrote his gospel, and where he trained other godly men, Polycarp and Arenaeus. He was exiled at Patmos under the Emperor Domitian, and then he was returned to Ephesus, where he lived to be uh into his nineties before he died. John was unique again that he lived most of the first century. And whereas his brother was the first of the twelve, besides Judas to die, John was the last of the twelve. So God called him to be on the scene in the days of the early church, to be a leader, to be a pillar. And not only to record the history of what he had seen and heard, but to teach the early church, to fight heresy. He was around for the Judaizers. Who sought to make Christianity a sect of the Jewish religion, of the legalism of the Pharisees. But he was also around for the Docetists Those mystical group of folks who claim secret knowledge of Christ, yet with no authority. And as we look at the book of 1 John, who better to come to step forward and to confront these docetists, those who claimed secret knowledge of Christ, than the Apostle John, who was there from the beginning, who knew Christ. Who was there from the beginning of his ministry through his life and teaching, through his trial, through his death, through his resurrection and ascension? And so as we look at the book of 1 John, that is that's what we'll see. We'll see John coming to to the scene, identifying the error. And testifying and bearing witness to the person and work of Christ. Now just a word of application. We have not been called to be a writer of the scripture. God in his providence caused us to be born later in history. And yet God calls us to be followers of his son Jesus Christ. Christ. And I would ask you today, do you know Christ? Are you a follower of Christ? Have you, like John, left everything in the world? Have you left your uh possessions behind in your mind to follow Christ and to be His disciple. Do you recognize your need of a Savior? Just as Christ rebuked John of his false notions about who God was and who John should be. So have you repented of your false notions of who you are? You see, as Scripture says, that you have sinned, that you have not lived up to the high standard of God in Christ Jesus. And have you come repenting and trusting in Christ for his righteous life that he lived, for his atoning death for our sins. And for his glorious resurrection and ascension. If not, God calls you today to leave everything and follow him, to become a disciple of Christ. And those of you who know Christ, how closely are you walking with Him? Are you one of the multitudes who who followed him and uh really enjoyed the the feeding of the five thousand, but when Christ began to say that he was the bread of life and um began to get into harder doctrine, do you kind of back away and say that's a difficult teaching? Or are you leaning, as John was, upon the breast of Christ Are you there with him? Are you on intimate terms with him? Do you have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ? Again, God calls us to be a disciple, a follower of Christ. And through his word, through his Holy Spirit in our hearts, he calls us into an intimate relationship with Christ. But also in Christ God has called us into a uh And to our own situations, to be a witness for him. Again, in the providence of God, we were not born in the time of Christ. We're not not born in the time before Christ. But He has, in His providence, decreed that we should be born in the time that we live, in the circumstances in which we live. And he has done that for his his own glory and his own perfect purposes. And uh even as John was a light for Christ. Where he gave witness and bore testimony of Christ, so we can and should bear witness and testimony of what Christ has done in our lives. That, as Paul said, we should shine like lights in this wicked world. As Peter said, we should give an answer for the hope that we had, that we should always be ready to do that. And just as Philip, the evangelist in the book of Acts, was called to go and take the road from Jerusalem to Gaza. at which uh it says the text says this is desert, which is an understatement. There's that was nothing there at the time and there's still nothing there today. So as he was called to go and walk along that road, not knowing why, not knowing the purpose, yet as he walked, he saw the Ethiopian. And he had the opportunity to minister to the Ethiopian, to explain the scriptures, to open them up to his eyes, and to baptize him and to bring him to Christ. So as we walk along, we might not know why we're in a specific place. Might not seem to have um strategic importance in the kingdom of God, and yet God calls us to walk That we might speak to others about spiritual things, that we might draw them unto Christ, even as the Apostle John gives witness. And finally, God has called us to be involved and active in the body of Christ. One part of this is just being present. You notice in John's Gospel, as the disciples met in the upper room, Thomas was not among them. And when they came to Thomas and said, We've seen the Lord, he doubted. Now, Thomas wasn't different than any of the other disciples. When the women came to the disciples and said, We've seen the Lord, they doubted. But Thomas was not in the upper room gathering with the disciples as he should have been. And you'll notice that Christ does not go and appear to Thomas separately, but as Thomas comes, and as he is in the company of the disciples, as he's m as they're meeting in the upper room that next Lord's day, Christ appears. And then Thomas sees the Lord. And then he makes that great confession, my Lord and my God. So God calls us to be present. In the people of God, just as John was present in the upper room, see Christ. Just as he was present in the Jerusalem church, and just as he was present in Ephesus to help those cong that congregation. But not only present, but active. Paul in his letter to the Corinthians describes the body of Christ as different body parts with different functions and different gifts. And you might say, well, I I I don't I don't have gifts to give to the church. Everybody has different gifts. And um As we come together, as we fellowship in his name, as we actively seek him and worship him, so we all fit together as one body. Unified and working together to glorify Christ. Just as John was a witness of Christ. Just as John was active and present in the church, may God grant us grace so to do. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word. And we do pray, Lord, that you would grant us your grace that we might shine the light that you've given us, that we might be witnesses. Of the gospel of Christ. And Lord, as we gather together on your day, and this congregation of believers, Lord, I pray that we might be active in worshiping you and in loving one another. Lord, we do pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen