What do I do? We'll be using uh a number of questions from our shorter catechism, starting at page 873 of each month to have Dr. One reason the session asked him to do that is because he wrote the book on the Lord's Well, he wrote a book. And if if you're unfamiliar with the catechism, it's a question-answer format for teaching and particularly teaching God's Word. If we were still under the covenant of works through Adam, we would be obliged to keep all these commandments perfectly if we were going to be saved. Praise God, we're not under that covenant. And we're going to use more questions this morning than we typically do, just as sort of a wrap-up on this subject. Question 60, how is the Sabbath to be sanctified? and rest, but it's particularly a holy rest. It's a clear reference to the Lord's day because on that day the stone which the builders rejected was made the head of the corner. And Dad says to you, Now let's talk about what our core values are as a family. except for sin, than he was on the day he rested from it. That's its deeper meaning. See the Lord. Testimony of Jesus. Send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and Smyrna, to Pergamum, to Thyatira, to Sardis, to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea. simply say I was in the spirit on the Lord's day and the church knew what he meant. And we've been blessed by his previous three messages and anticipate the Lord doing the same here this morning. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates, for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day. And it's interesting that the last part included there, how we show our love for God, is in keeping his day holy. Set apart to me one day for yourself, but he says, in this case specifically, one whole day set apart to him. Weekly Sabbath. do during your busy work week as well as public worship. His challenging a special propriety in the seventh, his own example, and his blessing the Sabbath day Anticipate his blessings through you now. Because for those four centuries they were slaves in Egypt and they were mistreated and and life was oppressive torturous sometimes for them in their poverty and in their overwork, and there was no day off, no Sabbath day, so that as month ground after month They began to wonder now, what day is this? of losing it. You come up with promptness and fairness and so on. And we can catch up on homework and and yard work and projects we need or make our home more beautiful and so on. Game Day, the day we love the most as ministers of the gospel. I was seeking to find him and to so find him that I would feel his presence. to be a holy person. There had to be repentance and faith and change life. of our Savior's saving death and resurrection. The glory of God. And one of his rules is, give me a day, my Sabbath day. The fourth commandment is, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. The fourth commandment requireth the keeping holy to God, such set times as He hath appointed in His Word, expressly one whole day and seven, to be a holy Sabbath. To continue to the end of the world, which is the Christian Sabbath. particularly are things that we're to do on this day to set it apart as special to God. The previous question says it's sanctified by a holy resting. or doing that which is in itself sinful or by unnecessary thoughts, works, words about worldly employments or recreations. All right. Surely my Sabbath you shall keep, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations. I will praise you, for you have answered me and have become my salvation. This was the Lord's doing. But whoever keeps his word truly, the love of God is perfected in him, and by this we know that we are in him. Of the week as worship ought always to be. In that the day was not in itself inherently different. So when he says that, he's speaking to his Sabbath day. and be glad in it. Better Christians. There are the instructions. So that the Lord, when he delivered them by his mighty hand, he said to Moses, now tomorrow you start the Sabbath day. He initiated it again, pointing to the particular day. The record of it. Exactly what that means. is unique, peculiar in its source of blessing. When you're setting your priorities for your family and when you sit down together around the kitchen table, just having ice cream and enjoying each other. Of your family, something that determines schedules and makes plans. And I want to use a word here that's not in the fourth commandment, but I hope you'll allow me to bring this more modern word, orient. Because orienting it around the Sabbath day gives it an eternal dimension. He pressed the pause button on his creative work. so thoroughly that we are addicted chemically in our body to it. and establish social structures and educational opportunities and all the things that the human brain has done to improve this world God gave it. He's saying, be done with it on this one day. That's what stop it means. Somebody wants a conference call. But they're not Sabbath things because they mar that sense of sacred rest. And not only find him, but feel that you have found him. I found him and I was completely satisfied in his presence. A little here and a little there. Is powerful and active and ready to meet you and guide you with some of the decisions you have to make. Where does the holiness come from? That's what he wants to see in all of us, his children. It's preparing the ground out of which this blossom will grow, which is holiness unto the Lord. We must circumcise our hearts, cut away that which is sinful. And given the gift of faith. wonderful things that God has put in the world. As a guest. So that when the new heavens and the new earth appear before us, we won't be strangers Little by little, Sunday by Sunday, we will have learned the language of heaven and the ways of heaven, and we will be acclimated before we get there. I trust at least most of you realize recognize this as the introduction to the book of the Revelation. Ours is divided into two parts, what we're to believe concerning God and the duty that He requires of us. Commandments 1 to 4, and then the rest, the second table. And there's this exclamation that I want to reiterate. I've got to be doing something about these things that are looking at me. Helps us to separate our lives from things that would interfere with that close walk with God. And children, you can check that with your parents. When you're in somebody else's house, you're a guest, and you follow their rules. become identified as the Lord's day, and what a day for John to receive this revelation of Jesus Christ, which we call the book of the Revelation. God, six days God created the heavens and the earth, and he rested on the seventh. The fourth commandment forbiddeth the omission or careless performance of the duties required, and the profaning of the day by idleness. Nothing wrong with birthday cards, but be careful with the use of scripture. And they lost it. Keep the Sabbath in mind when you're planning your activities, your travel. I remember the first day I went to college. It's not to become an idol that possesses us and finally even attaches us. my day of rest. Your use of Sunday. He's utterly, utterly pure and unconnected with anything that would besmirch his character or his name. We're sinful by nature. But on Sunday. And wherever you are, we want to be. The blessing of your Spirit upon your word, and the opening of our hearts to your truth through the ministry of your blessed Spirit. That you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you. Open to me the gates of righteousness, I will go through them, and I will praise the Lord. If we keep his commandments. I want to thank you as a congregation, your dear pastors and session. for this kind invitation to bring this group of messages on a favorite theme of my heart. By your kind invitation. I've given you the Sabbath that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you. Oh no, a day of delight and wonder, of refreshment and revival. Now what is this? How you do everything else. That you can on one day relax and not feel guilty because you're not doing this or that. And the blossom is called holiness. It's the soil that produces the blossom of Christian character and holiness and godliness in your life. That's what Jeremiah called the circumcising of the heart. What do you treasure the most in your life? For the church, for the people of God and the kingdom of God, where we find our place today. Of revisiting that little booklet and incorporating the things God has shown me in your presence. And I want to thank you too for the wonderful evening services that my wife and I have been enjoying for a couple of years. We delight in the preaching of the word, the fellowship of God's people, the earnestness of prayer that takes place there. But going deeper, I discovered, no, God has a deeper purpose in the Sabbath than just testing to see if we'll do what he wants us to do. And I found it here in this 31st chapter of Exodus, which I read to you, he says. I I knew that in a way, but I see it in a whole new way. That passage you'll find sometimes on birthday cards and other places where it doesn't really belong, in my judgment. To see the sweetness of Christ in them and the love is a beautiful experience for me. In order to get detailed instructions, we have to go back to the fourth of the Ten Commandments, which I'm glad was we read together in the confession. Now the Jewish people who originally had the Sabbath day lost it, alas. Or around a sporting event or a coming event that you very much treasure and so on. And not necessarily a title or an occupation. Sunday is God's Sabbath day. Now it's tempting when you have all that time now unmortgaged as it were. From entering into that holy rest, that sacred rest. Work at it in the sense that you plan for it and you have to guard it. But oh glorious transition. That holy rest you're doing is not just absenteeism, it is not loafing, it's not sentimental mysticism. The means by which we can come into holiness. Bless this congregation, Lord, so full of promise, so strategically placed in this city, so wonderfully blessed with this building and these pastors. No, the heart has to be changed to receive this blossom and sacred rest. John Piper uses a phrase that I love. But you see, once the sacred rest produces holiness in you, God will be your treasure. The session can't do this too often. Set apart, separated unto him for the purpose of holiness. that are appropriate for the day of the Lord. It's a step above the ages to see life from heaven's perspective. And you know, as we follow that rule in this world, gradually we'll find we're preparing for the next world. We thank you for your amazing gift, the gift of your grace in one day to walk with you especially closely. The Lord's Day. I don't know any other minister who's ever been invited to do four sermons on one subject. And it's not hard to see that our generation is in danger of losing the Lord's day. But to orient your life around the Sabbath is to make it a fixed point that everything else relates to so that it affects. That God demonstrates? bodies and nerves nervous systems are. It comes through Christian fellowship and conversation. Congregation which I've come to love, but also the opportunity it afforded me to go deeper into this subject. Now I take that to mean that God's going to use the Sabbath as an instrument of holiness and spiritual growth in our lives. Now that doesn't mean that the world was as good as it could be when he made it. Talk over how the Sabbath went. Did we enter into a rest that we needed to enter into? Now, as you think about sacred rest, this isn't indolence or laziness. It is seeking God in such a way that you will find him. It's a transplanting of paradise from heaven to earth for a little while. Introduce my subject along that line. So if we take this text and ask the question of it, he wants us to know that he's the Lord who sanctifies, and for the children that means he makes us. That's not just, oh, today is Sunday. Orient your life not around payday or retirement. This word cease. Now that's not work for us. And without it we will not see the Lord as you know. Now, none of us, of course, can produce holiness in ourselves. O Lord, may this town come to love the Lord's day and to love the churches here. Especially this one, according to your own providence and will. May characterize your walk with God your immense, glorious, excellent treasure, that you'd rather have him than all the world could offer to you. If you want it, the Lord's day is the path to find it, that sacred rest that grows the blossom of holiness. Now I'm trying to keep my remarks brief. What are the reasons annexed to the fourth commandment? I think I'll stop there. And then looking at first John chapter two, verse three, by this we know that we know Him. All kinds of activities take place on this special day as if it didn't matter at all. And because of you, I've asked the banner of truth if I might have the privilege of And being relaxed before God so he can speak to you. So you see the essential, vital part that the Sabbath plays in your spiritual growth. So here it is. Do you want him at that cost to treasure him above all other things? Let us grace, Lord, to seize the gift, to prize it, to keep it and treasure it. I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the All of our time is God's. But because he was setting an example for me and for you. We live in a relativistic day. He makes us holier and sweeter and kinder. Well I know this needs doing the faucets leaking and the grass needs cutting and this and that and I I can't just sit here. You can't make a resolution. Every day is a good day to hear the Word of God, but the Lord's Day is especially a wonderful day set apart for that purpose. Our main text for the preaching of the word today is from the book of Exodus, chapter 31, and it's verse 13. And so I want to do that with you today. This holiness that we speak of is so wonderful That's treasuring him. From the beginning of the world to the resurrection of Christ, God appointed the seventh day of the week to be the weekly Sabbath, and the first day of the week ever since. Now you see this sacred rest is a kind of root growing in the Sabbath day, and it produces a blossom. So friends, this is a kind of final appeal to you whom I love. Glenn Connect, Pastor Glenn Connect, minister God's word to us on the subject of the Sabbath of the Lord's Day. You heard me refer to the deepening of my own grasp of what God does in the Sabbath day. Relativism has captured our society and our hearts so that it's even difficult to say that one day I mean by that on Sunday evening or Monday morning. The whole day belongs to him and to us because he knows how frail our Please stand for prayer and for the reading of God's word. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet saying, Write what you see in a book. Jesus has kept them for us. It takes a whole day to make the transition between pressure and effort and busyness. Holiness is treasuring God above all other things. He just asked one day. Through no fault of their own, it slipped out between their fingers. Keep the Sabbath, he says. Its meaning is not in itself. May we pray together. We have to work at resting in the right way on the Sabbath, uh concentrating on the Lord and our uh privileges and walk with him as his people. It's not the indirect knowledge of God. Somebody wants a trip. She never went on to say, though, she must have believed it. Again, I hope, dear brother, I haven't stolen any of your thunder. That's the manual of how you do this. What does God want us to do from this commandment? May the Lord add his blessing to this reading of his holy word and to his name. It is marvelous in our eyes. It means the world of nature and of knowledge and science, all these I don't want to steal any of Glenn's thunder, but three three things: works of piety, works of necessity, and works of mercy. We have a depraved nature. You're going to be holy from now on. That's the indirect knowledge of God. And he has the prerogative to tell us how we use it. It really means that. The first showing us how we show our love for God, how we fulfill the great commandment. He who says, I know him, and does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him What is the day? Even we preachers have that course happen and we are happy to do our official duties on the Lord's Day. They would lose you, but I don't want to lose you. We're under a new covenant of grace, but these are still a guide for our duty, how we express our faith, our love, our gratitude to God. God has ordained that to be. He doesn't infuse it to us somehow. I want to rejoice with you and be glad with you in it. His holiness means that he's separated from everything that would defile or distract him Once you enter that realm or the presence of God Don't try to do it on your own. What were the things that marred it for us, if any? When I begin to think of the Sabbath this way, my mind goes right away to Psalm 118, which Pastor Dusenberry alluded to. It's on the horizon of your daily life. Question 61. But would you come up with the keeping of the Sabbath day? We went to orientation. This, that, the other. That's why in Exodus 31 he says, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you, who produces holiness in you. That blood was not shed for nothing. Do you treasure him most? And in your presence, we seek your face. Be separate from it. And we thank you for including us in those wonderful moments. In it thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maid servant. The Sabbath is to be sanctified by a holy resting all that day, even from such worldly employments and recreations. He had completed it in the six days. And on that we don't do any work. No. You are a man, a woman, a boy, or a girl, a child of God on this wonderful day. Now just note that the Ten Commandments are typically divided into two tables, the first table We get up with a new energy, and we have a new spring in our step when we know that pulpit is waiting for us, and we are eager to enter it. We don't transition from one thing to another that easily And the means is the sacred rest He said, without holiness shall no man It comes through meditating and prayer and all the things the pastor mentioned as activities. My mother taught me, as I'm sure yours did also. And so, from creation, and in God's creative work is the pattern. It's not a day simply to chill out, although I think there's a place to do that and to take a Sabbath day nap or a walk. It says that the Lord ceased. Maybe you will too. Notice the rationale for the change. He said, your hearts need to be circumcised, by which he meant that the sin had to be cut away. This is the day the Lord has made. And you children, be sure to ask your parents what that means when you get home if you don't exactly have it. That is very much out of style. He wants us to be holy. I had previously thought that the fourth commandment was different from the others He said it is very good. Its meaning is in what it produces, this wonderful blossom in the Christian life. The reasons annexed to the fourth commandment are God's allowing us six days of the week for our own employment. And that fourth commandment also says remember the Sabbath. It will not work. That first day of the week had clearly by that time That's a deeper word. It doesn't mean that this is another Saturday you have. That's a rule of the house. That's very natural. Only by that means would the heart of Israel be pleasing to the Lord. Every week. What is forbidden in the fourth commandment? This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. He wants to sanctify us, make us to be more like your pastors. What are the things that are really important to us? It is hard and it takes bravery to say, I'm sorry, that that would interfere with By the power of God, he can do it on the basis We know him through the test tube or the telescope or the history book and so on. It may not be the book, but he has offered a book, The Day That God Made. Not only the honor of it in speaking to this No, that's a false God. Oh, what a day it is. And what do you do? And is this the Sabbath or was that yesterday? Stop it. Have you ever felt that feeling? But we are to observe it simply because God says to. I found him and he was drawing me nearer than I've ever been before. Sixth day shalt thou labor and do all thy work. This is the day the Lord has made. But he rested, not because he was weary Our Heavenly Father Find that sacred rest and ask God to change your heart so that holiness. That's all he asked. He could have said six days Private piety, a chance to read and study your Bible to spend some extra time in prayer and do some other things that you may not be able to. To treasure is to feel the worth, the dignity, the excellence, the delight. It's the direct knowledge of God. I had to look it up in the library dictionary. When it says this is the day the Lord has made Surely my Sabbath you shall keep. Before Glenn comes to bring God's word, let's confess our faith. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. And you can't take the human heart in its present condition and say to it, be holy. Keep the Sabbath in mind. It was shed to circumcise human hearts who are full of repentance. And it's interesting that John, this was Question 59. It means hold it before your eyes. Have your family together, or if it's just you and your wife, why And this we ask in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. We're a long way for that often. Let us all pray together. But you have to monitor And uh again, we praise the Lord for your willingness to minister to us these past Lord's days and and And it's a blessed way. So now he says, keep it. The principle of one day a week continues, but the day is changed from the last to the first because of Jesus' resurrection. All kinds of things will conspire to take away your Sabbath rest. Because This is in the section dealing with duty You cannot decide We are all guests in God's house. How boring is that Those are good things, but they're not the orientation of your life. That's what I think it means. Now you see, that can't be done in fits and starts on a Sunday He said. They had no way of marking it. The holiness comes out of the root of sacred rest. The whole day, one day. He was showing us that our work is not to be overwhelming. But he can't snap his fingers and make us holy. It's a it's a taste of eternity and time But he turned us loose on the world to develop and dominate it and bring forth its potential. The other six days we spend studying the indirect revelation of God. So question 57. Let us rejoice. You keep the Sabbath Did we discover that separateness? Do you do that? But you see, what that does is to distract you. God wants you to be diligent to enter into rest. The Sabbath is not a burdensome duty that must be undergone every week. That's a qu a very forceful part of the fourth commandment. Notice, too, the rationale is rooted in creation. This is the gate of the Lord, through which the righteous shall enter. I've sought God and I found him. That takes a whole day. Which day of the seven hath God appointed to be the one? And then from Psalm 118 at verse 19. He sets you free from guilt just to be a person. Is that one of the core values? He paused I'm sure it's happened, but I feel uniquely blessed. And I want to go into that somewhat this morning with you. And that happening when sporting events and Do what they want you to do, and act the way they want you to act. All right. Be all glory and praise. But let me say this to you, how reasonable it is what God is asking of us. Saturdays are handy because normally we don't go to work, at least for the whole day. How good it is. Before we do, and we've been privileged for the last uh three months, the first Lord's Day. Well, you'd come up with honesty and respect and It's the pinnacle of your week toward which the week moves. How could we correct that? I want you to notice in that fourth commandment instruction. It is for us a kind of highlight Question 58: What is required in the fourth commandment? In the name of the Lord Jesus we give thanks. Remember the Sabbath day How beautiful that sense is. Keep that Sabbath day. Doesn't mean they're sinful things. We treasure a lot of things, but not God. Because it comes from his inspired word through preaching and worship. We rejoice in your omnipresence, Lord. I had no idea what orientation meant. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Doesn't mean I'm not with you and will be with you, but That's what God is after. How wonderful that is. It's a great day, Saturday. We are in danger. It's the same way with you and with me. You see, the Sabbath exercise This is his house. That's why he gives us a whole day. And I want to Christians, which is the fourth commandment? Amen. That's the tie right there Please be seated. And that's true up to a point. Well It's so important to you. He's given us the Thank you for the word. It's quite negative, but aren't you glad? And when they tell you, let them tell me too. But Sunday is not Saturday. Somebody wants a meeting. He is more pleased now with it. That's part of the day. Amen. Hallelujah. Amen. So Then finally quis question sixty. And it's our