Now the people would have had an opportunity to scope out the project, and in so doing, they would have had they would have been awed with the amount of work that they had in front of them. The Feast of Booze required the people to come out of their homes and live in makeshift temporary booze. Amen. If you like to journal, they're available at the table. Speak now to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Yeshua, the son of Jehosedak, the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, and say And we ask this in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit. Plumbing work and all the electrical work and sheetrock work and all that kind of stuff, right? For anyone to have seen and had memory of Solomon's temple, they would have been somewhat like close to seventy years of age. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy anderant word? Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? According to the covenant that I made with you and when you came out of Egypt, my spirit remains in your midst. For thus says the Lord of hosts, yet once more in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land. and I will shake all nations, so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts. We ask you now to open our minds and hearts to be attentive to the preaching of the Word of God. Help us to see our sin and give us the resolve to turn to you to change us from within, so that we may more and more reflect our Savior. Haggai delivers his second oracle from God. I think most people think of like, you know, their careers, their work lives in situations like this, but we really don't have to go that far. You get excited about the project at first and then you finally get to it. We saw that in Leviticus 23, 43. Now we read that the feast was supposed to commence on the seventh month and the 14th day, and it was supposed to last for seven days. If you recall, God asked them to consider their ways while they were looking at fancy upgrades to their own homes. Now the temple was destroyed in 586 B. The second question asks for those who would have been able to answer the first one: How does this temple and its construction plans fare against that of Solomon's opulent temple? And even after that, deciding that you're just going to stay home and work on a painting project that would just make your house look just smashing. Haggai seems, in this case, not to allude to any specific verse, but rather to the string of historical events. That hammers home the point that God is with them. The silver is mine. In fact, Dr. Studying from verses 1 through 9, the Tagai chapter 3, verses 1 through 9. Be strong, all you people of the land, declares the Lord. Have you ever experienced something like that in your life? Well, you need to do something entirely separate before you can actually get to the project, you know, the original project. But sometimes that can be very overwhelming. These people in Haggai's time don't don't have a roof, nor do they have walls. And then sometimes you just want to give up. that this discomfort they experienced would remind them that God's goodness and provision in providing them a land by their feast day, in a very timely way, may I add, that they were living in comfort. Which means this oracle is being delivered at the time of the Feast of Tabernacles. made of palm leaves and shrubs, and where there was no flooring whatsoever. the structure was and how vulnerable they were to the elements, wild animals, and even theft It was time for them to reflect and out of thankfulness and love serve the Lord. How can we possibly match the old temple? He's much more concerned about what's in your heart. My answer to that is that we need to stop falling into the trap of thinking that the United States of America is the church. Remember that the Lord said, I will always be with you, not, I will always be with the United States. Yes, let's be good citizens, contributing well to our nation, but let's not idolize our nation. The Lord's response was just as important back then as it is today to this discouragement. We remember that it is the Lord who will accomplish his will. His presence. is what is needed to do all that is required by him, because he will supply everything that is needed to do the job. Fear not, for I am with you. His spirit entered into the temple when it was built. They are to be reminded, although they have been punished for their covenant unfaithfulness, God still keeps his end of the covenant. He will be faithful unto the remnant of Israel. Well, who is the remnant of Israel today? and enjoying him in godly fear. The writer of Hebrews, although some would say the Apostle Paul, refers to this in Hebrews 12, 26. The future kingdom that is to come in its fullness will be an unshakable one that will survive eternally. the church. God's people, if you remember, left Egypt with what? And will be saved when the Messiah comes and shakes the heavens and the earth for his treasure, his bride, the church. Who represented the Gentiles in Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, bringing treasure and bowing down before the one who would shake the nations. The thing that sustains us should not be just a hope for a future, excuse me, a hope for the future This is the same one that Malachi talks about in chapter 3 of his book. grander than any previous physical temple ever built or ever will be built. In the seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet When you have guests coming over, you know, like the stayover types. Which means that this would have been at the end, that is the last day of this feast. a home to live in and also to live in freedom and comfort. Let's just take ourselves first. in the following ways, and I need to address it by fill in the blank. Living in the comfort of their own homes provided them with safety, stability, and protection. Praise the Lord. That we have in life. Which brings about sustained Now the latter in this verse is the temple that will be adorned by the shaking of the nations, the bringing in of the Gentiles. Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, declares the Lord. Then you realize you don't have the tools, and now you have to go get the materials, transport them to the house, organize them, stage them, and so forth. Like a wealthy and secure king like Solomon could have. Does it not seem to you like nothing in comparison? or are doing. But we shouldn't be comparing ourselves with what we can do or give to other people. Well let's focus on what wasn't said to them. Now I've been around Christians in really three major parts of this country who lament the conditions of the church today in comparison to what it was 40 or 50 years ago. My answer to that is we must accept the state in whatever tattered condition you may think it is in, and move forward. But the obedience of faith says, I can't, but he can, so I will. However, they are to look for another shaking in the future. This wealth from the nations of the earth will be what God uses to adorn the temple. The wealth will be what he uses, the treasure, to adorn the temple. When he shakes the heavens and the earth one last time, his glory as the temple of God will be much We're told in this verse, verse 1, that this is happening on the seventh month on the 21st day No. Sometimes when we set out to do the Lord's work, we think that we won't succeed, nor do we measure up. He is more concerned with the process and the attitude by which you take into what it is that you endeavor to do for the Lord. Should we listen to ourselves or to the voice of the Lord and his promises? Scared of not being able to do things. The previous time the Lord shook was at Sinai when God came and gave the law to Moses. The remnant that came back in Haggai's generation returned with what? You are what he uses to make the temple, the true temple, the church. The need for this is especially intensified when a comparison is made by Haggai in chapter 2 and verse 3. Now, as we zoom out a little bit, we can get an even better picture of what the people are feeling at this time If we were to see ourselves as the temple of God, individually and corporately, what is it that you would need to do? It can be extremely unmotivating, can't it? That's like living in Haggai's time and receiving, you know, the email. They do a better job at it than I would. But he is about to move forward. If tomorrow, hypothetically speaking, the United States stopped existing as a sovereign nation, the church would go on and it would thrive. The essential problem was that of attitude. I, the Lord, will. Whenever we are discouraged, we must remember that despondency says, I can't, so I won't. The Lord says, I am with you. The worldwide Church of Christ. For thus says the Lord of hosts, once more in a little while I am going to shake the heavens and the earth, the sea also and the dry land. However, the appointments and the adornments that the Lord will choose will surpass the beauty and the value of the priceless decorations of Solomon's temple. That should be how we live. That God will accomplish his plans, but rather to know that we are his today. He uses you to build the church. Matthew 12, 6. Cleansed and adorned by new generations of treasure from the nations, bringing about peace. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we look to the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds. It says the latter glory of this house will be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts. Now, I think I know what you're thinking. And what we can do, and what I can do. The people say we, the Lord says I. And he says, and I will shake all the nations, and they will come with the wealth of all nations, and I will fill the house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. Fallen humanity. This would have been a very vivid reminder of God's faithfulness and goodness to them while they were neglecting Him for the last 16 years. Here's a passage that we all probably have heard, but we need to remember. And verse 6, verse 6 is the only verse, interestingly enough, that is quoted in the New Testament. The Lord continues to use this imagery of shaking of all the nations and considers what will come from them as wealth or treasure, and so must leave. You are that emerald. Everything will come to its fullness. What we need first, I think, is encouragement. now provides the antidote to any discouragement. So who should we be listening to when we are overwhelmed? As for the promise which I made you when you came out of Egypt, my spirit is abiding in your midst, do not fear, the passage says As beautiful and as invaluable they all were. You are valuable to him. The promise of God in Haggai's generation are buttressed by the promises of God for the future. Peace with God. Now Haggai personally identified with the remnant, sharing in their sadness and admitting the current state of affairs as they are. But we're talking about a home project here, right? Not only would the feast have reminded them of God's goodness to them, but living in them reminds one of how unstable In reality, these relatively poor exiles could not have matched the craftsmanship and expensive materials that lavished the old temple with beauty. But I've also seen similar lament about our nation, and the downward direction it seems to be going in Motia, in his commentary on Haggai, he points out that this type of imagery is used to convey the Lord is coming in the fullness of his divinity to do a cosmic and worldwide thing. Build temple. And not up to the task ahead of you, or so you think. Christianity, my brothers and sisters, is not a spectator sport. Peace among the people of God. What is it that we need? But when you compare what Solomon's temple looked like to what they had then, it could be downright depressing, don't you think? Are there times when when you think that the work or offering that you make to the Lord is inconsequential in comparison to what others have done? The gold is mine, declares the Lord of hosts. Now as we move to verse four, God has brought to the surface the problem of discouragement. Personal peace that comes from a vibrant relationship with God Himself. Verse one asks three rhetorical questions. A people who are not given to tension, hatred, strife, and warfare. Currently, this temple, which is the church itself, and her bridegroom, is being continually built up. Maybe, maybe, maybe it would be a good idea if we lived in booths for a couple of days ourselves and be reminded of God's provisions and goodness to us. That's where we need to go to. He rewarded him and expressed his gratitude, didn't he? That's the confidence that we should have in life. Verse 9 progresses from what this temple is, a place of God's glory, to what it does to bring about peace. What is it that I need to do that that I could put my finger on and say, I am neglecting God's temple. But the physical treasure is representative of those that are Do you not remember what Jesus said? There may have been some who could answer the first question. C. It states, that your generations may know that I made the people of Israel dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. That's where we need to listen to God, not ourselves. Please help yourself to either one of the two different um covers that we have, but they're all the same ESD version. , and Haggai's second oracle was delivered in 520 B. When you say that to yourself, what does that do to your motivation? The reason we can move forward in life without fear is because we are facing the future while we are in the presence of the Lord. Jesus speaking of himself says, I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And that is all that is needed. Before we do, let's take a moment to reflect upon the attitude and condition of the church today. A New Testament foreshadowing of this, if you recall, is in the Magi. Although that's a great motivation. And if you dwell upon it, it can be downright depressing. Through the crosswork of Christ, by faith, we have peace with God. If you haven't already done so, would you please turn your Bibles to Haggai chapter two, where in which we will be You know, when when you're called upon to tackle a a major project, uh simply is so large in scope. Especially when I realize that I don't even know how to do certain parts of the project myself. Let her do it. You are that gold. It's every elect Jew and Gentile saved by the blood of Christ, the church God falls up. You are priceless to him. What is it that they need most in these situations? What you need is an app. Look, when you think back to the servants who are given different sums of wealth to invest, do you remember what was said to them? He delivered his people time and time again. Did you have a look at the return the other guys had? And he is gracious to use us as instruments to bring glory to his name. I think that's where God's people are in our passage today. And the verbiage that's used here of shaking shouldn't be taken as a literal shaking. When you're home to do it in, you have a home to do it in With the treasure of the Egyptians, which later was used to and for the worship of Yahweh and ultimately to build the temple. He says, take courage, I am with you. The people say we, the Lord says my spirit. Knowing that God is with us, we should take away the feeling of being scared. And you begin to plan it out and realize that Work, for I am with you, declares the Lord of hosts. They thought that they did not measure up. When we take the focus of ourselves off of ourselves and make ourselves available And then he was followed up with a text message, and then even after that, that we're going to start, you know, building the temple, you need to show up This temple will be what's left How do you see it now? Be strong, O Yeshua, son of Yehosadak, the high priest. Amen. It had been a couple of weeks since the second oracle was delivered Then you think, at least, you know, well at least I do, I don't know if I have enough time to get all this done. See, the theme of treasure has a rich symbolic history in Scripture Where else can you have peoples who have been enemies with one another become brothers and sisters under one father? Help us to understand and apply to our lives as you speak to us through it. How can we possibly go on building it? The glory mentioned here can only be making reference to the Messiah when he comes. This temple is nothing in comparison to the old, whether they saw it in person or heard about it There's nothing to fear, because God is with us. To know that the living God is with us. God's Spirit was with them as a cloud guiding and protecting them in the wilderness. He was unhappy with the last servant. Who should we listen to when we are feeling despondent? The people need to hear an encouraging word from God. Treasure from the great international city of former Babylon. That he would defeat and bind the strong man, meaning Satan, and plunder from his treasure. It's an attitude of, what can I do for the Lord who has done so much for me? Isaiah 41, 10 reminds us of this wonderful thing. Is God faithful unto the remnant of Israel today? He says the latter, verse nine And just also a reminder that we have those journals that are available for you. And in this place I will give peace, declares the Lord of hosts. So you can call the professionals to come in and do all the In this statement alone, I am with you, we are to see that He is simply offering us. It will commence and consummate during the church age. The reality is That is their project. But they didn't have that app And the third question: God asks the question that was in the minds of the people. That's the confidence We must do and give from what and where the Lord has us. The way we think about our situation, frankly, is about us. Well sometimes you just might feel sad. Verse 5 And the Lord reminds us of what's really important and what the focus should be. Maybe an experience from our houses, right? I will strengthen you. Or boots. Who is left among you who saw this temple in its former glory? Who do you listen to? You are that silver. Jesus himself is the glory that exceeds that of Solomon's temple. And in this place I shall give peace, declares the Lord of hosts. It's not a sport that says my teammate can do that for me. God was faithful. And you are what he uses to adorn the temple. Is it not as nothing in your eyes? So they are to be reminded God is less concerned with your outcome. And that the Lord's temple didn't even have walls. Now it's suggested by commentators C. Holy Spirit Fear not. So in our passage today, The Feast of Tabernacles memorialized Israel coming out of Egypt. That's a difference of about 66 years. This is the word of God. They will be a people that love their neighbor perfectly all the time. And I gotta tell ya, I like the one that got a better return more than the other one. But when the Lord comes to consummate the kingdom of God, God considers you no less than his treasure. They could not do the job. Why? Who are you listening to today? I will help you. And the Lord begins here with once more. They had hope for the future. And we'll get to this more detail in just a little bit. Sometimes you just want to sit and cry because you're so overwhelmed. That's how God sees you. What do you feel when you're overwhelmed like that? Because he did nothing with what he was given Or a repair repair project on a vehicle. The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, declares the Lord of hosts. Now you do the math. We're not talking about, you know, like earthquakes or mountains shaking and so forth. The people gave them treasure. They could not do as well a job. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. In fact, I I think it was overwhelming. Scared of the future. Then the pressure mounts. Praise the Lord. It is You are precious to him. The king gave them treasure. This is the word of God. I am the Lord your God. Maybe something that you've never done before. This was a foreshadowing. You're valuable to him. I don't know about you. And for what purpose?