Well, we're going to be stepping away from the gospel of uh Mark for a time. and moving uh through 2 Timothy. So if you would, would you stand as an expression of our uh recognition that this is the inspired, inerrant, uh authoritative word of God Father, be pleased to grant your blessing. Add it to your word, to both the reading of it. And give grace as it's preached. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus. To Timothy, my beloved child Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank God, whom I serve as did my ancestors, with a clear conscience. As I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day. As I remember your tears, I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice, and now I'm sure dwells in you as well. For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God. who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace. which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began, and which now has been manifest through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus. who abolished death and brought life and immortality to life through the gospel, for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher, which is why I suffer as I do But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I'm convinced that he is able to guard until that day what has been entrusted to me. Follow the pattern of sound words that you have heard from me in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you. You are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom are the jealous. and Hermogenes, and may the Lord grant mercy to the household of Aeneophoras, for it often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. But when he arrived in Rome he searched for me earnestly and found me. May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day, and you well know all the service he rendered at Ephesus. Please take your seats. Well imagine that you are very ill and you only have a few weeks to live Your insurance has run out and so you're confined at home. And further imagine that what you are dying from is highly contagious And so many of your dear friends are actually afraid to come and see you. How would you respond What would be important for you to do with what time you had left? As Paul writes this letter, he's in a very parallel situation. It's 8064 and he's in prison once again. It's his second imprisonment in Rome. He was uh probably uh traveling for the two years in between his imprisonments. And uh in that time uh Nero has uh uh reach the place where he's intent on actively persecuting uh Christians. He views them as a danger to Rome's power and stability. And so Paul, among others, are viewed the way we might uh view an insurrectionist or or a terrorist. And Paul at the end of this letter expresses his sense of what's about to happen to him when he writes for I'm already being poured out as a drink offering. And the time of my departure has come. I've fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I've kept the faith. He anticipates that his ministry is ending, that he will die. And his friends have abandoned him because it is not safe to associate with someone who is the enemy of the Roman Empire. Early church historian Eusebius reports that Paul was condemned to death by beheading and slain on the Ostian Way about three miles outside. of Rome. And tradition has it that Peter himself was executed at the same time. Last words are lasting words. Paul's last words are lasting words, and they're addressed to Timothy, a man whom he thought of as his son, for whom he had a very, very deep affection. Paul desires that Timothy come and be with him. That's his appeal at the end of this letter, just as we would want some of those most dear to be with us as death approached. He writes about what's so dear to his heart, the gospel of God's grace. Paul is passing the torch to Timothy. And he speaks to Timothy in this letter about what he needs to be steadfast and courageous in the face of the challenges and oppositions that are coming. Paul summons him to loyalty, loyalty to the gospel, loyalty to the gospel that was entrusted to him. as a child, and uh loyalty uh to Christ and what the gospel uh requires, what it demands. And uh Paul, as he writes here, will both speak of duties. And divine resources that God has granted to make this possible Now, many of you have probably read this letter before, and you may very well look at it as a letter from a pastor to another pastor. And that of course is a perfectly valid way to read this letter. But it's more than that. It is an agenda for the church as we face an increasingly difficult context. for the gospel. And it has special bearing for you as you transition from one pastor to another, which is my very uh uh direct way of saying that's why we're here and not in Mark uh for a while. The priorities that are here should be uppermost in your minds as you assess and call a pastor. Now, Paul begins to Timothy, my beloved child. I thank God as a remember your tears, and I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy. Can you feel it? They're just giving me he's giving Timothy a hug. It's it's there's just this warm embrace in these. uh words. Paul's affection uh for Timothy uh flows out of a deep emotional bond, and that bond had been forged over 15 years. Paul recruited Timothy in his hometown Lystra, and he would travel with Paul on the second and third missionary journeys Paul would send him as his personal representative to Thessalonica and Corinth. Timothy would be with Paul as he travels to Jerusalem, and he would also be with Paul for the first imprisonment. In fact, if you look at the letters of Philippi and Colosse, you'll see that he is a co-author of those letters. And Paul's letters just attest to his high regard for him. In Paul writes in various places. That he is a beloved and faithful child in the Lord, that he's a trusted fellow worker. He even pins these words, I have no one like him. Timothy has been entrusted in the past with great responsibilities. Paul left him in Ephesus as his personal emissary to straighten out the influence of of false teaching in that church and and to get that church back on uh to course. And now as Paul faces martyrdom, he is uh entrusting to Timothy The very gospel which was entrusted to him. He is to be its torchbearer. He is to protect and preserve its precious life-giving truth. However, humanly speaking, uh well, Timothy's an unlikely candidate uh for all of this uh responsibility and this final choice. He's young, he's in his mid uh 30s. He's prone uh to illness. He doesn't have a forceful personality. Uh Paul at times uh uses words to describe him and address him. uh as a man who is timid by temperament. In other words, he's not the kind of person uh that people normally think of as a strong uh leader or a natural leader. And yet God has prepared him. And Paul urges him to think about and be loyal to the gospel heritage that he has. The gospel has been given to him in his home as a child. And he says to Timothy, don't betray this. Be loyal to what's been entrusted to you as a child, the rich spiritual heritage that you've received. He writes, I thank God whom I serve as did my ancestors. That's Paul writing about himself. He doesn't say, I was once a Jew and now I'm a Christian. He doesn't say, I was formerly a Pharisee, but I have nothing to do with those people anymore. No, in the very last words he speaks to this Anhedron, he stands up and says, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee. He doesn't distance himself from his spiritual heritage. He sees the coming of Christ and Christianity as the fulfillment of all that was anticipated in the Old Testament. and actually an expression of the deepest aspirations of the Judaism in which he was raised. And so he can say, I live with a clear conscience. There's not distance. He doesn't, as we might say, deconstruct Judaism. He sees it as a rich treasure. And he said, likewise, Timothy, you have had Christ followers in your life from the very beginning, women of true faith in your grandmother and your mother. And he says later in this letter, he says, how from childhood you've been acquainted with the sacred writings, meaning the Old Testament. These women, in other words, instructed. Timothy from the Old Testament and the realities of the gospel and the wisdom of God's plan of salvation. These are his inheritance. These were women of sincere faith. They made the gospel attractive. And this is one of Timothy's great resources to stand under the pressures. that are coming. Now, mothers, and you who are mothers, you have a unique ability to influence uh uh then the genera the rising generations. A mother's sincere faith is a powerful inducement uh for her children to persevere The influence comes not from a performance-based perfect parenting. No, it comes from a sincere faith that arises out of personal relationship with Christ. that's been nurtured and is being nurtured in scripture and prayer and in public worship and deep fellowship, these habits of the heart that produce Christ-likeness. And many mothers actually are very worried about their failures as a mom and how they've impacted their children. But the greatest gift you can give your children is not perfect parenting. But it's the model of your rich relationship with Jesus Christ. Of course, dads play a role too, and they might not be mentioned here because Timothy's dad was Jewish and we don't know if he came to Christ. But one of the greatest gifts that a husband and wife can give to their children is a Christ-centered marriage That's of incalculable value to a child. So, parents, I urge you to uh be uh renewed in your determination to pass the gospel uh down to your children, especially in the years uh when they're under your roof. Both in those formal ways that you might, and reading the scripture and having uh prayer together and and uh participating in worship together, but also of course in those uh casual uh moments that arise when life is lived close uh together. Your life example has enormous power, far more than anything else that touches the life of your child. I know that's true uh for Nancy. Her mom and dad were were pillars of faith. They weren't perfect parents, but they were godly people and their godly influence extended not just to Nancy. uh but to me and our uh children as uh well. And I myself had a godly praying grandmother, uh, who only I found out about really after I came to know uh Christ. And you children, you students that are here, embrace, don't resist. This treasure that's being offered to you. Grow in grace. Don't turn your back on it and betray it. Then Paul goes on and he adds these words. He says, For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Paul's undoubtedly referring to some very specific moment, perhaps uh when Timothy was ordained or uh prayed over to be equipped for uh the service that he produced But he ties it so closely in the next line to the gift of the Holy Spirit that it may very well be both that are in view. Timothy's ability to stand courageously for the gospel will happen as he draws on these divine resources. Timothy's personal discipline is necessary if he's to develop all of the gifts, both natural and spiritual, that he's been given. And he's to kindle these gifts uh in the way you might uh a fire uh so that it flames up. They're to be kept ablaze by the exercise of them and his and his reliance on God to refresh them. to renew them. And note very carefully what Paul writes next. He says, the Spirit given to all of us. Not of fear, but of power, love, and self-control. These words certainly apply to all of us The Spirit is one of our greatest resources as we live as Christ's followers and as a church as we seek to minister to the gospel to those around us. In a world that's really hostile. And where the the world and the devil and the flesh make war against us. The Spirit's power enables us to be steadfast, to remain loyal to the gospel. To give a way to the spirit of the age and the spirit's gift of love enables us to love not only people who are, well, that we find unlovely in the church, but to love those outside uh the church, those who are far from God and whose values uh we find our ourselves uh in conflict uh with You see, love does not seek to use power to force people to do something. Love appreciates and accepts uh people and that creates the opportunity uh to share with them the gospel. And the as the Spirit grows in us self-control, we can endure in our sufferings for the gospel And not return evil for evil. Spirit dependent ministry is what every church needs. Every pastor should seek that in their ministry if they're going to endure uh in the ministry of the gospel and uh for uh it to bear rich fruit. Now Paul urges Timothy not to be ashamed of the gospel or himself. Why? Well, because there's always been a stigma if you've spent time in jail. It's hard to get rid of that stigma. And Paul summons Timothy to personal loyalty. Don't be ashamed of me, be loyal to me. Loyalty to Paul is loyalty to what claims Paul's loyalty. To Christ. He says, don't be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, verse eight, to the gospel, verse nine, to the apostolic pattern of sound teaching in verse thirteen, and to the good deposit entrusted to you, verse. Verse 14. Personal loyalty to Paul is loyalty to Christ and the gospel. And Paul summarizes the gospel very briefly. He says it's the power by which God calls. and saves and brings us to life and immortality. The gospel is not what we do to be right with God, but what God has done in Christ. It is the summons to live a life that pleases him, that's holy. The gospel's good news and it's centered on Christ. There is no good news without Jesus Christ. Christ should be preeminent in the life of the church and the life of the Christian. You know, Paul, it's so preeminent for Paul, he says, I determined to know nothing among you but Christ and him crucified. And Timothy is summoned to guard this gospel. Loyalty to the gospel means for Timothy that he's going to suffer, as Paul has suffered. Why is suffering so closely linked to the gospel? What is it about the gospel which men hate and oppose, on account of which those who proclaim it must suffer? Well, the short answer is this, that God saves sinners by his own purpose and grace and not by their good deeds. It's because the freeness of grace is offensive because we hate to admit the gravity of our sin and our guilt. Gospel ministry, by its very nature, in announcing grace and forgiveness, exposes the darkness in it. It peels back layer after layer after layer of idolatry and sin. This is in the life of the church. Often the opposition a pastor experiences is in the congregation that he serves. Because, well, he's touched some idol, he's hit some uh nerve, he's troubled uh somebody, and they they become very, very angry and they want to drive that person out The history of the church is replete with men who suffered, with congregations who wanted nothing more than for them to leave. And the when the gospel's preached as it ought to be preached, It it exposes the ways that we want to close our ears, to make ourselves exceptions to its summons, to just shut our eyes to what still remains of sin in our lives. And so the cross is offensive. And the cross is deeply connected to the holiness of God and his expectations of us. The cross will only matter to you when you see how big your sin is. The bigger sinner you see that you are, the bigger the cross becomes for you if you're rightly related to the cross. And so faithful proclamation is always going to wound as it heals. It's going to expose as it cleanses. It's going to break, and it's also going to mend. And here we live in a day, and there's always been this temptation for pastors to take these sharp edges away from the gospel, to mute the reality of sin. Some, not all, who do that give in to amusement, uh, even entertainment, or just simply their sermons are composed of how-to advice. And it's really just dressing a deep wound. Just covering a bandage over something that needs surgery instead of preaching Christ and his cross, which alone can cure us. No man and no church can proclaim the gospel and not experience opposition. Now the primary way to guard the gospel is for to be the center of every aspect of the life of the church. for every sermon, every Sunday school, every gathering, to be centered on the gospel, to be living out in some way its implications. And you can tell how the gospel looks like when it's central in the life of the church. Paul says this in the first letter to Timothy. He says Believers' lives will be characterized by love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. What is it that displaces the gospel and pushes it out of center? Well, I suppose many answers could be given to this, but there's one I want to talk about for a few moments. And I do it at the risk of perhaps offending some of you. But I'm sure you'll agree with me. America is decadent. The life of our nation is one of its leading traits is decadency. It's the product of both wealth in success. And so it it's not just that we seek comfort, it's that we do it into excess. And and the way we do this, well There are many ways that we do it, but one of them connects to something Paul mentions in both of these letters that displace the gospel, and it is controversies It's about arguing about words that generate quarrels. Now, there are moral issues that the church must address and must not be silent about. Whether it's human sexuality, which is an especially intense focus right now, or physical and sexual abuse, which the church has failed to address adequately within itself. whether it's abortion or racism or injustice. All of these issues, most churches, including our own denomination, have written papers. to guide us, to speak to these issues. These are all important issues that the Bible speaks to. But what I'm talking about here is how much the church has gotten to where it just responds to the news cycle. And the the church, many churches especially just take fascination with the controversial stories that uh reflect poorly on people whose theology or political uh views are very different than our own. Politics has become, for many, many people in America, their religion. It has displaced the place that religion used to have in this nation. And when it becomes s the central or energizing force in the life of a church or in the life of a Christian, the gospel's been displaced. The gospel should energize us. There's a second way that this manifests itself, and it manifests itself especially in churches that put high value on doctrine, on the teaching of Scripture, as we should. But you see what it's produced through this love of controversy is that we have energetic policing of other parts of the body of Christ. Other theological traditions, even the strands within our own, the people that are closest to us, we spend inordinate uh energy in uh uh on that instead of just accepting that these subs differences will always remain And that these differences are healthy. And you see, this level of controversy just is especially present for us because of the internet. Social media and the blogosphere just will they inflame people as if you could have a good theological nuanced discussion. on Twitter or in a Facebook post. It can't be done. You can't you can't have the kinds of conversations where you really understand what people mean and how they're using these words and what concerns cause them to phr things this way and what part of scripture uh they're especially or emphasize. You just can't uh do it. And the result is that, well, what grows in people's lives is rancor, resentment, and exhaustion. And a kind of lovelessness where the gospel should produce deep lovelessness. It's a ministry that Paul characterizes as actually ruining people. And it reads from neglect, really, of the things that are so important, not just the gospel, but deep discipleship. One of the lessons in the last ten years, and especially uh since the pandemic, is just how shallow our discipleship has Uh Ben, that maybe 10%, I I don't know for sure, but ten percent of the people who used to come to church regularly before the pandemic have stopped. Not because of their health, but because they got out of the habit What was sustaining their participation in corporate worship was it was a habit for them. It wasn't that they had this deep uh value, that they recognized that it was central to what it means to be a Christian to worship with with others. And it's shown in the fact that for at least a decade now, maybe two, that uh a large percentage of Christian children growing up in the church do not embrace uh the traditional teaching about sexuality. In fact it makes no sense uh to them whatsoever. Francis Schaper said this well. To do the Lord's work, we must do it in the Lord's way, not in the world's. way. And this means we have to develop different habits. It means that character matters within the culture of celebrity. And we're often drawn to people who have personalities that we might describe as having charisma. They're very, very attractive. But what counts is character And having a deep renewal and commitment to discipleship means finding and forging new practices. that connect deeply with people in the 21st century. Because simply passively listening to sermons has not produced the kind of disciples we would hope. So let me sum up. Just land this here. It's not just the search committee who's going to call a pastor. You as a congregation are going to call a pastor. And you're going to select a pastor. Call a man who is passionately loyal to Christ. And whose life gives evidence that it's centered on the gospel, who preaches the gospel so that Christ is exalted. That will bear fruit. A man of character, not who loves controversy, a man deeply committed to evangelism and deep discipleship. They are are intricately webbed webbed, uh uh uh uh joined, wedded. That's the word I'm trying to say, wedded with each other. And um it's not either or, it's not first and then, it's both and, and it has to be like that. And who is A man who's known for his love, who has deep relationships, who's not afraid to show his affection uh for people, and who is evidencing reliance on the resources of the Spirit, not relying just on his uh gifts, but who will stir up those uh gifts, who will seek to develop them so that they might bring glory to Christ. That's not quite the same thing, though it's not doesn't exclude this entirely as getting more advanced degrees That's not the same thing as stirring up your gifts. It means someone who's committed to working for a lifetime. at uh becoming better as a preacher or better as a teacher or better as a shepherd or better as a leader. It requires great energy to do that Well, may Christ Himself guide you. I'm confident that He is and will. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father. May you grant that this church in all its future would be known as a place where Christ is lifted up, where the gospel is heard. Where disciples are being nurtured into a life of love. Father, strengthen us. We live in a time that seems very hard to us to carry the gospel forth. Encourage us, Lord, and enable us to demonstrate the same loyalties that Paul has summoned Timothy to, for we ask in Christ's name.