Of our worship where we hear the word of God we've found into us whether we bought it to us. And our past is absolutely line. We welcome to us. our call and again and Reverend Paul Wolf, associate pastor at the Presbyterian Church. And very thanks for being in Paul and thank you again for coming in the board and Yeah. Well, it's good to be with you again. And it's good to be with you indoors. Because uh many of you will remember that the last time I was here, or nearly the last time, we showed up that morning to find that we were locked out and we worshiped out there on the sidewalk. And I have to say, I have fond memories of that morning and what that said about the church and about the reality of the church. But we're at about 30 degrees today. And as fond as those memories are, I'm glad to be indoors with you this morning. So our scripture text today, you can see there in your bulletin, is taken from 2 Samuel And I'll be reading the first portion of that chapter, which is verses 1 through 17. Second Samuel seven, beginning at verse one. Hear now the word of God Now, when the king lived in his house, and the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies, The king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart, for the Lord is with you. But that same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, Go and tell my servant David, Thus says the Lord, Would you build me a house to dwell in I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day, but I have been moving about in a tent for my dwelling In all places where I have moved with all the people of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? Now, therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I took you from the pasture From following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel. And I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you And I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth. And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them So that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more, and violent men shall afflict them no more as formerly, from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover, the Lord declares to you that the Lord will make you a house. When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men. But my steadfast love will not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan. Spoke to David. Let me pray for us. Our great God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for it. Knowing our great need of it. For we live in a world of darkness. We need its light So would you shine upon us now, shine within us now, that we might grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ, and we pray in His name. Amen. I want you to imagine for a moment That you are an editor with a Christian publishing house. You are an editor with a Christian publishing house And as an editor, you have been given the assignment to come up with the table of contents for a book that's going to be entitled Great Moments in Old Testament History. You don't have to come up with the stories. God has already done that. He's written them. You just have to come up with the table of contents. You just have to pick the stories that are going to go into the book. And I wonder what your table of contents is going to look like. Which stories are you going to pick for great moments in Old Testament history? Noah and the flood. Abraham and Isaac on the mountain. Moses and Israel at the Red Sea. David and Goliath in the valley Perhaps Elijah on Mount Carmel. Those are all great moments. And notice something about all of those moments. Those are all action-packed moments. We love action story. We love a good blockbuster action movie. And you may have noticed, if you've seen blockbuster action movies, there seems to be an inverse relationship between how much action a movie has And how deep the dialogue is. And then on the opposite extreme, there are some movies, quite unblockbuster-like, that take place entirely in one room Maybe you've seen Alfred Hitchcock's Rope. And there are others. Very much unlike the blockbuster. Very little action. All about dialogue. So here's the question for you as our editor. Will 2 Samuel chapter 7 be in your table of contents? for great moments in Old Testament history. This is no action-packed blockbuster. There is no action in this chapter. It doesn't appear to take place entirely in one room, but almost. Very little action. All about dialogue. David speaks, Nathan replies. God speaks, Nathan speaks, David replies. End of chapter. It's all dialogue. And this is surely one of the greatest moments, not just in the Old Testament, not just in the Bible. But in the whole of human history. Put this in your table of contents for drama. For emotion, for historical significance, put this in your book. Because this is one of the greatest. Notice how verse 1 sets the stage. The king here is King David. When the king lived in his house and the Lord had given him rest. from all his surrounding enemies. So that's what we've come to. That's the state of affairs now. David has a place and David has peace He's got a place, we're told that he lived in his house, and he's got peace, we're told that the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies. That's where David finds himself. What do you get for the man who has everything? Here's a man who must have felt like he had everything And yet, though David feels like he has everything, he also feels like the Lord The one who made everything, the one who owns everything, the Lord does not have everything from Israel that he deserves. Because look at verse 2. What does the king say? David says to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent. So David has a sense that there's something wrong with this picture. Something's not right. There's something wrong about the fact that David has a place. He's got a solid, permanent place, but the ark of the Lord does not. Now, we know, and David knew this, and David's son Solomon later would confess this. In fact, here's how Solomon put it Will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you. David knew that, that God is uncontainable. But David also knew that this great God, this infinite, uncontainable God, he had been pleased for the sake of his people, for the sake of the church in its immaturity. to give his people a symbol of his presence with them. And that symbol was the Ark of the Covenant. And David had a sense that it just wasn't fitting. That symbol was being housed in a tent while David himself lived in his house of Cedar. Now, a tent can be a fine thing in certain circumstances. Our family has a tent. It's a tent we bought at REI. It's called the Habitat. And it's a good tent. It's it's a nice big tent. It holds the five of us, and when we go camping, it serves us well. But I have to say, after a night in our tent Especially if it's a cold night. Last time we went camping it was. I love our house more. And David has a sense of the discrepancy between tent and house. There's something wrong with this picture. This discrepancy between where he lives and where the Ark of the Lord lives. So Nathan replies. This is the word of Nathan, verse 3. Go, do all that is in your heart, for the Lord is with you. It must have seemed perfectly reasonable to Nathan. What David had in mind. And so this is the word of Nathan. This is Nathan's sense of things. He says, go for it. But then the Lord said to Nathan, in effect, Nathan, that's not my sense of things. And then after the word of Nathan comes the word of the Lord, beginning in verse 4. And The Lord tells Nathan what he wants Nathan to tell David, and it begins with this review of history. Do you see there in verse 4 down through 7? He takes David on a review of Israel's history and the thrust of that review. Is that the Lord, in his patience, in his condescension, he had never insisted on this himself. He had never insisted that a building should be built. To house the symbol of his presence. Look at verse 7. In all places where I have moved with all the people of Israel. Did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel? Whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? So he takes David on this review, and then in verse 8, the review gets personal. Because now the Lord wants David to wants Nathan to remind David of things about David. Look at verse 8. Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel And I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you. He's saying, David, remember, I raised you. I exalted you from where you were. And then he goes on to say, David, I am going to raise you higher still. Because after the review, after the reminders, come these promises. Promises for the future. And we're going to note four of them. Four promises that the Lord makes here. to David and let me urge you to make a note of them, a mental note, if not a written one, because we're going to notice these four promises, and then what are we going to do? We're going to take these promises with us. Through the rest of the Bible, and finally into our own lives. So here they are. First promise. And yes, they all begin with P. Prominence. Look at verse 9. I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth. Saying, David, I'm going to give you fame. I'm going to give you renown. And you know, there's nothing wrong with being famous, so long as the famous one doesn't let it go to his head. And especially when the famous one is famous, precisely because it comes to be known about him that the Lord is with him. Nothing wrong with being famous like that. So there is that promise, first of all, the promise of prominence. Second promise, beginning of verse 10, is the promise of place. I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them. So you see now the promises are bigger than David himself. Now Israel as a whole is in view here. The promise of place. The third is the promise of peace. Because look at the rest of verse 10, on into 11. What's life going to be like in this place? Well, I'm going to give them this place so that they may dwell in this place and be disturbed no more. Violent men shall afflict them no more as formerly From the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel, and I will give you rest from all your enemies, the promise of peace. Now that might strike us as somewhat curious, these twin promises, place and peace. Why? Because at the very beginning of the chapter, weren't we told that the Lord had already given those things? You remember what we heard about David. The king lived in his house, and the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies. There's a sense in which Israel already had place and peace at this point Because they've got this land. And not only that, but under David they have known victories over their enemies in that land. So they've already got place and peace. So what's going on here with the Lord promising place and peace for the future? What's being promised here? What's going to be new? What's going to be different? Well, it must be that there's going to be a fullness in the future that Israel hasn't known yet. There's going to be a fullness of peace in their place that they have never known before. So yes, they've got this land and they've known some victories. But this is only the beginning? This is only the first taste of what the Lord has in store for his people. So prominence, place, peace, and finally, the fourth promise, posterity. Verse 11 at the end. Moreover, the Lord declares to you that the Lord will make you a house. Emphasis on you, David, you've proposed making a house for Yahweh. No, you're not going to do that. But he's going to make a house for you. And David, it's not just going to be a building. It's going to be something so much better, so much more glorious. He's going to build a house for you that's going to be an unending kingly line. And he describes it. Verse 12 and following. Look at it again. David, when your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers. I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men. But my steadfast love will not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established. Forever. There's the promise of posterity. David, you're going to have a son. And that son will reign. And David, that son, he's the one. Who's going to build the house for me that you have in mind? He's the one who's going to build the place for me that you know I deserve. And David, I'll have a father-son relationship with your son. The Lord says, I'll be a good father to him, including this, when he sins, I'll chasten him. But David, trust me, my love will last. And because my love will last, your house will last. Your kingly line will last forever. So there you have them. These four promises. Prominence, place, peace And posterity. Those were staggering promises. And by the way, you can tell just how staggering they were when you read the rest of the chapter. Because David replies by praying, and his prayer begins. Who am I? Who am I that you have blessed me like this? That was the word of the Lord to David. Now here's the question Whatever came of those promises? What happened after 2 Samuel chapter 7? Well, after David reigned, his son Solomon reigned in his place, and God proved true to his word. David was known far and wide. He was known far and wide during his lifetime. And then after his lifetime, his son Solomon reigned in his place. Solomon himself, the son of David, who bore David's name, he was famous too for his wisdom and for his wealth. And so the promise. of prominence was kept. The promise of place was kept as well. Under Solomon the territory of Israel was larger than it had ever been. The promise of peace was kept. Under Solomon, the nation of Israel knew peace like they had never known. And so in 1 Kings 4, the reign of Solomon is described like this. Judah and Israel were as many as the sand by the sea. They ate and drank and were happy. Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the Euphrates to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt. They brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life. So those were good days. It was a great land, and there was sweet rest on every side. And David had posterity. Solon himself was that. He was the son of David who had reigned in his father's place. And his reign was quickly established. And during his reign, he had a house built for the ark of Yahweh. That was one of the high points of his reign. All of that came true. But you know what else came true? The chastening part came true as well. That was one of the promises. Do you remember that? The Lord had said, David, when your son commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men, but my steadfast love will not depart from him. And the Lord proved true to that word as well. In fact, that's not a bad way of summing up the entire history of Israel after the point when Solomon lost his bearings. Their history for centuries after that point boiled down to this the Lord chastened his people, but he never withdrew his love. For the sake of David, for the sake of his promise, for the sake of his covenant. Now, how do we know that We know that because of this proof above all, the coming of the one in whom all of this came true. King Jesus. No, he never sinned, so that he never had to be chastened, but all of the other promises that the Lord made to David came true in Christ. 2 Samuel 7 had set the stage. And in the fullness of time, the angel Gabriel announced that the king was about to stride onto the stage. Cliff read these words for us earlier. The angel said, He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. So you see, there had been these great expectations that a king was going to come in the line of David. And then there had been this thrilling announcement: Mary, that king's going to come from your flesh. And then he came. And then he grew. And then he began to minister. He began to preach. And it might have seemed That there was no way on earth that this man could be the long-promised king Apart from faith, apart from the light of God's truth making sense of all of this, it must have seemed there's no way this can be the one. Because when you think about all four promises. He must have appeared to have been something of a failure. The first promise was prominence But this guy's from Nazareth. He's a nobody from Nazareth. Nothing good comes from Nazareth, and if anything, he just makes a name for himself as a troublemaker and a reject. There was the promise of place. But what did Jesus say? He said, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. He had a hometown, but how did things go when he went home? Things didn't go well. There was the promise of peace. What did he know of peace? Practically from the beginning of his ministry. He met with opposition and alienation and unrest. Then there was the promise of posterity. What do we say about that? Well, it's not just the obvious fact that he didn't have children, it's more than that. It's the fact that apparently he died of failure. No lasting legacy beyond the lasting, crushing disappointment of his disciples. So, yes, there's going to be a Messianic king in the line of David, but there's no way on earth this man can be that king because he seems to fail the test of all of these promises. Now, it might have looked that way. But then came the resurrection. How different things look in the light of the resurrection. Imagine the resurrection. Imagine the Father now addressing his son. On all four of these points, when he was raised, it's as if the father said, My son, you who have been despised and rejected by men, watch me now as I give you a name. Watch me now as I give you a name like the great ones of the earth have never imagined. Son of God, Son of David, you who bear the name of David, watch me now as I raise In you the name of David to heights that David himself could never have foreseen. Prominence. Second, the promise of place What did the father say to the son? He said, Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, the ends of the earth your possession. Before, my son, you had nowhere to lay your head. I'm going to give you the world. And I'm going to give you the mission to make a new world. So too, the promise of peace, it's as if the father said to the son, My son, your warfare is over. Enter now into the glorious resurrection rest that you have earned. And finally, posterity. It's as if the father said to the son, My plan from the beginning was that you should be the firstborn of many brothers. And so now by the Spirit bring them to life and make them your own. So these were great promises made to David. Whatever came of them, that's what came of them. They came to fruition in David's greatest son. Now, where is all this going? It goes from David to Solomon, after Solomon to Christ. To you. To you and to me. This isn't just a trip down memory lane. This isn't just an interesting tour of biblical history. Take these things to heart. Take them personally. I said this is one of the great moments in Old Testament history. Christian, this is one of the great moments in your history. 2 Samuel 7 is one of the great moments in your life. And maybe putting it that way, helps you to grasp, to take this Personally. This is one of the great moments in your life, even though it happened thousands of years before your life. Why? Because you're joined to Christ. You're united with Christ by faith in Him. And so all of this comes to fruition for you. For example, the promise of prominence. In the course of history, how many people have signed on to religions and philosophies? thinking this is it, this is the answer, and someday everybody's going to know it. And today those religions and philosophies nobody remembers. Nobody can name them. They have become, in the profoundest sense, nameless. But I urge you today, take heart. You have not signed up for such a cause as that You have signed up for a cause whose destiny is this. At the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. In heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That's about as prominent as you can get And he is yours, and you are his. And one day everybody will know his name. Prominence. So too, place and peace. Take those two together. Sometimes in this life, I know we get the feeling, sometimes we are overwhelmed with the feeling that there's no place that feels like home anymore. Where can I go? Where do I belong? And even if we can point to a place on the map that's our hometown. Well, how often have we gone back home only to find that it doesn't quite feel like home anymore? So to peace, sometimes in this life, we get the feeling that we are just so tired of fighting. Even if it is a good fight, even it's the fight of faith, and we're so tired, and we just want to rest, and we wonder, when will I ever rest? And I say to you, Christian, take heart, take hope, for God says to you, I have a place for you. A place where you will know peace forevermore. And then finally, the promise of posterity. Jesus is the posterity of David. Jesus sits on the throne of his father. David. And you remember the promise: David, your throne shall be established forever. And so that means that your king shall reign forever and ever. And you know how it is sometimes when you're reading history, especially when you're reading biblical history, maybe reading 1 and 2 Kings. You're reading along, and it seems to be one lousy king after another. And then all of a sudden, as if dropped from heaven, there's a king who's different. And he's faithful and he's wise and he's strong, and you're so relieved, and then you are so crestfallen because you know it's not going to last. This king who's different. Either he's going to falter at some point, or he's going to be overthrown at some point, or he's going to die at some point. And death itself will overthrow him. And so deep down, you know, it's only a matter of time before the litany of lousy kings starts up again. But I encourage you, you don't have to live in fear that that's ever going to happen with your King Jesus. This one who is almighty and wise and faithful, he shall reign forever and ever. And it's striking over and over again in the scriptures when there's some reference to the reign of Jesus as King. We're told he will reign forever. We're told that again and again. It's almost as if it's too good to be true. It's almost as if we're so accustomed to reading about good kings, good leaders who faltered or who were overthrown that we can't bring ourselves to believe that there could really be a king like that whose reign will never end. But it's not too good to be true. It is infinitely good. But it is also everlastingly true. And so I encourage you today, when it comes time to put together your table of contents for great moments in Old Testament history, put this in your book. And put it in, knowing that this great moment all along pointed forward to King Jesus and to the future that is yours in him. Amen. Let's pray together. Our great God, we thank you that these things are true, not too good to be true. And so we pray that you would help us to take these promises to heart. Help us to take them personally. And so be renewed in hope this day. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, we have heard the word of our God. We have the opportunity now to go