I've been preaching in the evenings once a month, and so I've had a month to think about and work on this sermon. And uh did a very strange thing. I've been working on it all week long, and yet as God was working in my own heart with things in me, um came up with a different passage. And I'm going to preach on it and not expositionally, which over probably almost close to A lot of years of preaching, 38 or 39 now. Probably only the fourth or fifth time I probably haven't just worked straight through a passage. So uh pray for me as I preach. Uh and uh um come to this. This uh passage is in the context of Jesus at the Last Supper, the Passover with his disciples And he has instituted the Lord's Supper, and then after the Lord's Supper. wrapped himself in a towel and proclaims in John, he says, if then your Lord and teacher has washed your feet, You also ought to wash one another's feet, for I've given you an example that you should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. So in my own imagination, as I would read this scripture and know about how great God is and he's changing the apostles into disciples, I would imagine the next passage or what you find out next would almost sort of be like a three stooges um uh enactment and you're saying, what? During the Lord's Supper No, the disciples they should afterwards, hearing that they should serve, and they should say, Oh, excuse me, no, pardon me, no, let you go first, sir. Oh, certainly you should be first. And sort of tripping over one another, wanting to serve and be servants. And yet we find, and it's hard to tell as you look at the synoptics and the different gospels together, exactly what happens, but in Luke. Right after that, instead of serving one another, washing one another's feet in the middle of the passage of the Lord's Supper, And him showing them what it is that he is going to die for them, that it's not about You, but it's about giving yourself for others, we find this passage. So let us stand together. We'll look in Luke chapter 22. And trust that God will instruct us to it. Let me pray first. Our Father and God, how we thank you that your word is the direction we need for our hearts that can so easily become hardened, even though they are new. We rejoice that in Christ You've taken hearts that were dead like stone and make them alive. That's our only hope. But Father, as your believers, we find ourselves sometimes hardened or uh walking away from you and you speak to us so greatly. Would you do that through the passage tonight and through the preaching? Only you can do that. We ask you to do that. By your word and spirit, and help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So as we come to this, remember it's the context of the Lord's Supper, Jesus having laid it out and speaking about his own death. that he uh it would be his body and blood given for us, uh speaking of the cross to come and this In the middle of that, in Luke chapter 22, starting in 24, we find something happening with the disciples. A dispute also arose among them as to which of them was to be regarded as the greatest. And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors. But not so with you. Rather let the greatest among you Become as the youngest and the leader as one who serves. For who is the greater? One who reclines at the table or one who serves? It is not the one who reclines at the table, is it not one? But I am among you. As the one who serves. Beloved, the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Today I had a couple people ask me how my week was, which doesn't always happen. I'm not sure if it was because we weren't away in the cruise or coming back from it or whatever, but a couple people asked me And it's it wasn't something I could just answer them in a few seconds. You know how we pass one another and they would say, oh, great week, or you know Or a terrible week, but I couldn't do that. It was a a week that much went went on. And it all started as we got back from the cruise and I got busy being that we have two families living in a a divided house with two families together. There's always a lot to do. And so I got home and I mulched the leaves and had Sunday the worship but then money got Monday got filling the wood piles back up and then Tuesday splitting all the kindling that needed done and then other jobs around the house that needed done and since we were home and My son-in-law works away and my daughter's there, the grandchild. She's asking us for special things because we've been away a week and a half. And she, you know, didn't have Grammy and Grampy around so all the we had to do all those things and those were fun but it just was more and more and I was moving quicker and quicker and all of a sudden I was looking around and inside I was saying Why isn't everybody else pulling their weight? Why am I doing it all? And inside I was burning. I was just going, mmm, mmm. And people started asking me things to say, and they you know they asked me something and say, what? And you know, my wife says to me, honey, if that's your new diet, you better change it. My daughter got me aside and said, Dad, I don't usually see you like this. What's going on? Something going on at the church? Is something going on somewhere else? What's going on? And I couldn't answer her because she wasn't anything at the church. It was me. My heart was hard. I was being an apostle. As being a disciple, just like they were. I thought I was the greatest, and everybody else should recognize it. And uh and give me kudos and maybe write little notes all over the refrigerator, or leave them on my pillow, or take me to dinner, do something But that wasn't happening. Because my heart had become hardened. And then God took two days to show me a president. And I didn't know much about George H. W. Bush. And it wasn't because I wasn't alive when he was president It was just that I hadn't spent a lot of time thinking about politics. I was busy with life. And generally when he was the president, things were going pretty well, and I remember he won the Desert Storm War and got connections to China and some other stuff, but I really wasn't all that involved in politics. But something happened with the death of this president because of the way they were talking about him. Even when I turn to normal channels, I don't watch. They were positive. And to find someone positive about someone in politics today blew my mind. I was going, what's going on here? How is this guy different? And so I began to do some checking because I wanted to know. Now, of course he wasn't perfect. And yet his own testimony is that he's a sinner saved by grace. He was a lifelong Episcopalian, and Bush was hesitant to talk openly about his Christian faith And asked whether he'd been born again, he said, if by being born again one is asking, do you accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Then I could answer a clear-cut yes. No hesitancy, no awkwardness. If the question though whether it had been one single moment above any others, which your life has been instantly changed, then I can say this has happened, I can say that this has happened since there has been many moments when my life was changed. And so that was encouraging to hear that. But then to just see, and I don't take this phrase and use it a lot, I understand it, but apparently he had been given a plaque and he gave it to his pastor and it said Preach the gospel if necessary with words. Now I think we also need to preach the gospel with words. That's what I'm doing tonight, right? And we need to share the gospel with each other. But he was saying And I'll just do this quickly. If you haven't heard, you probably have. But I was just amazed because as a young man graduating from high school during World War II, he was already accepted at Yale, and yet on his graduation day he signs up for the Navy. He becomes the youngest Navy pilot during World War II. And his plane was shot down and he was picked up by a submarine. It's one of those strange occasions where you actually have the footage of it, uh him being pulled out of the water and uh he actually later in life on his bucket list was to go back to the place where he was the shot down. He knows the island where it was and he went back and had a chance to thank God for him being saved from that. And instead of going into the family business, because uh his father was already in politics and also wealthy, he decided to go to Texas and got in the oil business. But then after he had made his fortune, became a representative in Texas, then he went to the United States Ambassador of the United Nations and later to an envoy of China. United States Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Vice President of the United States for two terms, and then President of the United States. Well, all those things tell you a lot, but there are little things that you find out about him when you look into his life. When he went to run for his second term, he lost Bill Clinton. The big phrase you might remember that he had for his first re-election, for his first election was no new taxes, right? And the taxes were raised, and people say that's why he lost. He he said, I'm sorry, I need to raise taxes. That might have been, but you might have remembered that Ross Perot was a third candidate to take many of those votes during that time. But the things that it were telling is the night he lost his bid for re-election, Bush made a diary entry to help himself get past the defeat. And what he started to do, he made a to-do list, and this was his to-do list. Comfort the ones I've hurt and let down during running for office. Be strong, be kind, be generous of spirit, be understanding, and let people know how grateful you are. And then even CNN, or I should say CNN, they record this under the title of The Letter George W. Bush Left for Clinton. When he took over, he says, is a lesson in grace. Imagine that. A lesson in grace. And it says this to Mr. President Clinton, dear Bill, when I walked in this office just now, I felt the same sense of wonder and respect that I felt four years ago. I know you'll feel it too I wish you great happiness here. I've never felt loneliness, as some presidents have described. There'll be very tough times, made even more difficult by criticism. You may not think it's fair. I'm not a very good one to give advice, but I just don't let the critics discourage you or push you off course. You will be our president when you read this note. I wish you well. I wish your family well. Your success now is our country's success. I am rooting hard for you. That doesn't seem to happen, does it? Especially in politics today. One's political rivals, President Bush and Clint Clinton, ended up forming an unlikely friendship, and you might remember after Hurricane Katrina, that they got together and raised many funds to help uh the people because of the hurricane. He said this, just because you run against someone doesn't mean you have to be enemies. Bush once said, politics doesn't have to be mean and ugly. And the reason that I bring that up, it's so different than the culture today, isn't it? And I trust that it was because that he was a believer. And his believer is faith worked out in his actions. And the reason I bring this up, and God was using two days with me, is because my faith wasn't working out in my actions at home. I'm not president, and you probably will never be either. But you are in places every day where there's people that need your tender words. And need your understanding. And need you not to be the greatest, but to be what our Lord said. He says, I'm here to serve. Bush carved out time most evenings to write cards and thank you notes. People wanted to write a biography of him and he wouldn't do it. They wanted him to write his own autobiography. He said, I'm not going to do that. And one of the things they did is there's a 700-page book of an author who went around collecting from people all the thank you notes and special notes that Bush wrote to people. It's a 700-page book. of him sitting down and thanking others for little things. Sometimes it was a head of a state when something made accomplished, and sometimes it was the secretary, and sometimes it was the waitress who gave him a meal. Because he thought that people were important. He understood that they were made in the image of God. And even though he was president of the United States, he would care for them. His last words on earth were to his sons, George Bush, President 43. They called him 41 His son called him and said, Dad, I love you, and I'll see you in heaven. And he responded to his son, I love you. So, in my own grumpiness for two days, I had the witness of a president Before me. But more than that, then the Lord brought the scripture of Luke twenty two where we were this evening Where it says, for who is greater? One who reclines at the table or the one who serves? Well the world says, of course, it's the one who reclines, the one who's at the banquet. The one who's getting all the goodies because they've got all the kudos, right? Jesus says, is it not the one who serves? Because that's how we think. And we think, oh, President, this guy's got it made. And yet he understood that the people who were there and the people he served were people made in the image of God. And as Jesus said, But I am you, I am among you as the one who serves. Jesus calls you and me to the same. In Matthew chapter 20, verses 25 to 28, it seems that the same situation went on another time. You remember this one. This is the one I remember. I didn't remember this one in Luke that happens in the middle of the Lord's Supper. And that was just crazy to me, right? But in the other one, the sons of Zebedee, James and John, the sons of thunder, they came and their mother came and wanted Jesus to put one on the right and one on the left. How audacious when he comes into his kingdom, right? Of course the other disciples, you know, they they it says they were indignant. They were ticked off. How dare their mom ask that because my mom knows that I should be on his right. We know the way we act. We know that. But Jesus said, It shall not be so among you. But whoever would be a great among you must be your servant. Whoever would be first among you must be your slave. Even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many. Well, let me ask you Because I suspect I'm not the only one that gets grumpy sometimes I suspect I'm not the only one in here who keeps a list in your mind sometimes, especially under the pressure. I know how much I'm doing. I'm pulling the weight. We probably never say it, right? But We start getting grumpy and we start getting ticked off and people aren't sure what's going on. You aren't a president, are you? But you're a mom. You're not a president, are you? But you're a dad. You're not a president, are you, but you're a son or a daughter. You're not the president, but you're a worker. You're not the president, but you're a supervisor. You're not the president, but you're a neighbor And you know how in all these relationships we can just start getting grumpy because people aren't realizing who we are and what we deserve. And let me also say in that it's not just we say that with them, but when we start acting that way, we're really saying that to God. God, don't you know that I deserve better? My wife should have noticed how I was being extra helpful last week. Why didn't she make a list and come in and recite it to me when I was sitting down and saying, you're just the greatest husband. I don't know how I got you. Right? We're really complaining to God about our brother or our sister, our husband, or our wife, or co-worker, or our boss. And it's because of what's going on in our own hearts. Believe me, the only thing that will change you is looking to Jesus. And he was the only one that deserves the praise, who's always perfect, who always did more than his amount. He died for the innocent. The one who was innocent died for the guilty. The one who was rich became poor. The one who was king came to be born in the stable. All of the things are completely reversed around. And we can't do it by saying, you be good, you be humble. Never happen. It'll happen for a while, right? I should be. I think I can. I know I can. I can, I can, I can. Ah! I didn't It's only breakfast. You already blew up. Right? That's the way we are on our own. What will change us is looking to the Lord Jesus. And what he has done for us is the only way to turn that around. Turn with me to Philippians 2. Philippians 2, verses 3 to 8. The Apostle Paul speaks to the Philippian church here. Speaks to me, speaks to you. Now, as we read this, take a minute and just ask God to say, Lord, where is it? That I've got a burr under my saddle. Who is it in family, at work, or neighbor that I might have a burr under my saddle with? Maybe I'm not as grumpy as the pastor was this week, but it's there. It's bothering me. How can I change that? I know I should. And there, beloved, I don't want to say that there aren't some times when people are just sinning against you. And you do need to graciously go to them. We don't want to ignore that. We don't say anybody should be beaten up in here. or, you know, you know, people being stolen from or things like that. No, there are times when we have to indeed make what is wrong right. But for most of us, that's not happening. For most of us, it's not just going our way and it's not easy. Right? We get these burrs, and the burrs start sticking us, and then we start sticking others And so the way to change that is not to say, I think I can, I hope I can, but to look to the one who has. And Philippians 2 helps us do that Philippians 2, starting in verse 3. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. But with humility, count others more significant than yourselves Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also the interest of others. Have this mind among yourself which is yours in Christ. who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God of things to be grasped, but emptied himself. By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. I don't think any of us are dying here, are we? Doesn't take me long before I sing an old song, some of you won't have a clue. It was when I was a teenager this It's a kind of a funny song. It was this soldier who was going to go to the little bighorn and get slaughtered with the rest, and the song was, please, Mr. Custer, I don't want to go. There's redskins waiting out there, waiting to take my hair. Yeah, he didn't want to die. When I start reading the scriptures here that it says we serve in such a way that we would die. That it's not just till we get ticked off a little. But we're called to do this. Now looking to Jesus and his example and following that isn't even enough. But I want you to go to one scripture further where the Apostle Paul, through all of his struggles, and he had to learn how to deal with beatings and sufferings and all the rest. Had to learn contentment and service. And looking to Jesus is one thing. We need to look to Jesus. And we're moved not by the commandment to say, do it. Although that's there, we're moved by his example, but his example is not enough. And he knows that, because if the example were enough, then all of us would be following him perfectly, wouldn't we? Right? Is Jesus' example enough for you? Not for me. It moves me to want to do it, but the Apostle Paul gives us the secret of his contentment and being able to deal with things. It's Philippians chapter four. Let's turn there. 4. 13, and you know this. It's often misused. Philippians 4. 13, which is, I can Do all things through Christ who strengthens me, right? Now I've seen it really misused where Coaches will put it in a, in Christian schools will put it in the locker room with the girls' locker room or the boys' locker room. I can do all things who Christ and strengthens me to have some guy stuffing a basketball in a hoop, right? Well, I don't care how many baskets you set up there and you show me that picture, I'm not going to stuff a basketball through a hoop. But that's nothing that Christ is calling me to do. He doesn't call any Christian to stuff a basketball through a hoop. But he does call us to put others before ourselves. And it doesn't matter whether you're fat or thin or tall or short. Right? And so we can do this as we go to the Lord and say, Lord, you know, I'm selfish. Lord, I want my way more than loving others. I see the example of Jesus and I try it in my own strength and I fall every time. Will you help me? And what is his promise, beloved? You can, as you look to Christ, and confess your own weakness and look to his strength May God help you. As he was gracious to help me this week. In those places that you have a burr under your saddle or someone If they're sinning against you outrightly, then you're called. Go to them in love and care and work it out. But so many of the things in life are just bumps and bruises. That we're called to love one another because Christ has loved us. May God encourage you in this great calling. And the thing is We worry about our testimony and we talk about that. But he was remembered by both sides. By being humble, by being civil, and being a servant Those are the things of Jesus. And I believe that the church has given up and said, no, we need to be militant. We need to get out there and say, you need, you know, and just beat up the world. Now we need to go with the gospel. We need to tell them the truth. But beloved, I believe we need to serve them. And they'll say, there's something different about them. That's why the scripture's in there. They'll know you are Christians by your love, by our loving service. May God give us that grace. May they know where you are, not as president, but as dad. As mom, as brother, as sister, as neighbor, as co-worker, as teacher, as student. May they love you because you serve in Christ's name and die for others. Beloved, he has promised the strength for us to do that. May we go and serve Christ with joy. Amen. Our Father and God, I thank you that your word speaks of great theologies, and we find out about Your omniscience and your omnipotence and your omnipresence. Such great things that we know what a great God we have We thank you that the scriptures also outline the disciples, the apostles that find themselves arguing with one another about who's the greatest. Them you don't destroy them, but you speak kindly to them and teach them by your own example. And then, oh God, even as we fail as they did because of Christ, you forgive us. And have promised that we might follow him because we can, because of your power, do all things through Christ who strengthens us. Strengthen your people and your church. Strengthen us this week. To love and serve for Christ's sake. Amen.