Good evening, everyone. It's a blessing to be back with you again. And uh I say this every time, but it is a blessing to be able to share God's word with you, all of you. And it's also been a blessing that we're here. And um so we're going to attempt to exalt Jesus Christ tonight, and uh that's what we're gonna do. So We're going to be back in the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John is one of the most beloved books in the New Testament. If not the entire Bible, this Gospel was written after the destruction of the temple. and uh Jerusalem in A. D. 70. And John, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, gives us an eyewitness account of the person and work of Jesus Christ. His audience was Jew were Jews and Jewish Christians. And it was to help them to understand that Jesus was the true temple and that he is the fulfillment of everything in the Old Testament. And this so this book is evangelistic, encouraging, and it has a high rich Christology. So the passage we're going to be in tonight is John chapter 3, verses 31 and 36. So please open your Bibles and turn to that. And while you're turning there, what we are about to read and what we'll what I'll preach on tonight is not found in anywhere of the other synoptic gospels. So this account is not found in Matthew, Mark, or Luke. This is the account of what happened with John the Baptist. and Jesus in between the time of Jesus baptism and uh John being beheaded by And so this account is very important. John recorded this, uh, record this account about how John the Baptist responded to Jesus Christ. So the Apostle John records for us how John the Baptist uh responded to the work and person of Jesus Christ. And our goal is to learn from John the Baptist and how we should respond. So with that said, please stand. We're going to pray and read the word of God. Let's pray. Father, how we love your word. Grant to us that we would not just hear it, but to meditate upon your word, for your word makes us wiser than our enemies, because in it we see our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. As we see Christ through your word, we become wiser than all our teachers, and your testimony is the instrument Where our minds are set right and our affections are lifted high. Father, bless us as we see Christ in your word tonight, that you will keep our feet from every evil way, and do not allow us to turn aside from your precepts. Father, we ask that the Holy Spirit will illuminate the scriptures to us tonight that we may get a greater view, a higher view. of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, we ask that the Holy Spirit will make the word sweet to our taste more than honey or any other good thing that we can imagine. Father, we ask that by your spirit that you will move us closer to yourself through your son and help us to hate every false way. And Father, thank you for this blessed time. to hear your word, to fellowship with the saints, and to see our Savior Jesus Christ and to be taught by your Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen. Um John chapter three verses verses thirty one to thirty six and it reads He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all. He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony. Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. Brothers and sisters, this is the word of God. Amen. So uh please be seated. So uh we are in the second and final part of our discussion of John the Baptist's response to Jesus Christ. The last time we were together going through this text, we explored the first half, and that lesson, if you remember, was a lesson in humility. that John taught to his disciples and of course to us through the word of God. And in that lesson we started, um in that lesson we learned what true humility was from John the Baptist. Number one, true humility is submitting to the sovereignty of God. Number two, true humility is recognizing and revering Jesus Christ. And third, true humility is losing ourselves in God by the power of the Holy Spirit. So with all this talk from uh John the Baptist to his disciples, they were probably wondering how did John feel? about Jesus Christ's ministry growing and his ministry dwindling. And John's answer to them was that he had joy. We left off last time at John chapter 3 verse 29. John said, therefore this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease So in our text tonight, John gives us a lesson in exaltation. Not exaltation, but exaltation, meaning to be jubilant, to be joyful, to rejoice. So if you want to have joy, if you want to exalt in Christ, you must have humility. And if you want to have humility, you must exalt and have joy in Jesus Christ. Jonathan Edwards said this, because there is a false joy. Right? There's a false joy that is not biblical, but it looks biblical. And that false joy is not centered on Jesus Christ. And a lot of professing believers has this false joy. And what does this false joy look like? Jonathan Edwards says this in his book, The Religious Affections. The true saint, when under great spiritual affections, from the fullness of their heart, is ready to be speaking much of God and his glorious perfections and works. and of the beauty and ambiableness of Christ and the glorious things of the gospel. But hypocrites in their high affections talk more of the discovery than they do of the thing discovered. They are full of talk about the thing about the great things they have met with, the wonderful discoveries they have had, how sure they are of the love of God to them. how safe how safe their conditions is, and how they know they shall go to heaven. But if their joy be examined, it will be found to have no other foundation than this. that they look upon these things as theirs, and that all this exalts them. The first foundation of the delight of a true saint has in Christ is Christ's own perfection. And the first foundation of the light he a Christian has in Christ is Christ's own beauty. Christ appears in himself the chief among 10,000 and altogether lovely. So Jonathan Ever was saying. Um a false joy has happiness about what Christ has done and not necessarily about Christ Himself But John the Baptist gives us three main ingredients to having true joy in Christ And they are true joy rejoices in the authority of Jesus Christ. True joy rejoices in the truth. from Jesus Christ. And number three, true joy rejoices that salvation is in Jesus Christ. So first point, true joy rejoices in the authority of Jesus Christ. John chapter 3, verse 31 reads, this is John the Baptist talking to his disciples. He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. So John the Baptist starts off with rejoicing in the authority of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is from above. And in the Greek, the word from above is anofen, which means from heaven or from God. John tells his disciples that Jesus was with the Father and he came down to us. Jesus had his abode with the Father in eternity past. He says he who comes from above is above all. That is to say that Jesus is Lord and master. John the Baptist tells the disciples that Jesus is the Lord, the ruler of all. And throughout the New Testament, even in our modern-day context, Jesus is referred to as Lord. In the Greek the word is kurios, which means having power to be a rule or master. And the word kurios is synonymous and interchangeable with the Greek word Despotase, which means owner or master of a house and slave, an absolute ruler. A powerful divine being. And these words are used for God the Father and Jesus throughout the New Testament as a ruler who has preeminence in all things. In Jude 4 it reads, for certain people have crept in unnoticed long ago who were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God and sexuality and deny our only master despotase and lord curios Jesus Christ So John the Baptist presents Jesus Christ as his Lord to his disciples according to Scripture. In Mark chapter 1, verses 2 to 3, it reads, as it is written in Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before your face who will prepare your way The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, curios, make his paths straight. And that was a prophecy about the forerunner about John the Baptist. So John the Baptist says to his disciples that Jesus is Savior and Lord. Christ is John the Baptist Lord, and he is rejoicing. Over the Lord Christ. And why? Because John knows that salvation, the restoration in the Messiah is tied to the rule of the Messiah. They are inseparable. Romans 10 9 even tells us this about our own salvation. It says, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. The Lordship of Christ is a gospel issue, and John knew that. Without the lordship of Christ, you don't have a gospel. You can believe in all the components of the gospel, but if you do not bow your knee to Christ as Lord, there is no salvation. John Frain said this, we must choose to recognize God as Lord or not. Those who do not recognize Him as Lord exchange the truth for a lie. Romans 1. 25. And they lose the basis for finding truth. Although they know many things, they gain knowledge only by borrowing principles from Christian theism. So we are not talking here about mere differences of opinion, but about spiritual warfare. It is these two opposite worldviews that contend for the hearts of all people. And those worldviews is whether or not Jesus Christ is Lord or not. In presenting Christ as Lord John the Baptist called himself a slave, and that's exactly What he did, he says, he who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He tells his disciples that Jesus Christ is above him, and he is below or under Christ. Jesus Christ is the creator and he's the creature. John the Baptist rejoiced in the authority of Christ and as he did so he rejoiced and proclaimed himself as a slave of Christ. And this is a pattern throughout the whole of the New Testament. The corresponding word in the Greek for kurios and destotes is doulos, which means slave. To rejoice in the authority of Christ is to acknowledge yourself as a slave of Jesus Christ. And we see this in Jude 1. Jude, it reads a servant of Dulos, a slave of Jesus Christ and brother of James. Jude was Jesus Christ's half-brother, and he acknowledges. that he is a slave of Christ. James, who was the other half-brother of Jesus Christ, it reads in James 1. 1. James, a doulos, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Simon Peter, 2 Peter 1. 1, a servant, a slave, a doulos, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Paul, Romans 1. 1, a doulos of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. And you might be saying, now wait a minute, back up. In John 15, 15, Jesus says, no longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing. I've called you friends. For all things that I've heard from my Father, I've made known to you. Don't you see, Sterling? We're his friends, and Jesus is our friend. But if you go to the preceding verse in John chapter 15 verse 14, the verse right above it, it reads this. Christ says, you are my friends if you do what I command you. Our position is that of sons and daughters, but our practice is that of slaves. Nowhere in the New Testament nor in the Old will you find any of the patriarchs or apostles or anybody referring to Jesus as their friend. God calls his people their friend, but we are not to call him ours He is our Lord and Savior. James chapter 2 verse 23, it reads, the scriptures were fulfilled that says Abraham believed God. And it was counted to him as righteousness, and he was called a friend of God. Abraham did not refer to God as his friend, but God did refer to Abraham as his. Out of the 12 disciples of Christ, the only one who wanted Jesus as his friend and not his Lord and master was Judas. So true joy rejoices in the authority of Christ. We must rejoice in his lordship, and we must rejoice in our service to him as his slaves from a motive of love as his children. And this is a salvation issue. No lordship, no salvation. R. C. Sprobe said this, Jesus is enthroned at God's right hand, and all authority in heaven. and on earth has been given to him. It is a profound political reality that Christ now occupies the supreme seat of cosmic authority. The kings of this world and all secular governments may ignore this reality, but they cannot undo it. The universe is no democracy. It's a monarchy. God Himself appointed his beloved Son as the preeminent king. Jesus does not rule by referendum, but by divine right. And in the future, every knee will bow before him, either willingly or unwillingly. Those who refuse to do so will have their knees broken with a rod of iron. That takes us to our next point. True joy rejoices in the truth from Jesus Christ No one has had their abode with God the Father prior to their human creation except Jesus Christ. Only Jesus Christ had firsthand account of the truth of God and the realities of eternity. Jesus spoke the words of God not from a secondary experience or a secondhand account. But firsthand account, an eyewitness of the majesty of God and God's will. So John the Baptist tells his disciples, whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this, that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. John the Baptist is helping his disciples to see the contrast between Jesus and all the rest of the prophets that have come before him. John is a prophet, but Jesus is the prophet that Moses spoke of. And Jesus Christ is the explanation, the culmination. Of the word of God spoken through the prophets. He is the climax of all that everything God had to say. John reminded his disciples of what the Old Testament scripture said about the word of God. Psalm 19, 7 says, the law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Psalm 119, verse 105 says, Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. John the Baptist wanted them to understand that Jesus is the embodiment of that light. Jesus is the embodiment of the law of God that revives the soul. And his testimony is sure. John 1. 1 reads, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. Hebrews 1. 1 says Hebrews 1 verses 1 through 2 says, Long ago at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he created the world. Jesus Christ is the hermeneutic by which we interpret everything in God's Word. So John tells his disciples Jesus is Lord, he's my Lord, and I rejoice over that Therefore, his word is final, authoritative, and it explains all that the prophets, including himself, has been pointing to. He is urging his disciples to listen to Jesus Christ with joy. Beloved, how we respond to the word of Christ is a salvation issue. And John understood what the modern church fails to understand, that you cannot be a part of the kingdom if you detest the king's law. Psalm 119, 155 says, salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statues. Romans 8, verses 5 through 8 reads this, says this, for those who love Who live, excuse me, for those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death. And that's not just talking about physical, that's talking about spiritual death. But to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. Listen, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. So those who are in the flesh cannot please God A person who is unregenerate is hostile to the word of God. And if they are hostile to the written word, they are against the word incarnate. Hostility against the Word of God can show up in an open, short insult, or it could be a gradual withdrawal from the reading, preaching, teaching, singing, and seeing. meaning in the sacraments of the Word of God. And we see this all the time, don't we? We see this in the American church with the shortening of sermons and the disdain for the study of God. We can go sit in a three-hour movie. We can go to work 10 hours a day. Five days a week We can watch two plus hours of sport, but people are unwilling. To sit under the Word of God for 20 more for more than 20 or 30 minutes. And if you do go past that, you have hell to pay. That's a mind that's hostile to God and set on the flesh. So what does a spirit-filled person look like in their response to the Word of God? They rejoice in the truth from Christ. Listen to Psalm 119, verse 97. It reads, Oh, how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. John 8, 31, 32, this is Jesus speaking. It reads, so Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, believed in him, if you abide in my word, You are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. 1 John 4, 6. It reads, Whoever knows God, knows God, listens to us. Whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Christians who rejoice in the truth from Jesus Christ want more of Christ, not less. Because they have the Spirit of Christ in them. They are being made in the image of Christ who had the Spirit without measure. And what did that look like? Jesus only spoke the word of God all the time. And he loved it. If we are being conformed to the image of Christ, then our hunger for the word increases. It doesn't decrease. Kevin DeYoung said this He said, there is no calamity like the silence of God. Beloved, is that your stance? Or could you take the word or leave it? As long as you watch the Red Skins on Sunday. And that takes us to our next point. True joy rejoices that salvation is in Jesus Christ. John chapter 3, verses 35 to 36. The Father loves. the Son and has given all things into his hand. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. Whoever John the Baptist in this verse sums up the previous two points about rejoicing in the authority of Christ because he talks about God giving everything to the Son because he loves him. And then he says, whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life. Then he sums up about us rejoicing in the truth from Jesus Christ. You, anyone who Who rejects either one of those points is in danger of the wrath of God And that's what John the Baptist was explaining to his disciples. So that's where we were going with all this. What is the cause of humility and joy? The cause for true joy and humility is that salvation is found only in Jesus Christ. John the Baptist rejoices that salvation is in Christ, and he wants his disciples to rejoice as well. Salvation isn't in the doctrine of justification by faith alone. It's embodied in a person who lived 2,000 years ago, was born by a virgin, lived a perfect life And was crucified on a cross between two criminals, was raised from the dead, ascended into heaven, and he's returning to judge the living and the dead. And that's you and me, beloved. John informs his disciples that the father loves his son. They might have had a problem with Jesus. That's how this whole discussion started. Because the disciples came and said, The one that you baptize, his ministry tree is God. growing. Yours is dwindling, John. What's up with this? And John says, don't have a problem with Christ. He's the Messiah. John says you need to understand that salvation and restoration is in the person of Christ. Listen, because God loves him. We often focus, I love talking about the gospel and how Christ died for us, how he rose for us, how he lived a perfect life for us. But ultimately, Christ came because God loves him and he loves his father. Isaiah 42 One reads, behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one, and whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him, he will bring forth justice to the nations. Matthew chapter 3 verse 16 to 17 and when Jesus was baptized immediately he went up from the water and behold the heavens were open to him and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him and behold a voice from heaven said this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased salvation is an overflow of the love of God towards his son Christ came because he loved his father, and the Holy Spirit came because he loves the Father and the Son. Our salvation is a benefit and overflow of the love of the Godhead. We are not the end of all the means throughout redemptive history We are a means to a greater end, which is the Trinity expressing their love for one another, and we are benefiting from that. Those who believe in Christ, who rejoice in Christ will see life, but those who do not, the wrath of God rests upon them. I love focusing on the cross and focusing on Jesus Christ. But the other thing that we need to realize as we keep our eyes on Christ, we need to smell the smoke of hell from those who are tormented. day and night, so we will never forget how important it is to give the gospel and to share the gospel, to appreciate the gospel in Christ. Those um again, those who believe in Christ, who rejoice in Christ will see life, but those who do not, the wrath of God rests upon them. And what glorious and sobering lesson from John the Baptist. So the question in closing is, what happened from this account? What happened with John the Baptist and his disciples? Well, We all know the story. I believe John was arrested for standing up for righteousness against Herod. He sends his disciples to Jesus to confirm that he is the Messiah. And that they were waiting, he's the Messiah that they were waiting on. And Jesus sends John's disciples with the confirmation that the Old Testament prophecies concerning himself are being fulfilled. John is then beheaded by Herod who acts out of his enslavement to his own lust. But this is what Jesus says about John the Baptist. He says, Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has not arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. What an accommodation And why is that? Because John rejoiced in the authority of Christ. Because John rejoiced in the truth from Christ, and John rejoiced in salvation in Christ. But Jesus also said this, yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. So you might be asking, can I receive accommodation like that? And the question and the answer to that is yes, because we are living in a time In redictive history that was greater than John the Baptist, we have greater revelation. We are living in the eschatological fulfillment of Christ. John would have loved to live in this time. But with that said, we are held more responsible than John the Baptist. We got a greater weight, the bar hasn't been lowered, it's been lifted John's disciples went away after talking with Jesus. John's disciples went away after talking with Jesus. They got the confirmation, took it back to John the Baptist, they went on their way. In the text, when it says that they went their way, in the Greek it's a present, continuous action. It means that they kept on going. It doesn't seem like they returned to Christ after giving John the Baptist the message. It seemed like they separated themselves. It says the text says that they in the Greek that they departed from Christ after that day. But I'm convinced that that was the end for them. I believe we see them again in the book of Acts. Acts chapter 19, verses 1 through 6. It reads, Paul passed through the inland country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples and he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said, no, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit. And he said, into what then were you baptized? And they said, into John's baptism. And Paul said John baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, and that is Jesus. On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying, and there were about twelve men in all. I believe these are the same disciples John were talking to that day. And reason being is because they weren't baptized in Christ. They had no idea that the Holy Spirit had come. And they seemed like they were separated from all of the redemptive historical actions that were taking place between Christ, the apostles, his resurrection, and all those things that happened. Plus, the fact that they had a problem with Jesus Christ when John the Baptist was alive and he was explaining to them about Christ kind of for me makes that connection. I won't be dogmatic about this, but I believe these are the these are those disciples. So church, uh this tonight this is the application for tonight that we may have true joy. Let us rejoice in the authority of Jesus Christ. May we rejoice in the truth from Jesus Christ, and may we rejoice in salvation found only in Jesus Christ. Joy is the other side of humility. And if we are humble and joyful, we'll end up like these disciples. in the arms of their Savior, empowered by the Holy Spirit, on their way home. to be with that man who was baptized by John, whose ministry was growing, who they didn't think well of, but now look at them, filled with the Holy Spirit, baptized in his name. What a lesson by John the Baptist. There's much to learn, much more could be said, but thank God for this lesson and for this time to share this. Let's pray. Father, thank you for tonight. Thank you for your word and thank you for this account of John the Baptist's response to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You are wise, God, to put this in there, Father. And may we rejoice in our Savior, in the whole Christ. May we not be divided about Christ, but may we rejoice in in him. And Father, may we uh live a live a life of worship this week, meditating upon the word, and may we Be ever satisfied by Christ, but also have a growing hunger to know more and grow closer to Him. Thank you for CRPC. Continue to bless us, those who are here and those who are traveling. Bless us, keep us, help us to be a light in this dark world, in your name we pray, Jesus Christ. Amen.