Let's uh open in prayer, shall we? Father above, we thank you, O God, that you have given us your word, for you've given us such truths that we might know you, that we may know your mind, your heart. And that, Lord, through it we know our own. Lord, we pray that you would be pleased to inform our hearts and inform our minds. But most of all, we pray that, Lord, you would impress upon us Who you are to a greater degree, and give us grace, O Lord, to be your your faithful followers, your faithful servants. Lord Jesus, give us grace to be your followers. Make us attentive to your word and be pleased, Lord, to stir our hearts to your own glory and honor. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Is this mic is this a mic that's on? Okay, it is over speakers. Um our text this evening Is found in the fourth chapter of Matthew. And I'll read starting in verse 18, and we'll and we'll read just to verse 22. Let's stand as we read the Word of God together. Or as I read the Word of God. And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew, his brother. casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then he said to them, Follow me, then I will make you fishers of men. They immediately left their nets and followed him. Going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He called them, and immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. Thus thus the word of God. Please be seated. Um I've entitled this exhortation to follow my last one. My last one was uh uh the mark uh a mark of the Christian or the marks of the Christian. And last time I spoke on submitting and submitting especially to Christ, for that's a mark that you don't find in the culture But it is to be a mark of the Christian and I would and I suggested at the time that that would maybe one thing which distinguishes us from the culture is that we are people who do submit. We submit to a greater head. Well this time I thought of a second mark of a Christian, and this mark is following Jesus. What does it mean to follow Jesus? As we can see in these four verses, we find that word used at least three times. Jesus said, Follow me, I will make you fishers of men. They immediately left their nets and followed him. And it says later on of James and John, they left their father in their boats and followed him. Well, let's let's Let's uh first look at this word very briefly. The word itself is a Greek word, and I don't know how to pronounce it, with all apologies to my Greek scholars here. It looks like Akolautheo. And it's it's two words. The first meaning is ah, which expresses here is expressing union or likeness. And then the second word is kaluthos, which is away. So put those together and it means a unity with away, or it means literally to go together. Hence one going in the same way. So in in uh this same Greek word is used uh i in seventy-seven times then in the New Testament, it's all speaking of following Jesus. 77 times. I think there's something to be said there for a word that's used that often. So what does it say of the disciples? They followed Jesus I think that says something for us as well. So that that's the word. Acolauteo or acolauteo. The word is also used a number of other ways by just putting different prefixes on, but those are another those are for another time Now, let's talk about its meaning. So number one, I only have I have four points, and the fourth is application So the fo the first one is what's the word itself? The second is the meaning, and that's that this is not a difficult concept. To follow Christ, or to look literally at the meaning of this, means to walk with him. And I think that in particular we can use the word follow Christ because after all, he is Lord, he is master. So there's a sense in which, yes, we may walk with him, but there's another sense in which we follow him. And I think both meanings are appropriate in their way. That we're called to follow him as Lord. We're called to follow him as our leader. Notice we're not walking in front of him. How dare we ever think that we could walk in front of him? No. We're walking behind him. He is our Lord, our master. But in another sense, as the Greek word directly says, it's to walk with him. So the word speaks directly. In their day, it spoke of him being with the disciples. He said, follow me. And they did. It's spoken of on of at least five of the disciples literally by Jesus, James and John, Philip, and then Matthew Um, I think there was a fifth, but at least on five occasions written in the scriptures, Jesus literally says, Follow me. And they got up, they left all and followed him. So that's point number two. What does it mean? Well it means just that, to follow or to walk with. Well it's point number three. What's the contrast? What is the contrast? Sometimes we can learn much about what something is by describing what it isn't. So it's contrasted with not following Jesus. If you and we don't want to take too much by the Scriptures' absences, but the Scriptures never speak of men following Satan, do they? I don't think we find that word ever. That we find men spoken of as following after Satan. And I think one of the things we can infer from that is because it comes quite natural. to follow Satan. Men don't have to actively do it. It comes quite by nature. It is automatic. It is part of our nature. It comes with the territory. It comes with our own nature as we are given it. As we are inherited by birth. Now Jesus on several occasions speaks very pointedly to this. In John chapter 6, verse 40, he speaks of folks who are not willing to come to me that you might have life. They're not willing to come to him. So there's a sense in which they're wanting to follow their own course, and there's no desire on their part to follow him, even if they might have life. He says on another occasion, no one can come to me unless it has been given by my Father, or unless it has been granted by my Father. So we find that not walking with Jesus comes quite naturally, and in fact it's the Father who works to make us followers of Christ. But even more pointedly, he says in John 8. 44 He speaks to those he was arguing with at the time. You are of your father the devil. And the desires of your father you want to do. Now we could say, well, that's the Pharisees or the scribes or whoever he's arguing with, but I'd like to sustain that's really spoken to all men apart from the work of God He is not just speaking of these select, hostile few. No, I think he's speaking of natural man. It comes quite by nature for us to follow Satan. I think it's one of the great designs and desires of Satan, his great devices. That he allows men to think that they pursue their own wills, that they do as they please. And yet if they're not following Christ, they are simply walking in a way that He would be pleased for them to follow. But He lets them think. that they're following their own way. No. But that we know from the scriptures that's not really what's happened. That unless a person is following Christ Ultimately, they are followers of Satan. They are of Satan. They are his own. They unwittingly do his will and his wishes and his ways. So people follow Satan naturally. We don't read that of the scriptures of men following Satan, it comes quite naturally. So that's contrasting following Jesus with following Satan. Now let's get to point number four, the applications. It was said of the of the Puritans, and I do not put myself in the same category. But it was said of them that when they when they got through discoursing the scriptures, then they pointed all the guns and and uh and opened fire. And that point of the guns was the To drive home what this really meant, the application. Well, God willing, I'd like to say some things that perhaps could be helpful for you. Let's talk about what does it mean to follow Christ. What does that mean? The word's very simple. The concept's really very simple, but it's another one of those things that it's easy to put here, but to get it in here takes a lifetime, doesn't it? Following Jesus requires effort, does it not? It doesn't come naturally to us. There's a sense in which it does, because when God changes that heart inside us that is initially inclined away, there is a sense in which we naturally desire to follow. But it isn't e isn't it true of all of us that we are so easily distracted We are so easily wandering away. So what we say is sort of point number A under application is that it requires effort. To follow Christ really means that I take time each day to think about what does it mean to follow Jesus? Is he my Lord? I take effort. It requires mental effort. I must ponder that and think about that. I think we need to keep in mind that where Jesus leads, there is no path. We have to follow him. He's leading down a country country way where there is no road necessarily. He takes us across a field, and there's no path there So I have to keep my eyes fixed on him. I have to keep him in view. Because Jesus calls me to a way that doesn't just lay itself out before me. He calls me to follow him and he implies that I need to keep with him. Keep my eyes on him, because that path is not otherwise known. Suppose I find myself lost Suppose I get to that place where I find, uh, Lord, you're nowhere in sight. Lord, you are distant from me. I do not sense your presence in any way, shape, or form. I don't know where you have gone. What then? Call out. Call out to him in prayer. Is it conceivable that if he has made you his disciple That he will not help you get back to that way. When you call out, he will either come back and say, Will you follow me a little more closely, please? Walk with me Or he will make the way clear to make your way back to him. What are we saying here? Children, to follow Christ is to walk with a person. It's to walk with him And Jesus wants us to know him as a person. Now, granted, he's a different sort of a person because he is also God. But he is a person. He calls us to walk with him as with a person. So he calls us to talk to him, to speak with him, to interact with him. Can you imagine that Jesus probably joked with his disciples? I bet he did. I bet he was enjoyable to be with. I bet his jokes were funny. I'm not sure how easily the disciples cracked jokes with him because he always knew the answer, right? But he must have been enjoyable to be with. So children, think of Jesus as that person that you could walk with and genuinely like to be with. Seek him as such a companion. He wants us to walk with him. So when we speak of Jesus saying, follow me, yes, there's a sense in which he is my Lord and I follow after him. But there's another sense in which she wants me to walk with her. What am I also saying, children? It's not just knowing facts about a Jesus up there in the air at the right hand of God. As much as facts are good. But knowing Christ and following Jesus isn't just knowing about him out there. It is walking with him Every minute. It is walking with him day by day. It is talking to him throughout the day I'm sitting in traffic. I'm saying, Lord, this is an awful mess here. Boy, I look forward to a day when there won't be traffic in heaven. Oh Lord, this is wonderful. This is a wonderful gathering of your people. Lord, thank you for such a delight. He wants us to interact with him and talk with him. He is a person. He is not just an abstract thing, a God way up there in the heavens, but one we may walk with and talk with. But I said that it requires effort. It isn't something that's done easily or naturally, but it one it does require some effort. And I would say this, even in Presbyterian circles, children, it is a decision. Okay? We must decide to walk with Christ. I think we can decide not to walk with Christ. We can decide never to have him in our lives. And we won't go into all the theological background here. We'll lay that aside for the moment. But I think there is a decision. So, children of the covenant, it is a decision to walk with Jesus Christ. And I would like you to consider that decision. Because we may either decide to walk with them or not. How many people did Jesus call to walk with him? And they wouldn't. They would not. How many argued with him and sought to defeat him in debate? They didn't want to walk with him. But Jesus says, follow me. Come with me. And at that point, we are struck with a decision. We must either walk with him or not. And children of the covenant, I suggest, I'd like to recommend to you, decide Christ. Now, when the scriptures speak of men following him, that also uses another word. Let me just slip this one. It says that they forsook all. Now what does that mean? That's kind of a word we don't use much these days. But children, what does it mean to forsake all? It means that those things that you hold dearest, you will place second to Christ. What is the dearest thing to you? Place that second to Christ. Because when Christ calls us to follow him, he wants us to be first. And as Lord, he deserves to be there. So when you decide to follow him, what you're also deciding is to forsake everything else that would compete with him in that place where he is. He's not saying that I live in a desert devoid of anything to taste or to touch or to feel or smell or do. He's not saying do nothing. Except just be with me. No, he's what he's saying is, I want you to get rid of everything that competes with me as being your highest priority. I'm to be your highest priority. And everything else comes behind. So when you make this decision to follow Jesus, then it's also a decision that you're saying, I will leave other things secondary. All other things are secondary. Now, when we have our quiet times, and children of the covenant, I I trust that your parents are helping you learn to have a quiet time. What are you doing in that quiet time? Is it just a time where you learn about this Jesus in the heavens? And my answer to you is no. That's not what you're doing at all. You're meeting with that Jesus. That is where you may talk and converse with him. Jesus reveals himself in this word. He talks to you through this word. You read a verse. In fact, we may even read the very verse that I'm speaking about tonight. Follow me. And all of a sudden it hits me. You know, I've been walking quite apart from Christ for some time now. And it didn't even dawn on me. In that way, Jesus speaks to us. He keeps reminding us of truths that we need to be reminded of. When we pray, we pray to a person We don't pray to a God that is out there somewhere in the universe near Andromeda or further out. No, no, no. We speak to Jesus Christ, who wants us to walk with us, and we speak to him So when we have your quiet times and you have your quiet time, that is what you're doing. You're cultivating this walk with Jesus. And that is its entire purpose. That's its central purpose. Its purpose is not to learn neat and new things. Its purpose isn't just to count something off a list. Although they could be helpful, but its purpose is to cultivate this walk with Jesus. So remember what that's all about. But that's why I say it takes work. Because it does take effort to discipline myself to read this book. It does take discipline to take that time to pray with him. But that's what he calls us to do. He wants us to walk with him, and these are the parts of that walk. It's a life lived keeping Jesus in your sight, right? It's a life that requires effort. It's a life that requires keeping Jesus in your sight. Now Jesus doesn't walk too fast. But he does say, keep up, then let's walk together. Now we can walk too slow. You know, I can ignore Jesus. I can bother never bother to pray. I can bother never to open this word. But I'd like to suggest to you that when we do that, we're kind of falling behind. Jesus wants us to keep up. Are you walking with Jesus? Are you conversing with him? And I'd say I like to say following Jesus requires a decision. Now, children, let me put out another carrot for you. A carrot means something to draw you. What is it that Jesus promises for those that follow him? Can you remember a very positive statement that he made? He said in John 10. 10, and I suggest you memorize it. Because when times get hard, it's a nice verse to remember, I came that they might have life and have it abundantly. The evil one would love us to believe that abundant life is found apart from following Jesus. And he will throw every lie at you you can imagine. To make you believe that following something else gives you abundant life, that there are greater pleasures and greater joys and more abundant life in another direction. Now it is possible to experience temporal pleasures, but unfortunately they often lead to, or always lead to, dead ends. If they aren't ones that Jesus Himself has given, then they're dead ends. So remember that when we say, when Jesus calls you to follow him, it requires effort, it requires a decision But it's a decision that carries with it abundant life. So children, if you want life as it was meant to be richly lived, that is the way. And now you and right now you may not know what much of what that means. And all you have is a definition. Jesus said, I came that they might have life and have it abundantly, but I would carry that with you. Jesus says, following him is the way to abundant life. It's quite a promise. I encourage everybody to memorize that promise. When times get tough, it's a very wonderful promise. Following Jesus means to keep the brush cleared from my seeing him. What does Jesus say in the parable of the sower? What is the problem that creeps in with the believer? Or perhaps with those even who think they're believers? What's the problem that creeps in? The cares of a life grow up. and choke out that abundant life. They choke out us from following him. By our being so cared, so weighed down with the cares of the world, the worries of the world, even the delights of the world. We can let these things so crowd our following Christ that his he vanishes from sight. He's gone. He's in the brush. He's in he's way out in the we're surrounded by deep weeds The field has grown up. We can't even see. The grass has grown six feet taller. The bamboo fields have grown up so high, I can't even see Jesus anymore. So what is Jesus calling us to do? Well, there's two things I'd say. Part of the effort of following Christ is to keep that machete in hand and whack it down. Whack them down. As we find that these cares are choking out that life in Christ, they are to be dealt with ruthlessly. And I would suggest to you, Jesus gives you that machete. By grace, to whack these things down. Keep those bamboo shoots cut down to the ground. They keep coming back up, cut them down And in those times when you find find your life so choked that you can't even wield the machete anymore, you're not making any progress anymore. This tree is these these little shoots have grown up into trees. Then what? Are we at an impasse? Well, no. I think that in those situations, to again carry this figure a little bit further, Jesus does flash and burn for us, right? He will burn everything down. But what must you do? Call out to him. Lord Jesus, I have allowed the cares of this life to so crowd up my love for you. I have not followed you, Lord. Will you forgive me? If you cry out, will not Jesus cut everything down and make that way once again clear and enable us to follow Him. So I would suggest to you get rid of the brush and keep the brush down or call out to him to burn it away. And I don't think that he will refuse So following Jesus means to keep that brush cleared away from my seeing him. Following Jesus Means never believing for a moment that I know that way all by myself. Lord, I've walked with you for 30 years. I know the way. You don't need to bother anymore. I can find my s find my way just fine. Thank you very much. I would suggest to you. Jesus doesn't put a time limit on following him. He doesn't say, well, just follow me for 30 years or so, and then you'll know the way, and you'll be just fine. No, Jesus doesn't give a time limit. I'd suggest to you that even if you're a Christian for 30 years or 40 years, you must always get on your knees and seek to find, and seek to seek, to seek to know and to follow that Christ. Every single day. We don't know that way in and of ourselves. And you will never know that way in and of yourself. Every day we must meet with him. Every day we must seek to see him. And follow him. And we will never mature out of that in a sense. Let Satan never convince you for a second that somehow that's maturity. to somehow grow out of a day to day depends on Christ. That's not maturity. That's pride. No. We are of such a we are of such a nature that Jesus wants to walk with us every day we live, even to that very last day. And when we come home, we will walk with him face to face, where now we must walk more by faith. More by reading him in the pages of Scripture, more by conversing in prayer, and then we will walk face by face. So in that day, when the Lord takes us home, the path doesn't end. It simply becomes even better and more clear. But don't be deceived for a second that you can walk that way yourself. You cannot. So let me sum up. Jesus wants to walk with us And he wants us to follow him. We follow him as Lord. We walk with him as companion. We could think of it both ways. I would think of it both ways. And keep those two images in mind. He wants to walk with us in a path that is filled with abundant life. In any other way is not abundant life and never will be. So recognize the deceits of the evil one. They are always lies. So, Christian, will you once again seek to follow him closely? I don't know where your life is with Christ, but he wants to walk closely with you. If it is distant, then seek a closer walk with him. He seeks it. Will you seek it? Are you doing what you need to do to enter into such fellowship? Are you doing those small things that he calls you to do? Remember, his burden is light. Are you meeting with him each day? Are you seeking to know him each day? If your time of worship, personal worship each day has become just a check off the list, well, maybe it's time to say, Lord, this has become dry. We've well you bless this. Because I desire to walk with you in a personal way. I don't think you would say no to that Will you cut at the underbrush that threatens to choke Jesus? I guarantee you Satan is working his best to fan that growth. He's throwing all the water on it he can. He wants to throw all the nutrients he can. But it's our job to take out that machete and whack them down. Or it's our job to pray to the Lord to slash and burn, as they do in various jungle places. Just burn it all down. Where are you? Do you need to take the machete and cut it down? Do you need to ask the Lord to burn it all down and to start afresh? Children of the covenant, will you decide to follow Christ? You must make a decision here. It doesn't come natural. You must either decide to follow him or not. And every day that you don't decide to follow him, you really are deciding not to follow him. And I place that decision before you now. A decision needs to be made. The mark of a great leader is he knows when to make a decision. And I would say to each one of you, children of the covenant, a decision needs to be made. Will you decide now to walk with him, to seek him, to know him, to meet with him daily, to please him? To read his word and to follow what he says. This is what it means to follow him, to follow Christ. And I would suggest to you: this is what it means to be a Christian. To be a Christian. So will you follow him and walk with him? Interestingly enough, the images even in the Old Testament shouldn't surprise us But let me read in closing from Psalm sixteen. I have set the Lord always before me. Notice that's a decision. I have set That's a decision. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. How interesting. In the same verse, it speaks of Jesus said, Before me, that is in front of me It also is at my right hand, and I shall not be moved. It speaks of the same language of him of me following him and at my right hand beside me What does it say then? Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will rest in hope. So a theme echoed in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. Let's pray, shall we? Lord Jesus. We pray, Father, that for those of us that do desire to follow you, you would fan that. Give us grace, O Lord, to follow you ever more diligently. to seek Lord, to follow you, to seek the delights that come from it. But where you don't choose to give those delights, grant us, Lord. The eagerness to follow you anyway, knowing that such a path will lead to delights one day. Grant us to be people who live for the long term and not the short term. And Lord, where those are in this room who do not yet follow you, we pray that you would give them grace to ponder hard about a decision that's before them. That you would give them grace, Lord. Perhaps it is the children of this covenant. Perhaps it is adults who have yet to make such a decision. Give them grace, O Lord, to know the decision that is set before them. to follow you, for you call men, to follow you. Give each here tonight, Lord, grace, to ponder that question. And to not know rest until they have answered it and answered it well. We pray, Lord, for such grace. Only you can give it, only you can pour out such grace Only you can kindle in such a heart, Lord, the desire to follow you. And we pray that you would be pleased to work mightily. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.