And the glory forever. Amen. We are much lost. working our way uh through it systematically and if you would would you uh stand if you're able for the reading of scripture we begin in Mark uh chapter three verse seven Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, let your word accomplish what you intend in giving it to us today. Just as the rain comes down and waters the ground and brings forth crops and so feeds us. May we be fed and strengthened, challenged, and Lord, once again receive your word into our beings, for we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea and a great crowd followed from Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem and Edomia, and from beyond the Jordan, and from around Tyre and Sidon. And when the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him. And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him. Because of the crowd, lest they crush him. For now, he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch him. And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God. And he strictly ordered them not to make him known. He went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired. And they came to him. And he appointed twelve, from whom he also named apostles, so that they might be with him. And he might send them out to preach and have authority to cast out demons. He appointed the twelve Simon to whom he gave the name, Peter, James. the son of Zebedee and John the brother of James, to whom he gave the name Bo Andreus, that is, sons of thunder. Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alpheus and Thaddeus. And Simon the Canaan and Judas the Scariot who betrayed him. And then he went home and the crowd gathered again so that they could not even eat And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying he is out of his mind. Then in verse 31. And he's Mother and brothers came and standing outside they sent to him and called him. And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother and my brothers? And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Here are my mother and brothers For whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. You can take your seats. In nineteen eighty-eight, we were living in South Carolina in a little town called Lancaster, and Hurricane Hugo, which was a catapult. Gory four storm uh came in far in front, all the way to the central part of the state And it passed over our little town as a category one storm. It happened in the middle of the night. The winds howled. In fact, it sounded like a locomotive. was approaching. Transformers exploded and we saw the flashes of uh lights. There were many uh small tornadoes that were spun off and Concrete blocked buildings were blown up, large swaths of pine trees were cut off at about six uh feet. When we woke up, we lived in a disaster area. We'd never done that uh before. And The power lines had been shredded, and we realized very quickly that uh what we had in the refrigerator and freezer was not going to be cooled again for some uh time. And so of course we ate what we could. We like our neighbors were very glad to be alive having experienced uh the storm and people opened up their freezers and offered uh steaks and venison um because they too knew they couldn't possibly eat what they uh had. There was just such a kindness for a couple of days. Now we had small children and they needed milk. And we could buy milk, but we had actually no way uh to keep it cool. And uh I heard a rumor. That's all we had were rumors, because there were n absolutely no radio stations in in South Carolina that we could uh receive broadcasting. That there was ice on the east side of town and I broke out there and there was, I don't know, thirty, forty, maybe fifty people gathered around the truck As ICE was being passed around, you could just feel the desperation in the crowd. The look on people's faces was uh filled with, well it was ugly, and it was filled with anger, and I felt afraid. I actually don't remember if I stayed to get ice or not Mark tells us that crowds followed Jesus. And he tells us in between the crowds that Jesus calls twelve to be a new community. He intentionally is contrasting the crowds in this new community. The crowds and his family are actually outsiders. They think they're close to Jesus, but actually they are not. And twelve who were called actually are insiders. This is one of Mark's themes, and we'll see it again and again in the next several chapters. The first crowd that is described in verse 7 contains desperate people who want to be healed. They are pressing on Jesus. Surging the wheel, wanting to touch him. The crowds clamor for Jesus. Now, it's a very, very large uh crowd that's drawn uh far beyond just uh Jerusalem and Judea, people as far south as Idemeam, which is 120 miles. uh from Capernaum as far uh north as Sidon, which was fifty miles east from Tyre, uh came. And they were very diverse ethnically. There were Jews But from Idemia and the Transjordan, there was a mixture of Jews and Gentiles, and Tyronsidon probably were almost completely Gentiles. And Mark wants us to understand why it is their drawn. In this very short summary, he tells it's it's the healing and deliverances that Jesus is doing. We, you know, have often these pictures of Jesus and his ministers surrounded by little children and lambs. That's not what it was like. These are desperate crowds, and he's hassled by critics. The ministry of Jesus Jesus to the crowds fulfills the word of the prophet Isaiah, which said, speaking of the servant, Is it too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob? Jacob and to bring back to preserve Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. That's what's happening. And Jesus is attentive to their misery, he's compassionate, but the clamoring of the crowds is not a response of faith. They're pressuring to touch him is not an expression of the faith that Jesus seeks to elicit. What do you want from Jesus? Do you know? One way, perhaps, to think about it is what do you think will make you happy? Daniel Gilbert is a professor of psychology, and his area of research is what's called positive psychology. One of the topics he's researched is effective forecasting. That is, they're trying to find out how it is that we predict what we think will make us happy and whether our predictions are actuate. And uh his research has led to uh the conclusion that uh we're not very good at forecasting our uh happiness. Um we tend to overestimate uh the intensity and duration of our responses to things. You know, everybody who's bought a new car has experienced this. You think that car is going to make you happy? Some of you have may even spent too much money on a car because you thought that would make you really happy. But it doesn't take a long for the newness of that car. uh to uh well not to bring about the happiness you anticipate. What this means is is that uh we tend to make uh bad decisions because we're wrong about what actually will make us happy and make for lasting happiness in our lives. It's pretty sobering to think about that. It may seem like trivial to say, well, of course a car won't make you uh happy, but really a lot of our decisions about all sorts of things from our education and career to marriage can be traced back to the staking beliefs that we have about what it is that will make us happy. The truth is that spending our whole lives chasing what we want is not the best way to achieve happiness. Jesus comes to speak to the crowds primarily about the kingdom of God. That's the primary focus of his ministry, not the healing and the deliverances that they Seek after. What do you think will make you happy? What is it that you're pursuing? Jesus said putting his kingdom first is the only thing that will produce. In the next paragraph, Beginning in verse 13, Jesus goes up on a mountain. It's the place of revelation and encounter with God in the Old Testament. And he calls the twelve. He calls those he wants and they come. Jesus calls the twelve, one for each of the twelve original tribes. of Israel. Just as Jesus led Israel out to Mount Sinai and God made a covenant with them and made them into a nation, his special and treasured possession. So Jesus goes up on a mountain and summons twelve apostles to be with him. He's constituting a new Israel You see, the old Israel had failed to live in covenant with God, and not live faithfully with God. And so God sent them into exile, and in fact, at Jesus' time, there were only two and a half of the tribes. Left. But now as the prophets had promised, he creates a new Israel. That's why there's twelve. One apostle for each of the twelve tribes. And this new Israel will fulfill the destiny of the first Israel to be a gift to the peoples of the world, a source of life. and hope. Jesus calls them, they came, and he appointed them. Actually, appointed means literally made. Now disciples in that day ordinarily chose The teacher they followed. Kind of the way students choose what college to attend. But that's not what Jesus does. He determines who will follow him. His call supersedes their wills. And this is a picture of what we call sovereign grace. The new community Christ is uh building, in which the twelve play a foundational role. He's created by his summons. The sovereign calls the one thing they all have in common, and without it the new Israel cannot exist. And while they do play a unique role in God's plan, the pattern of their call in ours is the same. Jesus summons and we come. Now if you feel like that excludes you, let me just ask: do you desire to be with Jesus Are you willing to hear his word and act on it? If so, you can be confident that you're being called. These desires to be his disciple come from his sovereign enabling grace. So don't get sidetracked and trying to figure out, has his grace worked in me Just come to him and follow. Now Jesus is the sole and exclusive subject of the call Not even the scriptures, the Torah is more important than Jesus. Unlike the rabbis, Jesus is not a means to a higher good, knowing the scriptures. No, he himself is the highest good. And so he appointed them so that they might be with him. Jesus himself is the curriculum. And so they must be with him. They must spend time with him. They will learn from him in relationships Relationships, the primary way of shaping us. That's significant, so significant And this is where the word disciple, which probably you all know, means learner or student, might miss Because when we think about learning, we mostly think about accumulating knowledge and and perhaps some skills. But the kind of student and learning Jesus In mind here is better captured with the word apprentice. Discipleship is relational, then verbal, and behavioral To be with him, to preach and deliver. Relational, verbal, and behavioral. Jesus is with them to make them and form them into his apartment. Apprentices. And this has many, many implications for us. And the very first one I want to raise this question with you Where are you spending your time? Who or what is shaping you? The answer for most of us is our streams. Have you ever done that? Added up how many time, how many hours a day or a week you're spending looking at your phone, your tablet, your laptop, or your uh TV? I dare say that well for most of us it's three or four hours every day. And for Many people, it's much more than that. You see, church is just one voice uh among many speaking Into our lives. Podcasts, radio shows, cable news, social media, streaming, entertainment is speaking into our lives, well, a far greater volume. Than what happens here on Sunday morning in the two or three hours that we might be together. Sunday mornings are essential, but they cannot compete with screen time. Or your internet browser. For all the good content, and there's wonderful content out on the internet, there are millions of fierce wolves who threaten. Uh God's flock to threaten us. My point's this: our use of the internet is shaping what we value and our imagination about what it means to be Him. Why don't we just develop this thought for a moment? A compelling vision for human sexuality is streaming every day. It portrays the life we should desire. We should have a satisfying sex life. And not to have it is to be missing something essential. It's to be less than fully human. And to be authentic as a human being means you must act on your sex. Sexual desires as they come and with whomever is willing. And this vision is packaged up by professional video and emotionally engaging stories. And in that way it captures our imaginations. And it's no wonder when the church a few times a year Teaches that God's vision and intention for human sexuality mirror his pursuit of his bride in humanity in an exclusive covenantal relationship. And so that human sexuality should mirror this. It is to be between two unlike parties, male and female, just as it is Is in God's pursuit of his bride with humanity. And it's to be in a committed, exclusive covenantal relationship, which is of course merit. The talk given at church simply doesn't have the impact or the frequency or the emotional and visible appeal that the vision on our screens has. Our imaginations are not captured in the same way or to the same degree by God's vision for human sexuality. And so it is that in fact most of the students growing up in church no longer act on that vision of sexuality. And the cost is high for them. So you can appreciate, if you've been able to take that in, that our discipleship has to include our media habits. And our formation as disciples has to go beyond Sunday morning. In fact, Carl Truman comments in one of his books: it's very unlikely that at any period of human history. That Sunday morning was enough to actually form us into disciples. And today we compete to form disciples. In a world filled with extraordinary visual images. You see, church has to be more than simply a vehicle to convey content. If Jesus prioritizes being with him and having time in relationships, we must too. We need time not just with our Bible and sermons, but in relationships We need to be informative relationships. And Sunday morning's not enough for that to take place. place. We need one-on-one relationships. We need relationships in small groups that are intentionally seeking to shape us into Christ's apprentice. Jesus forms a new family. It begins. The story of this happens in verses 20 and 21, and then Luke intrudes another, I mean Mark intrudes another story in it, and it picks up in verse 35. We'll look at that story next week. But the scene advances and Jesus heads home and the crowd gathers. Demands are such that Jesus and his followers can't even find time to eat. And his family sees what's going on, and they decide an intervention is called for. He's lost his mind. The crowds, the conflicts with the religious leaders, the lack of caring for basic physical needs, add up to them to one reasonable solution. They need to seize him. Pull him out, talk some sense into him, or deprogram him, as we might say. And his mom and brother stand outside and call to him, and their messengers relayed to Jesus. And his response seems rather cold to us. Who are my mother and brothers? And then he looks around the room and he says, Here's my family. Whoever does the will of God is my brother and sister and Mother. Now Jesus is not abandoning his family, he's not utterly forsaking them and breaking all contact, like many cults call people to do. Following Jesus doesn't call you to reject your family. Jesus will care for his family. Uh mother entrusting her to John while he's on the cross. But what he is saying here is that his family does not understand him and does not have the claim they think they do on his life. Even Mary has got the How could that be? Well, Mary's heart and mind is filled with uh popular ideas about what the Messiah must And it won't be until Jesus dies and is raised from the dead that any human being in the Gospel of Mark will actually understand fully who he is. There are two things that we need to take away from this, and one is that Jesus' apprentices will prioritize loyalty to him and his claim on their lives over the claims of family. Now, Christ's followers are to honor their parents, they're to serve their families, and if need be, support their parents in old age. But Jesus' family is not in the relationship they think. They think they're insiders, that they have a special and exclusive claim on this life. That's not true. Jesus is redefining family here. He's creating a new family that is not based on blood. And in this day and time in which Jesus lives, this is hard for people to imagine. Of course, your primary uh commitment was to family. Blood is thicker than everything else. And the second thing I want you to notice here that has large implications for us in the making of disciples. is that the church has too often had a narrow and limited view of what it means to follow Jesus and what it is to do his work. will. And often what this has led to is describing following Christ as just doing a few church-related, what we might call sacred activities, though I don't like that. that language. You know, worshiping, reading your Bible, praying, uh, living out the Ten Commandments, loving God and neighbors, leaving actually uh much of the life that's lived outside of that alone, as if it had no implications for us being a disciple. You see, we need a fuller and more robust picture of what it is to be a disciple The disciple is being with Jesus, speaking his message and acting in his name. It's relational, it's verbal, it's behavioral. And sure, it includes communicating the gospel, but it's much, much more than that. I thought put a little handout in your well in your uh worship folder and And it's too much for me to read and have you take it in. But on one side, there is a diagram That uh uh the president of my seminary uh wrote in a book about the church that deals with what is known as the ordinary uh office or the general office of the believer. So if this is the idea of offices is new to you. The way to think about it is like this. Jesus is a prophet, a priest, and a king. He has the office of prophet, priest, and a king. And so as a prophet, he engages in the ministry of the word. As a priest, he engages in a ministry of mercy. And as a king, he has a ministry of order. He gives Commands. And the special offices, pastors, elders, deacons have these ministries. And so does everyone who's a Christ follower. Every Christ's follower engages in the ministry of the word. In praising God and worship, we've been doing that. In singing to each other, we've been doing that. And a ministry to the world. in sharing the good news about Christ with other people. But we also have a ministry of mercy, praying for God's mercy and blessing on our enemies And showing mercy and forgiving hurts and wounds and dealing gently with weaknesses, and uh as well as sharing physical resources. Especially in the body of Christ, and acting to promote mercy and justice through deed ministry. And there's a ministry of order as well. And it's actually the ministry to the world that the church tends to be the weakest in. We just really don't take that Very seriously. We don't spend time developing it. Especially the box that's in the bottom right-hand corner. What it means to bring the claims of the Lord Jesus Christ over all human efforts. Work, art, business, and so on. If we were to ask how it is that Jesus makes disciples. And how are we trying to do this as a church? We would actually find many, many contrasts. Jesus' way of making disciples is a Hebrew way. It focuses on action and doing. It's concrete and it's integrated into a context. After all, Jesus goes around for three years. These men. They live together. Our Greek way is thinking words and ideas. Tends to be abstract, and it's actually mostly lacking content. Here's what I mean. So we need to teach about marriage, and there's really a great, great deal to teach about uh marriage and once you start to see that really so much of the Bible speaks to this, well, there's a vast amount. But we tend to try to do all of that in the context of a sermon or a classroom. And we can actually only give principles and perhaps some illustrations. But to be discipled in our marriages, we need living examples. We need to see what it looks like. To live out the Christian vision of marriage with real people. It's especially important in the early years of the marriage to have those who will mentor you. And I strongly encourage those of you who have been married under five years to get a couple to mentor you, to meet with them occasionally, and to have frank conversations about the challenges and struggles. you uh meet. You see, you need people in your lives, even when you're older, if you're married, who you can talk to about the challenges you face. You can have a confidential conversation. See, what we do in church is we tell you what to do, and then we send you out the door expecting you to do it. We just delegate. We direct and we delegate. That's not what Jesus did. Jesus did show and tell with his disciples. He supported and coached. He trained them. That's why they went on this road trip. For three years, and why he sends them out and puts them in places and situations that are very challenging for them. They've gotten very uncomfortable being apprenticed to Jesus You see, if we want to see formation in depth in people, then we have to find a better way. We need to have uh well a simple definition of what it looks like to be a disciple and there's a very provisional one on the other side of this sheet of paper. But we need some things we can get our hands on to get started in this, even though uh it would take a lot uh to express all the implications of being a Jesus calls us to a new way of living. He's seeking to apprentice us and shape us. As kingdom agents. Kingdom living is comprehensive. It captures every aspect of our lives, every endeavor, every relationship. Are you pressing on to maturity if you're a Christian? If you've been following Christ for many years, are you pouring your life into somebody else? Are you giving yourself away? of walking with them alongside of them in a deepening relationship. Friends, it takes a church to make a disciple That's perfect. Gracious Heavenly Father, may you uh be pleased to lead us uh further into what Christ is calling us here. Give us uh wisdom. Help us to receive what we put today. Dead. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.