Thank you, Tom. If you haven't already done so, would you turn your Bibles to our passage this morning? It's from the book of 1 Peter, chapter 2, verses 4 through 8. That is from 1 Peter 2, verses 4 through 8. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy, inerrant, and blessed word? Hear now the word of God. As you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifice. Acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit to illumine us so we can understand and grow in the Word of God and in His ways. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, attend to us as we study the Word. Open our minds to a greater understanding of it. Help us to see the work of redemption come alive as we read and study through the pages of Holy Scripture. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I find words to be very interesting things. And words in themselves they they can undergo changes. Over a period of time. I think that the more mobile a society is and uh greater it has access to communications Whether it be network TV or social media, the quicker word can undergo changes. In fact, just in my lifetime alone, uh I think of the word bad. Uh bad as in, you know, has a negative connotation. You know, it means evil or something that was of perhaps poor quality But then it came to mean something good. I can't really quite remember exactly what date it was that I came across it, but at some point it could mean something that is even better than just good. For example, it can be used to make statements about how someone is dressed or how they look. Maybe you've heard, hey, you look really bad today It means something totally the exact opposite of what it was originally um historically meant. But I don't know about you, but when I'm asking someone how I look today and they say I look bad I can find that just a tad bit confusing and not know if I need to go back into the wardrobe or not. In fact, I I recall back in the nineteen eighties uh when the the new international version, the NIV of the you know, the Bible was gaining acceptability and popularity. On the nightly news, I was watching on ABC. Perhaps some of you may remember the anchor there was Peter Jennings He reported that the NIV was a modern translation that made it easier for people to read. Easier than the King's English, which was found in the King James Version, the KJV. He gave an example in his report that evening of how the KJV, that in the KJV, that those who were found guilty of capital punishment were stoned. Now, people in the eighties associated stoned with some other recreational activity. So the NIV decided to change that to receive a stoning. To make it a little bit clearer, we didn't want to have people going around disobeying God hoping for some other reward Not only um not only can words change their meaning, uh they can also become metaphors, can't they? The word stone uh indeed can take on a metaphoric meaning, just like when Jesus said in John chapter ten and eight, I am the door. When Jesus says that he's the door, he's not literally saying that he is a door. The Apostle Peter uses the word stone metaphorically in this passage to communicate a shift And at the same time, a progression that has come about by revelation, the revelation, the death, and resurrection of Jesus the Christ. In the life of a believer. And this has impacted the life of the church. This morning we're going to consider really the amazing story of how the creator of the universe Who wishes to have fellowship with his chosen people does so by creating a palace or a temple. At first, it is a physical palace, built in a physical location which was built by Solomon, and how over a span of a millennia, that's ten centuries, Through a course of events in the history, which includes disobedience, he communicates to us through his That the temple built with huge stones that you and I can see and touch is rejected as the basic building material as well as the place he wished to be. Worshiped. Prior to Christ's coming in the first century, if there were two things that identified God's people and set them apart from the rest of the world, they were the worship of Yahweh. way in his temple in Jerusalem and the celebration of the Sabbath, which are of course related to one another. In fact, the greatest source of visible national pride was the temple. The first temple was constructed under King Solomon's administration and reign. When the temple was dedicated, we see that God took up a visible residence. In the temple. 1 Kings 8, 10, and 11 records for us. And it came about when the priests came from the holy place That the cloud filled the house of the Lord, so that the priest could not stand to minister because of the cloud. For the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord. No. Based upon Israel's unrepentant disobedience, God punished his people by bringing destruction. upon the temple, the city of Jerusalem, and exiling them from the land of Judah. The instrument for accomplishing this was the great Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar. Approximately 70 years later, the temple was rebuilt with huge and massive stones, with the express permission of the Medo-Persians When it was completed, there was indeed a lot of fanfare and celebration, but God's presence was noticeably Missing. No great cloud, no glory that filled the house of the Lord. Jews in Jerusalem continued to be the possession of foreign peoples and Kings. First it was the at that time Medo-Persians, followed by Alexander the Great, then the Ptolemies of Egypt, followed by the harsh solicitude Dynasty and finally given into the hands of the great Roman Empire of the Caesars. It had been over four centuries from the time of the rebuilding temple, but God had not. In fact, it was prophesied by the prophet Haggai in chapter 2 and verse 9. The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts. When would God finally return and chase out the foreign overlords over the land that they were living in? Now, after four centuries of prophetic silence, the first century gave birth to a plethora of Messiah wannabes that claimed one after another. That they were the one whom God had sent to free them from militarily free them from Rome. And one after another, they would be killed or die trying. To prove their case. While the leaders of the Israelites were looking to the wealthy class for this messiah, or the priestly class for this messiah, An infant was born in a barn, poor, and lowly in class. This child, you all know, is Jesus of Nazareth, God incarnate Finally, God had finally come. The wait was over. And what would he do when he finally came to his temple? Would he finally reside as he did once in Solomon's temple? Would his glory fill the temple? Well, let us see what the Holy Scripture tells us. If you have your Bibles, you can turn to Mark chapter 11 and verse 11. It very simply says, after his triumphal entry. And he entered Jerusalem, and he came into the temple, and after looking all around, he departed. The people of Israel had prayed and hoped that God would return to the temple. The time had come, but sadly, nothing happens The leaders don't recognize or acknowledge him. In fact, they reject him Did this signal that a new temple would be needed for the Lord Jesus Christ, the God of creation to dwell in? Throughout his ministry, he had made it abundantly clear that the Sadducees and the Pharisees had not lived up to God's expectation. and that he would take the responsibility of shepherding his people from them and give it to others. But where would this new temple be? And what would it be made of? What kind of stones would be needed to construct This temple, wherein which the glory of the Lord would rest upon. Now, we know that the temple In AD 70, that was built by Herod was destroyed by Rome. But to build a new edifice, a new structure, you would need a cornerstone to prepare the way for construction. Once that cornerstone is set into place, the other foundation stones uh uh that that will be used for the foundation can be placed directly next to it and uh behind it so that you can now create a foundation for what you're about to build. And then you can add each additional stone, one after another, to create the temple as it was designed God's word tells us that Jesus is the cornerstone, and that the apostles are the foundation stones of this new and final temple. That is being built for the purpose of God to have a palace to dwell in Question. How many times do home builders lay a foundation? Once. You don't keep building foundations on top of foundations. You only need one foundation. How many times do home builders lay the foundation upon which to build? Again. Once. You don't do it over and over again. What happens when you have the cornerstone and the foundation stone set? You then build upon them story by story with stones. As we begin to clearly see that the temple, which will be the dwelling place of God, is no longer a physical temple, but a spiritual structure. We come to our question of what are these stones made of? Or who are these stones? What is their function in the temple? Where is this new temple going to be built? Where is it going to be located All these are very relevant questions for which Peter addresses here. And so having said that, let's go ahead and address them beginning with verse 4. Now Peter uses an use of a Greek word here, which is prosercomai, which means coming to him. That's the way he starts at verse 4 as you are coming to him. When it is used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, also known as the Septuagint, This same word was used in times when the people of God were called to draw near. To draw near. Draw near to God in order to either hear Him speak or to come to Him to offer sacrifices. Of course, in the Old Testament, it was used in the context of the priests offering sacrifices on behalf of worshipers. Great passage that helps us to see this very clearly. Leviticus chapter 9, verses 7 and 8. It says, Then Moses said to Aaron, Prosercomai. Draw near to the altar and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering and make atonement for yourself and for the people And bring the offering of the people and make atonement for them as the Lord has commanded. Verse 8. So Aaron drew near. There it is again. To the altar and kill the calf of the sin offering. In case you are wondering, Peter is not alone in making use of this word to make connections. to drawing near to God in a priestly manner. Let's look at Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 1. Chapter 10 and verse 1. For since the law has but a shadow of good things to come, instead of the true form of these realities, It can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who, and there it is, draw near. All right. So I think that in this context, Peter has in mind What Peter has in mind is not really the drawing near to God so that we can hear him speak, but I think his intent is that of priestly function. to draw near for priests to offer sacrifices. Now let's keep this very th important thing in mind as it will become clearer later in the text why I think this is so important and why Peter's gone in this direction. Having said that, let's move forward with us envisioning ourselves as priests. Who have been drawn near to God for the purpose of offering sacrifices to God. Peter likens the one we are to draw near to a stone. He calls Jesus a living stone. Stones, of course, are not living creatures, right? Now Peter's about to show us from the Old Testament where he's getting this stone imagery What he means to say by the stone imagery and and and and why is because Jesus is a living stone and this living stone is better than an inanimate stone. Peter begins by contrasting how men see Christ, rejected, and how God views him, chosen and precious. Rejected by men, but yet chosen and precious by God. Let's take a look and see where Peter gets this from. As it relates to men rejecting, we read it as it was prophesied in Psalm 118 and verse 22, which reads. The stone which the builders rejected has become a chief corner stone. Now, as it relates to how God views Jesus, we read in Isaiah 28:16. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone, a tested stone. A precious cornerstone of a sure foundation, and whoever believes will not be ashamed. And then we read in Isaiah 8:14, Then he shall become a sanctuary, but to both the houses of Israel a stone to strike and a rock to stumble over. Now, what we're naturally able to infer here is that to be with Christ is also to be rejected by men, ultimately. Now in verse five, the same stone imagery is now extended to believers. Yes, that's right. We get stoned. Just as Christ is a living stone, in fact, the chief cornerstone We also are living stones. We're told that you and I, all the elect in Christ, are like a living stone. Chosen by a master builder. The master builder being God Himself For the purpose of being built, and there it is, into a spiritual house. And yet the fact that he's already alerted us to drawing near, to do priestly duties, these ideas connect But this spiritual temple is not a temple where only priests can can go and to offer sacrifices, an inanimate structure. But this is a living structure. That is continually being built up until the day of revealing It is a house of peace. It is a house of prayer. For all the nations of the world have members in it offering prayer. It is the temple by which the Holy Spirit has been and continues to build up into the spiritual palace of God. Peter is not alone in trying to teach us. You may already recall that the Apostle Paul a strident follower and defender of the physical temple, as Saul, until his conversion. He then teaches in his letter to the Ephesians the following, chapter two, verses. 19 to 21. So then, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. Having been built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple. In the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit And not only this, yes, like Jesus, we are living stones, we are also chosen by God. He's already talked about that in the first chapter. Let's slow down here for a moment. Precious, precious to God. Like Jesus You see, God did not choose you to be his child and adopt you into his household as just a matter of course. You shouldn't think that in eternity past, God looked at all of humanity and assigned some to be labeled heads And some or the rest to be labeled tails. Then he flipped a coin and said, Heads elect, tails reprobate. He chose you personally. He chose you to be personally to be a bride to Christ. And just like he sees Christ as precious, he esteems you as precious. I don't I don't know about you, but I can get used to waking up like that. I think that sometimes, though, it's hard. It's hard to see that and accept that we are precious. Sometimes I think it's because people around us don't tell us or treat us like we are precious to them. What I mean is that our society doesn't treat one another that conveys in a manner that you are important. Most often, we are deemed valuable because of what we can do for other people. There seems to be a lack of intrinsic value So we don't believe it when we hear it. We just can't believe it. We haven't experienced it in life. No, not me. That can't be me is a common theme And when we do hear it, like today in this passage, we have doubts and misgivings as to the truthfulness of God's claim We sadly allow our experiences with man to color, to impact what we believe about God. I think sometimes we doubt that we are precious to God because we don't like the situation we are in. If I'm so precious, why am I constantly in a difficult financial situation? God knows I hate my job and it's been two decades, but he won't open doors for me to be happy elsewhere. I don't feel precious. I've been in physical pain for a very long time I have a condition that causes me to be in pain all day long, every day. Why hasn't God healed me of it? That's not precious to me. We think to ourselves. Christian, if you're doubting that today If I just described you, here's what I want you to do. I want you to think back to the cross. Not the wood that was used to construct this apparatus of torture and pain and shame, but upon the person who was on it. Let's remember that this person whom we are thinking of this moment was his precious, most precious. Son. Jesus didn't end up there by accident. It was the Father's plan to have him hoisted up so that he can love on you. For an eternity. You see, the Father delights in his son. He delighted in him when he was with us. Jesus was obedient. He never complained about his job. He never complained about whatever pain he may have experienced. And he never complained about the fact that many deserted him in his ministry. He didn't complain about how his siblings may have been harsh to him while they were growing up. Perfect Jesus. Jesus is always perfect. You know, like you know, from the Brady Bunch, for those of you who remember, Marsha, Marsha, Marsha. It can wear thin at times, can't it? God the Father was always pleased with his Son Jesus And as a consequence, God gave Jesus whatever he wished. Except one thing. Except one time. Do y'all remember? Father, if you would take this cup away. No, no, my son, no, my precious son For without you drinking from this bitter cup, I will not be able to embrace my children, whom I chose from eternity past. Who are so precious to me. You think about it. He chose you over his son. He chose to put his beloved son through all of that pain. So he can love on you. So if you think any of those things I said a little while ago That no, no, I I can't possibly be looked at as precious by my Heavenly Father. I want you to think about that. I want you to think about the cross So then, we are to see ourselves as living stones of God. His holy temple, personally chosen and precious to him. Now, if I were a recipient of this letter in Peter's generation and had actually seen the temple in Jerusalem before it was destroyed. I think that I would have had a specific vision of it in my head. And so I have two things that I'm trying to picture in my head and asking, how can I imagine being a stone in this big large rectangular building structure? and at the same time see myself as a priest offering sacrifices. Now, to think that way would force our minds to go backwards to those dimensions. And a limited group of people who had privilege and access to God, the priests. They were the only ones that can go in and offer sacrifices. Instead of these physical limitations, we are to instead envisage that the new temple Is ever-changing group of people found in every part of the world And we should see ourselves as offering sacrifices We no longer bring animal sacrifices. Christ is the Lamb of God. But our acts of worship confession, tithes, offerings, prayer, serving one another, proclaiming Christ. These are all examples of spiritual Sacrifices that are acceptable and pleasing to God. And as we make our sacrifices, we should remember that we can only make them because of our So they are made through our high priest, Christ, who represents us before the face of God. Now, verses six through eight is a quotation from the scripture whereby Peter argues from God's word to demonstrate who Jesus is in the presence of God. God, and those that are chosen in Christ, as well as those who have rejected Christ. Peter quotes from Isaiah 28. And you have that there in the passage. The fact that God had proclaimed that there would be a new cornerstone Chosen by God Himself meant that this new temple was going to be a new temple that would not be built upon the old one You don't put a new foundation on top of an old foundation. The stone that the builders rejected is a direct reference to the Jewish leaders and those that followed them. But here it is broadened out that for all those who reject the capstone or the cornerstone, Jesus, they will stumble over this. The language is clear that the stumbling is not done at some high level at a temple at a It's being used to convey that because God has elevated the Lord to the head or the place of prominence, they have been proven wrong by God In verse 8, he quotes from Isaiah 8:14, which says, And he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel. It was prophesied that the Lord would be to the entirety of the household of God both a sanctuary as well as a stumbling flock. And Peter adds for us the following. They stumble because they disobey the word. Now, remember, in earlier sermons, we said that the obedience to the word has a general meaning of obedience to the gospel or disobedience to the gospel. They stumble because they are disobedient to the gospel. So as we look at the word stumble, it could mean to trip on. But here it has a figurative meaning of taking offense at. Or to reject the gospel. Vito wants to point out that not only are they taking offense at and rejecting the Son of God, And his gospel, but they are doing so because they are rebellious in nature and want to lead lives of disobedience to the word. They want to do this. So the word says that one of the reasons why people don't submit themselves or accept the gospel is because they enjoy their sins. And they want to lead lives of disobedience. Is that you? Is that you today? If it is you, you should ask yourself, is it really worth it? Is my synthetic worth it? Do I really want to spend an eternity being punished for my sins for a momentary joy Does my sin really think? Does my sin really think I'm precious? Like God thinks his children are precious. You really should consider Christ's offer of salvation. Before you find out if you're one of those that were destined to end up being rebellious Against God. Seek out the Lord while he may be found. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you. That we see such beauty that you reveal to us in your wonderful works of redemption. Of how we are so blessed now to know that that temple was only a foreshadowing of the greater temple. And that is your church, the pride of Christ. We thank you, Heavenly Father, that even in eternity past, You chose us to to be your children. You adopted us into your family. We are called by your name. You are our Father. And that you Have chosen us and chiseled us, and continue to chisel us to be yet another stone in this wonderful, beautiful, glorious. Temple, which is your palace, upon which your glory has come down upon And we have seen that. Your church has seen that on Pentecost, where the glory of God came upon the church. And the new temple. For this was yet another beginning. The final chapter in the Bride of Christ. And we are already there. And we look forward to the day of revealing when all will see. And we will glorify you. We pray, Father, that you help us to drink deeply of the love of Christ. Help us to recognize how precious we are to you. That you said, you even said no to your wonderful son who did no wrong. Because you love us and want to embrace us. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for being obedient and for loving us and for giving yourself for us. Blessed be the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders to please come forward who will be assisting With the distribution of the elements.