So as many of you know, today is Palm Sunday. Because he's concerned, because he knows people are going to hear the truth about him and they're going to walk away from him. This was, of course, not the first time that he entered into the city to celebrate Passover, or for that matter, any other feast. But the church called it Palm Sunday because on the church calendar it was the Sunday before Resurrection Sunday and the week prior. Let's first turn to our passage this morning, which is from the Gospel of John, chapter 12, beginning with verse 12 and ending in verse 19. So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written. Others were placing their outer garments before him, their cloaks were in which the Lord Jesus rode on the colt and it went over them. So as it relates to cloaks, putting cloaks on the ground before Jesus during his triumphal entry was a significant act of submission. By creating a pathway, the crowd treated Jesus with the highest reverence, similar to honoring a conquering king. Now we can see this from our text and the timing of things. And the buzz is around Jesus as the Messiah. But is Jesus the conqueror they are looking for as he is riding into town on a cult? And I'm going to refer to verses 1 through 6. He said in the very early part of his ministry, Behold, look, the Lamb of God who comes to take away the sin of the world. The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they had heard he had done this sign. So that our Heavenly Father and our great Savior may be glorified in us more and more. You make blind people see, you make deaf people hear, you make them mute to speak, and you heal people who are struggling with leprosy. And a cause for curiosity, as well as a demonstration of his power. So when you have a chance later, you can read the story behind the donkey and the cult. His name was Herod, appointed by Rome to do the bidding of Rome, heavily taxing the inhabitants of Judea. They wanted the king. The people are going to see that the Messiah is not acting like he's supposed to. Blessed is anyone who is not offended by me. in American society, not just really only in America, I know that you've probably heard it. While the other part sided with the priests and the Sanhedrin. They were not going to give up their status to start-up rabbi from a backwater town But this time he would enter with much fanfare, but it would also be the last time That he would do so as it is the terminal point of his earthly mission before his resurrection palms laid before him, and so the church began to call it Palm Sunday. His disciples did not understand these things at first. You see that you are gaining nothing. We pray that you would open our spiritual eyes and ears and help us to see and understand. Confessing fully, Holy Spirit, that we cannot do that even on our own unless you provide us the grace we need. Life in the sense that these palm trees thrived and were green throughout the year in a place where it was mostly a desert. But within the living memory of Israel, the palm took on a greater symbolism for it. After his victory, as he entered the city, the people placed palms before him. Nor is he telling folks to stop the adulation of his dignity. But having a dead man run around town would surely cause many to follow Jesus, would it not? But it's quite another when you bring back the verifiably dead. Lazarus was raised in Bethany, which is about two miles east of Jerusalem. You may be starting to see that John is not giving us much detail or background to this entry as some of the other gospel writers. You can go into battle with a shielded war horse and do some damage to your enemy, can you not? But they didn't really understand in detail how that was to come about, whatever their prophecies were, and when their prophecies were to come about. When God doesn't do what we think God should do. Go and tell John what you hear and what you see. And the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. Oftentimes, this passage is read as if John is doubting Jesus. He's under very heavy stress, and things are not going the way he thinks it should He kind of impresses me as a no-nonsense guy. In our lives, we won't get things until God chooses to reveal to us what he is doing. that may be um and and even falling away that I think that um what we need to do is to fall upwards Please note what it can do when we are within that zone, and what it can lead to if we continually stay within it And consequently, your expectations from him and from life. Is that you grow your comfort zone as it relates to life so that you can grow spiritually? So when difficult things happen, or things you expect from God don't happen, do you take them in stride? and comfort and grace and elegance. Whenever they get another scoop of strife in their life, they move forward with grace and elegance. We don't really say that a person sure has a large or wide comfort zone, right? In the midst of trials, they still have their joy. It can also help us to step out in faith for growth, purpose, and a deeper reliance on God. 2 Timothy 1. But rather you sent to us a Jesus who wants to please you because he knows what our needs are and he knows that you love us. This reminds us that God gives power and self-discipline, not fear. And the Pharisees themselves seemed to be split. So you can see then that there were some pretty, how shall we say it, high expectations of Jesus by those that followed him, his disciples, if you will. Indication is Hosanna. When things don't happen in the quality we have been expecting, or in the quantity that we have been expecting. Verse 2. That's what he's saying. Growth. Would you please rise for the reading and the hearing of God's holy word, which is from the Gospel of John chapter 12, verses 12 through 19? Hear now the word of God. First, let's take a look at what the palms are. So when people saw Jesus entering the city, they placed palms before him and they proclaimed Hosanna's, which basically means, save us, save us now. Just prior to this, John points out points this out in his passage, Lazarus was raised from the dead Okay, so this is happening just before Passover, right? A horse is an animal that communicates that you are coming for warfare battle. I think that what John is communicating to us is that there are many, there were many, there that were false followers. They're singing songs. So even the people who were thinking of the prophecy from Zechariah that day, they were probably thinking, well, there it is. In fact, their expectations of Jesus was not going to line up with reality See, John knew, of all people, John knew that Jesus was the Messiah. To usher in the kingdom of God. It was a concept that was originally developed in the early 1900s. While stepping outside facilitates personal growth, resilience, and learning. to fulfill a purpose, develop character, and build trust in Him And stepping out of comfort requires relying on God's strength, not on our own. They were not going to adjust their expectations of who Jesus was, despite what they saw. Now when we read the accounts from the other gospel writers, read that not only were people placing palms, but Honor, and not just any welcome, but a royal welcome, thus acknowledging him as the Messiah and King. Now, up until this time in Jesus' ministry, he had been telling, he had been instructing his disciples not to say a word about him and in his ministry. The first is in Jerusalem, and the second is coming with him. Perhaps curious of the supernatural, and of course, for political reasons, for them to be free of Rome. Here it is, pleading God for salvation. He doesn't literally mean, I got you wrong. These are things that you should do. Using familiar behaviors to minimize stress and risk while maintaining steady performance. It offers security and control, but staying within it can lead to stagnation. Stepping out of our comfort zone offers us the possibility of personal growth, the ability for greater resilience and learning. There are people who experience some pretty difficult things in life, but they take it in stride. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have sent your Son, the Lord Jesus. Who absolutely knows what our needs are. Our view of Jesus. Doing alright. Remaining in a comfortable, complacent state can lead to our spiritual stagnation. So in conclusion, let me leave you with this thought, which I think just juts out of our text today. Jesus did not come to meet your desires. But now, as he enters Jerusalem, he is no longer dissuading attention from himself. You had an interest in making sure Lazarus, well, let's just say wasn't around anymore They are animals that give you a comfortable ride. This is the Messiah who has come to bring us victory. What should they be thinking at that time? Is his armor on? Jesus is exactly who he is, and who he is supposed to be. But yet they are fitting him into their desires, their molds, and their expectations. So that God can be your life coach, giving us counsel on how to live life, make good decisions. We have unrealistic expectations. Are you the one who is to come? This happens with kids, parents, spouses, family, friends. Colleagues, bosses, employees that may report to you? should have done in your life We can be focused on the negative and not on the positive. Are you uh half full or half empty first Deliver the way we think that he should deliver, sometimes we fall. that Jesus says. You see, I don't think that you should run away. Return to God, the true God, and have Him minister to you. I'm not going to follow a God who treats me this way. Instead of falling backwards, you need to fall upwards. So let me ask you, how do you respond to times like this when Jesus doesn't live up to your expectations? And by the way, he is not obligated to tell us. Grant me, Lord, the gifting and the training that I need to do your will. Here's the definition of it. Thank you, Wikipedia. Maintains steady performance, offers security, and control. People like Abraham. What about Moses? On one side, the high priest and his retinue who believe that Jesus needs to be eliminated Could well become your comfort zone. Matthew chapter 11, verses 1 through 6. You see, this is not good for the Pharisees because this implies that the people are following Jesus and they're losing their influence and control over the crowds. They were not good shepherds. I don't think that I've ever seen John Wayne, for example, go into battle wielding a sword or a gun on a colt. They're overlords. But what they didn't get was that Jesus, who was and is the Messiah, did come but not for the reasons that they wanted him to come. What is Jesus' response to John? And what he is not doing. Well what do you do in those situations? I'm your servant, Lord. In fact, when we use this concept biblically, one could say that spiritual stagnation And prevent believers from growing spiritually. As if fulfilling prophecy. What type of Jesus are you looking for? Discovering that Jesus is a person that you can revere. Let's take a biblical example here. And frankly, that's the reason why he's in jail. How is God working in your life? Don't run away and find another God, small g, fake God, to meet your needs. Do you have some unmet expectation that God is prepared to minister to you today? So we pray, Heavenly Father, to grant us the grace that we need to see you, to see your Son, by the power and the work of the Holy Spirit in us. To see you as you are, to believe in you as you are, to shape and to mold and to correct Sometimes this requires us to challenge our expectations of God. Look, we didn't take action previously and look now. Jesus was not someone that they were going to fit into their comfort zone Their pride would not allow it. Throughout the centuries, the prophets saw and conveyed, heard and conveyed the message that God had given them. Getting outside your comfort zone. And by the way, I believe that the moderates are the ones that may have seen, along with Mary, the resurrection of Lazarus. So this morning, let's uh begin with some background information that's going to help us to get oriented to the setting that we find ourselves in in this gospel. So now the colt that he's writing is an animal that represents peace. So when we take a closer look at his followers, we read in verses 18 and 19 that they are there because of the signs that he has been performing. Is that this man or woman we call them holy, pious, sanctified? True discipleship, brothers and sisters, often requires leaving safe, familiar surroundings to face discomfort and challenges. So John's in prison, and he's sending word to Jesus. He anticipates that people will fall away because Jesus does not meet their expectations. Teach me, Holy Spirit, to have a proper expectation of my relationship with you and with my Savior and my Heavenly Father. So now I need to ask you, where in your comfort zone is Jesus Jesus did not come to meet your desires. These really are great expectations, are they not? Holy Spirit, be with us now we pray. John was quite well known to be a fiery preacher, calling people to repentance, making the path straight for the chosen one for God This is not what I expected. Jesus says, Blessed is the man that does not fall away because of me. Well, only after Jesus was glorified did they get it. I don't know what you're doing, Lord. Your personal growth starts at the border, the end of your comfort zone. So when we consider examples in Scripture, people, we see that God calls out That requires Abraham to trust God and get out of his geographic comfort zone, amongst other things, right? I'll tell you what many may have been thinking. How about you? Now, when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, 7, it tells us, for God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. I don't mean it in the sense of the gospel, why he died, his resurrection, and so forth. Should we look elsewhere? We sometimes want to pull away from Christ because he doesn't live up to our expectations. And what does God do? That was a covenant promise made with David. This helps us. Now, in verse 19, we see that there's this internal fight. A comfort zone is a psychological state where a person operates in an anxiety-neutral condition. When Jesus does not live up to your expectations, he is doing something that is challenging your comfort zone. It's really is offended by me, right? Right? When this happens, what is it that you are to do? How big is his army? Well you've probably heard this perhaps somewhere else. The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem And so what is it that the crowd wants? Rome. Instead, what you need to do is to run to him. Or shall we look for another? That's what they want. Now we know who John is, right? This is the fiery preacher telling his cousin Jesus, get on with it Look, the world has gone after him. They were only interested in their comfort. So staying within the comfort zone gives us low to know anxiety. Let's uh take a look at John the Baptist. You are not my servant, Lord. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. It's pretty significant in itself when you heal sick people. They're placing palms. Their response to Jesus' rebuke was evidence of his admonishments. They want Hosanna. You're going back. One small part did not want to take part with the priests in the Sanhedrin He calls him out to leave his home and go somewhere else. God calls us to do these things. Historically, palms were something that was used to represent joyous times in Israel. Do you not recall he would always say that, right? Help us to see things clearly. This is not where I expected to be in jail. The radical part is in this text is scolding the moderates, saying, Do you see now? We call it Palm Sunday because it marked the Lord's entry into Jerusalem, unlike any other time in his life So he got out of Egypt. You have to confess this. It's purpose beyond comfort. What would you be thinking at that time, given their understanding of Scripture at that point? And how are you responding to Him? But I'm going to say that uh instead of falling backwards And we ask this for your glory and in Jesus' name. And look, the whole world has gone after him. You know, there's a term or label that we use In the time of Jesus, there was a king. He is uh he's not a procrastinator, and he calls it like it is I don't recall where I got it, but I heard it somewhere else. And we thank you that you did not send to us a Jesus who wants to please us. Are you tempted to say that sometimes? But the more popular usage and understanding is that Jesus will be who Jesus is And you can see it, right? In fact, we can make an argument that he has been working towards maximum attention at this point. What he has to teach and what he represents. Seems pretty simple, right? He was the first one to identify him as such, if you recall. Verses 17-18, we see this. Are you the one? He came to meet your greatest need. And the spark is now taking on the form of a blaze. Glory be to God. Those are some of the things that they would be thinking. When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. But why are you blessed? We have unmet expectations. John the Presbyterian who baptized people, right? What does falling upward look like? It's called the comfort zone. Do you read the Psalms or perhaps the Proverbs? Because of our pain, we can miss the wonderful things that God is doing. Jesus is emboldened to ride into town on a donkey. They had hoped that he was the Messiah, but in the fullness of time they saw that he was not. And there are really two sets of crowds when you read the passage. Their suspension is great and it represents peace. Save us now. Salvation from what? And the people are coming larger and larger crowds. You could well imagine why, right? Well their initial And this is something, he says, blessed are you You're going to lead my people out All John says is that Jesus found a cult. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear. Fear not, daughter of Zion. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. They're singing messianic psalms to God. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me And help us to conform where we need to conform. But when viewed positively We simply don't know what his plans are for us, and we have to trust him. You see, about a hundred years prior to Jesus' time, there was a victorious leader. Certainly this would get the attention of anyone. That's who they wanted. If you look at 2 Timothy 1, 7. So the Pharisees said to one another, When he says, should we look elsewhere? Help us to see things as they are that you have given to us through the inscriptation of what has happened in our Lord's life. And Jesus answered them, those whom John had sent. Now, if y'all have read through this, you'll know why he's in prison and he's about to lose his life. He escaped. They were only interested in the sheep serving them. The idea We don't say that. Is he coming on a horse? Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. And then when you've done that, This is the word of God. If you have your Bibles, you can turn it to Matthew chapter 11. Now we know people like this, right? He came to meet your greatest need. Now before we get into the explanation, the meaning behind palms and the usage of palms, And so we ask for all these things. When you read scripture We experience this when things are not based upon truth. He is the one that can help us in those times. So they lay down their cloaks, they lay down their palms. It doesn't represent war. You saw that in the passage, maybe, right? Do you readjust your understanding of who Jesus is? What do you do when God doesn't come through with what He Grant me the grace I need to trust you more and more. We see that there are two opinions among the Pharisees. No. Now the downside is lower performance. He's married. Hosanna. Should he even choose to tell us. So you could see that if you were in opposition to Jesus, You know, we tend to maybe we fall, right? This is a really remarkable statement. You have to confess this. Now, for us as Christians. God often calls individuals out of their comfort zones. And you are a loving God And yet he was expecting Jesus How, believer, have you fit Jesus in your comfort zone? John has some other interests that he wants to point out. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. Jesus leaves Bethany in the morning, and Lazarus' resurrection is causing people to follow Jesus. No matter how difficult it gets, they're still joyous inside. But we say what we see it when we see this in a person. What do we do? And here's a common definition of it. There is a danger to complacency. If you were there that day, He had What he's saying is, get on with it He tells him to tell them, look at what he is doing. Amen. As the week goes on, Has some kids You may know people like this. Because you will be saved. So let's take a moment to get some background on writing on a cult. Repent, repent. This is not a God for me Sometimes And he quotes the prophecy from Zechariah as coming to fulfillment. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit for his illumination. Help us to repent where we need to repent. Amen. Well, you know, that fits well in our lives as well. This is a great miracle. They're not really asking for salvation for their sins. Amen. What's your response be? Let's pray. It also represented life. This is what's often called the messianic secret. When God doesn't His name was Judas Maccabees. Let me repeat that.