And we pray, Lord, that you would give us ears to hear. And you all of a sudden see a rifle pointed right at you. The Lord's there teaching on the beach. It was spoken to me long ago. Yes, our God is compassionate. They need God to awaken, awaken your spirit, your soul again, your eyes to see. The point is that we carry these things with us consciously such that we walk before him moment by moment. And I challenge you to do that, to do it better. I found distress and sorrow, and then I called upon the name of the Lord. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his godly ones. Thou hast loosed my bonds. And store our hearts. All the way through, and one of the reasons is I read this, and then the next day I read it again, and the next day I read it again, and the next day I read it again, and the Uh not the most recent, but the one before. And in the case of that movie, Taken, she's been kidnapped, and it portrays her enormous fear of being in the hands of these folks because she may be there forever in their hands and gone. I thought about whether this might be too gruesome an illustration, but then I thought, you know, the Lord has all sorts of warlike imagery, does he not? You can just go through the Psalms, and I just started to go through them, Psalm 3, Psalm 6, Psalm 7, 12, 13, 22, and you can find times where where the psalmist We can see situations where men have felt fear. And what is going on? But the point here is that the psalmist knew great fear. What does he say? Our hearts are restless till they rest in me. And the Lord has preserved it. He's praising God also because God is near. I would suggest to you Christ desires to walk with us. You shall have no other gods before me. Is it just, oh hi God, how you doing? We can see that a couple ways. That he is holding up. We think of heroes and bad guys. Is there something that perhaps you would vow to the Lord as a result of even hearing these vows of the psalmist? 'cause they didn't want all the members of the family killed. And then I ask the Lord's blessing upon our time. The Lord preserves the simple. My eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits toward me? Again, in the presence of all his people, in the courts of the Lord's house, in the midst of you, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. Let's pray, shall we? He comes through with his intuitions, his smarts, and his boldness and daring, like Admiral Nelson, and he saves basically the Earth and the solar system and how many billions there. and the bad guy killed and punished. We can often feel fear from a variety of things, including from the evil ones, from evil ones around us, from the evil one himself. Even very gruesome scenes. And so imagine you're in Iraq and you're marching, you're going down the street from building to building because it's your job to flush out militants and you know enemy the enemy from these buildings one by one by one. And I'm thinking that maybe not many of us can here, but it's got to be one of those times where all of a sudden you get hit with an adrenaline rush like you will never be hit with in this world. So all of a sudden, you know, his whole life is flashing before his eyes, and he knows terror, fear in that instant. That's a very strong word. And then secondly, the psalmist's great salvation. He utters four great vows through this psalm, and I thought this is such a marvelous theme that comes out of this particular psalm. The cords of death encompass me. Whether David or others crying out for the Lord's help. trembling out of fear. They were all then equally scared. Or are you lackadaisical about it? So do you have such armor is the first question. that you ought to do to be more ready for those times and the Lord gives us hard occasions. Now sometimes that's not our first impulse. He says, I called out. Therapeutic deists just cry out to the Lord when they're in trouble and they ignore him every other time. In those summary first few verses is that astonishment that he has been heard. for his pleasure because he delights in those prayers, that aroma? But it's another thing to say, God bless Jimmy. Take that from him now. cry out toughestly. What does a sniper do? If he has in fact saved me, should that not occasionally bring about an emotion worthy of what that really means? The Lord is compassionate though on his own, right? Now that is but a picture of the greatest salvation story ever. defeat the bad guys, we think, yes, Christ is the pinnacle example of this. Now other versions don't use that word shall. God has done something wonderful for him. straight up 6 a. Because I know that that sniper is going to get the bad guy. With that blessing of knowing that I can, in fact, do that. Call upon him as long as I live. And I think what's conveyed there, if nothing else, is a more k more intimate walk, excuse me, with the Lord. Offered to the Lord, it could be symbolic. before we arrived. You provide so many pictures for us, Lord. Take us into a deeper understanding of these beautiful truths and grant us to live by them. Or is it, hmm, ho hum, forget it. The tortoise to me symbolizes that believer that proceeds and proceeds, even if slowly, even if weakly, but refuses to stop. And because his other uh siblings, I b I believe his other brothers were either killed or or in action, missing in action or something, there the the judgment was made that a squad would be sent out to find him and bring him home As it says in your bulletin, Psalm 116 is what I'll be speaking from, and it is a really rich psalm, a very rich psalm Therefore I shall call upon him as long as I live. It's one of those this is one of those texts where I've always made the joke that takes me five to seven years to get through the Bible And naturally he's an ex CIA person and all this, so you see him go into action and he single-handedly goes to rescue his daughter. And we also find in verse 11, I said in my alarm, he's alarmed, he fears, he's in terror. And he feels fear. obviously felt fear because they needed deliverance. It's easy to read that word tremble. Because he knows he's in the presence of God Himself. Do we have to fear God, though? I don't quite know. We will know fear in this world, and probably more so than fearing God. You know, it could have it could be in many ways. But do you keep up your armor? Are you prepared as God would have you be prepared? There will be times of fear. Now this is everybody should be able to just shout out the answer. What do we find here? No, not all of you are educated, not all of you are wise, not all of you are good in various ways, but many of you are simply common folk or little people But notice what the what the author, what the psalmist says, I love the Lord because he hears my voice and my supplications. But because God has looked down upon a little man like me, a little person. Unconditional election. God preserves his own. In your souls? So there's a sense in which we don't even work for that which he gives so freely. He never had a chance to fire that rifle. So my question to you is, are you moved as deeply when we say, Jesus saved me? Isn't that room for gratitude? So what ought to come immediately, and again, is exactly as we expect from the psalmist, great praises. That itself is a praise. So then we can ask the question again. Lord, how astounding. I'm not saying it should be true all the time or every day, every moment, that sort of thing, but should it not be true, at least on occasion? memories and situations. So it's one of those adrenaline shocks that I got to experience. Is there perhaps a little better that can be done here? Now it may be a terrifying thing to walk as a sinful man before a holy God, but again, I walk before in that street, Notice that the psalmist is not intending a distanced walk. But it's a suggestion that if there are ways that you praise God, let's bring them to before the Lord. He vows this will be his continuing practice. But do you use that occasion to to echo those very thoughts of thanks when your dad is speaking that, or your mom for that matter, when your dad is not there. pages of them, resolved that I will and I I will make up one, resolved that I will walk before the Lord daily in some in some manner. When I wind my alarm clock or whatever you do, set your alarm. Who know what we have been given. And in fact, in one of the final scenes of the movie, even Tom Hanks' character, the lieutenant, he's dying. Did I do good? That's not the message here. Jesus Christ is my Savior, has saved me, and that is a wonderful thing. Why don't we stand while I read? unfolding more and more and more. Salvation stories, this psalm has a good ending. And number one, let's say this off front. I'm wondering, again, feel free to believe or disbelieve, but will I feel that adrenaline shock when I'm all of a sudden in his presence and I realize I'm not worthy of being here? I know that's a uh a question often asked in uh evangelism, so I'll ask you the same thing. And do you live as a follower of Christ? Maybe the question. Well, young ones, if you have been in my Sunday school class, and I'm not sure that any of you here have been in long enough, but we went through something called tulip. Did he only come from New Testament eyes, we would say that a person has come to saving faith? It maybe that this could be seen differently, but in verse 9, what does he say? In your prayers that you hear, you engage with those who are praying. To stay. One more example here of uh this one from Saving Private Ryan, and you probably remember that movie as well. Then what was he telling you? To do what is right and what is good, that I long to do what is pleasing, that I long to see sin eradicated, that I long for these things because Jesus Achieve victory over evil. Very frequently it's when they come face to face with God. What happens when Peter comes in after f after fishing? Surroundings. Would we do something similar? Look at verse 6. As has been said. Why would he hear me cry out? And Tulet is a reformed sort of a it's a way of remembering five key points of theology, total depravity, unlimited Oh Lord, how amazing. If you're a therapeutic deist, then I would just call you to repent of it. Could that be? O my soul. Does the unbeliever know rest? location for bad guys that would pop out. Do you ever have occasions where you see the Lord working in such a way that you're just, wow And if it's not, then ask the Lord for eyes to see. And on one particular night, I'm in bed, and all of a sudden I realized I didn't do my homework. That's poured out on the wicked, or there could be a cup of blessing for the righteous, and perhaps this is a representation of the cup of salvation. However small. Well, as you can see from your bulletin, I I saw four great points here. So let's talk about the psalmist Great Fear. Now I gotta fix the nets. So, but I've often wondered what I will think the instant I see God face to face in that day. They're all through the scripture, and here again is another one of them. So I think there's an emphasis there. And she did not issue any homework, which was very unusual for fifth grade, except two nights of the whole year I will also ask young ones and perhaps older ones in this way, that when your dad prays and gives thanks before dinner, are you praying with him? Or you're just nodding off, sort of letting your mind wander. You can't get more graphic than that, so I will feel free to use American Sniper for uh as as basically one of the running themes here, I believe. But imagine if if you were died and instantly thrust into the presence of God. Now we could take that as saying, well, I like the Lord because he gives me what I want. Amazing. God delivers him and God sustains him. Pray as though when he answers it will be clearly visible. God is honored. Now, you know, we don't I don't think we ought to spend our lives trying to rustle up emotion. To me, like to a young child, inclined his ear. He has awakened me. after dinner. So, when we get to prayer time, we have never run into problems, I don't think, of the time of praise get too long. I would say. How is your time with the Lord? And that's what the tortoises. I'd like to give you one last picture as we talk about fear, and I want you to keep in mind that this is, at best, sanctified imagination. An improper thing to do. Rest for your souls. Or perhaps it could be one item of praise. And when Mr. expounding. But he does it. It simply will not be. Now, even if that happens, it may or may not, but I would imagine that if that happens, then Christ is going to say, no, no, no, don't fear. Perhaps that's the takeaway of the psalmist great fear point number one. Are your prayers lackadaisical? He wants to be honored. So the psalmist great salvation. But Jesus says, Come to me, all ye who are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Um where we left the soldier was he's staring down the bell the barrel of a rifle he can see off in the distance and what happens. The sniper just saved me. The absolute pinnacle. And in this text also, the psalmist also feels deep fear and likely fear and dread. So we find many strong words being used. So I guess we have to ask the question then, how is your prayer life? Again, maybe another application here is in all these movies where they show the salvation of something, of someone, perhaps these ought to be pictures for us. Next vow. I love the Lord because he hears my voice and my supplications, because he has inclined his ear to me. Without not trying to be heretical, but if we try to put push back that thinking into the Old Testament, might it be that the psalmist has only been awakened for the first time? And suppose you're walking down the street, you're at the side, carefully moving, and all of a sudden one of these melding comes out from, for example, diagonally across the street and down a ways. Does anybody worth is anybody worth being saved? What are those things that I ought to bring before the people in praise? My question to you would be, maybe there's something that you could also resolve or perhaps even vow this night The Lord is enshrouding the mountaintop with lightning and thunder and smoke, clouds, all these sorts of things. I don't think we know it quite as well, so all I could try to do is bring you these occasions that may give you a sense of that more strongly than we might Oh Lord God, we we know that you have saved your own people. I I don't know if you can see from where you are, but my Bible is all scribbled up. If you've also seen the movie American Sniper, another very powerful movie, imagine walking down the street. He really thinks this is gonna be the end. But again, take that as sanctified imagination at best. What do we think of the simple here? I don't know who said it. So he is recognizing what God did. So they said, Moses, please go up and represent us. And the psalmist is stating this astonishment. He wants us to cry out in a way for others as well, such that we could see the effect that God works when he answers that prayer. And I don't even think that I was really a Christian by my standards that I would apply now. And perhaps I'll bring it to someone else as well who's worthy of it, perhaps both the person and the Lord, but Kindle, Lord, a refreshed love for you. Rather, I'm going to cover the main themes of the psalm. The Lord says, Simon, take the boat out and put down your net for a catch. Um so let's get back to American Sniper then, just to close this section. Lord, you have saved me. Did I do well enough? And I think the psalmist is referring then to us being simple common folk. And uh the bad guy can use a snip you can be a sniper to shoot the good guys. m. It's easy to say, yeah, I have faith. I say grace at one point in the morning and then I say grace at dinner and that's all And I I wondered about that, but I think there's a key text in this psalm that says, no, that's not the case. And we see him saying these great praises. He is not distant. Father above, we know that your word is rich. You know, one and I can't recall the names, where the woman takes the tent peg and drives it through the temple of the foreign general. I felt distress and sorrow. I called upon the name of the Lord. I cried out. Let's try again. So you see, we can pray in such a way we'll never see whether it's answered or not. What happens? Peter, who else or what else did he fear? I'm sure we would. I'm just wondering if I will need a kind word from the Lord to settle me down. And I would encourage us as an elder of the congregation that, as you recall, the tortoise won the race and not the hare, right? He was saying, fourteen men have just died for you. And here the psalmist records what he's done powerfully, wonderfully, unmistakably. The Lord preserves the simple. To thee I shall offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and call upon the name of the Lord. And so here we read in verse 6, the Lord preserves the simple. We need to be tortoises in that sense, I believe. Ah, a dry mouth. If you will, let's stand while I read Psalm 116. Is that what it says? What does rest refer? How marvelous, how wonderful. It's stirred him up wonderfully. Number one, it could be a cup, a drink offering to the Lord, as offered in the temple, a formal cup We love this. It could be being in the middle of an intersection, a car all of a sudden comes, and you see it for a split second. It's funny how many things we remember that we don't know Gory got them from. You can probably see where these questions are going. I shall walk before the Lord. You shall have no other gods in my presence, which is everywhere. And just the very nature of the way this is said, it's not just next time when I get in trouble, I'll call upon you. Walking with him, always in prayer, as Paul has admonished us. And we thank you, O Lord, that you give so many ways that we can be reminded of truth. But the right message is, do I so keenly feel his death, his giving of his life for me, that I long What is that picture? How confident you are your faith, how confident are you of your place in Christ, if all of a sudden God put you in that situation where you're staring down the muzzle of a gun, figuratively speaking, Sometimes we think, how can I get out of this mess? God is honored when He when we when we do request something though. The psalmist knew rest once again. Grant us, O Lord, your grace in Jesus' name. I was brought low and he saved me. You know, his dad saves, I don't know, how many was it, 700 people because of his bravery. Do you seek that rest that Christ wants you to have? Grant us to learn from them, to take them as cues, as hints, as suggestions of how we ought to live before you. Ryan is an elderly man goes back to France with his family to visit the graveyard where that character is buried, he practically can't contain himself and he says We don't know who the psalmist is, but we do know the Lord granted the text for our blessing. And maybe we can ask the question in a little different way. The unbeliever will never know rest. So, salvation. The New American Standard Bible uses the word shall. Let me also put it this way. I challenge you to hunger for Christ, to hunger to walk with him, as he does you. This is, you know, there can be a cup of um uh of judgment. I'm not interested. This is not really too much of an excursion, but where have folks expressed deep fear than in the scriptures? I see no reason to disbelieve that at this time, but feel free to correct me if I'm wrong. And yet, at one time, at some point, we will be taken from this world and placed into his presence. Do you polish it? Or is it something you do work at? He catches a catch so big the nets are breaking. Maybe I should ask you this question though. Guaranteed. He wants the delight of seeing us recognize his work. The Lord is gracious to his own. I walk in a sense boldly. No. We pray for that Spirit, Lord, to bring us into the truth. He's feeling deep pain in his head. Amazing. So this these this squad of men headed by Tom Hanks and I he was the sergeant I believe or the lieutenant was heading the squad. It's another thing to really think about that and to realize they're so scared. And I think we could sense that for some of us that came to Christ in a very sudden way. God inclines his ear. And he's in tears. I'd hate to say it, but we're probably more like Peter than we'd like to think. This was no small fear. I've been spared. Verses 2, 13, and 17. He will make thanksgiving a part of his life. What does it say? Psalm 116, I love the Lord because he hears my voice and my supplications, because he has inclined his ear to me. Limited atonement, irresistible grace, and perseverance of the saints. You preserve your own. Do we walk before him? I shall walk before the Lord in the land of the living. We love to see the good guy wins. So there had to have been that, whether it's explicitly stated or not. So while you're staring at this rifle and while you've got this huge adrenaline rush, you hear a bang and then you saw the man you see the man fall down. So then at that point the psalmist also echoes some great vows. The cords of death encompass me and the terrors of Sheol came upon me. People gather around and hear what God has done. Before I hit the sack, I want to be thankful for one thing. And uh perhaps in a little bit more gruesome way in a sense is uh in the w in the uh movie Taken. Who am I? What do you think of when I say rest? Is that what the scriptures say? He hears. The picture is Sheol and and and these cords are just coming to ra come around him and they're just gonna pull him down and pull him down and pull him down. And do you work to strengthen it, to maintain it, to polish it, to keep it, to nurture it He desires to walk with us. It's another thing to say, yes, I have the shield of faith, and I continue to try to strengthen it and to work at it to pray toward it. I am indebted to that man as long as I live. And finally, the fourth vow is I shall offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving. And I hate just to move on, so I don't. So here we find real fear. We probably fear men more than anything else. Or are you a lethargic follower of Christ? Lord, I beseech thee, save my life. And the Lord listened. That was point number two. So for example, you may not read your Bible daily. So we'll get to that ending, but first let's look, let's diagram this psalm. I don't know why he would use uh exaggeration hyperbole here. So again, this is what it means to be involved in, more involved in worship. I shall lift up the cup of salvation and call upon the name of the Lord. The psalmist is in trouble. In verse 6 we read, the Lord preserves the simple. The Lord has dealt bountifully with me. O Lord, I beseech thee, save my life. God gave him a powerful moment, and he records this for the benefit of his people for posterity. Perhaps you simply are not having those eyes that you need to see, or perhaps you have made them dull. Regarding vows, I don't think we could call these vows, but Jonathan Edwards made many resolutions in his life. So again, I told you this would have a happy ending. Um and we can The Lord preserves the simple. It is an intimate walk because we can see that by a second vow. O Lord, surely I am thy servant. We know that it speaks to our hearts. Do you keep polishing it? Guaranteed. Is this ever true for you? I shall walk before the Lord in the land of the living. And let me start by saying this. I guess what we can also say then is that he exuberantly praises God. When there's a word of thanks, can you echo that? Recall in Exodus 20 when the people have come out, they're at the foot of Mount Sinai. Do we do that? And in the same way, I can walk in the presence of a holy guide because I carry the blood of Christ with me. Perhaps there could be a little yellow sticky that says, read one verse. We ask in Jesus' name. He was in terror. Come to me, all ye who are weary laden, weary laden, I will give you rest. He is the model. I shall walk before the Lord as long as I live. And as I mentioned before, um, How exuberant is your praise? So, you know, now in retrospect, even then I knew that it was amazing, and even now I know that God works in marvelous ways. Are you paying diligent care of those things? I would suggest that in many ways is a an echoing of Corinthians. He's had these awful headaches. I was saved. The psalmist experiences great salvation Always undeserved. Did he walk before the Lord before? Do we recognize his saving work? Make it count. Return to your rest, O my soul, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you, for thou hast rescued my soul from death. My feet from stumbling, my eyes from tears. Are you ready as you ought to be? He not only hears standing up in a high place while others shout out to him from above, he hears by inclining his ears. He felt terror. Are you overconfident in your own strength? You preserve the simple. I made that motion before, but this is in verses 1 and 2. We find that in many other Psalms. We can walk boldly, can't we not? Now, if people go on and on and on and on with praises, then we elders will have to figure out, okay, how can we make this work better in the service in a more timely way? And I think that's what the first few verses are getting at. He cried out and the Lord heard him Is it something you work at? Perhaps you all have uh situations where God has done that for you. Now, the wrong message to think here is, am I good enough, Lord? No. Okay, perhaps you do have on these various things the girding your waist with truth, the breastplate of righteousness, the shield of faith. And perhaps the psalmist did at one point, but the scriptures don't reveal that. Who am I? Is that a priority for us? Only the believer can know rest. Now maybe you already do that. I'm not looking at anybody particular Are you ready? I hope none of us in this room are therapeutic deists. He will look for ways to thank the Lord. Amen. And we call those therapeutic deists, as someone has called them. I'd hate to think we're therapeutic deist or anyone in this room is. Think of Christ's words. I think they use it to emphasize the fact that this is more powerful than just I will. The psalmist Great Salvation, what did the psalmist do? What's the first thing? Are there more powerful and vivid illustrations of love of care? He betrayed the Lord Jesus three times. So we do know fear. So I just prayed, Lord, will you get me up at six AM so I can get this done? And he thinks, yeah, right. He had known rest before. But here the psalmist claims, gracious is the Lord and righteousness. He says, the psalmist says, I shall walk before the Lord in the land of the living. But I had a very, very stern fifth grade teacher. I shall call upon him as long as I live. Grant us, O Lord, to so know your salvation, that we would love you the more, that we would live as people. We love to see it when Kirk, if you saw the last couple Star Trek, the one So I am able to walk before the Lord in the land of the living. I'm gonna give um Look at verse 3 You know, he's coming in at uh apparently early in the morning. He's just astonished. Let's praise God before all the assembly. Make a count. And what does he meant? Now I would unfortunately I don't know that I can grasp what that really means. He just thought his end had come. Repent of it right now And when you see that sniper kill the bad guy, we think Christ is the pinnacle example. I don't think that that's a a strange feeling for us. Do you keep it coddled? But I think God does is Isn't that true of the Psalms in general? I was brought low and he saved me. But I was encouraged, pray for something that when God answers it, you will see it. In a sense? I would say if it's not ever true, then there's a problem. The psalmist speaks of his salvation, and we know that this is, Lord, a picture of your own salvation for us. So he tells Private Ryan, make it count. I don't think that's un He has a terrible headache right now. So what does he think? How amazing. You incline your ear. So my question to you is, I am sure many people, if not all of you, would say you're Christians, but do you know rest? A prayer life, a walking prayer life. We know that we need to hear it That he would guide me, Lord, in my words, that he would guide us in our ears. So my only point is it's a running theme throughout the Psalms that we find fear. And it's one thing to say, God bless Jimmy. Lord, I'm going to recount one thing. I believed when I said, I am greatly afflicted. Amen. Are you ready as well as you think you ought to be And what is that sort of thing that you should be doing? Do we walk before him? What is the thing he does? So if we And keep in mind that, as far as I understand, those people that were at the base of that mountain, they were believers and unbelievers. He inclined his ear to me. Do we recognize what he has done for us? I know that we can miss, and that's fine, but perhaps there could be a vow that I will read one sentence every single day. We love salvation stories, don't we? And third, the psalmist's great praises, and then fourthly, his great vows. The third vow, I shall lift up the cup of salvation. I am thy servant, the son of thy handmaid. He meant by that, live up to what you've been given. Look what else that we find written. Or the sniper for the good guys can be set up in a situation b from behind such that he's seeing surveying the whole Probably. So he lifts up the cup of salvation. And we ask you, O Spirit, to remind us of these things. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. I think what's being stated there is not just because God has given him these benefits. He wants us to come before him. It isn't that we work hard, hard, hard in order to achieve the rest. It's on this page and This is not new. Is the psalmist only The question is, in that situation we can be moved deeply. I'm not sure that I do that, but I think I'd like to plant that seed in your mind that every time we see Captain Kirk No So I just keep reading and let God unfold it before me, which He does. I'm not gonna do a a word by word or a voice or verse by verse Come to me, all ye who are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. I'm not sure the Lord wants us to do that, but at the same time He's dumbfounded, but what else is he? And I think that's what the psalmist is saying. Not just for others' benefits, but for your benefit, for the Lord's pleasure? Is that how we see Christ and his work for us? He has dealt bountifully with me. Can we not? These are not weak little words here Where are you? But we often say, well, that doesn't really mean, in a sense, perseverance, but it means preservation. Let me put another suggestion in your mind. So what does he say? He now knows rest again. Every day, every moment, I shall walk before him. Please be seated. They're trembling. Augustine said what? So I will walk before the Lord. I shall pay my vows to the Lord. But his daughter feels real terror, and that's part of the point of this introduction here, is that He shouts out for the Lord. We're never allowed to see his face at this time, right? What does the before mean? Shall we pray? By the way, I'm reading from the New American Standard Version, so if it disagrees with yours, it's because I'm reading out of the NASB. Yeah, right. And all of a sudden the adrenaline shock comes. They speak of deep emotion, such as the psalmist has spoken of here. He is a simple man. We knew that in a very strong manner Probably. If I haven't done it all day, which is which is not a good thing at all. He's not shy. I love the Lord. Or is he forgotten? No, I shall call upon you all the days of my life. There's a squad of men that are sent out to find Private Ryan We do know that. That's not new to us in many ways Will you be pleased right now, O Lord, to take that from him? Do we engage ourselves and others are speaking praise or speaking gratitude or thanks? Is there something you would commit yourself to do? And like many I mean you can Why? Do you put on the armor of God? So we just talked about the simple, but what about preserves? How amazing. I shall Fortis keeps In the New Testament, what do we find? Recall that we can easily fear men, though. He just sees the grave right there. I cried out and he climbed his ear. Do you look for ways to thank the Lord? And what might that text be? And as I mentioned before, we have been snatched from death by Christ. Do you keep it updated? He wants us to cry out. And the people are what? Because he's afraid of God? Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Let's think about it through the day, today, perhaps. I shall pay my vows to the Lord. And Kirk was challenged to do better, and sure enough he does. The terrors of Sheol came upon me. If the Lord were to take you out there in one hour, where would you be? And in fact, I count four of them. Do we want to walk before him? And this as well is something that we do in our evening prayer time. And I've called it uh put it in four parts, that is. That is not a mild little feeling. They do reveal that he called out for the Lord. But now So I shall walk before the Lord in the land of the living. He hears my voice in supplication. Do you experience such rest? Do you pray only when needed? It means in my presence I shall walk in front of the Lord. Yes, our God is compassionate. One of my earliest You are mine. He wants people to hear I wonder. Why would God even hear? I will walk in front of the Lord. I think it's not as common as it might be, given our fairly affluent. I cried out, and look what you did. He said. I walk out of the front door and somehow I don't even think about him until I said in my alarm, All men are liars He is afraid. We think of these movies. What you should be implementing perhaps in a way that you've what become sluggish? Do you keep it well managed? Lord, help me. O may it be The fish are out in the morning, he comes in, he's up before dawn, he goes out, he fishes, catches nothing. He wants us to We love seeing good What are your last thoughts? It's right around the corner. You have somehow rendered them tepid. No, he's afraid of men. And I'm sure he would if I was in that situation. They are trembling. Or is that really not really a wish of ours? Do you go to Ephesians 6 and put on that armor? It's the verse 7, return to your rest. And so I get up, it's dark, and I go off to the kitchen, turn on the light, and what is it? I can walk every day then with that comfort. We pray that you would be pleased to work mightily. You know, I will do this. But is that a distant walk? I don't know if you recall Liam Neeson plays the father and his daughter is kidnapped. I have paid for you. So he'd love to see it when he wins. Make it count. Oh, may it be in the presence of all his people. But the point is, where are you before Christ? I will recall, recount, recount one thing. That's an intense feeling. Because we in our sinful form cannot observe him. Do we lift up those prayers to him? Yes, our God is compassionate. He knew he was in deep trouble. Why would God even hear? He hears. Terror He had pages and pages and pages of such resolutions. The bottom line though is that every man is killed but one. You delivered. So I guess Every time we see one of those we think The psalmist great fear. We find the men They are No, Christ offers it. He's being swallowed up. I am scared. But give us that problem to work on. I shall do this. But And he called out.