And so before I read our scripture passage today, John 4, 43 to 54, I'm going to pray along those lines that God by his Spirit might shed light upon his word, that we might truly understand it. So let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we have the opportunity right now, as your people, on this gift of the Lord's Day, to come before your word. The word that is the bright light above all lights. It is the word above all words. It is the word that in the final analysis, in the final day, will stand. The truthfulness of your word will stand. The firmness of your word will stand. Faithfulness of your promises and your threats will stand. And so, Father, I know it is the habit of this congregation often to stand and and to give honor to the word. And so we ask that by your grace we might stand in our hearts now. That we might give your word the attention that it is due, the word of the Almighty and Sovereign God. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Again, if you would, please turn with me to our scripture text this morning, John 4, verses 43 to 54. Hear the word of the living God. After the two days he departed for Galilee, for Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. The official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus said to him, Go. Your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday, at the At the seventh hour, the fever left him. The father knew that that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your son will live And he himself believed in all his household, this was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. Well in my previous times with you in your building, we've looked at the book of John in some measure And we know from John's letter that he has a purpose, an overall purpose, a thesis purpose that he is trying to accomplish as he has written this wonderful gift to God's people. Under the authority of God. He was an eyewitness of things that he saw and heard from Jesus, and he had a task put upon him to be a witness as well. And so as he uh fulfills that task, he gives us the book of John and 1 John and 2 John, and 3 John in the book of Revelation all under his fulfilling his calling as an apostle, as an apostle, and really as a very unique apostle, as he was privy to many things that the other apostles were not. And so we know what the purpose statement is, and it's found in John 20, 30 to 31. Now, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. And even in this thesis statement, it's important to see that just knowing things about Jesus is not enough. That is not John's goal, that his gospel is formulated under the supervision of the Holy Spirit To elicit faith and to strengthen faith. That is his purpose in this book. And so we have this incredible gift from God through his apostle John for that end. And when John starts his gospel, he starts with this prologue in verses 1 to 18 of chapter 1. And the prologue is a summary of really themes that he will present as he goes through his gospel. Some of us are old enough and even now may even have a magazine called Highlights Magazine. When I was very young, we didn't have any subscriptions to the magazines. We had very few books really. Well when I would go to my doctor's office, who was a pretty wealthy man, he had Highlights magazine. And my favorite part of the whole magazine was the hidden pictures. And sometimes it was hard to know, is this just a part of something else or is this one of the hidden pictures? And he always had a key in the back of the magazine. And sometimes you had to go back there and look. Well, John and his gospel gives us the key ahead of time in some sense. That is he gives us his prologue, he will open up these things as he goes throughout his gospel. And so that too is a great light to us as we read his book. The other thing I would add at this point is that I've read the book of John probably more than any other book, and I've spent more time in it. And even over these last two months during the COVID time, and maybe I've had a little extra time to read, I've realized how pregnant with meaning John's Gospel is. If I had memorized the book of John, that would be a good thing, but it doesn't mean I would understand it in its fullness or its completeness. And so in some ways, if I preach through the book of John, I feel like, well, there's going to be an updated version of this at some point if I have the opportunity to preach again because it's so rich, it's so full. And so as we read the Word of God, it's meant to be read and reread. It's not like, oh, I read that book. I'll move on to the next thing, but we need to have the word washing over us over and over and over again. And so this morning, as I uh bring this message, I'm going to do it a little bit different than most sermons that I do. I usually have a A thesis statement or a purpose and try to support that throughout the sermon. But I'm going to do this a little bit differently this morning. I'm going to have five observations basically in five applications, five observations in five uh applications And so before so my first observation in this series of observations and applications is that we find somebody in great distress. We find somebody in great distress. Now I assume you like I do not prefer to be distressed. If you had a choice, you much rather be happy. You must rather be joyful. And happiness and joy is it gets from the Lord. But we live in a very fallen world. If you look through the book of John, you see a very messed-up world, a world that has come unraveled because of the effects of sin. And there's no place that is not affected by it. There's no heart that has been unaffected by it, save the Lord Jesus Christ. And so when we see sin in the world, and when we see sin in our own hearts, we shouldn't be surprised. The light of the word tells us that over and over and over again. But here today we have this one man who is in great distress, and uh you maybe some of you, like my wife and I, have had Uh if you're married and you've had a miscarriage or you've had a child die early in life, we uh We had a fellow who used to live with us for a while early in our marriage, and he got married and he asked me to be the best man at his wedding. And he had a son who was as old as my oldest son, and then his wife was pregnant again. And five months into the pregnancy, he was stillborn. And in the state of Maryland, you had to go through the whole process of having delivering the baby, of having to bury it actually, and naming the child. And it was a very sad time. It was a very grievous time. Since our COVID reclusion has started, you may have heard that we lost a dear member of our own church. He and his wife have been members for a long time. And my wife and I were headed down to Harrisonburg, Virginia to see my sister, and we spent the night in the hotel just because my wife worked late and just it made it an easier trip. We left on Friday night. Saturday morning I opened my email and it says, please mourn with us and pray with us as we suffer the loss of our brother Neil Bloomberg. I knew that he was having an operation, but did not expect these results. I was utterly shocked. I didn't know whether it is to go home and I didn't know what to do, and uh we ended up going on. It was a very, very sad piece of information. But you may even feel that right now, on top of all the things that are going on in the world, even the addition of Zoom, I'm sure that's a great burden for those who are in authorities, you know, your elders, your You know, our pastor spends a lot of time on Zoom trying to help us to gather together as God's people. Maybe you've lost a job. Maybe you've gotten a life uh life-threatening diagnosis. These are hard things, grievous things, and we would never want that. We would never want that upon our enemies, hopefully. And yet we find these things over and over in life. And it's interesting, this man, he his son, in the Greek, it could be translated as lad, it could be an infant, it could be his only son. And I'm sure if you're a parent, you have great love for your children, and it would be such a horrible situation if there was a life threatening, if your child was dying. And that's what this man had. And surely he had heard of Jesus, he knew from the changing the water into wine, he knew something of this miracle worker. And in his great uh anguish and his desperation, he thought maybe Jesus could do something. And he went to great lengths to do this. It's hard to determine how many miles between Cana and Capernaum. But um it's somewhere it seems like from 20 to 25 miles. We can't say absolutely how he traveled, did he walk, that he Did he ride a horse or whatever? I walk at twenty uh a mile every twenty minutes basically at a normal pace. So it took him somewhere between five to uh seven hours or so to do this distance But it was of great import to him. He was driven because of the great need. And he heard about Jesus and he thought maybe Jesus can do something And so I want to stop there and I want to say, where do you go? And what do you do when you're in distress? Where does your hope lie? And I say this to myself. You know, as Mark said, none of us come to worship with pure hearts. We come as sinners. And our faith is not yet perfect. There will be a day, by God's grace, when we will see Jesus face to face But that day is not yet. And our faith could be greater, it could be lesser, and it sometimes goes up and down. There's a variety of things that affect that But the question is, where do you go? Where is your hope line? Do you call out to to the Lord for help? It's nothing wrong with just calling out to the Lord as his people. Over the course of my life, I tried to repent of trying to give counsel or try to give wisdom in situations and to pray first. To pray first, because that is where my hope and where your hope ultimately lies. I can't change the human heart. I can't even change my own heart. You know, Marx just said that sanctification, we're involved, and that's absolutely true. And I'm sure that I absolutely do not participate in that in the way that I should But I pray to God that He would make me more successful in those things. But I want you to stop and just say, where do you go? Do you go to idols? Or do I go to idols? Do I go to man who has a certain amount of power? It's not that we don't seek out counsel. But when you have no hope, do you go to the living God who is the God of all hope? And I don't say this in some pat answer. It is the reality of what we have in Christ and in the Father and the Holy Spirit, as well as our need. Man is of no value in the end apart from the work of the Spirit. And God uses men, but we look to the Lord as our hope. And so if it's worth it take some time to really do an analysis, do you talk to other people first? Or do you go to the Lord first? And I, like I say, I must take this to heart myself, that God doesn't exempt me, because I'm bringing the word that I am exempt from this. I have to cry out to the Lord all the time. But he is kind and he is good. He does marvelous things. And so the first application is where do you go in your distress? Ephesians 3. 20 has been a dear, dear counsel of prayer for me. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, the work of the Holy Spirit, the work of Christ. More abundantly than all we ask for think. What that means is as soon as we can think of something, it's already too small. You know, sometimes we don't pray for big enough things. You know, it's like, well, I I hope I get this. I really would like to have this. And it's like, well, why not pray for something greater? And I don't mean in a careless, frivolous way. We're to be thoughtful about our prayers. We're not to uh to have flip prayers. But God is Well he promised us great things, and we we we go on the basis of his great power, his great condescension, his great love That he really is our Heavenly Father now in Christ, if we are in Christ, far more abundantly than all we ask or think And so there's a call to raise the bar on our prayer life, to ask God of great things, and to to look, to see what he might do To observe how he's answered our prayers. So that's observation one and application one. The second observation is Jesus' words in verse 48. Jesus' words in verse 48. So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe Now it's hard to tell in the Greek what is he trying to say? I'm sure if you have any interaction with emails, you get an email and somebody says something to you. It's like Are they angry with me? Are they trying to make a point? Are they mocking me? What is going on there? It's hard to understand the content. It's a tar-owned session. Probably a couple years ago we decided not to do emails on major things, I think partly for that reason, that they could be so misunderstood. And Jesus says, unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. Now, is he rebuking this man? Is he rebuking the people? Saying, look. You should just believe me for my word, but I gotta do signs and wonders because you're you're such knuckleheads or you're so dense. And I don't I it could be that. There could be a measure of that. But on the other hand, what is the purpose of John's gospel? He presents these signs, even says that Jesus did other signs so that you might believe. So in a sense, it could be that Jesus is saying, you will not believe without signs and wonders. I am about to do a sign and a wonder. Take note, take it to heart, look at what I'm about to do. And in a kind and wonderful way, Jesus is preparing them for the result of what's going to happen, particularly this official. and his family members. And so there is some truth that that we you know that we we have all these evidences and are they having the effect that they're meant to do, which is for us to believe that Jesus is the Messiah. To believe that Jesus is the Son of God, but even more than that, that it would elicit our faith in greater measure to Jesus as he is revealed to us in John's gospel. So it's hard to say what Jesus' purpose is, but it should encourage us as we see this text unfold. I'm doing the miracle. I'm doing the sign. And this is for you, for your faith to be strengthened. My third observation is in or in verses 49 to 50. The official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. Notice this Jesus' word, that Jesus' word, he just says, go. Just go. Your child will live. Now, sadly, many of our words are just words I've been so convicted about whatever comes out of my mouth is very important. I'm accountable for whatever comes out of my mouth. And I've tried to talk less at times. For that reason, I know I'm accountable, but also because maybe what I'm saying is foolishness, or maybe I'm saying something that I'm not thought out is not really true and will not have true consequences. But Jesus is never wrong. If you go through all the Gospels, anything that Jesus has ever said, he's never wrong. His opinion is always right. His analysis is always right. His prediction is always right. It's unbreakable. It's unchanging. And he says, go. Your son will live. And then the second part is what the man does. It seems that even these words has elicited some type of faith. He had heard of Jesus, this one who could do wonders. But the scripture says he believes him. Now we don't know how much faith that is. And again, like I said, often our faith is at different levels. And as we read John's Gospel particularly, We come with a measure of faith, hopefully, if we're if we're believing. Maybe some of you who are listening today are unbelieving. And God may use this to bring you to a saving faith in Christ. But it's interesting that he he does believe Jesus and that that belief leads to obedience I won't go into all of it. You know, James 2, 14 to 26 and the James discussion about Abraham. He believed God. He did what God said. You know. Faith has lengths. It's glorious. It's wonderful. It's the power of God at work in us when we trust God and we act accordingly. Abraham was about to sacrifice his son in the Old Testament. He did exactly what God said to do. It must have been hard. We don't have any words that are going on in that narrative about what was going on in his own heart. He got up early, he went out to do it. Because God told him to do it. It was God's word that elicited his faithful obedience to do exactly which must have been a great turmoil within him. to go and sacrifice his own son. And we know, of course, he did not sacrifice his own son. But I think there that God was revealing something of his own nature Something of what he would do eventually, where he, unlike Abraham, would not withhold his own son. And so the man trusts Jesus and he's obedient to Jesus. He goes. He goes and he goes back home. So that's observation in application three. Observation number four in verses 50 to 53, the power of God in prayer and its timing. The power of God in prayer and its timing. Verses 50 to 53. Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told them that his son was recovering So he asked them the hour when he began to get better. And they said to him, yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him. The Father knew that that was the hour when Jesus had said to him. Your son will live. And he himself believed in all his household. The power of God in prayer, that uh I probably have misspoken the power of God in prayer in a sense, but it's the it's the faithfulness of God in response to prayer. This man came with his request. He did it in person. We cannot do that in person because Jesus is at the right hand of the Father right now. But he made this request, and Jesus said, Go, your child will live. And Jesus did not have to go with him. He did not have to lay his hand on him. He simply said the word. And it was accomplished. And it's it's a pretty amazing thing. If you think about it, where is Jesus now? You know, we we know Jesus where he is now after this story had happened. He had finished his earthly ministry, he died on the cross, he rose from the dead, he ascended into heaven. He sent the Holy Spirit, and he's at the right hand of the Father now, having conquered death, having done all that the Father had asked him And he hears our prayers now. So that when you pray, if you're in a hospital room and it's 3 a. m. in the morning and no one's around you and Maybe the physicians haven't attended to you as they ought to the nurses, and you're by yourself. If you're a child of God, you have access to the throne of grace. And there is no thwarting the connection between you and the Lord Jesus and the Father. That you have absolute access to God now through Christ. And the distance is of no determent. It's not a hindrance. And we need to repent in our thinking when we get fuzzy-minded and we think, oh. We put up barriers. It's like he says, pray. Just pray. I mean, be mindful, be respectful, be thoughtful as much as you can. But we have access to the throne of grace. And so distance is no problem. And then consider the timing. I think this is one of the most difficult things when we pray We pray and we pray and we pray and we say, Lord, how long? Isn't that the refrain of many of the Psalms? How long, O Lord? At one point my son, my oldest son, had an incredibly good job. And then the next year he didn't have it. And for a while he had no work. And I prayed for a job, I prayed for a job, and I felt like I had to pray through that block. And surely thereafter, you got a job at Apple. That's a pretty it was a pretty decent job. And it seems like sometimes we have these barriers that God wants us to pray through them. Maybe you have a loved one who is unbelieving. A father, a mother, a child, son or daughter, brother or sister, a friend, a neighbor. And you think, this seems so far away. So far away. And I've begun to think the Lord wants us to pray. Beyond that, it's always in his hands, he is sovereign in his answers. But he tells us, you know, if you ask for a fish, am I going to give you a serpent? He reasons with us. I'm your Heavenly Father. Am I going to give you something crummy? Am I going to give you something of a lesser nature than what you're asking in some sense? Like I say, He's sovereign. But he raises our hopes, he raises our expectations by his own word. He says, come, ask of me great things. In the book of James, it says Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. Do you consider yourself a peer of Elijah? Elijah who was on the Mount of Transfiguration with Moses? Elijah's a prophet who wonderful things happen during his ministry. But James says he's a man with a nature like ours And he prayed fervently that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. It worked. It wouldn't work. It worked because God heard him and was pleased to answer. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. The earth bores fruit. You probably looked around lately. In the midst of all the seclusion and all this silence, it's been incredible how much it just seems like things are exploding, even poison ivy in my backyard. Flowers are exploding. The azaleas have had their big shining moment right now. There's a type of rose that seems like, wow, they're just exploding. But for a while there was no rain during Elijah's time, and he prayed and heaven gave rain and the earth poured fruit. And God is using James to say, look. You are no different than Elijah. In many regards. I know he's a prophet, and I'm not a prophet, and we don't have that prophet anymore. But we're like him and his nature. And through those words, he elicits faith and hope and prayer. That's what he's doing through those words. It's like a rational argument. Elijah was like us. He did this. Pray. Come. Ask of me. And the timing is so hard, isn't it? The timing is like, when will it happen? You know, and that was my point about my the example of my son. I prayed for a long time. You know, I I prayed for family members to come to Christ, and now almost all my family members are professing Christians. I was the first one in my family. And I can remember weeping at night, you know, as I thought about their real condition before God outside of Christ. Instead of just a reminder, maybe you've been praying for something for a long time, you say, I just don't Again, I know that God is sovereign, but he may be calling you to continue to pray and to continue to watch and to continue to observe to see what he might do Exceedingly abundantly beyond all we ask or think. Finally, my last observation is the confirmation of God's word. The confirmation of God's word in this passage If you would just turn back if we go back to the beginning of this passage that I read, I know I'm going backwards in in terms of the order of the verses here with this last one, but I think it's very important. Verse 43, it says, After two days he departed for Galilee. And then it says in verse 44, For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. These are very, very sad words. If you read the Gospels, you'll see early on that Jesus' family kind of struggled with who Jesus was. They were literally unbelieving. I can't say for sure about Mary. Says Mary pondered these things in her heart. She had observed some incredible things. In her being pregnant as a virgin by the power of the Holy Spirit, as she uh saw the witness of of people coming to her and talking about her child in such glorious ways. But it seems obvious from these early accounts of his family members, they thought. Hey, I don't know what this guy's doing, but you know, it was really it was very, very sad in that here is this person who is their brother. I know it's supernaturally, but their brother And they really had, they didn't believe in him. And yet later on, his brother James and his brother Jude both come to believe and have prominent places. They both have uh chapters in the Bible. James rose to prominence in the church at Jerusalem. And it's very sad that they would have not thought highly of him, or even the townspeople, they say, where Jesus he grew up in such and such a house with Mary and Joseph. We know his brothers and sisters. They did not see him as he really was. They saw him as another man. And so it was very sad, it seems, how could you, you have greatness in your neighborhood and you don't even see it. But it's even more than that because we we see the anguish of the Apostle Paul in Romans 9, verses 1 to 4 or 5. He's in great anguish as he thinks about his countrymen and how so many had rejected Christ. And this is so important. You see, John's gospel comes late in the story in the history of redemption in some sense. There is so much that goes before it. Over the course of my time of attending seminary in Virginia, I'd go back and forth on the beltway and come home late at night sometimes. And I would come home and my wife would be watching a movie. And she's like three-fourths of the way through, and we had a couple options. She said, Do you want me to fill you in? I'll say, no, I'm too tired. I can't think of that. And I and I might just leave the room. Or she might s or I might just sit there and watch the end of the movie. And I would kind of get an idea about what it was about, but not totally, because I hadn't seen the early part of the movie. I didn't know the significance of the end. Or I might say, yeah, please fill me in, and she would start telling me what had happened so far. And it's so important that we read the whole scripture and have a sense of the flow of scripture because John is writing his gospel. Towards the end of the history of redemption as far as the enscripturation of God's word. And if we don't know the Old Testament, it doesn't mean that we can't be a Christian or come to faith in Christ from the New Testament. It doesn't mean that at all. And please don't misunderstand me. You can have faith in Christ with any spark of the word in the New Testament, and I trust any spark in the Old Testament as far as you understand Jesus But the fullness, the completeness, just continues to grow the better you understand the Old Testament. And what is so sad about this, about Jesus not having honor in his own hometown or Paul's anguish, and I can't go into it today, but The Jews had so many privileges. They had the light of God's word, the oracles of God, that Paul says. But I just want to draw your attention to this one word as we're looking at the confirmation of God's Word, Deuteronomy 18, 15 to 22. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you, Moses, from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name That I have not commanded him to speak, who speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die. And if you say in your heart, How may we know that the word that the Lord has spoken When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or come true, that is a word that the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has not has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him. But how unlike Jesus, how unlike this person is Jesus in this passage. He says a word, go, your son is healed, or will be healed. He doesn't even have to go there. Now the question is, will it come true or not? Is he a false prophet? Is he a liar? And the answer is absolutely not. And the man goes home and even on the way he has Verification. Your son is on the on the on the mending. He's getting better. And he says, when did it happen at this point in time? And he knew, he knew that Jesus had spoken it. And look at the fruit that's born out of this. The title of my sermon, if you have it there, is uh a successful sign. What is the purpose of John's signs in his statement at the end? That you might believe and have life in his name. And at the end of this passage we read, the Father knew that this was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your son will live. And he himself believed. He had already believed to some degree, but it was like his faith had grown because he saw the fruit of what Jesus did. It's a testimony to the fact that Jesus is that prophet. He is that prophet like Moses. In all his household beliefs, his whole household beliefs, they too heard this good news of what Jesus had done A successful sign accomplishing the purpose that John had written his gospel for. And so let me encourage you to be in the Word. I'll share this one application in particularly. The first time I ever heard the name Robert Murray McShane was on the lips of our dear brother Glenn Connect. I can't remember the context, but he spoke very highly of him. And over the course of time, just recently, I you know I knew he had a reading plan. And I started to do it. And particularly in this COVID time, I feel like I am the man of Psalm 1. It has nothing to do with me. I'm not any great sheikhs. But I've been in the Word a lot and I've tried to make it my practice to keep doing these readings. And when I get behind, I want to go back. It's like I want to I want to catch up. It's had such a wonderful effect upon me And so I would highly recommend, if you're able and how you're able, to do maybe that plan that Robert Murray McShane has has written. He only lived, I think, to be 32 years old. But what an incredible impact he had in the Christian community over the course of time. And the plan is even set up so you have two private readings, and then you have two family readings. What a wonderful thing to implement as you're able to, that your your your your family would be and you would be saturated. with the light of the word of the living God. Because you would know the Old Testament story better. So when you come to the New Testament, it's going to have so much more significance It's going to encourage your faith because you see how long ago those promises were made. Even back to Genesis 3. 15, that Jesus was the seed of the woman who crushed the head of the serpent. And so, beloved, we have great, great encouragement in this passage. We have great, great hope from this passage. May God bless. This reading and preaching of his word with the Spirit, let us pray