Well, I uh as uh someone who's licensed to preach, I've had the opportunity to preach in many different congregations and uh really many di different denominations, different states. But uh this is one of the sweetest places I ever get to come. And uh even your worship service has already encouraged me. So uh uh it is a joy to bring God's word today. So as we uh let me pray for our time and I'll read God's word. I'll have you stand God's word. Father, we have the greatest privilege that mankind can have, and that is to sit before your word. As we've heard, your word is very powerful. And so, Father, we ask for your tender mercies to us today. You know exactly what we need. uh and to what degree we need it. And and we uh we ask that by your spirit that you would speak to all of us this day and that by your grace we We would have hearts of flesh towards that speaking, that we might be conformed to the image of your Son, who was always obedient to you, who loved you. You and his affections and his thoughts and his words and his deeds. So we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. With that, please stand for the reading of God's Word. If you have a Pew Bible, it's on page eight hundred sixty nine and this is loop ten. Um Hear the reading of God's word, beginning at verse 38. Now, as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who was who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve all alone? Tell her then to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha. Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her. We're the Lord. Please have a seat. There are uh in this world there are some things that make great promises and deliver very little. When I was a child, uh, we would go to the circus or a carnival, and you could smell the aroma of cotton candy in the air. And it had such an alluring uh fragrance. I I it's like I I won I wanted to devour cotton candy But fortunately my parents uh didn't let me have what I wanted all the time. And uh but it finally when I got some cotton candy and I got to taste it as soon as the moisture Oh, my mouth hit the cotton candy, it just shriveled up into a little ball, almost of nothing. A hard rock of sugar. And I spoke to a gentleman who was in charge of the concessions of the old capital center. He said that was the highest profit margin of any They could spin that sugar and spin it and spin it, and uh you know they got a lot of profits for a little bit of substance. There's other things that surprise us that have uh much more to uh what's seen with the eye. A number of years ago, my wife and I went to a restaurant in Virginia. And uh it was a great restaurant. It was a warm summer day and we sat down and we're waiting for the waitress and there was this it looked like uh a winter green mint. Uh ones that are wrapped up in the little cellophane, you know, sometimes church. Just have them out in the lobby. And I'm like, man, I'm really hungry. I think I'm going to eat that. And I but I held off, and uh the waitress finally came. And uh she says, Oh, that's a that's a little towelette. You put it in water and expand. And uh I was very grateful that I didn't take it. I mean I may not be here today if I had Taken that, but but there's things in the world that are like cotton candy that make great boasts and great promises. And then there's things that are just the opposite. You think What's in that, you know? And uh they just expand or deeper than you think. And that's always the case with the Word of God. It's already been alluded to that that God's words are not like man's words. So that in any piece of scripture that we have, there is more weight and glory in any passage, whether it be John 11, 35, Jesus wept to any passage in the scripture that has more weight and glory than any words combined of mankind. They're the words of God, who has made all things by the word of his power. And so as we look at this passage this morning, we might think, not many verses. What's in here? Is there anything of substance in here? Here. There's two women who they're not even officers in the church or of any high standing in and themselves. And yet, in this passage, in this passage where Jesus speaks to To two women whom he loves, we know from Scripture that he loved them, we're going to find something of great substance, of how important the Word of God is. to us in every situation. And so if I had a doctrine for today, I'd say that in this passage, the Lord once again brings them back to himself. That's really true of any Passage. In any passage of Scripture, the Lord brings us back to Himself, whether He convicts us of our sins and leads us to repentance, or if He puts before our eyes the promises of eternal life that lead to glory, He's always bringing Himself. And that's what he's doing today. And these words that he will speak regarding Martha and Mary in in our pastors this morning. And so I'd like to consider this passage under three points. The first one is a focused listener, a focused listener. And then secondly, a distracted server. A distracted server. And then finally, what is necessary? What is necessary? So a focused listener, a distracted server, and what is necessary. And so in our text today As we start out in verse 38, uh Martha extends an invitation to Jesus to come uh to her house. And this is a great thing that she does. She It's very possible that she had invited or welcomed in a pair of the 72 that we read of at the beginning of chapter two 10, where Jesus sends out these 72 2x2, and they go to different places that Jesus would eventually go to minister. And if they were received, they could go into the house and they would be provided for. And uh it's probably very possible that she had already done this. And so that when finally Jesus does go to this town, she invites him, and he accepts the invitation, and they go, and he comes in and uh begins to minister. And so, first of all, I just want to say what she is doing is a wonderful thing. Uh sometimes Martha gets a bad rap. And um, but what she has done is a very good thing. Hospitality, we're commanded both in the Old and New Testament. To extend hospitality. Even today, my wife and I, which is this is not the first time by the people that are having us over today, but there's been others in the congregation where I've come here, and we've we've uh hospitality has been extended to us. And it's uh it's a r it's a wonderful gift where you have a chance to serve other people, you know, provide a meal, have time of fellowship, and even sometimes just strangers where you get to a chance to uh show good to strangers as well. So I just want to say from the outset that Martha's invitation is a good thing. She should be commended because The scripture commends that. And um, so we have to give her her her her kudos where we can give them to her. So uh so she offers this invitation and he comes into the home. And uh so here here she is. She has the Son of God incarnate in her own home. What a privilege. What a gift. But here's where things get a little interesting. So after he enters, we have these two sisters. You see this thing, a tale of two sisters is a title. I think it's in the the bullets. And the reason I bring this tale of two sisters is uh since I had my injury, I I ruptured my Achilles tendon back in January. So life has slowed down, and so my wife's got me watching um uh Charles Dickens. Charles Dickens movies, okay? And uh we watched The Tale of Two Cities and we watched Little Dorrit and And uh these movies are very interesting. They're not like Marvel or DC comics, you know. You get all this all this noise and all kinds of stuff in these other movies. You gotta you gotta hang in there for the for the benefit. And I'll confess at first it's like but then I'm like, Wow, this is a great movie. This is a great story, you know. But it took time. It took time. So my wife's training me uh to A little more culture, I think, hopefully a little more patience. Um But uh so that's where this title came into as I was preparing this sermon. And it's interesting we have these two sisters, same family. We know they have a brother named Lazarus. We know this from the John 11. And so once Jesus enters, then things become a little different. And that's what we're going to look at the two sisters. And how they respond. So, first, as we look at verse 39, we see that Martha has a sister named Mary. And so Jesus comes in, and what does Mary do? She sits at his feet and listens to Jesus. Now, I think that if we were in this situation, we might be tempted to be on Martha's side. You know, Jesus comes into the house, Martha's serving, and Mary is sitting at Jesus' feet. Now, I'm sure at some point in your in your life you've been at a place like a service day or something. And everybody's working, except there's one person over here. They're not working. They're just sitting there. You know. They're not they're not they're not really doing anything. And um and and that's not good. You know, people sometimes just I'm gonna check out and I'm not gonna do anything. But Mary is sitting there at Jesus' feet. And when we talk about sitting at someone's feet, it's got a kind of a technical term. It means that they are a disciple of somebody. Right now, the church where I'm attending, there is a world-renowned biblical scholar. And my wife and I get to attend his Bible study twice a month. Now literally, if I reached over the coffee table, I could probably touch his toes. And uh it's been a real privilege. It's Dr. Richard Gaffin, who formerly taught at Westminster Theological Seminary. Dear sweet man, he's I think he's eight. eighty eight, almost eighty-nine. And uh and so we're sitting at his feet in a sense to learn from him. And and so for Mary to sit at Jesus' feet, that's an indication that she wanted to learn from him, that she would listen to him, that she would A disciple of his. So we have this wonderful picture of Mary. She sits and listens to Jesus. We see in Acts 22, 3, when Paul is defending himself in Jerusalem, he says he was educated at the feet of Jerusalem. feet of Gamaleo. He was a disciple of Gamayo. And so this this idea is that Mary is sitting at Jesus' feet to to take in what he has to say. And so she assumes this position, and it's it's uh it's a marvelous thing, as we'll hear from Jesus. Jesus' lips in just a little bit. So she's honoring Jesus. She's focused. She's a focused listener. And this is a wonderful thing. So that's Mary's response. She's a focus Listener. But the second person there, of course, is Martha, and we have a distracted server in Martha. In contrast, Martha's response is described as being distracted with much service. Being distracted with much serving. The word distracted here simply means to have one's attention directed from one thing to another. It's a very simple term, maybe not a $1. 25 term, but uh it's a very simple term where Martha's attention was taken from Jesus to her son. serving. And what's important here again is that it wasn't serving per se. That was a good thing But it says much serving. It got too much. It was exorbitant. It was too much. And so she wasn't profiting for the very purpose that Jesus was there to teach. But she accepted this invitation, and Jesus was doing the Father's will. He always did the Father's will. He's in his teaching ministry. And so she is not getting what's going on. And uh And so it just got it just got too much. Her serving be kind of took on a new life. It it uh it distracted her. And uh we earlier in John's in and Luke's gospel he he gives us the parable of the sower, uh the the sower. And uh in uh verse eight seven he sa it says and some fell among thorns and the thorns grew up with it and choked it. And then when Jesus explains this to his disciples in verse 14, he says, And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and Riches and pleasures of life, and their fruitfulness does not mature. Now I think that Martha was a believer. This is on a smaller scale, but At every level, there's a sense in which we can be distracted from the word of God. The most godly person in the world can be distracted from the word of God. And I think here this is what we have. We have this situation where the cares of serving overtook the words of Jesus right there in her presence. presence. And she did not profit from them. She didn't profit from them. This wonderful ministry, the words of life Jesus was speaking, were not going into her ear because she was distracted. Her attention And uh this is always a warning. Every warning from God's Word is a gift. It's a gift. gift of love, even since the beginning of creation when God warned Adam not to eat of the tree of the of good of good and evil. And we're gonna we'll look at that just a little bit later. But I think it's important to see. Here's this woman who loves Jesus, Jesus loves her, and she's taken off target. At a time where she should have been listening to Jesus, she was Distracted and didn't benefit from his words. And I'd like for us to consider a couple observations at this point. First of all, the Word of God is always a light to our path. And so this warning that Jesus gave earlier in Luke's gospel about the things that choke the world are there for us to consider. Is there something that's choking the world, the word of God in my life? The Word of God should always have preeminence in our life. It's a lifelong process of being more and more under the Word of God as our Standard of our ruling over us through the Lordship of Christ. But we need to think about: is there something? Are there cares? Are there riches? Are there pleasures? That takes us or divert us from God's Word. And I think it's just a good application early on for us to consider. It's going to be a personal thing in some sense. You know, or maybe somebody around you can you can talk to somebody, hey, you see anything that's really hurting me from listening to God's word. You know, it might not be it might be not getting enough sleep when before you come to worship or something like that. I know those things are variables, but we try to make it so that we do have the opportunity to Sit before God's word, that we give it our best shot. You know, that we give it the due attention that we should. That every word of God is for us to hear. And so it just an early application is to consider it maybe later in the day, what is it that is hindering me from hearing God's word? You know, sometimes we take on too many duties, you know, or duties that really aren't ours. Or one of the biggest problems in our society is that we're taught by our society to have an opinion about everything. There's so many blogs and everything else. It's like you're really encouraged to have an opinion about stuff that's not even your business. And when you start to do that, you start to create like an anxiety cloud. And it just grows and grows. It's not even my business. I have no responsibility here. I have things I do have to be responsible for. I have to be responsible under Christ. I have to be responsible to love my wife. But there's a lot of things out there that are not my responsibility. I can pray for them, but they shouldn't be things I'm acting on in my mind. And part of maturity in Christ is growing in discernment to know that yes, I should do this, and no, I should not do this. Do this. And again, as you go through different life stages, that changes. That changes. My wife and I have, in a sense, more freedom now than we've ever had our whole life. lives to do other things. Now you can see my my my ability to to maneuver with my boot on that that challenges us. But in many ways we have a lot of freedom I'm thinking well to whom much is given much is required. What are we going to do with that for you? But that's not the same as when you're in the throes of raising children and a full-time job and things of that nature. So it's a wisdom call, but something to do before the Lord to say, is there anything that It's hindering God's word in my life. Hopefully not sin, but even there that we need to repent so we can hear God's word better. The second observation I think is that this can be very subtle. You know, maybe what Martha started out to do is a good thing, but it kind of grew like most steroids or miracles grow. It got way out of hand. You know, when you when you have somebody over for uh when you extend hospitality, it's it's because you want to spend time with the people. I mean you want to provide a nice meal. I I understand. But sometimes that can get out of hand and you start getting caught up in all the procedures and everything and miss the person who's right in front of you. It's like, hey, I'm here to talk to you. I'm not here to show you what I can do. I want to spend time with you. And so we've got to be careful that not we don't let the uh the serving become the main thing and surpass the gift of fellowship, particularly when we're meeting with other believers. And um that yes, you know, we try to prepare ahead of time, but the goal is to be with the people, not not the process or the the the serv the serving aspects so much. The last thing that's really important here is that Jesus was faithfully executing his duty. He came to the house and he began teaching. He was doing exactly what the Father asked him to do. Now that's not to say that in his life, you know, people came to him and under God's providence he always did the Father's will, you know. Oh, my fa you know, my child's dying, come, things of that nature. But he kept going and he kept going. To that hour when he went to the cross. And he just persevered, he persevered, he persevered. He was always on task with the Father. It's just, it's hard to imagine that there was no inconsistency consistency with the with the Father and the Son in Jesus' earthly ministry. It was all what the Father had called him to. And it was this delightful. So after after uh we have these two systems We see in the second part of verse 40, we find Martha's upset, kind of ticked off, with her sister's actions because she's sitting and listening to Jesus while she's doing all this excessive serving. And uh oftentimes when we're off focus, we get irritated and we start to climb the ladder of inference and we make make we make poor judgments. And so she she is so much distr upset that she appeals to Jesus for help, but in her intervention As an arbiter between herself and Mary, she is presumptuous and tells Jesus what to do. She tells the Lord of Glory what to do. Don't you care that my sister has left me all alone to do this? As though Jesus didn't care about her. And then she says, tell her to help me. Tell her to help me. And so Martha appeals to Jesus, and it's always good to appeal to Jesus. It's always good to appeal to God's word. The word of God is wisdom. And we want to see, if we have we have decisions to make, we ought to look in the word of God and see what it might help us to understand. understand what we should do. But we never tell God what to do. Right? We never tell God what to do. We listen to what He says and by God's grace we submit to what He says Tells us. So the question is, what is Jesus going to do? How's he going to respond to this presumptuous request? What does he think? And uh we see that he points her and us to what truly map what truly is necessary. So in verses 41 to 42, we see Mary's, after Mary's and Martha's response. Jesus gives this comprehensive analysis of the situation and renders judgment. His comprehensive analysis of the situation. It renders judgment. And before I we we hear what he says, it's important to know that Jesus loved Martha. Jesus loved Martha and Mary. Jesus loved Martha and Mary and Lazarus. We know this absolutely from John 11. And so this is not out of any ill will to Martha. Is this her loving Lord speaking to her? And that's important to know that you know when somebody who loves you, blessed are the wounds of a friend, that they come to you and tell you something that's not right. That's It's a great gift. I know sometimes it's hard to receive, but when it's true, it's a really great gift. Somebody would love us enough to tell us the truth. The second thing that's important is to think about how Jesus addresses her. Martha, Martha. There's only a small number of times where the Word of God repeats a name, but they're all significant. Significant things happen. Moses, Moses, Samuel, Samuel. Go through the scriptures. So it's this is an important thing that Jesus is about to say. But on top of that is the fact that when Jesus is going to give his, he's render his analysis and his judgment, there is no corruption in his advice. You know, I'm sure at some point you've looked at Yelp or TripAdvisor, you're looking for a restaurant or a place to stay, and you get all these opinions and That's so variable. It can depend on person to person. It can depend on what time they went there and who was on the staff and all that. But even more so, Jesus is not corrupted by sin. When he gives his analysis, it's going to pierce right through to the tart of the matter. In 2011, I spent five or six days in the hospital. And when we were leaving, I couldn't drive home. My wife had to drive home. We live in Bowie, so we went from Washington, D. C. to Bowie. Now I drive like 99. 9% of the time. Probably that's absolutely true for a whole lot of people. marriage. It's not because my wife's not a good driver. I just like to drive and she's okay with that. But um so we're we're driving out of DC and I'm sitting in the passenger side. I'm looking out the window like I did when I was a kid. You know I just Oh, look at that. And I all of a sudden this odd thing occurred to me as I'm driving through this neighborhood in Washington, D. C. , I'm like, Is really odd. I'm just thinking in my mind. So finally I just said it to my wife. I said, I don't know why all these people have painted all their trim lavender. Everybody's trim is lavender. And she said, it's not lavender. It's not lavender. Well, what I failed to tell you was on the last day I was in the hospital, I had to go to ophthalmology and they dilated my pupils And so my perception was that everything was lavender. And if Jesus said to me, Steve, what color do you see? I'd say, Lord, you know I see lavender. And he would say, Yes, you do, but your eyes are distorted, because your eyes were dilated. And so I needed my wife's external opinion of what reality really was because my perception was distorted. And this is so important if we learn just one thing today to realize that after the fall of Adam, all mankind's perception was distorted. It's not for the glory of God. It doesn't see the glory of God in creation or it suppresses it. It's a rebellion to God. And so that we need to be very careful when we hear people of the world make decisions. It doesn't mean they never make good decisions, but the word of God is always right. There is no corruption to it. I can't even explain how pure and wonderful and weighty it is. But it's important that when Jesus gives this Analysis and render his judgment that it's it's fully uh it has no corruption in it. And he's going to speak right to the matter here And so he says, he says to her that he starts in verse 41, he says that Martha is anxious and troubled. And anxiety, like I said, is like steroids for steroids are miracle growth. There's a right concern for duty. When God created man, he gave him tasks to do, and that's a good thing. You have to think about it. About your task. And that's that's normal. But at times they start to grow and grow and grow where it becomes excessive. You know, and this really has only happened after the fall where anxiety has creeped into our world. And he says that she's anxious and troubled. The word trouble means to disturb the mental calm and contentment of the mind. What should have been an even mind, even having the privilege of sitting under the teaching of Jesus, she was it was disturbed. And nobody likes that, right? Nobody likes to have their mind disturbed. It's one of the things that has come into this world because of sin. And he says not just that she was anxious and troubled about one thing, but he says many things. In verse 41, many things. That she had many things on her mind. Now, if you and I were observers at that time, we'd just think, ah, she's upset about the serving thing. But Jesus says that she's upset about many things. So we have these many things that Martha is concerned about. And then we have Mary sitting at Jesus' feet doing one thing. And that's often the case where our minds are filled with anxieties, and we need to come before the word and have it quieted and settled and have our peace restored by God. That's grace. And I think there's a really encouraging observation here that, you know, if you had asked Martha, it doesn't seem like she would have known what was troubling her. She wouldn't have known how much it troubled her. But Jesus Jesus knew. But Jesus knew. And as the people of God, for those who are Christians, this is a great encouragement. That even before we go to prayers As David says in the Psalms, you know what is what's on my mind before I speak it. I think that one aspect Is so helpful when you go to prayer to know that ahead of time, just to stop and say, Okay, I'm gonna pray, Lord, and you already know what I what I'm thinking. Um there's something Something comforting about knowing that, particularly you know, it's good it's good if a friend knows that, but to know that Jesus, our best friend, knows that, is above all blessings. You know, we have a hard time figuring out what's bothering us. I've talked to people What's on your mind? I don't know. I'm just anxious. Can't pin it down. But Jesus knows. And I think that's a that's a great comfort that all of us need to bring as we go to prayer to maybe pause. Acknowledge before the Lord, you know what I'm going to say, and then say it. It doesn't mean we don't pray, but to be comforted by that reality that Jesus already knows, that God already knows before we bring our words before Him. And so he says this about Martha, and then he says to her in verse 42, but one thing is necessary. Like I said, many anxieties, but one thing is necessary. You know, I think we all like to have our thoughts focused in anything we do. And Jesus is saying there's just one thing is necessary. Now I had a little pushback when I was talking to somebody about this. They said, is it really one thing? Is this one thing necessary? Well that's what Jesus says. What is absolutely necessary? It's a uh the Greek means actually what is uh of a necessity. You know, I could say I want a pin Cadillac. Well That's my want. But there are certain things I need, right? I need oxygen. And Jesus says this one thing is necessary. And If we think about this, it shouldn't be surprising. You know, over the last couple of months, certain passages have really started to speak loudly to me. About something that I knew intellectually, but I realized there's more to this than I thought. Colossians 1. 16 says that all things were made through Christ and for Christ. He's talking about creation. That everything we have in this room, everything that we've ever seen, was made through Christ and for Christ, except, of course, sin. That he is the reference point of all things. That I'm not the reference point. That you're not the reference point. That there's no entity in the world that's a reference point. But that all things were made through Christ and for Christ at creation. The Apostle John starts off in his prologue, in his gospel. He says. That all things were made through him, and there was not anything made that was not made apart from him. And I started to think about that, and I found there was a real sweetness and joy to that. It's like I'm I'm not made for me. My life is not about me. My life is about Christ. I was made that way You know? You can have a tire. Tires are fun. You can roll them and have fun with them, but they're made for a car. They don't have a self-reference point. But we were made for God. For Christ at creation. And that's really been helpful. And so as we go back to Genesis, when we see that when God made man, and man was made through Christ, But he's given some instructions that God is speaking to him there. And these words that God speaks to Adam were life They had a warning. They had a prohibition. But everything was good as long as that prohibition wasn't sinned against. And so, even there, because we're creatures, we've always been dependent upon the Word of God. He is our creator. We are his creatures. He has every right to tell us what to do. But on top of that, That he's good. And so, even at creation, the word of God was preeminent. It was the necessary thing. And yet Adam did not learn, did not listen with profit. He listened to his wife, who listened to the serpent, who gave words that were contrary to God's word, and now here we are in a fallen world. And it's helpful for us to see that how important the Word of God is. That our opinion of the Word of God should get greater and greater. As to how important it is to us. It's not a side thing, it's a center thing, it's an important thing. After God called a people for himself, uh He gives Israel these words in Deuteronomy 6: Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words I command you today shall be on your heart. And it's interesting, the um the Hebrew equivalent to listening, what Mary was doing is Shema. You've probably heard of the Shema. I just read the Shema. And so in Mary, we have the perfect model of an Israelite. What is the response to Hero Israel? It's listening. Listen. It's to do what he says. Listen. And Mary is sitting at Jesus' feet, listening to his words. The one that the Father has sent from heaven. He sent the prophets before, and God's people should have listened to them. And often, unfortunately, they didn't listen with With prophet. And they rebelled and they stiffened her necks. When every time, if they had just obeyed, it would have been sweet. And so it's interesting. We have this perfect model in Mary in the sense, of course she's not perfect in terms of sin, but she's sitting and listening to Jesus' word. Words. The one whom the Father had sent. And so as we move on here, 2,000 years later, that Jesus would continue on his ministry. He would go to that hour when he would lay down his life for his sheep, where he would endure the penalty that we endure, that he would rise from the dead, and that the new age would begin. The death is no longer the last word. It's also been become obvious to me that God is an anti-death God in the sense that He warned Adam in the beginning, and the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. And the last enemy that's destroyed is death. But it took the death of his own son as our substitution to take care of that. That Jesus had to die in our place for that to happen. And so as we hear we were here 2,000 years later, we don't have Jesus. Personally in bodily form, but we have him as he is at the right hand of the Father even now. And he rules and reigns through his word. So we've just considered. And as we read his word in the scriptures, all scripture points us to Christ. And when your pastor's here and you have the Lord's Supper, that he is communicating himself to you. It truly is. And so we too are to be like Mary. We're to listen to God's word. And it's important to see, and I appreciate your worship service. It's been very encouraging. It's not Not all churches do it this way. But how preeminent the Word of God is. You know, we're all sitting, I'm sitting under the Word of God. That's how Christ exercises his lordship by his spirit as he takes the word and uh he brings some to life. You know, we we had that passage earlier about an hour is coming. An hour is coming and now is, Jesus says in John 9, John 5, where he says, the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and live. That's that's regeneration. That's at least that's regeneration. And even now, as I'm speaking, not because of me, but because of Christ and his rule at the right hand of the Father and the power of the Holy Spirit, there may be some who come to Christ today. At the church I'm currently attending, we've had two or three adult converts, which I did I don't see that every day. It's wonderful. Somebody 60 years old came to Christ and now it's like growing like a weed. And so every time we hear the word of God, we need to realize that's the power. We ask, as we you all have prayed, that God would make it effectual, that it would sanctify us and make us more like Christ, but also that it would bring in new new people to the kingdom. That by the word of the Spirit, through the preaching and reading and singing of God's word, he might bring others to Christ Himself and make them part of Christ's kingdom. And so although we don't have Jesus' presence, we have the ordained means that God has given us to meet on the Lord's day, to rest from our works. To pay pay attention to God's word, whether it's in uh morning morning worship or Bible studies or or whatever it is, that's how God is exercising. That's how Christ is exercising exercising his rule now by his spirit. And it's no small thing. You know, last week was Easter. I wasn't here for Easter. You know, much of the church celebrates the resurrection of Christ on Easter. And as we heard already, we always celebrate the resurrection. of Christ every Lord's Day. In fact, we're one week better than we were last week for those who are in Christ because we're one week closer than when we first believed. We're one week closer to Christ's coming. You know, it's not like one of those things where you see the horse and it's got a stick and the horse just keeps moving and never gets to the carrot, you know, the carrot on the stick. No, Christ is going to come. And we're in the last days, and we're closer now than we've ever been in all of history. And that's who we're looking for. And so as we go Lord's Day to Lord's Day, and as we take up his word, we're moving closer to that day. And may God grant us to hear his word and to heed it and to be conform to the image of his son. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, there are some of us who may have been a Christian for a short time, maybe a week. There are some of those in our midst who may have been a Christian for 50 or 60 or 70 years or more. More. And yet all of us need to hear your word. And so we ask, Father, that in obedience to you and your son and the Holy Spirit, that you would cause us to grow more and more. In hearing your word better and receiving it rightly and obeying it to your glory and to the that we would be conformed to the image of your Son. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.