Turn with me in your Bibles to uh first John chapter five. We'll be uh picking up pretty much where we left off. We uh covered the first five verses of uh First John, uh our last Sunday here in January. And uh picking up at verse six, we'll be reading uh first John five, verses six through eleven. And before we read, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much that you have revealed yourself to your people through your word. And Lord, just as you have inspired godly men to write the Bible, and just as your providence has sustained it throughout the ages and throughout the Preserved your word. Lord, we thank you for it. And we pray, Lord, that you would open our eyes, that we might see the wonderful things written in your law. And Lord, we pray that you might apply them to our hearts and to our minds, that we might not just look at ourselves as in a mir as in a mirror and then forget. But Lord I pray that you would transform us, that we would live differently, that we would think differently and act differently. Lord, I pray that you would accomplish this for your great glory. And for the good of your people. In Jesus' name. Amen. 1 John chapter 5, we'll read verses 6 through 11. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. Not with water only, but with w the water and with the blood. It is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify the Spirit and the Water and the Blood. And the three are in agreement. If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater. For the testimony of God is this that He has testified concerning His Son. The one who believes in The Son of God has the testimony in himself. The one who does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony of God that God has given concerning his son. Has given us eternal life. And this life is in his son. Thus ends the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. As we began our series, we did a little bit of background work. We looked at the life of the Apostle John and we looked at the situation that he was writing about. It was uh a church split and a messy one at that, where there had been a group of people who had had disagreements within the church and one group had left. Now these weren't petty disagreements. Over small things, but they were disagreements over the very person and work of Jesus Christ. And so, who better to write and to address these things than the Apostle John, he who knew Christ, he who walked with Christ? And he who leaned upon Christ. So this great apostle, one of the twelve, and even one of the three, writes to the churches to expound the work of Christ. And we saw that this epistle Is more in the Hebrew style than the Greek style, whereas Paul wrote in a very neat and orderly style and in a way that we're more comfortable and familiar with. John wrote in a perhaps we might think of it as a less organized. Organized style, but more of a Hebrew style, where again by repetition and by expounding upon certain subjects, he would bring these truths home. And now in this fifth chapter, John has begun to to summarize what he has been telling them, uh telling these Christians who uh had been involved in this in this messy church split. And in the first five verses we looked and saw that John re-emphasized to say what the love of God God is, what that means, what that looks like in our lives. And the love of God and the life of the believer is obedience to the commandments of God. And he talks about belief and the triumph of belief. Over the world. And we left off in verse five. Who is the one who overcomes the world? But he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. But John does not stop there, and he goes on to clarify in these verses that we'll be studying tonight exactly. Exactly what that is. What is the work of Christ? Where is the faith of the believer to be positive? Because this was the very subject that the church split had occurred under. So as we read verses 16. Through eleven, we see that first of all, that Jesus Christ came by water and that he was baptized. Now here, when John says that Jesus came by water and by blood, Some commentators have disagreed over this. Some saw this as a sign of, oh, these are the sacraments, with water standing for baptism and the blood standing for the Lord's Supper. But because of the Greek construction here, here, the the construction of the language here, uh a tense is used that it's only used to emphasize the completed nature of a historical event. And so it doesn't really make sense for us to say, well he came by the sacraments when the sacraments really came after Christ. Christ instituted them and he instituted them for his church. And so other commentators have suggested, well maybe he's talking about the water and blood that flowed from his side. But that doesn't really fit The context of him coming by these things. But the consensus of Reformed commentators is that the water and blood stand for both the baptism of Christ and the atoning death of Christ. And this is not a new theme for John. And as we'll see, this is these are the elements of Christ's propitiation for his people. Now that's a big word that we talked about, and we'll do a little reviewing in a little bit. But we see that Christ came by water in that he was baptized. The baptism of Christ was somewhat unique. It wasn't John's baptism of repentance, for Jesus did not need to repent of any sin. And it wasn't the Christian baptize that he commanded at the Great Commission. For again. Uh Jesus did not uh need salvation. He did not need rescuing from sin. But Jesus' baptism was unique in that it was a dedication of Christ to the sacred office of priest and Messiah. When Christ went to uh be baptized, it it's significant that he was thirty years old. And uh as we look at the Old Testament, if we look at the re requirements of a priest, we see that that was the age at which began their their ministry. And Jesus, getting ready to begin his earthly ministry, went to be baptized by John the Baptist. When he went, what did John say? He tried to prevent him, saying, No, Lord, you know, you don't need to be baptized by me, because he recognized that Christ was without sin. But what did Jesus say to John? Read in Matthew 3, he said, Permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. And then John the Baptist permitted him. Jesus, as our great high priest, was baptized to fulfill the law uh regarding the priesthood. He was thirty years old. He was set apart, sanctified to that work. Now we usually think of sanctification as the work of God instructing uh the believers uh to uh to walk more and more in the way of righteousness and to die more and more into sin. But the word itself uh really means set apart. And this was the set apart Christ to the work of the priesthood. And so Jesus Christ came as a man and he was born as a man. And at this point, he was set apart to the work to be our great high priest, to offer up of himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice and to recognize. reconcile us unto God. And so when John here says that Jesus Christ came by water, he's referring to Christ being set aside for that work of a great of our great high priest, that he would minister to the people. And that old Ultimately, he would offer up himself as a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice. Now, we also uh covered earlier, which I'll do a little bit of reviewing, uh we covered the docetist. This was the group who had left the church, who had gone off and had false ideas about Christ. And their false ideas were that Jesus Christ was not really a man, because they believed that material things were evil, and that the material world was not really connected to And so it's interesting that John uses these specific words because when he says Jesus Christ came by water, the Dostopist would be taken back, taken aback, that God would be working through material elements to bring salvation. And yet he uses this symbolism, I think, in a very pointed way, to uh to show the false ideas that the Dospaces had about the material things. And about spiritual things, that they are connected in a very real way. And that as Jesus Christ came in the flesh, he fulfilled the requirements of the law. He worked through the material things. so that he might be a propitiation of righteousness unto his people. But Jesus Christ not only came as a as a righteous sacrifice, not only was he born on the law, under the law, and Not only was he circumcised and presented at the temple, and not only did he observe the ceremonial law and the feast of the Passover, not only was he consecrated to this position as priest, as required in the Old Testament, but he also Came by blood. And we see that Jesus Christ came by blood in that he was crucified. That as he was set aside to the office of priest, and as he wanted to mediate between God and men. Then as he wanted to make atonement for the people, he offered up himself as a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice by being crucified for our sins. Now this crucifixion was not just a moral example. Some scholars uh talking about uh the universal brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God have have suggested that Jesus Christ was just a moral example and in dying this was an example of of him being ultimately selfless and humble. And that is not what the Bible says at all about the sacrifice of Christ. Nor is it a universal sacrifice where Jesus Christ dies for everybody throughout all time, with regardless of their um of their faith or ignorance. Or life or deeds. That is not what the Bible says. But what the sacrifice of Christ was, what his death of atonement did, is that it he died for the specific sins of the elect. Which require blood. The Bible tells us that the wages of sin is death. And God, in order to save a people unto himself, in order to maintain his justice, had to Punish those sins by the shedding of blood. Now, children, when you disobey your parents, what is the punishment for disobeying your parents? You get a spanking. When you disobey your parents, They punish you by thanking you. But parents and believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, what is the punishment for sinning against the holy God? It's death. And not just physical death, but everlasting death. Dead. Because God is a just God who must punish sin. The Bible says that God will not allow the guilty to go unpunished. And he cannot. So when we sin against God, when we cry Come before Him and present ourselves to Him, we must acknowledge that we come as sinners. We come as those deserving death. And there's several areas in which we've sinned. First of all, we've sinned in that we have imputed to us. Adam's transgression has been imputed to all his posterity by ordinary generation. So we are guilty in Adam. We also have the absence of original righteousness. not born like Adam was in the garden, uh but we lack that original uh knowledge of uh righteousness and holiness. We uh are guilty in the are the corruption of our whole nature. That our whole nature is sinful and fallen. And so we're guilty before God. And finally, we're guilty in that we sin. Are all those actual transgressions, as the catechism says. Bring guilt upon us, and by them we merit death. It's been uh illustrated one way to say, if you just sin three times a day, and you multiply that by the number of days Days in a year, you come up with over a thousand sins. And if you multiply it that number by your age, that's the number of transgressions that you have against God. Now I think that's a conservative estimate, but at thirty two years of age That's 32,000 sins against the Holy God. If we think about that in a courtroom setting, for there to be 32,000 counts against an individual, we can only imagine that that the that person would be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Now we can imagine that in a courtroom setting and maybe think of well maybe there's an instance where they'll escape or get off. But imagine perfect justice being applied applied to that individual. The perfect justice of God, when applied to the sins of people, equals eternal punishment. That is the punishment is eternal. Punishment. And yet, God being loving, the Bible does say that God is love. We read that in chapter 4 of this epistle. God being loving sent his Son to provide righteousness. Righteousness and to provide atonement. Christ was set aside to be a righteous sacrifice, a lamb without spot and without blemish. And for this he was baptized and set apart. And he died an atoning death on the cross, taking our sins upon himself, the specific sins of those who would believe in him, of his elect, not the whole world, not the whole universe, but his elect. upon himself, to die and to suffer the pains of hell upon the cross, that we might have new life in him. The Bible puts it this way: Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection. resurrection of the dead. And for as in Adam all die even though in Adam we're imputed with that guilt, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Paul writes in uh in Romans, that God does this, that he might be both just and the justifier. That God is both loving and just, and he doesn't si set aside the one in favor of the other. But God uh created sent Jesus Christ into the world to die for our sins and to provide righteousness, that he might be both a just God who punishes sin, and yet the justifier of his people, of his elect. And so John here emphasizes that Jesus Christ came by water and by blood, not by water only. It's not that we just needed righteousness. It's not that Christ could just impute his righteousness unto us. But By water and by blood, because we all have sin that needed to be paid for, that must be punished. And so God sent Jesus Christ by water and by blood. Now this is the same concept of propitiation, which we looked at in First John chapter two, and again in in 1 John four. And it's the Greek word propitiation, it's a very specific word, and it's a good one to know, and that's one of the reasons I wanted to kind of It's only used three times in the New Testament and it's used twice in the book of 1 John. It's used in Romans in chapter 325, where Paul uses it to describe the method of salvation that God uses. So it's really righteousness through faith by propitiation. As he writes, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation, talking about Christ, through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the The remission of sins that are past through the ferret forbearance of God. So God has sent Christ forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sin. It's describing that exchange whereby we give Christ our sins. Our sins are imputed unto Christ on the cross and punished. And his righteousness, his righteousness. Righteous life, perfect and spotless, is imputed unto us by faith alone. John uses it in chapter four to describe it as the height of love. He says, Herein is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. But this is the height and definition of what love is, for God to send his son to be the propitiation for our sins. The sacrifice for our sins. And in 1 John 2, we get another straightforward definition where John uses this word to comfort and console and also instruct. to instruct believers in what the gospel is. He writes He himself, being talking of Christ, He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Now when uh we read that verse we might be taken aback and say, well he said it of the whole world. Is he talking about all the world? It is the death of Christ that universal death? He's talking about the the whole world with Without distinction, not without exception, that people from all walks of life now, not just Jews, but Gentiles, not just Israelites, but Romans, and those from Asia and from all over the world, are now saved in Christ through the through his propitiation for his elect people. So Christ was sanctified and crucified to be a propitiation for his people, to take the sins of the elect away and to impart So when we see that John writes, he came not only by water, but he also came by blood, fulfilling those two aspects needed for a proportion. But John doesn't stop there. He mentions a threefold witness of the gospel: the water, the blood, and the spirit. And this is not a new theme to his epistle, but John also instructs. He instructs the uh these Christians who have been uh deceived and are bewildered and and worn down by this struggle with a with a group of false teachers. He instructs them about the Holy Spirit, the helper, the comforter. Comforter. And here's what he says. It is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. Here John says that it is the Spirit that is testifying to these. Things. John, even though he's speaking as an intimate disciple of Jesus Christ, he's not speaking on his own authority, but he's speaking of the Spirit and through the Spirit. We know that these words are inspired by the Spirit. And um and here John begins to show them how the Spirit operates and what it does and how it works. And he uh speaking to these people who have been deceived recently by false teachings. Now it's significant uh in the construction in the Greek that uh the spirit testifying is the the language is structured in such a way that that becomes a it's characterized. characteristic of the Spirit to testify. That's part of who the Spirit is and what the Spirit does, that he testifies. And if we look at the uh gospel of John, we see that Christ said as he was talking about the Spirit who was to come, that the Spirit would So we know that the Spirit testifies of Christ. And John sixteen fourteen he says Jesus says of the Spirit, He will glorify me. And so the Spirit is not not one to to testify uh about uh man or to g to glorify uh men or knowledge or uh or any just any old subject, but his focus is to glorify Christ. And we see that the testimony of the Spirit is emp an important witness to the verity of the gospel, to the truth of the gospel. This is especially important, again, in the context of the context in which John was writing. That to the Docetist, uh he writes this, and the Docetist had an idea of secret knowledge and a secret spiritual wisdom that had nothing to do with with earthly realities. And uh later after the Docetus, the Gnostics had an idea that the Bible was written for the masses, but they were secret teaching, that the followers and apostles of Christ secretly passed on to an elitist group and that they were that elitist group and they had a secret knowledge. And yet John here, being one of the twelve and one of the three, being in in that close proximity to Christ, he says he does doesn't speak of a secret knowledge, but he speaks of the of the Spirit testifying to these things and the s the testimony of the Spirit agreeing with the signs that were given in Christ's earthly ministry. It's not a secret spiritual wisdom. But it's material reality and the testimony of the Spirit in the earthly ministry of Christ. And this is the basis for the gospel: that the Spirit works in the hearts and minds of believers, so that they mu they might understand what Christ has done for them. You see that the character of the testimony is that the Spirit is truthful. And he says here that the Spirit is truth. Christ said this very thing to The disciples, when he was speaking to them of the Holy Spirit. Again, in the uh in the Gospel of John, he writes that the Spirit is truth. He when he talks about the helper, he calls it the Spirit of truth. And he says in John John 15, 26, that the Spirit will lead you into all truth. Now, how does the Spirit do that? But by testifying that Jesus was the Christ. He was that mediator between God and man. He was that great high. priest who offered up of himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice. He was that perfect man who was also God and who gave himself for us that we might be Reconciled to God, that we might have joy, and we might have fellowship with the Father through his Son, Jesus Christ. We know God reveals Himself to His elect through the Spirit. Spirit and through that testimony. And God is the standard of all truth, and God created man to know the truth. We know the Bible says that God cannot lie. And as we read God's testimony, we must recognize that it's greatest than man, that it's greater than uh the person and and works of man. As Paul said, May God be found true, and every man a liar. God is truth in himself. And his Spirit, who testifies to Christ, is truth. So we might ask, Well, how does the Spirit do this? How does the Spirit testify to the truth? Well, in the ministry of Christ we see the the Spirit testifying. In people's lives. During Christ's baptism, we see John the Baptist confessing what he saw and what he heard, seeing the Spirit descend upon Christ, and hearing the Father speak audibly from heaven. During Christ's death, we see the Spirit. Spirit testifying again in the testimony of the centurions. Surely this was a righteous man. You see him in this very epistle, testifying through the apostles and the inspired words of God. And Hebrews 1 tells us that in these last days, those days between the ascension of Christ and his second return, that God speaks to us through his Son and through uh the Word of God and through uh the the teaching of the apostles, we have The Word of God revealed to us. The Spirit testifies through the Word of God, which is God breathed. The Spirit testifies in the hearts and minds of believers. And in church history, as we look back, though imperfectly in the in uh the life of the world. Of believers and in the history of the church, we see the Spirit of God working to preserve the Church of God. John says in 1 John 5, who you believes has the witness in himself. Believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, do you know that the Holy Spirit dwells within you? That your bodies are a temple of the Holy Spirit. Paul tells the Corinthians this, even though that they were embroiled in immorality, and embroiled In conflict. Paul writes to them and says, Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit dwells within us and testifies to our hearts and to our minds. But again How does the Holy Spirit do that? How does the Holy Spirit testify to our hearts and to our minds? And I think there are several ways that we can see the testimony of the Holy Spirit as we read the Word of God and are convicted Of uh of different things, of s of our sin, of God's righteousness and our need to uh to serve Him and to please Him. As we see our fallen nature and as we repent in Christ and as we come before him to seek to to love him, how we might serve him, because he has loved us, the Holy Spirit works to testify what God would have us to do, to testify who God is and what he has done. When we are praying, the Spirit oftentimes brings thoughts to our mind, items of repentance, items of supplication. And the Holy Spirit testifies in our hearts about, again, who we are. before God and who God is and what he would have us to do. When we're fellowshipping with other believers, the Spirit of God often works uh and as iron sharpens iron, so we sharpen each other and our knowledge of God. And uh encourage one another in works of of love and and service to him and to one another. And of one way that he does this, uh ironing sharping ironing often causes conflict. And believers often um are called to rebuke one another for ways that they are are not serving God, are not loving God, are not loving one another. And the Spirit works even in the midst of a rebuke. To testify to the will of God for his elect people. Well, by way of application, let me just ask you who are here, especially You covenant children, you who have grown up in the church and and know the name of Christ, know some of the Bible. His atoning death alone. Do you know Jesus Christ? in a saving way to be saved from your sins. You who have heard the name of Christ named, do you know him? Do you love him? And do you serve him? Now uh I know many of you well and uh rejoice at your faith. And let me ask you who know Jesus Christ, who are resting in Him alone for your salvation, who are trusting in His righteousness and in His death. Death. Are you aware of the presence of the Spirit in your life? And are you seeking to cultivate it and to submit yourself to His Holy Spirit? It's been said of the Holy Spirit that when he is resisted, that He becomes quiet. But when we submit ourselves to him, he grows strong and visible. I would just ask you, are are you resisting the Holy Spirit in your life? Or are you submitting yourself to him? Is your attitude that of David in in Psalm 139, when he says, Search me, O God, and know my faults. Know me, and lead me in the way everlasting? Or are you resisting The testimony of the Holy Spirit. Are you hardening your heart against sins that are present in your life? We said that the piece of marble that Michael Angel. Michelangelo used to create the statue David was flawed and uh passed over by other sculptors. But when Michelangelo saw it, he began working and he chipped away little bits and pieces until there was a massive. Masterpiece. And that's somewhat how the Spirit works in our hearts. Even though we are flawed, he begins tipping away and creating a new creature in Christ. As we We saw this morning here. We take vows as members of of uh this church and and other uh PCA churches, and the vow we take is you now resolve and promise in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit that you will enjoy. Endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ. Are you doing that? Are you relying on the Holy Spirit to live a life worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Do you do this? out of love for God, because He has saved you. Because He has come and been set aside as a righteous sacrifice. And because He has died an atoning death for the sins of His elect. Do you realize how much he loves you? It's been said in in the Christian life that pride is that sin um that is extremely powerful and whereas other sins have killed their s their thousands, pride has killed It's tens of thousands. Well the anecdote to pride is realizing how sinful we are and how much we deserve to undergo the suffering that Christ went. Underwent on our behalf. To realize that we deserve to be tortured for all eternity in hell because what we have done. And yet Christ, who loved us, gave himself to be that sacrifice. To suffer the pains of hell for us on the cross. Who can stand in pride knowing that we have uh sinned against the Holy God? That we have sinned in such a way that we deserve eternal punishment, and yet have been saved by no merit of our own, but by the merit of Jesus Christ, by his righteous life, and by his atoning death. May God grant us grace To understand this truth and to be transformed by it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. And Lord, we do pray that you would grant your grace, Lord, that you You might hide it in our hearts, and that you might transform us, that you would restrain us from sin, and that you would empower us to go forth in love for you and love for one another. Lord, I pray that you would uh be with our thoughts this night and this week, Lord, that as we um end this Sabbath day of rest, that we might end it knowing, Lord, that you have loved us. Loved your people, and that you have provided for our sin, and Lord, that you call us to walk in holiness, and that you have equipped us with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, as we begin our days tomorrow, as we begin In our work week, I pray that we would not forget these things, but that we would go to our various callings armed with this knowledge that we have been loved by a holy God, that our sins have Been paid for by our great high priest, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And that we have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us to testify, the Spirit of truth, who will lead us into all truth. Within us, Lord, that we might know the message that you have sent to us, that you have given us eternal life, and that this life is in your Son, Jesus Christ. We pray all these things in His name.