Mark chapter four and we'll read verse one and then we'll read verses thirty-five through forty-one. Let's stand in reverence for God's Word and read Mark chapter four. Verse 1 and then 35 through 41. Mark chapter 4, verse 1. And he began to teach again by the sea. And such a very great multitude gathered to him that he got into a boat in the sea and sat down And the whole multitude was by the sea on the land. And then in verse 35. And on that day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us go over to the other side. And leaving the multitude they took him along with them, just as he was in the boat, and other boats were with him. And there arose a fierce gale of wind, and the great and the waves were breaking over the boat, so much that the boat was already filling up. And he himself was in the stern, asleep on the cushion. And they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And being aroused, he rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Hush, be still. And the wind died down. It became perfectly calm. And he said to them, Why are you so timid? How is it that you have no faith? And they became very much afraid, and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? Thus ends the reading of God's holy inerrant word. Please remain standing for prayer. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would bless now your word. We pray that you would send your Holy Spirit to illumine our hearts and our minds, that we might understand the things that we read, and that we might hide these things in our heart, that we might not sin against you. Lord, I pray that you would feed us like that tree described in Psalm 92. Lord, grant us strength and vigor that we might glorify and enjoy you with all that we are and all that you have given us. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. It's been said that life is what happens when we're waiting for other things to come along And how true it is that the little day-to-day things, the activities that are seem small and insignificant, often form the strongest fabric of our life And it's in these little things that we encounter our greatest joys and face our greatest trials. We often focus on the millstones, milestones of life. Not millstones. Milestones of life, those big things, whether it be graduating from high school or college or getting a job or getting married and having children. Maybe it's something at work, a project we're working on, where we look from one milestone to the next. But oftentimes it's in those in-between times. The small day-to-day that we experience joys and trials that test us and become spiritual milestones. Such is the case for our passage today. On the surface, it's an everyday scene, something that happened time and time again in the life of the disciples. Jesus had finished teaching, and as was his custom, he was moving from one town to the next. But in this day-to-day scene, in this mundane moment, there arose a great test of the disciples' faith. And it became a spiritual milestone for their knowledge of Christ and for their trust in Him. In these verses, Jesus reveals the power of His deity by a supernatural sign. Confirming his word and rebuking the unbelief of his disciples. And we'll divide this passage up by uh the the the use of the word great. Mark uses it three times in in these verses. A great storm. A great calm and a great fear. Well, first of all, a great storm that tested the disciples' faith We see in these verses the coming of the storm. We read in verse 1 that Jesus was teaching in this area and the crowd pressed again against him so much that he got into a boat. And set off from the shore a little bit, and the people were on the on the beach, and so he taught them that way, from morning until evening. And here, as evening comes, Jesus has given the order to head out, to head to the next town. And so the text tells us that the disciples took him. with him, took Jesus with him just as he was. He was in the boat teaching, and they just pulled up anchor and began to head across the lake. And uh one thing about the lake of uh the Sea of Galilee, as it was called, it's about six to seven hundred feet below sea level. And children, if you have learned about the weather in your science class or how rain happens, you know that when um air gets warm, it it causes water to evaporate. Well in this area over the lake there was warm air, but this lake was surrounded by mountains, which is very cold air. And on the western side there are valleys, which which tend to join the cool air and the warm air. And if you've learned about tornadoes, you know that warm air and cool air coming together often ca cause this kind of storm, whether there's there's a whirlwind, there's a tornado, or there's this great upheaval. And this was the geographic situation of the storm. That it came very suddenly, and it was a very severe storm. It came suddenly, and we know this from the text because uh Jesus wouldn't have been able to teach um at the beach if uh if the storm was raging or if the the sea was rough, most likely it was a calm surf. And Jesus was able to project over that and even have some amplification from the mountains behind him. We also know that if the sea was rough, the disciples wouldn't have set out in such weather. Just as uh your air flight your flight might get canceled because of bad weather. Uh back in these days when the sea was rough, when a storm was coming, they would just not travel. But they saw no problem with traveling, and so we know that at the beginning of the passage the storm wasn't imminent. And yet the storm came quickly. And it was not only a a quick and sudden storm, but it was very severe. It's almost as if uh the disciples were involved in uh uh a hit and run. If you've ever been in a car accident, your mind is is not focused on watching for a car accident constantly in the car, but oftentimes you're focused on your destination. And you might think to yourself, well, I I need to go to the store, I need to go here or there. And all of a sudden out of nowhere, you get hit by a car. And that everyday situation suddenly is one where you your car is in trouble and you're in trouble, and there's destruction all around you. Well, in the same way, the disciples were heading from one town to the next, as they often did, in a boat, and they were struck by a severe storm. Now, there's three words that describe the storm in the original. The first one is the word for squall or tempest, and it has the implication of high winds. Some translators even render it whirlwind. And then the other two words are wind and great. Now what the writer here is doing, Mark, is piling up terms to show us the greatness of the storm. He's showing us that not only was it a tempest, not only was there wind, but it was a great storm with much wind. And so as he writes, he He emphasizes the seriousness of the storm. Just to pause and make application. If we follow Christ, If you tonight are trusting in him and seeking to do his will, there will be trials and temptations that are severe. That seemed to come from nowhere. The disciples were not sinning against God, they were doing Jesus' will and God the Father's will. And yet they were hit by this sudden trial, this sudden tempest. that tried their faith. And this that the uh we also see the testing of this storm that it did test them in a way that that uh that other things couldn't because they weren't expecting it. And uh in this testing aspect of the storm, we see the the perfect example in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. If we look at him in this passage, we see that in here as in all things, he does all things well. That he had been worn out from teaching from morning until evening. He was about the Father's work vigorously. That he was now redeeming the time between one town and the next, sleeping on a cushion. And he had not uh sought to get away or take a break between one town, but as soon as he was finished in one town, he he had said, Let's go across the lake to the next town. He was trusting in his father, even when he was entirely worn out. What a great picture of your incarnation that is. Jesus was so tired that he didn't wake up for the wind and the waves and the water filling the boat. He was fully man. And he was obeying his father and doing his work and resting in him even in the midst of this great storm. But then we see the sinful performance of the disciples. When they came to Jesus, they found him sleeping. Now, they were busy trying to save the ship, and they were definitely not calm. Husbands, if you've uh been doing work yourself and expecting help from your family and and looked and found them sleeping, you would not be too pleased with them. And wise, if if you're upset and you're not calm and and you go to your your husband for help and uh and he is calm, uh you would probably not be too pleased with him. When the disciples came and they found Jesus sleeping, when they were seeing all this destruction around them and trying vigorously to save the ship, they were not trusting him. They were not pleased with him. If you've ever been on a ropes course and done a trust ball, it's an exercise where they put you on a platform about usually about five or six feet tall. And they ask you to to put your hands on your shoulders and then to fall back off of that platform. Now if you did that with nothing below you, you would uh sustain serious injury as you hit the ground with a thud. But they have other people line up and put their hands and crisscross them so it forms a cushioning bed for you. And yet, even with that cushioning bed, a lot of people are hesitant. To fall back even into the arms of their friends and their fellow team members The disciples, when they faced this test, did not rest in Christ. They did not trust him. Though he was their Lord, though he was their teacher, they did not trust him. And that becomes evident in their words. They come to him and they say, Lord, do you not care that we're perishing? And in the Greek, again, uh there's Uh uh it's accentuated. That's the verb is impersonal. And uh there's there's a a sense of coldness of speech, a detachedness, where they don't say, do you not care? They they say, is it not a care that we're perishing to you? So they're very cold in their speech, and they don't come to him with a petition. You know, in one sense we could say, well, it's good. The disciples went to Jesus. But they didn't go with a petition. They went with an accusation. You don't care about us. We're dying. And you're sleeping. Now, there's great irony in their words. Because with when we look at who Jesus was and what he was doing, He was God who had become man, who had been humiliated from them for them. He'd been made as a man, made under the law, and that in a low condition. That he was undergoing all the miseries of a sinful world, though he himself was not sinful. That he was teaching and preaching, not only just the people and the general public, but especially his disciples. He was teaching them. And they accused him of not caring. And if you think about where Jesus' life was going, he was hastening on at this very moment towards the cross where he would give his life. and suffer the eternal pains of hell on the cross for their sins. And they dared to accuse him. Do you not care for us? Do you not care if we die? How ironic that they would accuse him of this very thing When Jesus came into the world and lived a perfect life as a man, and was to die an atoning death for the sins of his people because he loved them and cared for them so much. The disciples forgot about the loving and caring Savior that they had right with them in the midst of the boat. They did not trust him. Now it's easy for us to do this when we're in the midst of a trial. To think that God does not know our situation, to think that God is not able to help us. To think that God does not care about his people. And it can it's it can seem that way, and yet we know from the truths of Scripture. And we know more than anything else from the example of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ that He loves us and that He cares for us because He gave His life for us on the cross. cross to save us from our sins and to gain for us an eternity in heaven with him We see the testing of the great storm. And next in the text, we see the great calm as a sign of Jesus' power and authority as God. He speaks to the story, first of all, Jesus rebukes the wind and the waves, and then in a moment he'll rebuke his disciples. Jesus rebukes the wind and the waves, and he says to them, peace, or be calm. And then he says, be quiet. Or be muzzled is the actual literal translation. This is a word that he used in chapter 1 when he was rebuking a demon who had just identified him. He said, be muzzled, be quiet. And we read that immediately the wind and the waves ceased. And we get something unique in this uh in this miracle in the book of Mark that Mark tells us not only did the wind and the waves cease, Not only did the disciples make it out of the storm, but Mark tells us that there was a great calm. The word here could be translated tranquility. That not only was there a cessation of the chaos and destruction of the great storm, but there was a peace and a calm, a tranquility that Jesus brought in his rebuke of the wind and the waves. Now, a good analogy to this text, or an analogy that we find in Scripture, is the situation of Jonah, where Jonah was in a boat in the midst of a storm. That was stilled. And yet we find great distinctions here as well. Jonah was rebellious in his running away from God, whereas Jesus was pursuing perfectly the will of his Father. Jonah was sleeping because his conscience was hardened toward God, whereas Jesus had a perfect trust in God the Father. Jonah was slow to act. Um when he was uh woken up and confronted and saying, Come and help us, he didn't tell the people who he was or why the storm was was brewing, though he he most certainly must have known. They had to cast lots to find out that Jonah was the reason. And even then they had to corner him and charge him, say, Tell us who you are, before he told them that he was a prophet, running from Almighty God. And yet Jesus was quick to act. The text says that he awoke and he rebuked. That he was quick. To act for his disciples. Jonah was thrown overboard by the sailors at his direction And Jesus offered up of himself. He didn't have to throw himself overboard to spill the wind and the waves because he had the power over them as Almighty God And yet we know that on the cross Jesus would give the sign of Jonah. Matthew 12, 40 says, For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, So will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. There's parallels to this miracle, in that we see that the power of Almighty God. And just as Jesus resting on the cushion in the midst of the storm, worn out, is a great picture of him as a man. So the calming of the storm and his power as Almighty God to rebuke the wind and the waves. Is a great picture of him as Almighty God. The purpose of this miracle is to testify to the deity of Jesus, to his office as the Messiah, and his ability to forgive sins. As when he healed the paralytic. He said, which is easier to say: get up and walk, or your sins are forgiven you. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to do both. Then he turned the perelic and said, I say to you, get up and walk. And so here Jesus is displaying his power as Almighty God. And Displaying his power as he who is able to forgive the sins of his people. Well, after Jesus rebuked the wind and the waves, then he turned and rebukes his disciples. And he says to them, Why are you timid? Why are you so cowardly is a synonym here. Or why are you so afraid? And yet Jesus was gentle even in his rebuke. He did not take a personal offense and defend himself from their accusation. He doesn't hold on to a personal wrong, but he immediately addresses the disciples' fear. And the disciples' lack of faith. He says here, Have you still no faith? Now he's using hyperbole. We know Matthew and Luke give the account of Jesus saying, O ye of little faith. It's not that they were unbelievers, but Jesus was using hyperbole because their faith was weak. Their faith did not carry them through the storm. And it's true, believers, that there can be those who are saved indeed, but are very weak in their faith. It's almost as if their faith does them no good. There are those, as the scripture says, who are saved as through fire. That they're saved and that's it. Get an example of this in the person of Lot in the Old Testament. Lot was Abraham's nephew. He traveled with Abraham. He had close association with him. And yet if he had a horrible life. He left no testimony of anything good behind him, and he left a wicked posterity And really the only way that we know that Lot was saved is because the New Testament makes a comment about it. In 2 Peter 2, verses 7 and 8, it calls Lot a righteous man. And it tells us that when he was in Sodom, that his soul was grieved by all that was going on around him. Yet Lot was weak in his faith. Are we weak in our faith tonight? Have we put our hope and trust in Christ for salvation, but little else? When you die, will you be saved, but as though through fire? Are you working to perfect holiness? Out of the love for God in every area of life, not just on Sundays, but on Mondays and Tuesdays and Wednesdays and all throughout the week, are we giving every area of our life? To the Lordship of our Savior Jesus Christ, that he might reign in each of them. Are we feeding our faith as we should be? The disciples failed their tests, and Jesus rebukes them for their lack of faith. And he puts his finger right on their problem. He doesn't say rebuke them for being unkind to him. Or ungentle. That he doesn't rebuke them for any other reason, but their lack of faith. And there are several reasons why the disciples should have had faith. They had just heard the kingdom parables. Those parables that Jesus told in chapter 4: the parable of the sower, the parable of the mustard seed, the parable of uh the field sown. Where the seed grows up, and the man who sowed the field doesn't even know how. But it does. It grows because of the power in it. It's a powerful picture of the kingdom of God and the spread of the gospel. The disciples had just heard these things from the Lord's own mouth, and yet they had no faith. They had no trust in Jesus. The Lord himself was with them in the boat. They saw him sleeping. They should have seen here's a situation that I'm upset upset in. Is Jesus upset? No, he's not upset. He's our guide and example, so I guess I shouldn't be upset. No. They had all these things, all these reasons to trust, and yet they had no faith. Why did they not remember these things? Why did they not remember the promises that Jesus had told them about the kingdom? Why did they not trust in him? Why do we not trust in him in every area of life? Why does all of our scriptural knowledge and experience seem to go out the window when we hit a trial or in a in a difficulty in life? The simple answer is because our faith is weak, like the disciples. Because oftentimes we don't really believe what we say we believe. We don't really know Christ experientially. Oftentimes, though we know the facts of a thing, though we mentally assent to biblical truths, we don't trust God. And when we face trials, that comes out. When we face trials, it's easy to think that God doesn't care, or that He doesn't see, or that He doesn't love us. But God often sends trials. To strengthen our faith, because he loves us, to draw us back to himself, to fix all eyes upon him and to wean us away from the things of this world which so easily distract us because he loves us. Thirdly, in our text we see a great fear, and we read this in the in the concluding verses, that After Jesus rebukes them in verse 41, they became very much afraid and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and sea obey him? And the Greek, the literal translation is, they feared a great fear. And whenever a verb and a noun of the same kind is used like that, it's a great emphasis that they were terrified. They were more afraid of Jesus than they were of the wind and the waves and the great storm. Now, you might say, well, why were they afraid of Jesus? He was just a man. We tend to anchor our understanding of our life and of this world on natural terms, on our natural experience. But when we encounter the supernatural, All of our worldly wisdom turns to stupidity. And all of our security in material things and our understanding of the word world from our experience is turned upside down. Sinclair Ferguson, who's a great Scottish preacher, said that oftentimes the tendency with this passage is to spiritualize it and to say, well, if you trust in Jesus, he'll calm the seas of your heart. But that's not what happened in the passage. When the seas were calm, there was a storm in their hearts, and they were greatly afraid because they realized that they were in the presence. Of Jesus Christ, who was fully man and yet fully God at the same time. This sign gripped their hearts in a way that nothing before had. What is more terrifying than a deadly storm at sea? He who can kill both body and soul in hell. These are from the words of Christ in Luke chapter 12, verse 4. He says, I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. But I will warn you whom you shall fear. Fear him who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. And yet their response is not unique when man encounters God. We can consider Isaiah, when he encountered God, he fell on his face and confessed, I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips. As great a power as this natural storm was, Jesus' supernatural power was all the greater. And it touched their hearts, so that they feared him with great fear. Men often welcome natural destruction. Above supernatural presence. You can see this in unbelievers, those who do not know God and who do not want to know God, and who are scared to talk about spiritual things. Because they know the truth, but they have suppressed that truth. They feared a great fear, and they wondered at his person They ask the question, who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? Which is, in a sense, a rhetorical question. And it fits in with the theme of Mark's gospel Mark's gospel is 16 chapters, and the first eight concentrate on who Jesus is. And we get questions like this. Who is this who teaches with authority at Jesus' teaching? Who is this who even forgives sins as he forgives the sins of the paralytic man? Who is this who casts out demons? Who is this who makes the lame to walk? Who is this that even the wind and the seas obey him? And the answers come back. He is God. He is God. He is God. Only God could have that kind of power. We read in Psalm 65, verse 5, By awesome deeds you answer us with righteousness, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas. The one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might, he who stills the roaring of the seas and the roaring of the waves, the tumult of the peoples. Here the psalmist in praising God says that God is the one who can still the seas and calm the waves. And the disciples would have recognized this, that they were in the presence of no one less than Almighty God. There will be trials and afflictions that come to us out of nowhere. Let us be prepared for them. But we must not wait to be prepared. Some here are are making a mental note of this and thinking, well, if I ever get into trial, I'll remember to uh to look to Jesus and trust in him then. But have no intention of living any different right now or or tomorrow even. If you do so, if that is your train of thought, you will not be ready for trials when they come. No, the disciples failed in their trial because their faith was weak. Because they had not been putting their trust in Christ. Because they they did not believe that He was the Messiah. As they should have. And if we are to be ready for trials, we must use the means to strengthen our faith. The word in prayer, to know the Savior. And not just know him in an abstract way, but to know him. personally, to know his power, to know his strength, to know his love for us and his will for our lives, to remember past faithfulness. Remember the promises that He's given for the present, and to look to the future of an eternity with Him. We must practice doing these things. Just as if you play a sport or if you have been involved in military exercises, those are things that you can't just pick up and expect to do well at. If you handed a novice a football and put him on the playing field of an NFL football game, he would get clobbered. And it's the same way with our faith. That we can't pretend that we don't know the Savior until we're in trouble and expect to have strong faith at uh at a moment's notice. No, it's only in knowing Christ, in trusting him, and cultivating that deep experiential knowledge of him. That we will be ready for the trials and storms that come to us. Let us take the rebuke of Christ to his disciples to hearts and be strengthened in our faith, that we might trust him. That we might trust them with all we are, that we might prepare for trials, for they will come. That when storms come we might fix our eyes upon Christ, that we might remember his promises. And look beyond them to him who promised. He has power over all things. He has power to still the wind and the waves. He has supernatural power to do all things and to forgive us of our sins. May His power and presence touch and transform our hearts in Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray