Today we have the privilege, well excuse me, as uh as you know, our pastor is uh away in Charleston uh for uh this weekend. And so we have the privilege of having Andy Pickens come and preach to us. Andy is the assistant pastor at Shady Grove, thank you. Um and uh he and his wife Kathy uh are uh preparing to be MTW missionaries to Ireland and they hope to go uh at uh the beginning of next year. Um and so Andy, thank you very much uh for uh preaching to us today Oh, yeah, I'm saying are you coming back up for that? Or is that a yes, okay. Well good morning. It's it's wonderful to be with you all again. It's uh it it's great to see you. And uh it's a privilege to be here to worship our God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, with you. If you would turn with me in your Bibles to Philippians, we're going to be looking at chapter 1 Starting in verse 12, and actually we'll read through through verse 26 this morning. Philippians, as you know, is a letter that Paul had written when he was in prison. And the church of Philippi, he had actually visited three times in his journey. He had um he had been there to um first of all established the church, but had been back two more times since to continue to strengthen and and encourage this church. This church that was very dear to Paul. And now he's writing this letter to them from prison to encourage them in the midst of increasing persecution and opposition to the gospel. So thus let's turn our attention now to God's Word. This is Philippians chapter 1, verses 12 through 26. I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel, so that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard, and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaim Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice, for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed. But that with full courage now, as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which shall I choose? I cannot tell. I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith, so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus. Because of my coming to you again. This is the word of God. Would you pray with would you pray with me? Father, we come to you this morning and we come looking to you and to your word. If we were to come just to simply hear the thoughts of a man, that would be A silly way to spend this time this morning. But we come to you, the God of the universe, who has spoken in your word. And so we ask that you would send your Holy Spirit to be within our hearts, our minds, to cause us to see your word, to understand it, to delight in it. And to submit to it joyfully. And we ask all this for the honor and glory of Christ Jesus in his name. Amen. I'd like to tell you about a missionary this morning. This particular missionary, I suppose if we were to rank missionary somehow, would probably rank within the top ten of most of our list. Whether it's by ho how do you measure it? Whether it's by new churches that he started, or by new countries that he had taken the gospel to, or by the number of people who could somehow perhaps trace their spiritual ancestry to him. over the years. He's been in hostile lands, he's been forced out, he's had to leave before he had planned to, but nonetheless, in most cases, being able to get a small church planted before he was run out of the country. He's also had the chance to speak to government leaders, to business leaders, and take the gospel of Christ in places where the average person would not expect to have any access or any influence. This fellow, he's been to countries where there was a a very strong false religion already in place. And he's met with the leaders of those false religions, debated with them. Shown the emptiness of those false false gods, those false religions that they hold to, and exalt Jesus Christ as the only one who can save man. If there was ever a missionary, you know, that you would pray for, that you would get behind, that you would want to encourage, that perhaps that you're able to even support, this sounds like the type of guy you'd support, wouldn't it? Of course, many of you have already figured out by now that the person I'm talking about is the Apostle Paul himself. In fact, Paul is it had gone on one one additional mission. He had gone to r to Rome itself, to the heart of the Roman Empire. And he had been sent there to, again, to take the gospel of Christ, to start a church. If anybody was the right person to send, it would have been Paul. But this particular journey hadn't gone quite the way the others had. Instead of going through the country and starting churches as before, Paul comes to Rome and he goes before Caesar himself and finds himself under house arrest. And Paul's now at the point where, you know, like like any good missionary, he's going to write letters to those who have been praying for him, to those who are who are looking to see what God's going to do do to them and to and to tell them how the work is going. Now, if you were Paul, you might think this would be a pretty discouraging letter to write Not only that, but you know, if you were Paul, you'd be thinking about the people who are going to receive it. And we we all love to hear our our prayers answered as we're praying for missionaries as we As we pray for the fields where they're laboring, but this prayer isn't being answered the way that that we would think, the way that his supporters would think. And hearing this could discourage them. Not thinking about his own support necessarily, but thinking about how could their faith be strengthened in this letter? Yet in the text we've read this morning, we don't see despair. We don't see hopelessness. We don't see doubt. But instead what we see is strong faith, great joy, a vibrant hope. And why is that? It's because what was at the center of Paul's thoughts, of his mind constantly, was to see the abundant glory of the grace of Jesus Christ magnified through all things and having him become our abundant joy. And the way that that happens is through abounding living faith in Christ alone It's by faith, of course, that we receive and rest upon Christ for our salvation. Look forward a page in your Bibles to chapter 3, verse 8. Starting the second half of the verse, we see, For his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Well, how does that happen? Read on. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ. The righteousness from God that depends on faith. See, faith is the instrument by which we're brought to Christ. It's the instrument that causes us to recognize That God's commands are good and reasonable and just, coming from a God who is infinitely, eternally, and unchangeably good and true and holy. It's faith that causes us to recognize. Once God has given us this heart that is able to reach to Him, it is the faith that He gives to us that causes us to recognize That we have violated those commands time and time and time again, and that we stand under his righteous judgment. It's by faith that we look to Jesus as our only Redeemer. God Himself taking on human flesh, living a perfect, a sinless life, dying on the cross in our place, bearing our sins, bearing our penalty. But also having conquered Satan, having conquered the power of sin, and indeed having conquered death itself, he rose again from the grave. It's by faith that we rest upon him, upon his accomplished work for our salvation. Therefore, faith is the instrument by which we are counted or reckoned as righteous. Not that we have a righteousness of ourselves, but rather the righteousness of Christ Himself. See, faith isn't the basis of our salvation. The basis of our salvation is Jesus Christ alone. In fact, that faith comes to us not from ourselves, but the Bible tells us that faith is even a gift of God. Lest no man that should boast that He has given us that faith, He has given us new hearts, to trust in Christ, and He has decreed that from all eternity. All the glory goes to God alone. But faith is the instrument, the tool of our salvation. Or, as Paul says here, our righteousness from God depends on faith in Jesus Christ. But you know, faith doesn't stop there. Faith continues throughout all of our lives as Christians. Keep reading in Philippians 3. He says, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I might attain the resurrection of the dead. See, faith is not only the the instrument of our coming to Christ But it is also the instrument of our continuing growth of Christ, the transforming of our minds, the offering of our lives as a spiritual sacrifice to God, which is our reasonable service of worship. Galatians 5, 5-6 tells us that through the Spirit, by faith, we eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. See, our hope is built upon faith also. For in Christ Jesus, the Bible goes on, it says, Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision, that is, the keeping of ceremonial laws, counts for anything. But faith working through love. You know, faith doesn't stop the moment that we believe in Christ. If they stop there, one of two things might happen. First, we might begin to see our salvation as a gift, that somehow we need to pay it back. And therefore, we fall back upon good works as a means to try to continue to commend us to God. John Piper wrote, and he called that the debtor's ethic. He says there's an impulse in the fallen human heart, all of our hearts, to forget that gratitude is a spontaneous response of joy to receiving something over and above what we paid for. And when we forget this, what happens is that gratitude starts to be missed and distorted as an impulse to pay for something that had come to us, gratis. I think he's on to something important here. You know, gratitude, thanksgiving to God for what he's done should flow from our hearts, it should flow from all of our lives, it should flow from the core of our beings. But gratitude can't lead to the idea that now that God has done this for me, I have to do this for Him. Rather, our obedience to him should flow out of delight in him, of what he is, of who he is, of what he's done, of faith that his word is true, that his promises are true, and therefore we delight in them. We can't pay God back for our salvation. In the first place, the debt's way too great to begin with. But secondly, that would take away from what Christ has done. It would take away from his grace, from his glory. Thinking that somehow we can pay it back is simply sinful pride. But we might fall into the other sin as well. Might say, okay, I can't I know I can't pay his grace back. I know that my good works don't continue to commend me to God. that it doesn't earn any more of his favor, that that is showered upon me by solely by his grace and mercy in Christ, and therefore might fall into the other camp. and say, okay, well it really doesn't matter how I live now. You kind of crassly think, you know, Jesus has got my back and I don't really need to seek him beyond that. I had that initial moment of faith where I placed my trust in him. And but I don't need to spend time with him in prayer. I don't need to spend time in the Word anymore. I don't need to follow his commands because I have that faith that he saved me. But doesn't Jesus himself tell us in John 15 that whoever abides in me and I in him bears much fruit? He goes on to say, he says, by this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. Failing to be fruitful, that is, growing in holiness before and glorifying God, that would show that that initial faith was simply a dead faith. Well then how do we grow? Jesus goes on to tell us, as the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. Or as we read in Galatians, it's faith working through love. You see, that's the means by which we continue to grow in Christ by which we share in his sufferings, by which we rejoice in all things. We grow more and more in holiness. To rest upon his promises, to see his commands is not burdensome. But to delight in them, and thus to become more and more those who proclaim the gospel of Christ, the power of Christ in our lives, in our words, all to his glory and praise. See, Paul's faith in Christ was not dependent upon circumstances. And in fact, it isn't even in spite of his circumstances. Rather, it transcends them, it rises above them, it triumphs through them. And he says, in fact, three times in this text, much more, look at verse 12, he says, much more has the gospel advanced. In verse 14, much more others have courage to proclaim the gospel. In verse 23, it is much more better to be in Christ. We see this abounding faith in Paul's life. And there are four examples that we see in this text this morning of how this type of abounding faith, this living faith, works in our life. To even turn our circumstances upside down and allow us to see the glory of Christ and to focus on Him and delight in Him. The first is through suffering. Paul's been under arrest for two years at this point, and it's not being simply locked up in his own personal residence. You know, that might be somewhat inconvenient, but at least he'd have all the luxuries of home. But that's not the case. He's in a very small, tiny apartment. You know, squirreled away somewhere in the heart of Rome. It wasn't easy to find and might be somewhat similar to say a tenement housing type of situation that we would see today. We know that it that it was hard to find. 2 Timothy 1. 16 tells us that Onociparus had to search diligently just in order to find him. You know, so it wasn't though that there's this big neon sign saying, you know, here's Paul's lodging, you know, come here, hear the gospel, come here for your encouragement, for your training, for your teaching. That wasn't there. He was pretty much hidden away. And at all times he was chained to one of the elite soldiers of the Roman army, the Praetorian Guard. You know, the chain that it that he had wasn't very long, it's perhaps a yard long or so. Imagine yourself in that place. You know, chained to one of the best soldiers of the army, no hope for escape. If you were to try to escape, you'd be beaten severely, or perhaps even killed. No privacy at all. But yet, that didn't hinder the spread of the gospel in the least. Instead, it resulted in much more abundant pouring out of the grace of Christ. Well, how did that happen? Well, in the first place, Paul had a captive audience, didn't he? He had a soldier who was chained to him. And as Paul would sit there, he'd strike up a conversation with that soldier. Soldier would see him reading, would see him worshiping and praising. The soldier would have ample opportunity to talk to Paul, and Paul would have ample opportunity to talk to him. And then as those soldiers would rotate out, You know, they'd go back to the guard, the rest of the guard, and say, you know, one of two things. Some, to be sure, would you know were still lost in their sins and would co go back and say You wouldn't believe this guy that I've been chained to for the last you know for the last day or so. I mean just wait until you have your turn. He's gonna talk your ear off But others, God would use Paul to touch, he'd use Paul's words, and God would give them new hearts, God would bring them to Christ, and these soldiers would go back. And they'd say, you wouldn't believe what has just happened. I've heard of the grace of Christ. And they would go through the royal palace You know, as these were Caesar's guards, they they make their way throughout the whole palace, and therefore all of Caesar's household began to hear of the gospel. This was something that that Paul in his wildest screams in and of himself couldn't imagine happening. But yet God, in his sovereign grace, ordained that Paul would be captive there, so that even the most powerful nation on earth would have the gospel proclaimed through their household. Not only that, but as other believers in Rome heard of that, they themselves were emboldened. They themselves were strengthened. To go out. So now it's not just one Paul. Now it's a small cadre of Pauls who are going out, proclaiming the gospel throughout all of Rome. Far more than we would expect in our own human plans. Now, even though our own personal plans don't always come to fruition, we can delight in the sovereign rule of Christ over all things. And when we understand that, then we know that God indeed does work all things for the good of those who love him, to those who are the called according to his purposes. Our view shifts from woe is me to great is the Lord. I'm sure most of you have heard the story of Jim and Elizabeth Elliott. You know, Jim had just finished Bible college and had been called to to go out with several other missionary families to take the gospel. into uh into the deepest parts of South America to the Auckland Indian tribe. The team set up in a base camp and they would fly over and they would would deliver gifts And particularly they had managed to befriend this name named Nayan Kiwi. And over time they thought they had developed enough trust that they made plans to visit the Auckland village. Now the Alkins were a primitive people, they were a very violent people, and what uh Jim Elliott and his fellow missionaries didn't understand is that named Kiwi had come had gone back to the village and told lies about what they were getting ready to do. And thus when they landed they were ambushed and killed. That isn't the end of the story. Because the deaths of Jim Elliott and the other missionaries have inspired countless other Christians to go and serve in missions. And even more people to look to look and to be engaged with missions in prayer, in short-term trips, in financial support, in sacrifice All that happening through through that one act. You know, that act that we look at and would say, that didn't happen at all the way that it was planned. But nonetheless, God in His sovereign will nonetheless ordained it and has brought far more good through it. Even the son of the plane's pilot who was killed, Steve Saint, some of you have probably seen the movie The End of the Sphere. It talks about how Steve went back. Years later, taking the gospel again to that tribe. And this time, God redeemed many within that tribe. And Steve Saint himself was reconciled. With one of the men who killed his father. Second, abounding faith in Christ causes us to delight in him even when others delight in our failures. Look at verses 15 through 18. Through Paul's imprisonment, many believers in Rome were emboldened to speak, but not all of them had the best of motives, did they? Many did so, many proclaimed Christ out of love for him, out of desire to see the gospel go forward. But there were some nonetheless. Who did so out of envy, who did so out of strife, thinking that somehow they were going to cause Paul some sort of discomfort. Now, Paul isn't talking about people who were preaching salvation by some other means than Jesus Christ. If that were the case, he would have said what he said to the church at Galatia, let them be accursed. But rather he's rejoicing. So we can assume that the gospel was going forward. So, you know, what would be the big deal? Why would these people think that they were causing Paul some sort of discomfort? Well, think about for a minute. Certainly Paul's preference would have been to get out of jail, to preach freely. Certainly that would have been his prayer. He's one of the apostles of the church. He's become their lead theologian. And he has much authority within the church. He has the authority to go to establish churches. He has the authority to establish pastors and elders in those churches. And we know that wherever authority exists, because of our fallen hearts, envy and strife are soon to follow. The effects of sin are still within us. Don't think that even pastors and missionaries are somehow immune to that. You know, oftentimes, you know, you know, when pastors get together, you know, it's you know the question will come up, well, well, geez, how are things going at your church? And you know, y you kind of stumble a little bit and you think, okay, well, if if things are growing numerically, that's great. I can answer that way. If things aren't growing numerically, then I can at least talk about, well, you know, y You know, gee, we aren't seeing the the numbers that we'd like, but you know, God's really taking our people deep into his word. You know, we somehow we have to come up with something there. Or you know, admissions conferences. You know, it's easy for you know for missionaries to hear stories about what God is doing in other other parts of the world. You know, you look We look at things like Africa, you know, and Asia and you know, praise God for the work that He's doing in places like that. Where you know, we're seeing the gospel grow like mad. You know, Christians be coming daily in places like that. In fact, probably the, you know, in terms of demographics, the locus of the church is going to move south of the equator if it hasn't already. You know, and then you look at places like Western Europe, or you may even look at places like the DC area, and you say, it is a hard slog here. You know, that you know, we don't see you know see that sort of growth in the church happening. Envy and strife are partners, and with envy oftentimes comes conflict. Romans 13 13 tells us, do not walk in strife and envying. First Corinthians 3. 3, you are still of the flesh. For whether are envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way? Look at the company that envy and strife keep in Galatians 5:19, in the works of the flesh. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy. fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgy, and things like these. And what was it that drove Caiaphas and the chief priest to see Jesus crucified? Matthew 27 tells us, Pilate said to them, Who do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? For Pilate knew that they, the chief priest, had handed Jesus over because of envy. It's pretty awful to be stabbed in the back by a brother or sister in Christ. But it happens. As you seek to live for Christ, as you seek to obey his word, as you seek to glorify him, as you seek to use your gifts. to cause others in the church to grow in their faith and grow in their knowledge of the depth of the riches of Christ. At some point in time, there's going to be somebody who's going to become jealous and who may attack you. What are you going to do at that point? Attack back? Hold a pity party for yourself. Don Carson wrote the following. He says, Paul's example is expressive and clear. Put the advance of the gospel at the center of your aspirations. Our own comfort, our bruised feelings, our reputations, our misunderstood motives, all these are insignificant in comparison with the advance of the splendor of the gospel. See, the answer is in front of us. By faith, to be so consumed with the gospel, to be so enamored with Christ that even our feelings, even our goals, even our hopes are made subject to Him. That is, Philippians 3:8 says, that we would count all things as loss for the excellence, the surpassing excellence of the knowledge of Christ. Well, third, abounding faith in Jesus Christ leads us not to fear death, but to see beyond it to Him. Look at verse 20 through 23 again. We see Paul's hope that Christ will be magnified in him, whether in life or whether in death. And maybe we have some idea of what it means to magnify Jesus in our lives. But what does it mean to magnify him in our death? You know, is he talking about the type of death like he did to Peter? And that somehow we magnify Christ by becoming martyrs? No, that's not the case. We magnify Christ even in our death when we can say, no matter how we die, that Christ is our game. That to die is gain. He's magnified when even in our final breath we understand that death is our loss. But what we gain is of infinite worth, for we gain Jesus Himself. You know, the world says you live as long as you can. This world is all that there is, so you better enjoy every second of life in it. The world says, put off death as long as possible. And there's an element of truth to that. Yes, death is a result of the fall. But the world looks at it from the point of view that there's nothing beyond it. That the best, that anything that life has to offer is right here. But yet the world is also somewhat confused because the world also sees the struggle of this world. I was reading this week about a new book that's come out by a fellow by the name of Paul Weiner. And the title of the book is Long for This World. Now, you know Weiner is is no Christian at all. He you know he's an existentialist pro uh at best. But Weiner writes about, you know, he looks back, he thinks, and says, you know, our lifespans have essentially from the time of Christ, have essentially about doubled. And he looks forward to the day where perhaps additional medical science would would uncover ways to help us live longer, not just even adding a few years to our life, but adding even decades to it. You know, and Weiner, he you know, and he thinks about this, you know, and he's excited about this process prospect in general, but you see the conflict start to show uh in his book. Because he starts to think and say, you know, well what would it be like to add decades, you know, you know, some have even said hundreds of years into our life and saying, Do I really want that? The review I I read stated that Weiner admits that that you know this additional life it has a certain allure. Says if I were told I could live an extra few decades in the state of health I have now, so you notice he's even qualifying it to start with. If I could live for a few decades in the state of health I have right now, I'd be thrilled. But beyond a few decades, I'm not quite sure. Yeah, the world knows that what we see here is a result of a fallen world. But walking by a living faith causes us to realize that to die is our gain, that it is far better to be with Christ. How much better is it? It's better than a new car. It's better than a new house. It's better than a promotion at work. It's better than the newest trinkets. It's better than a droid, than a BlackBerry, than an iPhone, an iPad. It's better than anything we can imagine. It's better than air conditioning in our hundred-degree weather. It's better than winning the World Cup, the World Series, the Super Bowl, and having LeBron James play for your team. It's better than our best days here on Earth. It's better than being and the most beautiful mountain vista. It'll be better than the best day watching a sunsh sunset at the seashore. It's better than the best worship will ever take place in here, because we will see Jesus face to face. It's better for me than my life with Kathy, as great as that is. It's better than watching my kids grow, and watching them come to Christ and seeing them grow in their gifts, seeing them become adults now. and to use their gifts to get married to have families. It's going to be better to see grandchildren, see God being faithful to his covenant. Better than all these things. Tens of thousands of times better because we will be with Jesus himself. And that is the greatest thing of all. To die is our gain because it's our entry into the presence of Christ, should he tarry. And when we're with him, how much better will it be? The glory of being in his presence. But not only that, to be in heaven itself. To be in a place where there is no more pain, where there is no more sorrow, where there is no more brokenness, to be in a place where no longer will you have to struggle against sin because you will be completely renewed. Unable to sin, only able to do what your new heart desires to do the most, which is to glorify God. All those things become our gain upon our death, because when we die, we gain Christ Himself. Some of you know uh Paul Wolfe Paul is uh is a pastor over at New Hope in Fairfax, and some of you may have read a book that Paul recently wrote. His last year in seminary, Paul was uh was stricken with cancer. And he wrote a book of how God had taken him through that trial and how he had caused him to trust more and more in his providential care. In that book, Paul writes, No trial overthrows the gospel. For even death itself, the last trial, becomes the Christian's entrance into glory. A couple months ago I was talking with some some dear friends of ours. Uh I I see you Roy is here and Jan are here this morning. They'll know who I'm talking about. Nancy and Al uh live in a retirement home. And for many years, Al was a faithful and diligent pastor of a church here in the DC area. I've known him for several years now. He's been a great mentor to me, but he's also a great encourager to me, especially as I was preparing for ordination exams in the past. When he retired, Al and Nancy could have gone to the retirement home and kind of kicked up their heels and said, it's been a faithful ministry, but now we have this chance to rest. But that wasn't Al. He saw the need for somebody to to come and to preach and proclaim the gospel there in that retirement home. And he did just that. But recently Al's body has started undergoing the decay that all of our bodies will eventually go through. He's been unable to get up and about, and I was talking to Nancy, asking how they were doing. And she looked at me with a with the biggest smile on her face and said, you know, we're we're doing okay. But you know, we're also ready to go home. You know, he's their d greatest desire. They know what it means. For to die is gain. And finally, abounding faith in Christ causes us to delight in Christ even as we get tired of the struggles of this world. You know, you may say at this point, you know, I get that. You know, to die is gain. That's the longing of my heart. To be with Christ forever. That is where I want to be. But yet we live here in this world. And through faith, through that living faith, Paul's able to say: but to live is Christ. That's the flip side of knowing that to die is our gain. That to live is Christ. Galatians 2. 20, we read, I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Jesus Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Now, even though Paul desired To be with Christ, knowing that that was going to be his great gain. That desire didn't cause him to shut down. But rather he said, to live is Christ. To live is for the benefit of you. You know, how does that happen? It means that we we grow and we live in him. We bear fruit from him, the fruit that naturally flows from living in him. That we continue to live our lives, that we use the gifts that He has given us for the building up of the body of Christ, for the encouragement of each other, bringing all the unique gifts, all the gifts that God has brought in this place. That He has ordained that would be here, that they might all function, that they might cause us all to grow together into Christ, that we might know the riches of the glory of His grace. That we might know the power of his resurrection, that we would be encouraged to delight in him more and more, that we would be encouraged to bear fruit for him again and again. As we pray for one another, as we serve each other, as we teach one another, that's what it is to live for Christ. And as we do that, the great thing is we grow more and more in our faith as well. And we see Him more and more as the one in whom we delight. Whether we stay here on this earth, whether we die and go immediately to his presence, which would be great gain, whether we encounter opposition even from perhaps within the church. As we go through the sufferings of this life, it's that abounding faith that causes us to grow more and more in Him. But you know that faith is still only an instrument. You know, Paul wasn't just an eternal optimist. Paul's faith was based in something outside of himself. It was based in Jesus Christ. Look at verse 20. Here's the basis for Paul's faith, and it's the basis for our faith. It's my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed. But that with full courage, now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. No shame. We all know what it's like to be ashamed, don't we? Yeah, when we were a kid and we were and were trying to sneak away from something, get caught by our parents. We know shame. But we have the certain hope that one day we will stand before our God. And we'll stand before Him. The Bible tells us there's only one way that we can stand. And that's to stand in holiness. But yet we don't have that holiness. What we bring before God in and of ourselves Is not the holiness, is not the righteousness that we need. What we bring before God is our shame, is our sin, is our guilt. How can we stand before Him? In ourselves we would stand utterly ashamed. Isaiah 59 tells us our iniquities. Have made a separation between you and your God. Your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. Your hands are defiled with blood, your fingers with iniquity, your lips have spoken lies, your tongue mutters wickedness. Their feet run to evil, they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of impurity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways. The way of peace they do not know. There is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked. No one who treads on them knows peace. It shows how false how far short of righteousness we fall. And therefore Isaiah 59 continues and tells us if we stand before God that way, what will happen? Justice is far from us, and righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light, behold darkness. For brightness, but we walk in gloom. We hope for justice, but there is none. For salvation, but it is far from us. For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us. That's how we stand before God in ourselves. But the great news follows immediately. The Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. He put on a breastplate of righteousness, a helmet of salvation on his head, and a redeemer will come to Zion. To those in Jacob who turn from their transgressions, declares the Lord. Jesus is that righteousness, is that salvation. Our God has brought of Himself our salvation. He himself bore our shame that we now can stand before God in his righteousness. And we can be absolutely assured in Him there is no shame, no condemnation. That's what our faith is based on. It is based on Christ and what He's accomplished