And uh that's what we come to now this morning. God is showing us here his abundance, and we don't want to limit that by just saying, oh yeah, it was 5,000, and that's pretty good, because really it was it's many more. You know, 200 denarii wouldn't be enough uh bread for each of them to get a little. What does the text tell us that after Jesus had the people sit down, after the food went out, that the people ate as much as they willed? This was a feast. Pay careful attention to verse 6 though. God is not limited in his salvation. Where John says, after this I looked and I saw a multitude too large to count, and from every nation and tribe and people and tongue standing before the throne of God and before the land. They're songs of abundance we read about in heaven. His abundance in Christ Jesus and His blessing. This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent. Our relationships don't seem right. It's because they didn't have real food. Wives, if you're looking to your husband to fulfill you and give purpose and meaning to your life, you will be disappointed because you weren't made to do that for one another. Let us hope in Christ. and the abundance of your love and your grace and the fruit of the Spirit and with every spiritual blessing that you've given in the heavenly realms in the Lord Jesus Christ. So uh Philip was thinking hors d'oeuvres. We'll be married to Christ. Then what sign will you do that we may see and believe you? And back on the material provision. or in family or in my own life or if I could just do this, then things would be okay. For his love in Christ. Amen. Since we left for seminary and uh we've returned as two companies almost. We'll be looking at John chapter 6 this morning as we turn to God's word and his truth, and studying verses 1 through 15 of this wonderful chapter from John's Gospel. Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat? But what are they for so many? And when they'd eaten their fill, he told his disciples, gather up the leftover fragments, and let nothing be lost. We celebrate our birth as a nation, uh, two hundred and forty-two years old. both foreign and domestic. Because I've got some hard circumstances that aren't met with easy answers or quick solutions. And as they went out, perhaps uh the disciples, you know, each had a basket and and thought, Wow, I I'm really going to show those other guys when I get back how many uh leftovers I've collected and they got back and they all had leftovers. feedings in one sense because after everything was done, after everybody had had as much as they willed, as much as they wanted, there were leftovers. That God has shown us in His Word and by His Spirit in our hearts. But that's not what God is talking about here. And one of the hobbies that we undertake that just gives us enjoyment might not give other people enjoyment. Free meal. We don't know what what the future will bring. and strength. Even to the end of the age, such that his provision is not just one for the present, but it's a rock-solid hope for the future. Not about material blessings. And towards the spiritual provision of grace. That's what Jesus is directing us to. Not with material provision or prosperity, but with spiritual forgiveness and grace, with spiritual blessing in him and in him alone. And uh it's plaguing me. Uh kind of like we said uh say to our kids sometimes in church picnic situations where there's a lot of desserts. Uh, because they don't want you to fill up on sugary things and uh not have food, real food that nourishes you. Spiritually ailing. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated, so also the fish, as much as they wanted So they gathered them and filled twelve baskets with the fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. It's not in our culture. That come in him. Because as we look at this, you know, our non-inspired headings in the Bible say this is Jesus feeds the 5,000. needs to be changed. We do this in the churches. And so uh, you know, looking at 5,000 men, that would have been at probably at least 15,000 people, and if it was a cheat-in-sized family, it would have been 40 or or 50,000 people. Philip said um in verse eleven, you remember, uh uh though excuse me, it's not uh uh eleven, it's uh uh uh seven. That's literally what it it says in the original. And thirdly, this wasn't a feeding of the five thousand, because it leaves out, so that title leaves out one of the best parts of a great big meal, which is leftovers. What can he do for me in my life? spiritual abundance in Christ. excuse me, uh crossing over on a boat and and uh bringing him to Jesus. Then he said to the paralytic, rise, pick up your bed, and go home. Sometimes beyond our imagination. And when sometimes people are talking and they say, well, how big is your church? And they were clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. His abundance. Quiet. fulfillment at the deepest levels of our being. I've learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. God wants you to be strengthened with the supernatural provision of his blessing and grace in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. We ask ourselves, what will happen? that shake us to the very fiber of our being. Is your faith for living in God? Why? in seeing Jesus' power. A free meal always. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. To look to him in all these ways that he might fill you with his abundant love in the Lord Jesus Christ. Food that lasts and satisfied, that you might find fulfillment and strength in him alone. You know, we we seek God's help, but our faith is weak. to overflowing, because his abundance is everlasting. I don't see how you can do it. You were made to know Christ and to be fulfilled and in him and in him alone. The central part of the uh Protestant worship service since the Reformation is the preaching of the Word. Make your way. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Philip answered him, Two hundred denera I wouldn't buy enough bread for each one to get f a little. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. It has the highest standard of living, the most secure social environment. Now there are 67 sovereign states and 27 non-sovereign states where English is the official language. Most used, most accepted, dozens of countries using it rather than having a currency of their own. of material abundance. But finding it in nothing. There is a security that lasts and has lasted for not just centuries, but millennia. The promises of salvation and forgiveness of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul does the same thing in Romans 11. God shows his abundant provision symbolically here by the supernatural multiplication of food in Christ. The passage talks to us in verse 10 about 5,000 men were numbered. Jesus gave them a feast and stuffed them as a picture of God's abundance. We might just be tempted t to dismiss it or or forget it and say, well, that's a great story about a long time ago. This story to come to root in our own hearts. For today and for tomorrow. all miracles in the Bible, their purpose and how God works through them in a very special way. That Jesus did a material sign of supernatural power that we might know that he can do the invisible supernatural work of spiritual power. Do you believe that God can work in your heart to forgive, as Jesus said, all manner of sins? So Do you have faith in your heart? To understand that Jesus has real power to be at work in our hearts, to be at work in our lives, to bring grace and forgiveness as no one else can He created you to look to him and to be filled with a joy of the abundance of knowing God and walking with him. But whoever drinks the water that I give them will never thirst. And bright hope for tomorrow. Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. That is, when we truly believe, when we're truly resting in God and giving him our hearts, when we're truly looking to him for the course of our life, when he's truly our trust, it changes the way we live our lives. all temporal issues in our lives because it speaks to eternal truth and our purpose and meaning rooted in God Himself. for life. Hour by hour, moment by moment, is he your hope? Is he your goal? Is he your strength? Like the crowds, we're missing the point. Which can seem to be fulfilling and sweet, but in the long run, it takes us away from God. Drawing that line between the miracle that we see written here in John chapter 6 and our situations, such that when we we look to God and sometimes Remember, Jesus put his finger on the weak faith. Let this remembrance and picture of God's abundance strengthen our faith. Come without money, the scripture says, Come, buy and eat, that you might be filled and satisfied with God's goodness and grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. as the very bread of life. You know, we could ask that of our country. There's a restlessness, an epidemic of opiate abuse, of suicide. I'll show you what I mean here before you rush the pulpit. And so it was in the ancient world that oftentimes the head of the household was numbered, but it represented more people than that Amazing, wonderful, supernatural abundance. Coming and his friends uh bringing him on a mat and lowering him through uh Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. Now I'm going to stop right there for a second. Who will to come to him? When uh you know um um I I need some alone time. Don't miss it. It gives force and action and energy to the way that we live and to the things that we do and the things that we don't do They misunderstood. I am the bread of life. And prosperity, that we might know God and that we might know his love and that his spirit might fill our hearts and overflow into our lives, rather than a promise of food or anything else. Illinois, Andrew, uh which is uh basically a suburb of St. is to show those wonderful pictures of his power for abundance spiritually You know, we see it in the scriptures, where David in Psalm 8 starts the Psalm by saying, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth. And the first thing I want us to notice here is that God gave material miracles of abundance through Christ for this very purpose, so that we might see the spiritual blessings, the spiritual riches that come in Christ Jesus. But um that's a non-inspired heading, and really, if we look closely, that's not at all accurate. But still he couldn't see it. about uh how people in the south love their food and that they don't eat till they're full they eat till they're tired. We should come away from this passage saying, if God can do this, what else can he do? In this passage. Which is unseen, invisible. That in Christ He provides full spiritual satisfaction. Hebrews 13, 5 reminds us that Christ will never leave nor forsake us. When the crowd first saw the supernatural power and believed, what did they do next? You know, um, and when they come back in verse 26, I'm going to read a little bit because it's it's uh somewhat comical and somewhat pathetic, because they totally misread what Jesus is trying to teach them and tell them. Spiritually, that God has provided and given for the ultimate fulfillment and satisfaction of life. And so as we consider these things, as God has given us this picture to capture our imaginations, let us rejoice in God's power to do all things in Christ. So they've been traveling to visit uh family in the area, and uh he's going to be preaching morning and evening today. And this is uh our passage today is one in which Jesus uses a miracle of material things being multiplied from little to much to great abundance to point to the supernatural blessings. Now, this is a familiar passage. That the loaves and fishes were multiplied greatly, even beyond 5,000 to tens of thousands of people here, because God is showing his abundance. We want to see the abundance of God's provision. That God is able to bless us spiritually. You know, Paul knew this as a believer. But Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven. You know, uh when we go without food materially, how does that go for us? And to eat that food which will cause us to never be hungry again. Lord, we look to you for these things. But in Christ there is fulfillment. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. Yet there is an abundance to be had in our heritage as a nation. Do you long for that brimming over of joy? Secondly, this wasn't just a feeding. In Matthew chapter 9, we see a miracle, and Jesus explains why he does the miracle and really gives us a key here to understand But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? We should see from that material sign and make that connection that if God can produce abundance to meet the needs of a host of people That the cleansing power of the Lord Jesus Christ cannot wipe it clean. We want to reach out and bring them in. And Jesus says this in temple places. Hebrews calls it Christ an anchor for the soul so that whatever comes, whether it be calm sailing or storms In verse 26, when they say, you know, Jesus, how did you get to the other side of the lake? Let's pray. Here and they have nine children: Robert, Beatrice, Eleanor, Penelope, Marjorie, Henry, Winifred, Gwendolyn, and most recently Theodore Wolfgang. So oftentimes I have a little 10 by 10 herb garden. The metaphoric teaching that points to his sacrifice upon the cross and the spiritual grace which transcends Do you feel satisfied? As much as the stats of prosperity are impressive, the results of life and our culture are depressing. To be brimming over, as it were, with joy because of all that he's done for us in Christ. God gives us a picture of that. But we look at the size of our the population around us. And just as Jesus in his miracle filled the people with material food as much as they will, so that they were completely full and satisfied. This is where he gives the words that are parallel to the words of institution of the Lord's Supper As the disciples went forward, Jesus said, let nothing be lost. But we cannot add one moment to our lives. And sometimes it is in life that we're going along and things don't seem right. He desires for his people to be saved from sin, to be joyful and happy, to be full and abundant, to be content. But he was thinking too small. A dress rehearsal, not for a wedding. And thirdly, under this second heading, Christ provides for tomorrow. God gives the promise of being satisfied at the deepest levels of our being Jesus said, I'm the bread of life. But invariably at late afternoon sometimes, sometimes my wife will just say, you know, how about we get something to eat? God can do it supernaturally and spiritually to us. I have to say it hasn't been my experience as I as I talk with different believers or even as I look to my own heart. In the words of the Lord Jesus Christ before he went back to heaven. Because there is hope. And and today uh the US is uh one of the leading nations on earth. Because Jesus didn't just provide supernaturally for that moment in time, but with extra, with things to spare for the future. Because they were going to make him king. They're inferior. Fulfillment can't be found in your job. But in Matthew 9 2 we read, and behold, some people brought him a paralytic lying on a bed. Christ provides for a great multitude. Not just on a Sunday morning, not just as a Sunday school answer. Sometimes people say, well, how long are you know how big is your church that where you're serving? They didn't eat just until they were full. Andrew, as many of you know, is from originally from the St. It's not even in the arts or or the financial markets or the housing markets. What if this happens? And as they uh came back uh to Jesus that same chapter a little later, uh Even in those impossible situations where we go to God and say, I don't see how this can work. That a as we look at this passage, that it's not Jesus feeding the five thousand. We don't know what tomorrow will bring. Uh it's making me feel tired and weak and irritable. And he wants us to know the satisfaction that comes in knowing Christ. Sometimes even as we're going through work, say I this shouldn't be that big a deal, but I just can't shake it. It's easier to say your sins are forgiven because nobody can tell whether they're forgiven or not. I can do all things through Christ, who gives me strength. We're all familiar with Jesus multiplying the loaves and the fish. You know, maybe we could give each one a little, you know, a little piece of bread with a little fish on top of it, and maybe everybody could, you know, pop one in their mouth and just have the finger food. Satisfy themselves uh with the things of this world. With all the material abundance that we've been given, with all the exaltation that God has blessed us with, how's that working out for us culturally? They were hinting around. What work will you perform? Back on uh material abundance. But they misunderstand and they say to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? You know, you might say, well, how do you how do we know that God wants that for us? Lord, I pray that we would rest in Him. He shows it through his miracles and the supernatural power proves But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins Blessings all mine with a thousand decides. He said, if. Jesus said, have the people sit down. He's not talking about adding a church to our schedule as one more thing that is one of our pursuits. But let us believe that God can. And this material sign of blessing. And though we know in the mystery of his providence, he calls his own. What if that happens? Lord, glorify yourself by blessing us in this way. As much as they willed. I go out there and start picking little weeds and kind of calm down, decompress. They had sugar. We welcome to our pulpit uh this morning, uh teaching elder Andrew Cheatham, who is presently senior pastor at Concord, uh PCA and Waterloo. Now, theirs was a little misguided. But God has set the feast in Christ. 33. You know, uh the church that where we now serve is about the size of Christ Reform Press. They had no more will left to eat. And the second thing I want us to spend some time on as we study this familiar passage is that God provides miraculous Christ is there. That's what God desires to fill you with, not just a meal for a moment or even for the rest of your life. God tells you to come, to come to the Savior who loves you and who desires to serve you in this way. We see the breakdown of the family. He said, I've learned what to be content whatever the circumstances. Now the disciple Andrew, my name's sake, and others in the congregation, did a little bit better. To be sure of as Hebrews one says, as eleven says, to be sure of what is hoped for. And whoever comes to me shall not hunger. John chapter six, verses one through fifteen And yet as we celebrate these things and give thanks for them. That in Christ, God's promises and his salvation is multiplied. That by his power and his strength that work in their hearts, they might know the joy and abundance And we will be his people. Do you know God in this way? Is he your very great reward? But this wasn't a snack, because as the food was circulated, as it went out, In my need? And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, this man's blasphemy. And I say, well, it's about 150 people, and they say, well, that's a good sized church. In John chapter 6, later, as the people come back and they wanted another It's not the bread I multiplied, I am the bread of life. Is he your provider? Heavenly Father, as we look to you, we do so in the name of our Lord and Savior, who has loved us and given Himself for us. It's wonderful to be together and to worship the Lord. And so even as we read the the feeding of the five thousand, so to speak, Because it's not God's power that has a limit. And even if they had to force him, they were going to make him king. Do you feel full? You know, he's going along talking about God, and then he just can't help himself. We look at all those who are lost, all those who are hurting Hint hint. It can't be found in your marriage. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. That is, at the end, they had no more will to eat. God tells us about them that we might rejoice in those things now. And they cried out in a loud voice, Salvation to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Well, uh in one sense it is like a wedding. God gives us the record of these material miracles that we might draw that line as the passage in Matthew 9 does. Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. We make plans, and and there's in one sense nothing wrong with that. And the man despaired because he realized he was weak and said, I believe. First of all, this was not Jesus feeding 5,000. God is calling you through this account to Himself to come and find spiritual fulfillment. But the power that Jesus gives is spiritual. God desires for us to be blessed in Him. You know, that was Philip's idea. In Matthew 28, 20, he said, I will be with you always. And and we we start hitting the wall. Think of the man with a demon-possessed son. And these things are recorded for us to capture our imagination. And we're looking to those things. I'm an introvert, so even though I enjoy talking to people, when I when I need to recharge the batteries, I need to go and and have He wanted all of God's abundance to be seen, encountered, and used and experienced. We want to see here on earth what we see in heaven, what the book of Revelation tells us about in Revelation 7. Because whoever does the will of God, these things last forever. And that phrase in the in the original, uh, a little is kind of like a snack. The power that Jesus promises is not for material gain. Christ roots us and grounds us. Because He created you to know Him. Now the key to all miracles is in Matthew chapter 9. It's not the the roof the roof uh And a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. English has been called a global language. But again they miss it. They try to do that, but it it doesn't nourish us or fill us in the same way. We're going to look at three points that show that this heading But more than see it, you know. Perhaps you've had that experience at a holiday dinner or something. Which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise and walk. And there is room at the table for you. It's a great privilege to be back here at Christ Reform Presbyterian. And uh, you know, we look back to that time and remember how we won our independence and have survived many wars of of And he will be our God. And it's a great unknown. And looking to Him by faith, Lord, strengthen us And I say, well, it's 150 people. God is faithful. How can God's power and strength come to me in abundance? Is he the reason you do the things that you do and don't do? Louis, if I have it right, come on up, Andrew. Sometimes our families don't seem right. There is an abundance to be had in America in our day and time. Our passage today is one in which Because it doesn't feel like by the circumstances of my life that God wants us to be brimming over with joy, because I've got some tough stuff on my plate. And food is a a wonderful provision in that way. Now there was much grass in the place. And we do the same thing, but it doesn't count their families. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, They wanted uh someone to defeat the Romans. Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written he gave them bread to eat from heaven. Is he your satisfaction? The very meaning of life is to know the grace of forgiveness and the love of God in Christ Jesus. Husbands, if you're looking to your wives to fulfill you and your life, you will be sorely disappointed. And they said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. Well, if I if I could just do this or if get this squared away financially or at work or Faith brings force. But as you live your life day by day. I wish I could say I don't have a problem with um being cranky or angry or other things that we don't need to go into here this morning when I get hungry. Christ is the abundance. It's not in the stable borders or any kind of material security. And this is just one of the many miracles that Christ performed to show God's power and his strength, his abundance towards all who looked to him. It's not a tangible sign. Louis area, but he has been among us for some years ago for a number of years as he met his wife. He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And he rose and he went home. But God gives us this comfort. He answers them and says, Truly I say to you, you're seeking me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Sometimes our focus gets off Christ, and we give ourselves the material things, which can be very exciting at first. In Jesus' name. It's been called the most wealthy, the most powerful nation on the face of the earth bar none. And uh the the result of all this material prosperity is not satisfying. But one of the reasons God has given us these pictures and records of miracles in the Bible. Jesus left Okay now, you know, you can only have so many desserts. Do you feel happy? His supernatural power tells us that And yet, as we look closely, I want us to study it carefully. Jesus, when he tested Philip's faith and said, Philip, how are we going to work this out? For on him the God the Father has set a seal. Let us rejoice in God's goodness to give so abundantly in Christ. There is hope for the future in Christ. And give thanks to God. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish. You know, uh we're satisfied in many things. God is showing you And not husbands or wives, children or any other relationships, money or hobbies. God has promised No, God is talking about Whoever comes to me will never go hungry, and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty. And in verse 30 they say God's calling you today. We believe. As we turn to God's word, let's let's turn to John chapter six. He told the woman at the well the same thing in John chapter 4. It doesn't seem right. And uh when our kids do that, you can tell because they have a lot of energy at first. And it's sort of a festive week and weekend. You know others uh Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God. And the dollar is the global currency. God has blessed us as a country such that we are the picture. If God can do this for this crowd that Jesus looked upon and had compassion for and desired to love and serve. And that gives me enjoyment. He said, if you can do anything, Lord, please help my son. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large cloud crowd was coming, coming toward him. But rather something I wrestle with in my life. And then sometimes the follow-up question is, well, how many families is that? Now, uh, there was an article in Southern Living uh several years ago that maybe none some of you have heard. Let me ask you this question. But we want to experience it day by day in our walk with the Lord. This is God's plan for you as you look to Him in faith. Because they responded to that supernatural power. And it can make us spiritually weak. And when the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who is coming to the world. No, He shows great abundance. God gives true abundance in the church through faith in Jesus Christ. I know what it is to be in need materially, and I'm supplying them materially, and I know what it is to have plenty. Is he your meaning? You can say that all you want, but only God sees the heart and knows if they're forgiven. And sometimes we're content with that, aren't we? People are seeking fulfillment somewhere in something And I'm I Sometimes that's a source of fear. Amen. You can The hymn writer summed it up so neatly. So we're so thankful to have you bring the Word of God to us, brother. So the men sat down, about five thousand in number. But it's for the service that will be in heaven above unto all eternity, where God's people, his church, And Jesus answered them, And that's the picture we get here. Yet there is no limiting number for it. It's not just a free food festival You know, just one more bite. He wants us to know Let's turn there for a moment. And yet, is that your experience? That there's nothing too great. In Matthew chapter 9, this was with a the paralytic. And here it is. I'll brag on him a little bit. Help me overcome my unbelief. And let us look to God to help us overcome our unbelief. They wanted a He's brimming over with joy. Philip answered Oh no, you know, how about dessert? It doesn't count the other people who were there. See, he's urging them towards the gospel. Again, they can't get bread out of their mind. It's the Fourth of July weekend He created you to walk with Him. And it lasts. Do you see the connection there that this passage is making? And certain of that This worship service here this morning is a dress rehearsal. Sometimes it's because we have our eyes off of the Savior. Uh I I like to garden. Uh children, uh you know sometimes your parents say uh Jesus didn't just feed these people, he stuffed them. In that picture of abundance and overflowing provision. We're content with the size of our church if it's what we're used to. And we want all Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. Who desires to fill you with his spirit. And that's a sign, you know, um, that uh I'm hungry. And God can fill your heart. It's uh almost been uh fifteen years. They're very excited at first and then they crash and they're not feeling well and um I can't eat another bite. Strength for today. There is fulfillment. God wants to fill you spiritually. It's much less. He provided what he had to the Lord. But he calls a great host. So thank you. And when I get stressed out Hint hint hint God is showing his power. Because God is revealing his And not just fill it, but fill it. It's you know 60 or 70 families. 9. But Jesus says All these things will leave you hungry. We want uh I can't do it. And uh Do you believe this? Each had a basketful. These were multiple