The bulletin directs us to Psalm 146, verses 8 and 9, before we would hear the word. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous. The Lord watches over the sojourners. He upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. Amen. You don't look like it, but you're actually guinea pigs tonight. You may not know that But uh, Lord willing, I'll be preaching next week. And I think it's New Hope. I get mixed up New Hope, Living Hope, Good Hope. But it's down in Northern Virginia. And their pastor is speaking at a women's retreat of their own congregation. So the women will be away and mostly the men. And so I picked a portion of scripture that talks about men and how they are to act Now you'll find out from the scripture it's also talking about not just men, but to be mature, so it's talking about all Christians in a matter of fact. But it's per talk particularly speaking about men, and so you might not be a man and you say, well, it's good nap tonight. Don't have to worry about it. But uh You have men in your life, husbands and fathers and children and uh grandsons and all of that that you would like to become. brothers and fathers in the faith. So don't tune out just because you hear it say act like men. But it also means mature. So, as we come to this portion of Scripture, it is at the end of 1 Corinthians 16. I want to kind of just pick you up because we're coming to the very end of the book. And so I'll let John MacArthur give us an overview. He says this about the Corinthians. Of all the churches in the New Testament to which Paul wrote, there was none that was in as much trouble as the Corinthian church. There was none that was as sinful as the Corinthian church. There was none that had failed so badly to be what God designed his church to be. It was if there was something wrong, they were into it. Consequently, since it was probably in the worst shape of any New Testament church, it received the greatest amount of rebuke. MacArthur goes on to say this about the whole book. Fourteen chapters of this first epistle to straighten out their errant behavior, and one chapter to straighten out their errant theology. And now we're at the last chapter, chapter 16. And he says this. The first section talks about the collection that Paul wanted to make for the Jerusalem saints. The next section on doing the Lord's work, the Lord's way. And then at the end, the last part of it about ministry abounding with other people in the church. But here we're coming on just two verses that seem out of place. They seem like, what was Paul doing here? And the almost the whole book gets negative, but here he gets positive. He was saying, and most of the other book, don't do this, but now he's saying these particular things to those who would lead the church. Do this in speaking to the men. So that's where we're at tonight in 1 Corinthians chapter 16 and just two verses. So let's stand together as I pray and we'll read God's word. First Corinthians sixteen, chapter sixteen, and verse thirteen and fourteen. Father, before we read this, we come to you because to have any clarity of thought, we need your spirit to direct us. We need you to help us just to pay attention, especially in a section when we're already saying it's for half the congregation in the matter, but it really isn't. It's talking about more than that and the ones we love who are men. So help us listen to you. We pray for that work of your spirit that we need. Without, we cannot do anything. And we rejoice in the gospel that has brought us to want to hear what you say, because we have such a rich Savior who has died for us, and we pray in His name. Amen. 1 Corinthians chapter 16 verses 13 and 14. Be watchful. Stand firm in the faith. Act like men. Be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. Thus the Word of God may be seated If you were able to see the Greek all in these two verses, there's five imperatives or what we call commands And they're listed almost in staccato fashion like giving orders. It's not the way men and women do projects together. Now if I'm doing a project with man, they just say, pick it up, move it, where are we going? Over there. Right? But if I do it with my wife, it doesn't work that way. We take this end of it and I'm going to move to the left, sweetie, and you move to the right. Because if I just say, let's move it, I'm yelling and screaming. Right? And so he's talking in this way, not as if he's talking to his wife doing a project, but he's talking to other men. And he's saying, this is what you're called to do. And I'm going to use the imperative of acting like men, that this all the others in a sense are are are leading up to and a part of what it is to be a man. So we're going to start with that section in First Corinthians 16 and 13 where it says to these men at the end of the chapter, act like men. First and foremost, I believe it was written especially for men. This is the only time that word is found in the Greek. It's found in the Old Testament and what we call the Septuagint to be courageous often, but here it has the the ending that says it is uh a manly word and talking about men. Now I do think All these things fit all Christians to be mature. The word is often uh roots of this word are often in the scripture talking about being mature and all Christians are called to be mature. But here in particular at first, I think he's these men at the end of the chapter talking about those who would be elders and deacons and heads of families. And he's saying that you are to be like this. I remember the first time I was called to be a man. growing up that I really in a sense knew I was a man. We in our culture really don't have very many of those initiating initiation things of when it is to be a man. Right? We don't go through usually some kind of uh uh initiation like tribes might be in uh in early America or something or bar mitzvah for the Jewish faith. I don't know of anything that really we talk in the sense that you're a man now. But I remember graduating from college and my graduate from high school and before I went to college and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, across the river where my grandfather lived in a cottage. And it really wasn't a cottage. They called these houses along the rivers cottages. It was actually four stories high and had a big porch the whole way around it. But almost every year when the river froze up and was unfreezing, the ice would jam and there'd be a flood. And so the basement level, which was really ground level, but the first level. Almost every year it flooded. So every year they would move their stuff up to the porch that was in the basement around it so it didn't get flooded and the water went through and then after the flood went they put it back. But the year I graduated from high school, the flood was different. It went up the whole nother floor to the second floor, which was really the first floor, right? basement above the ground in the first floor. And it flooded all of that. It was a historic flood. And my grandparents were safe. I was glad for that. But we had to go and clean it out and they were concerned about looters. Because the flood still hasn't hadn't receded, and so we had to go for a rowboat from the road to the house. But at night people will come in their own boats to these houses that they thought no one would be there. And loot them. And I knew that I was a man because Papa Maguire said, Jerry, I want you to stay. And I had a flashlight and a baseball bat. Right? And I was going to be the man for that week And I've that week I had to do those very same things that are talked about here, not spiritually as it is in 1 Corinthians 16, but I had to be watchful. I had to stand firm. I had to be strong. Right? Those are all those things that I was called to do. I didn't sleep well that night. I'm a pretty heavy sleeper. I'm heavy in everything I do, but I'm a heavy sleeper All right, and I but I wasn't that weak. I was very careful. I was watchful and I was ready to stand firm. I had the baseball bat. Anybody came, they would get it, the best I could do. And um and then if I would do it, I would swing that bat very strongly if I ever had to. So all these things. So I was going to be the man of the house for my grandfather, and uh what a thing that was. And so we are called, men especially, to be men, to be different than women in this case. It also is mature, but if you turn to Ephesians chapter 4, you'll have a similar kind of scripture where it talks about we're no longer to be children. Now I'm not talking, and I'll tell you more about this later, I'm not talking about John Wayne here, right? Now when I start thinking about this from my age and culture. It's John Wayne, and I remember seeing him. I I didn't grow up in the church, but I saw him in the movie The King of Kings, and he was the centurion, and as Jesus dies he says, Truly he was the Son of God. You know, and I thought, oh yeah, man, he must be a Christian Roman here. He was converted at the cross, and now I know how I'm supposed to act. No, it's not talking about that. Talk about spiritually And so spiritually we're to be men, we're to be mature. And in Ephesians, it's talking about the difference to be about being children and being mature. So in the book of Ephesians, chapter four, let's turn there. Ephesians chapter four, verses eleven through fourteen. Ephesians chapter four. And he, God, gave apostles, the prophets and evangelists, the pastors and teachers. to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain the unity of faith and the knowledge of God to mature manhood, to the measure of stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves And carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning by craftiness and deceitfulness and schemes, You see, we're supposed to be mature, and here he's talking, it's not Christian manhood, but he's also talking to the whole church of the Ephesians, right? Stop being children, be mature. So it has that picture of being manhood, but also mature in Christ. And he's saying, you need to be mature. Stop being a baby. Read the Bible. Don't have someone else read it for you and spit it out. It's okay that the pastor does that and that some way that's what I'm doing. I'm the mama bird. I've read the scripture during the week. I've eaten it and I've digested it. Now I'm going. And you're going, Yeah, worms. Well, I mean, it's not quite that way. It should be a little more appetizing. But that's what the pastor does during the week. But you, if you're going to mature, you don't have to get it like that all the time. You can read the scriptures on your own with the Holy Spirit. and you're called to be people of the word. Not a baby any more, where it has to be given to you, but you are to get into the word yourself. And so it's calling all of us, especially the men who are to lead the church and their families, But all of us to be mature now. That's what it is that we're no longer babies led about with what other people are saying about the Word of God. We can look at it. And because the word is perspicuitous, that means clear. We the Holy Spirit can help us understand it. First thing we're called to do as Christian men is to be men or as Christians is to be mature. Stop being babies. It's time to grow up. You, you know, it's it's not like the culture today. Teenagers, now officially, from my understanding, is no longer like the teen years. An adult, I mean an adolescent, an adolescent is now someone, officially by the psychologist, someone from 11 years old to 30. You see what we're doing with our culture? We're making that young, immature state go on and on, and that can't and should not happen within the church. Christian man then now are looking at these other things you're commanded to be. The next thing and the first thing in that scripture in 1 Corinthians chapter 16, 13, is to be watchful. This term is used 22 times in the New Testament about us being watchful, looking. And the problem with the Christians is they were in a spiritual stupor. Well actually remember what happened in 1 Corinthians 11? They were actually just stupefied because they were drinking. They didn't wait for everybody else to come with the Bread and wine, they took enough wine for themselves, and by the time the preaching and everything else happened, they were happy Christians. But it wasn't the Holy Spirit, they were actually and literally drunk. But he says we are like that spiritually, we go around in a stupor because we're not mature. We don't know the Word of God. 1 Corinthians 15, 34. He says this, wake up from your drunken stupor, as is right, don't go on sinning. He's not talking about uh being drunk like they were at the Lord's table, which he was earlier arguing against, but he's saying you don't have an idea what's going on. You listen to stuff over here, you listen to stuff over here, you want the latest exciting things, rather than being mature and sober knowing the word of God. Then the next thing he calls us to do if you're going to be a Christian man and mature or be a mature Christian is to stand up in the faith, to stand firm in your faith. Most of you know that the Corinthians had so many false teachers who came in and because they weren't mature, they weren't eating the word of God themselves. They weren't strong in the Lord. They were listening to the false teachers and they didn't know the difference. But this is talking about standing firm because you know the word of God. You read the Word of God and you believe the Word of God. And it's talking about putting in a stake so it won't move. This past week I had to go to my wood pile. Part of my wood pile had fallen over because part of the stakes that were there in the ground had rotted. And the when the pressure of the wood was on it, they fell over. They were no longer strong. And so I had to go and shave off the stake and cut off the it was long enough, I cut off the rotten part sharpened it and pounded it in with a sledgehammer so it would stand firm and hold the wood. Well the Christian faith, and the truth of the Christian faith, is held by you when you hold on to it. And you don't, you say, this is what God's words say. Joe might say this, Sally might say this, the world might say this, no miracles. Jesus is not the Son of God. You hear all these things, but you have to stand firm if you're going to be mature and say, yes, the world says this, the world might not like me if I say this. But by God's grace and with his help, I'm going to stand like a stake in the ground, and I'm not going to move away from the word of God. If you are to be firm in the faith, you must be well taught in the Word, looking at everything and judging everything by God's truth and standards. So the way you work at work isn't the way everybody else around the water cooler or everybody else does it might be getting out of work. You work as unto the Lord. The way you have relationships if you're a teenager is not that I can go and have relationships with any non-Christian. I need to be involved with a Christian. Christians marry Christians. Christians date Christians We don't do missionary dating. But I feel like I want to do it. Everybody else is doing it. That's not being mature. You do what the Word of God says. That's your stake in the ground. And so you are called to stand firm in the faith. God says it, and I'll do it. I often don't feel like it. In fact, a lot of times I don't feel like it. He doesn't care about your feelings in that sense. No, now listen, I'm not saying that God doesn't care. about your feelings. You might be sad tonight, hurt, frustrated, depressed. God does care. He is the high priest that we can come to. Because he knows our sufferings, but he says, you don't follow me if you feel like it. You follow me because your stand is firm in the faith and the word of God. The next calling, the command for Christian men and people who are mature in Christ, is to be strong. And it's strong in the way you live your life You will not be able to be watchful. You will not be able to stand firm in your faith if you're not strong. Now it's not talking about pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps. Being the little ch little uh engine that can. I think I can, I know I can, I think I can. Get over the mountain. You know. No, it's not talking about that. It's being strong in the Lord. Ephesians 6. 10. being strong in the Lord and the strength of his might. That you have someone to help you. It's not you have to do it, but I have Almighty God Jehovah Jirah who provides Who will provide for me to be strong in my faith? I will be able to be watchful. I will be able to stand firm, not because I'm awake or I'm strong, but because I have someone standing with me. But I played high school football my senior year. The other tackle was a guy named George Walker, and I had to beat him out for the position. And when I beat him out for the position, George looked at me and said, I'm going to get you. Now George wasn't as big as I was. But George was a farm boy. And George had had a broken arm one time and it never straightened out. Whenever George walked, it was like. And George had a gold tooth, because his other tooth had been knocked out. And George had scars. And so even though George wasn't big, when George Walker looked at you, you know, and he went around like this all the time, he just glared at people. You know, his arm was always. And you know, everybody was afraid of George Walker. And so when George says, I'm gonna get you, I didn't show it, you know, but inside I'm kind of But my team member said, Jerry, don't worry. We've got your back. And after that I wasn't afraid. And Jesus says, don't worry. I've got your back. It's not your power. It's not your strength. You call upon me. I am there. I will help you be watchful. I will help you stand in the faith. I will help you be strong. I can do all things because I'm super Christian. No. Take heed lest you think you're strong, lest you fall, right? I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Well, I look at this stuff and I'm kind of one of those guys, I love war movies. And I, you know, I I I you know I like anything that has to do with action and guns and all that kind of stuff. So you start hearing this, you know, yeah, act like a man, be strong. You know, and I I kind of like, I really get into this stuff and I I like it, you know, but I can get carried away in the wrong way and act like a man like thinking if you were my generation, maybe John Wayne, or maybe you're not as old as me, and maybe you think of Bruce Willis and all the die hard movies, Die Hard One, Two, Three, Die Hard, Die Harder, Die Die Die. You know, or Maybe it's today it's the rock, right? Dwayne Johnson's got a new movie out, right? Well what's it called? Uh Rampage. You know? So if you're one of the guys that like the rock, right? And the the trailer says, where he fights his way through an ever-changing battlefield. Not only to halt a global catastrophe, but to save some fearsome creature that was once his friend. All right, and so I can start thinking, man, if I'm gonna be a Christian man immature, I'm just gonna go out there and kind of here I am, don't you dare cross me. Yeah, that's the way the culture acts. And one of my favorite preachers, and I've already talked about him earlier, is John MacArthur. He's been at his church now 50 years, just celebrated his 50th Easter. uh being the pastor of his church. And his church has grown because he is all of these things. And I thought I was with him one time with about 20 other pastors in a room. And we were younger, and I was, you know, a lot younger then, and we were kind of asking, what do you do with those troublemakers in the church? You know, those people are always complaining or never moving along. You know, we're expecting him because it's John MacArthur after all, and he's the guy. We look up to, you know, and we thought I'd say backdoor revival. They come in the front door, but push them out the back. Just don't let anybody see ya. Get rid of those bozos You know, and that's when I start talking about all this stuff and thinking manlyhood, that's the way it is, but that's not what he did He took us to scriptures like this, 1 Thessalonians 5 and 14. We urge you, brethren, to admonish the idol. but to encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, and be patient with them all. See that no one repays evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. You see what he was doing? He was doing what 1 Corinthians 16 Verse 14 says, do you see what it says about all those other commands? You can't do all these things unless you do them what? In love. Right? So a Christian man, or a mature Christian, doesn't go around, all right, you do this, you do that. I'd like to do that. That's why I got a frying pan thrown at me when I was first married, you know. I'm the head of the house. You've got to submit. All right? And that's how we so easily as much men or we think we have our act together that people have to fall before us. But the reason these things work in the body of Christ and to the world is because They're done in love. You see, love should permeate what we do with all the other things. Or they don't mean anything. We're just as 1 Corinthians says, right? A clanging bell and a ringing cymbal or however it is, right? It's just a noise. But if love doesn't permeate these other things that talk about manlyhood and matureness, then it's not Christ's, it's the world's, and you're going to act like a world leader rather than a Christian leader. It should permeate it. When I was on the Young Life staff in Colorado, We would go to a summer institute and we'd all often people would go to a place called Giuseppe's. It was a great Italian place. And that's where I learned to love garlic. Oh, I never had garlic before then. I don't know what was wrong with my growing up, but I love garlic now. And when people would come back, you didn't go, they went out that night to Giuseppe's, but when they came back to the dorm Everybody said, I know where you've been. And then the next day you'd be in class, right? And it's coming out the pores. Right? You know? You can just smell the garlic. They've been to Giuseppes. And ever since then I love the smell of garlic cooking. I love eating garlic. Last week the m the elders uh went uh had a retreat and we met here at the office, but we went out to dinner one night, we went to the place in town, you make your own pizzas. And on my pizza, I had roasted garlic and I had minced garlic. You know, the women weren't around and I had garlic. And when I got home, my wife was already asleep. And she woke up in the middle of the night and said Oh, where's that garlic coming from? You see, it permeated me. It was a part of everything I was doing that night, even sleeping. And what it works, man, it doesn't work to be a Christian man or a mature Christian and to do these things, to be watchful To stand firm, to be strong, unless love permeates it. We act differently than the world The world acts that way. So John 13, 35 says, by this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love. For one another. Because love permeates. Love stinks in all we do in a good way. It's it's the aroma of Christ. Well, how do you do this? Right? We are not calling you tonight. All right, men. All right, if you want to be mature in Christ, really get it together tonight. You know, you've heard it. Now go out and do it, team. I'm not calling you to do that. I'm calling you to look to Jesus, the captain of your salvation who did it for you. It's interesting. that people have done a survey between this, the difference and the comparison of the sinking of two different ships that were very similar, the Titanic and the Lusitania. And there was a big difference in one because in the Lusitania there were almost no women and children who made it. through who survived. Now the truth is there were other things going on in the difference between them in the Lusitania. Um it sunk much quicker. It was during the war, and they'd heard about the sinking of the Titanic already. But in the Titanic it was different because of this. Because the captain who led them said women and children into the lifeboats first. He said, you've got to love those who are weaker than you. That's what shows that they were men upon the Titanic. Upon the Lusitania, it was the survival of the fittest. You're big and strong, push everybody out of the way, and you get there. And I tell you what, if the boat's sinking, I'm pushing you out of the way. unless I'm looking to the captain, Jesus Christ. And I will use my power and authority as your pastor to push you out of the way. unless I'm looking to Jesus Christ. And you will do that as heads of your families or head of a company. Or as a mature Christian, unless you are looking to your captain, the Lord Jesus Christ, who says it all has to be permeated in love. Matthew 20, 25 to 28 gives us a picture because it is the one who is the man, the son of man. And if we were to act like men, men, or if we were to be being sure in Christ, Christians, we were to look to the one man who was the righteous man, the son of man who said this. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them. And their great ones exercise authority over them. It shall not be among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant. And whoever must be first among you must be your slave, even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and give his life. is a ransom for many. Why do we wonder at Christ? Because as he looks at us as being sinners deserving hell His look towards us and gaze from the cross is permeated with love. We desire to follow him. Let us do that together. Father and God, I'm certainly calling the, and you would call the men in this church to act like men, Christian men. die to themselves and live for their families and for others. And we know that's true of mature Christians also. But Father, there's still enough of the old man living within me that I want to push to the first. And so how I pray for the ability to look to Christ and call upon him. that you would strengthen us to die to ourselves and live for Christ, that the world would say, yes, He Or she is permeated with love because of Jesus. Amen.