Oh hello. Uh could you please stand as we hear God's word together? This scripture comes from Matthew chapter twenty-eight, verses sixteen through twenty. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee and to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him. But some doubted, and Jesus Came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make the make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the name. Of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Amen. Please be seated. Dear Heavenly Father, we come to you now, uh knowing that you are uh here with us, Lord Jesus, and um we expect to hear from you. May the Holy Spirit open our hearts and listen to what Jesus said to disciples long ago, but now speaking to us. Even in our lives, in this church, would you help us Help us understand and be convicted by your spirit. We lift up this time to you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Uh again hello. Uh my name is Dong Dong O Kim and but it's gonna take me probably three months or so to uh for for you to look learn how to pronounce my name so D W is fine. I I I go by that during my schooling days so um yeah so I I I am uh um the pastor of uh Covenant President Church of Maryland, which will meet here this place at two PM today. Uh most we it will be in Korean language, but we appreciate uh your church so much because when we had the first need to uh have a place for worship we meet in uh community center, North Laurel Community Center, every mo Sunday morning. And uh sometimes uh the center closes so we have to find a place and the first time I I was looking around and this church uh opened up uh uh graciously to us so we thank you so much for that. And we had time to uh do BBS together two years ago and it was great time. uh sharing our resources and and seeing our children together. Uh which reminds me uh of one fact that um There are so many different kinds of people who live in this community, especially Laurel. And often we do not see each other. Uh I was working at a Korean church uh from 2009 to 2019, uh which is obviously a Korean church. almost all Koreans. And even though I lived in the States for since nineteen ninety, uh You get to see the people you're used to. Even though there are so many people and so many cultures around here that that lives so close by. And one of the reasons I um planted we we planted our church uh almost five years ago now, like two months before pandemic. was I really wanted to see the people in in our big church up in Oligo City to be able to see the need for us to go out and meet the people in the community and if they avoid uh English speaking people the whole week somehow, if they're successful with that, then at least on Sundays they'll be able to see the people in the community the church so that they will be able to actually love the neighbors that God um gave them. And even though I explained our vision to our church members in the beginning a lot, including myself. We are not so good at going out of our comfort zone and meeting our uh neighbors We are still uh dealing with uh why are we so close into ourselves. Um Um today's passage is uh I I I didn't design it that way, but it just turned out. I've been going through the Gospel of Matthew since almost the beginning of beginning of the uh the planning of the church and it has taken us almost four years to finish it and today is the day that we finished uh expounding from the gospel of Matthew. So our people heard like four years of this. And today was the day and then uh I don't know if I just orchestrated that our able to preach this message in English as well as Korean this up now. And the nature of the message itself is very interesting because it talks about going out Going out. And the resurrected Christ meets his disciples in Galilee and tells them Of course there's a background to this. You know what Jesus did on this earth two thousand years ago. He came, right? Um when he came he was the the family was so poor, they couldn't really uh get a place for the childbirth and they had had him in a typical uh just poor families house in Bethlehem and placed them in a manger. And he went through whole kinds of sufferings and then he was crucified. And all his disciples were scattered. Jesus was, as he said, was he was raised from the dead And the angel came down and rolled the stone away from the tomb and uh show uh the woman uh Dem didn't the angel told the woman and they just was raised as he had said and he he told them to go tell the disciples quickly to go meet This resurrected Jesus in Galilee. And as the women were leaving, I of course Jesus resurrected Jesus met them and said the same thing. So go to Galilee and I'm going there before them. So tell them to meet me there. And that's where we come to the passage today we just read. And verse sixteen it says, Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. It's eleven because obviously Judas is Cariot, uh one of the twelve, he betrayed Jesus and he died, he he killed himself. And eleven disciples were left, went to Galilee. By the way, uh Matthew, Gospel of Matthew talks about this scene, but other gospels talks about how Jesus Jes appeared So eleven disciples by the by the time they went to Galilee they already met this resurrected Jesus once at least or twice Um we don't know exactly what mountain it was. It says to the mountain to which he has subjected them. Uh but apparently they knew where to go. So they went. And then verse 17 says, and when they saw him, they worshipped him. But some doubted. So disciples, eleven disciples' reaction to the resurrected Jesus was that they would worship him because they realized there's no ordinary human being but it actually is the Messiah, God's son with power now who actually was raised from the dead as he said he would. And the obvious realm is Reaction to that was worship according to God, right? But he says, but some doubted And most likely this psalm is not part of the eleven, meaning there were more disciples who had not seen Jesus resurrected. by this time who came with the eleven disciples to Galilee. But still the the fact remains Eleven disciples worshipped Jesus, but some who followed Jesus until that point doubted. We don't know what kind of doubt it was. Maybe they were confused about who this person is or whether he's really resurrected or that's some some phantasm of some kind We don't know exactly the nature of the doubt, but we know that the fact that they they doubted. They hesitated to worship him as he should be worshipped. Which tells us even the people who met resurrected Christ They are not perfect in their response of faith. If Jesus were to appear today in this room, you see him. Would you be able to worship him as you should? Would you uh worship him and obey all that he commands in every single day once if you if you just see him once in this place resurrected with your physical eyes I would say most likely not. Most likely not Because even though we did not see the resurrected Jesus physically, all of us who believe in Jesus had some kind of experience, true experience with God. Somehow He opens your eyes, opens your hearts to place your trust in Him and follow Him. It's not true. Isn't that why you confess before you get baptized? Or after you get baptized and confirmed? If you look into your faith life, you met Jesus You know him. But in our actual Christian life, we find ourselves a lot of times hesitating to follow, having doubts whether this will actually work. We have to confess we are not perfect in our faith. True believers and still weak. And looking at our church plants, we had a great uh I don't know how to so my expression goes over this bar. Great. A resolve to really do the work of the Lord and go out and and be the church And uh after some time we experienced some turmoil and uh some split and some some drama and um we realize I realize then we are just Christians for we Friend about your church. Do you find yourself meeting Jesus every Sunday? or some Sundays at least, but still struggling to remember what it says and the problem. And that's exactly why Jesus had to meet them in Galilee. He knew, and he knows That we are weak. That's why he shows himself to the disciples and tells them what to do. Speaks to them so that they will not forget. We need reminders from Jesus even this moment That is real, it's alive. He knows exactly what's going on and he knows the state, the weak state of our faith. And he's He charges them. Look at verse eighteen says And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Jesus received all authority after the resurrection. You believe that Jesus is a son of God, right? God Son. When did the Son of God exist? From all eternity. The person of Jesus always had authority in heaven and earth. But what does he mean by saying all authority in heaven and earth has been given to him? Is he talking about the fact that he had it all along? No. He's talking about the fact that something happened in history to save God's people Which is God's son, the glorious son, was sent to this earth down below, and when it came down He came down as a lowly human being who is weak just like us. And he set aside all his glorious privileges as God the Son. for a time being. And then he became just like us. Even though he didn't sin, he suffered, he struggled, he had to face many temptations. But in his struggle to obey God the Father, unlike us, he succeeded He followed God, he followed the Father to the point of death on the cross to save his people. And because he succeeded in obeying God the Father completely, perfectly, Father raised him from the dead as a reward. That's when he gave, the Father gave, all authority in heaven and on earth to him. He's talking about that point when he died and resurrected at that point Jesus was given All the authority in heaven and earth to rule the entire universe as a ruler of the kingdom of God. And that's what it's talking about here. All authority in heaven and earth. has been given to me as the Messiah who obeyed God perfectly. Now he has all power. And what does he do? He tells these weak disciples disciples, who are still wavering in faith, even though they see the resurrected Christ, he tells them, do not be afraid. I have been given all power and now authorize you to go out. And he still says have been assured that even though we confess we are weak, we are given the authority and power to go out and make disciples. But correct Courage, the power in a way that the world has never seen. Um This is the first time that I I worship with you actually on Sunday morning. And as I was uh listening to the uh Dickamarty go through the the worship. I was it was interesting because this is something as a as a as a reformed pastor who's trained in liturgy in that way. Actually I'm hearing and seeing what's actually done in the reform worship. Which is to say our church does worship similarly but not quite. So if this is more Or for example, uh we don't have the entire service written written on the in the bullet. Uh which which is great. Um Well I wanted to say that um I could kind of feel the history of the Reformed Church behind all this liturgy a little bit. And somehow uh It just made me imagine how it was first done in this way and with uh great power And um authority. Which led me to think a little a bit about How how how this nation um I guess back then for going on missionaries um Uh mostly um Mostly speak than Christian tradition and and um and revivals and everything that goes with it It had the um experience and ability and power to do God's work in in in ways that the world has not ever seen. For some reason it has the form uh but the power it has speak The culture of this nation for some reason. Is not is not y it is not evidencing the power of um the church and believers who know God truly in their hearts, going out courageously and sharing faith and and exhibiting the when when I came uh as as an immigrant to this nation And when I went to college and wha what I heard was when you go to the States you you you this is a testimony from a pastor who heard from a Chinese uh student. This Chinese student would go to the space and was w w would would tell the pastor, when I go to the space, I was told to meet Christians Because that's when you actually know what what what America is all about But I don't know since when this nation uh is just not the same. I I'm not advocating we have to go back to become a Christian and kind of like political I'm I'm I'm talking about churches, Christians, really being reminded and remembering the fact that Christ has given us all authority in heaven and earth. to go out and make disciples. We somehow need to recover that in our churches and individual Christians. And and the way God has set up with all these nations have having come to this neighborhood is more than ever urgent and uh expi experience to do just that. You just need to go Few steps to next door neighbor and meet the all nations. My next door neighbor is Jewish person, Jewish woman. with a single mom. The next door to that is a Indian family who i who is in Chinism. Nicest people ever, but They did not eat meat. My on my left is Christians. Husband, African American, uh wife is uh from Spain. Uh they used to go to big church but something happened at church and they don't do not go to church anymore because um a and and their daughter who just gone to college Um don't go to church anymore because uh the girls in youth school were so mean to her. Disciples of Christ at the CRPC All authority in heaven and earth has been given to us. And we are to go out and make disciples of all nations. The question is, are we doing it? Verse 19 is clear. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father. Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Jesus' command is for us to go out and make disciples. Make disciples is our probably heard this many times. It that's make disciples the main verb, so he's really telling them to make disciples. That's the command. And disciple is follower of Christ Somebody who knows, recognizes the resurrected Jesus, meets him regularly, and and and follows him wherever he goes. All our church ministries uh have to be, should be, must be, for the purpose of making disciples directly on directly it should be all point to making disciples of all nations and our ministry is for all nations I just wanna uh um focus on this goal Because in order to make disciples, you have to go And uh this question has been uh sort of sort of uh um uh bugging me for a while now because I I heard before I planted a church the best way to do evangelism is to plant a church. And of course some reason uh our church hasn't been that uh great in evangelizing. And And uh probably there are other problems, but I think it's mostly because of me. Because every ministry since I started ministry I I was I was good at uh not increasing the number of people but shrinking the number of people. I think I think I really expert Uh anyway. Uh but then uh looking at this past I kinda realize kinda why. Why why? Because We sit and don't go. We sit where we are comfortable and do not go anywhere But in order to make disciples, we must have much, a lot of energy and community Go out and meet all these various cultural people where they are We must go. We can't be just sitting where we are, spiritually speaking. Are you standing up and going out to people around you? Because you are surrounded by people who are Just waiting, even though they might not know, waiting to hear the message you have to share with them. When it says make disciples, talks about talk it's talking about the ministry of the church and he says uh it tells us how to do he he tells us how to do it, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. He is talking about he is talking about drawing people, baptizing them in the name of the triangle into the people of God, which is this church. Meaning it's not just like one person going out there and sharing the gospel and converting every person he meets. He's actually talking about movement of a church That the world sees as this is God's people who know the true God. God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit, these people know. Because they heard the message that Christ resurrected from the dead And they believe it and live like they believe it. And they gather every Sunday, every Lord's Day to worship God in this place and the world around us and look at this community and say Maybe there's something going on there. We like to go and hear and get to find out about who God is like. But for that, the church must do the ministry of baptizing people into the name of the triumph. Talking about the people who are filled with the power of the Holy Spirit, living the life of glorifying God the Father. Because they are grounded on the cornerstone Jesus Christ, what he has done on the cross and through resurrection. So wanted to say, we must have a great hope for our church. We must have great hope for our churches and our ministries. Because it's God sanctioned institutions that God is using. I don't know about your church too much. I don't know about the prairie you belong to, but I know about our church and our prairie Uh if there's one word to describe uh our pastory and our church, honestly Yes um maybe too humanly speaking, but it's weak And often we lose both and uh Don't expect great things to happen with this church church or pastory or all the churches around And uh and and I got I get upset when people say oh Oh, your your church is not that great, not not not not too big in all these years you have you know, didn't increase but decreased the number and things and Uh-huh. There are so many reasons for us to be discouraged. But it's when it's when um you hear People around you and yourself making discouragement discouraging remarks and evaluations. That That's when you need to remember the words of Jesus and be encouraged about your Church. Your church is great not because of the size of the congregation, not because of the great things you have done in this community. It is great and hopeful because of Christ. in it. His promise for it. And his presence with it You are a great church. And Jesus, the resurrected Jesus is here to make sure that we're here. We're as great as Christ is. Would you believe it? Usually in a Korean church, uh they say I'm into this. uh uh maybe different culture. Uh would you would you have great hopes for this church? Don't just focus on what you see. Think about and praise God for what He will do through you when people And not only by baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and Holy Spirit, He says in verse twenty, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Um Jesus tells them uh to baptize people into this church, but also and to do that, you have have to teach them. So in a way you can say all churches ministry is essentially a teaching ministry. Letting and making people know and learn and grow in the will of God, getting to know who God is and what he wants. So we must teach people in this church, but we have to teach everything that Christ has commanded us, has taught us. Everything the Bible teaches us. We must people who love who love the word of God and want to learn what is written in it. And And our mind has been transformed with this kingdom vision of what he has done and is doing through his son Jesus Christ. And we must think differently because of what we learn at the church, at our church. So let me uh just quickly ask you this question. Do you live your life Differently. Do you look at this world and the community we live in and the nation And the politics and all these things, do you think about it differently? Because Christ has taught you the kingdom Do you uh interpret, understand how things are differently from the people of the world because you belong. To God's kingdom, who are baptized into his church, who are taught the word of Christ, and constantly reminded of what he has said And what he's doing among us. You must be taught and you must teach others of this way of the Lord. And Finally, he says, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. I'm gonna close it with this. Christ has not given us all these commands with just imperatives. Christ has resurrected and stars his charge with the fact that he's been given all authority in heaven and earth. And then he ends it with a promise that no matter what happens, I'm going to be with you to the end of the age. And brothers and sisters in Christ Christ Jesus is even now here with us. Jesus is with us. You know what? That's all the promise and assurance that we need. Until when? Today, end of the age. uh guarantees but there's no ba no guarantee that that can top that. Till it comes back He is going to stick by with us. And he's gonna carry us there in your church. May that be the comfort happens first on on in this uh first Sunday morning of December. Let's pray. Uh do you have any father? We come to you. Uh Knowing that uh we are weak and we falter and we forget the great words of God and the words of the Lord. And we uh confess that we are weak people. Lord, we uh at the same time have great hopes in your church and in you. Father, would you help us to uh Remember what you have said to us through your son. Help us to encourage each other and fellowship with each other like Christ is here. So would you help us and teach us what that means in every single day of our lives and the life of this church? Would you bless this church? In Jesus Christ's name we pray.