Psalm 103, verses 17 and 18, but the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him. And his righteousness to his children's children, to those who keep his covenant, and remember to do his commands. Amen. I don't know how many of you are familiar with Greek mythology. Some of you may have had it in school. Some of you may have been to Greece. Some of you may have eaten Greece. Oh, that's different, isn't it? Well, in Greek mythology there was a leader of a group. There were two groups who often fought with each other, the pantheon of gods called the Olympians with Zeus and all of those. But there was a group that fought with them called the Titans. And the Titans were led by a felon named Atlas. And they fought together in the mythology of these gods. And there was said to be a ten-year battle between Atlas. And his companions against Zeus and the Olympians. And after ten years, uh Atlas and the Titans lost, and Atlas was condemned by Zeus to have to uphold the skies for all eternity. Now, when you see supposed pictures of Atlas, they're usually not pictures of him holding up the sky. Uh one, because I think it would be hard to show the sky. Right? We tend to see Atlas how. Any of you tell me what he looks like? Yeah, he's holding up the whole world, not just the skies, right? Except most of the time that I've seen the pictures He's not standing like, you know, Charles Atlas, if you were from my age and used to read comic books, was the guy who was the weightlifter and he kicked sand in his face. And you know you wanted to be like Charles Atlas and be able to beat the bully, but no, uh this Atlas didn't stand like this with the whole world, but when you usually see his picture, right? He's down on one knee and he's got he's got the whole world and he's grimacing and he goes, uh I don't know if I get hold enough any longer. And it looks like at any moment his knee's gonna buckle and he's gonna crash. and get killed. Um are you familiar with that? Yeah, it's pretty common. And that wouldn't You're saying you might say, Pastor, wait a minute, this is a church. Why are we talking about Greek mythology? Well It's because we feel that way sometimes. As we go through life As we live our lives, living in a broken, sinful world, sometimes it feels like the whole world is on our back and we have to hold it up. It might be at work. It might be within your family. It might just be with your own health and your own heart and mind. We're going to be looking tonight at 1 Peter. And in 1 Peter chapter 5, we're going to be looking only at a couple verses. Now I understand there's some kind of joke in the church about Something about a trunk and a periscope. So I guess that's what I'm doing if uh if I have this uh just a couple verses. But these couple verses come in the context Of Peter writing to the elders who are trying to care for the people in the church who are going through persecution. And there's a lot of difficulties that they're facing in doing this. They're trying to be under-shepherds of the Lord Jesus Christ, of people who are suffering. And they're struggling themselves. How can we do that? You might be familiar with the portion of Scripture in the New Testament where Paul says, I not only have the persecution that's going on the outside because I'm a Christian. But I have all the daily cares for the churches. And he's thinking of all these churches that he was a part of starting on his missionary journeys. And he's hearing back about the Corinthian church. Oh, now they're in trouble again. And he hears about another church that's struggling or hurting. And so he's just overwhelmed. And sometimes The elders of your church get overwhelmed because they have to care for you. And and sometimes it's a hard care because you're sinning they have to go to you and sometimes it's a tearful care Because they see the struggles that you're going through and care for them and pray for them and want to be able to do something And because we can't always do something, they're overwhelmed and could feel like Atlas carrying the world. So this word to Peter is like that to these under-shepherds acting for Jesus Christ. But beloved, you don't have to just sit here and tune out now and say, well, okay, this is for the elders. Don't have to worry about it. What I want to bring you is this wonderful truth that we're looking at tonight is for you too. The same kind of comfort that God made and was bringing for the elders that Peter was writing to in the churches of Asia Minor as they were caring for struggling brothers and sisters is a word that God has for you this evening. And the reason that I chose to bring this is because of this past week myself. I got up early one morning this week and I looked at my to-do list. And I was tired to begin with. And some of those things were things I didn't want to face. And some of them were just things that were long. And my to-do list was I was done before I even looked at my to-do list. And I was just overwhelmed. And I thought, well, what should I do? And I thought, well, I can go back to bed. I didn't have an early morning meeting. Um, I thought, well, there's no ice cream or cookies in the freezer. Should I go out and get something? Um I thought, well, I don't have anything on on tap, so maybe uh I could just uh tell Marg I was really tired and just kind of leave me alone and sit in the recliner and put up my feet and put a blanket on and and watch old movies. I mean there's all kinds of ways we try to medicate ourselves. Or I could have just cried. I mean, I was just I was I felt like I was getting crushed. And and and it wasn't like I'm going to die tomorrow. I heard that I have cancer It wasn't like my bank account just ran out and I have no hope for the future. It was it wasn't anything even overwhelming, and there are some of you that are going through much harder things. But the truth was, at that moment, I was just felt like I was crushed. And so what I'm bringing you tonight is. where I go when I feel that way. I can certainly go to sinful things. I can certainly go to things that aren't productive. That for the moment will make me feel better, but afterwards I'll feel a whole lot worse. So where I'm going to go tonight is where I go. And I hope that by God's grace and mercy it may speak to you. I trust much more than a word from me, but a word from God for your own soul. Because I think that like me, you get caught up with the cares of the world and anxious worries. And you find yourself burdened, wondering what you will do. So let us pray, and then we'll open the word of God Our Father and God, I thank you for your speaking to us When we read your word, it isn't just long ago and far away, but it is for us this very evening, and some very particularly. You have said it so that we would hear it. And rejoice. Lord, how we thank you that your word is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing between joint and marrow, getting down to our very souls. Would you be gracious to speak to the souls of your people tonight and encourage them? For Christ's sake we pray. Amen. I'm going to be reading tonight, and let's stand together as we read. 1 Peter chapter 5 and verses 6 and 7. 1 Peter chapter 5 and verses 6 and 7. Humble yourselves Therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he might exalt you Casting all of your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Brothers and sisters, the word of God. You may be seated. At those times when you might feel like Atlas Under the weight of your crushing burdens, the first thing the Lord tells you to do is humble yourself before the Lord. One of the reasons that we need that is we can often think, I can handle this. I'm the kind of person that when someone asks me to do something, I say yes if I can, and I try to take on more. Because I think I can handle this. It's a sickness. It's a John Wayne spirituality. All right, pilgrim, I can do this. And instead of being united to the Lord Jesus Christ and trusting him, I think that somehow I should be able to continue in my own strength. After all, I'm a Christian. After all, I'm a pastor. After all, I've been a Christian for a long time. After all, I'm a big guy. After all, people are depending Mes But notice what God tells us the very first thing is that we need to humble ourselves under God's mighty hand at these times when we're feeling crushed. Charles Spurgeon speaks to this pride of ours that we act as practical atheists at this time, where we try to endure in our own strength. Little little spiritual trains. I think I can. I think I can. I know I can. I know I can. Right? We'll get over this hump. We're just we'll buckle down and hold on. And God says, that's foolishness. You were never meant to do it alone. You were never meant to be a God unto yourself. You need to humble yourself under my mighty hand and call out to me. Spurgeon talks about this. He says. The very essence of anxious care is imagining that we are wiser than God. And thrusting of ourselves into his place to do for him that which we dream he either cannot or will not do. That's that person who kind of brags about being a worrywort. You know, oh I I'm always worried. I you know, and that's not good. And yet there are some Christians who even think that that is a good thing. They they think they're they're telling you that they really love you if they're a worrier. We attempt to think of that which we need, God will forget. Or we labor to take upon ourselves that burden which He is neither not able nor willing to carry for us. We take on stuff that he didn't know we were never even meant to do at different times. Now this impertinence, this presumption, this audacity has in its very nature to attempt to believe that you know better than God, to snatch from his hand the helm by which he guides our affairs, to attempt to correct his charts, to remap his providence. Margan, I have the pleasure of counseling folks from time to time. And I will come to people and talk to people who find themselves overwhelmed and burdened. They say, I can't do it any longer, but they keep holding on to it. And one of the things we do is draw two circles. The first circle is smaller. It's called the circle of responsibility. It's not a lot of things, where it's what the things that God calls you to obey him in. And then there's a bigger circle called the circle of concern that because it's happening in your world you're concerned about, but you're not responsible for. You just have to trust God in it. And the problem is when we get into the situation, we get all worried with our anxious and cares and all the rest, and we spend our time in the circle of concern that we're supposed to trust God in, and it's nothing we can do about it. You can't worry about many things. There are things you can't even do. And that causes you to give up on the circle of responsibilities what you're called to obey God in. Now let me try to picture this in a situation. Suppose you have a loved one that's an unbeliever. And because you want them to come to Christ, You can spend all of your time in the circle of concern, and you should be concerned about them, that they're not Christ. And you can say, oh, they're not Christ. Oh no. And you can talk to everybody else about it and say they're not a Christian. And you don't have to do that. God calls you to do some things. He calls you to love them. That's your circle of responsibility. He calls you to share the Word of God with them if you can. And He calls you to pray for them. So do those three things. Call on God to help you be responsible, to obey him, but trust their salvation to him. You can't convert them. You don't have to go to bed at night and say, oh, they're not a believer. What am I going to do? Of course you love them and are concerned about them, but it's God's Responsibility to bring him to himself. He calls you to do something. He may use your loving of them. He may use your prayers of them. He may use your sharing of the gospel with them. But that's a small circle. You can find your rest there. I've done this with God's help, but I give their souls in the future to him. We take on more than we are responsible for and become godlike. Something we were never meant to do. We're able to trust these things to him and with his help do the few things that he calls us to do. So the first thing when we're overwhelmed is is not to try to say, okay, what do I do if I just do this? I can get it together. I can pick up the load again and carry it. You weren't ever made to do that You're God's child. He'll call you to do something because you love him, but he says, you're to rest in me. Humble yourself under my mighty hand that I'll uplift you. At the right time. That's the first thing we need to do when we're overwhelmed with our Atlas complex and we're feeling truly crushed at times. Well, the Word of God goes on and gives us this great picture that when you feel like Atlas crushed under the burdens, That are weighting you down. This next thing he says, God says after to humble yourself is he says, cast those anxieties upon me. Isn't that wondrous? You're a child of God. A child was never meant to carry all of those things. His father is there with him to carry them and carry him, casting all your anxieties, your cares, your anxious worries. Now let me just ask you tonight, what are those things that are your anxious worries that you come with tonight? Is it the future? Is it your health? Is it a loved one? Is it your safety? Is it your finances? You fill in the blank. There are more anxious worries and cares than I could ever begin to mention. And we're all different and they change from day to day. And some days might feel like you only have one or two, and it's a zippity-doo-daw day, you know? Mr. Bluebird's on my shoulders. You know, and then some days it's an Eeyore day, you know. Oh. And it might be an Eeyore period of life. It might go on for months or even years. And if we try to be Charles Atlas and or the Atlas and hold it up, we're going to be crushed. We humble ourselves, but we can take these worries and cares and what's it say to do? Cast your anxieties upon him Upon God. Matthew Henry tells us the best of Christians are apt to labor under the burden of anxious and excessive care. Oh, isn't it wondrous that the Bible just doesn't here say, you're rotten if you're anxious. If you ever have a care or worry, there's no faith in you. But it doesn't say that, does it? He's talking to these dear elders and he's talking to you and he says, oh my, in this world, in this broken world, we sometimes and even can be often feel like we're crushed. And he says, you are God's child. He is your father. You do not have to bear these alone. The best of Christians are apt. The best of Christians are apt. The best of Christians are apt to labor under the burden of anxious and excessive care, the apostle calls it. All your care, intimidating that cares of Christians are various and of more sorts than one. Personal cares, family cares, cares for the present Cares for the future, cares for themselves, for others, and for the church. Throw your cares, which are so cutting and distracting, which wound your souls and pierce your hearts. upon the wise and gracious providence of God. Trust him with a firm, composed mind because he cares for you. He is willing to release you of your care and take the care of you upon himself. Your anxieties are all those worries and fears that pull you away from trusting in and resting on God and His care for you. Beloved, do you need to do that tonight? It is a pleasure. It is a promise. It is a gift that your Father is giving you this evening. That you don't have to be crushed. And he will carry if you cast. Now it's interesting. The Lord often repeats things in Scripture. Because we tend to be what my father called me as a child. My nickname was Cementhead. Why do you think my father gave me the name Cementhead? He would tell me and it just didn't get through. You know, and I was stubborn. And it's interesting, I believe, that God repeats stuff is because as Christians we tend to be cement heads. We tend to hear it, but we need to hear it again and again. Because it so easily bounces off and we won't believe it or we'll forget it. Psalm 55, 22, if the if you're marking this tonight because you know anxiety. And you need to go someplace. If that's if you're marking 1 Peter 5, 6 and 7, Psalm 55 and 22, it's that other place that I go when I'm feeling like Atlas and being crushed. Psalm 55 and 22 says this, cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never permit the righteous to be moved. Spurgeon says this, casting, says the apostle. He doesn't say laying all your care upon him, but he uses a much more energetic word. I think of it like the the guy on the back of the big green management truck, you know, stick seeing pickup while by the road, the stuff by the road. You know, did you ever see those guys take the trash cans and go, oh, this is such a nice trash can. I've got to be careful with it. And he opens the lid and he goes, There's a little trash in the back of the truck. Oh, he wants to get rid of it. It stinks. And he says, cast them, throw them off. They don't have to crush you. Cast them upon the Lord. You have to cast the load upon the Lord. The act will require effort. Here is a work worthy of faith. And you have to do it and you have to believe it. And you say, Lord, this is yours. It's crushing me. I can't handle it. It's not this. Oh, Lord, I feel so bad. We can sort of take this with me if you want to. No, it's saying, oh God. I can hardly lift up my head. I'm going to take this and give it to you. I'm casting upon you, O Lord. I can't deal with it. You stagger beneath a weight which your father would not feel. What seems to be a crushing burden to you, to him, is but dust on a scale. And who's calling you to do this? Well, you're saying I am, because I'm speaking. But I couldn't carry your burden. God may use me as a pastor and elder to come beside and speak to you and Try to hold your hands up maybe for a while like uh uh Moses' brother and sister did, Arian and Miriam during the battle. They held his hands up for a while, but the burden would have crushed them except that God came and upheld them all. What a wondrous thing. Your Father. Your Heavenly Father knows right now your burdens. They're not there by chance or mistake. But he says, you are not to bear them alone. If you do, you will be crushed. But you need not be. And then he gives the reason for all of this. The wondrous, wondrous reason. You can have relief under your crushing burdens. Do you see why? Because he, God cares for you. Sometimes we doubt that. Often we doubt that under the pressure of the burdens, we can't see well, we can't think straight, we're being crushed, and we might even say. Though most of us would never shout it, but we might say, God, do you care? I mean, this isn't just little things we're talking about. We're not talking about hangnails. You know, we're talking about those things that cause us to be undone. God, do you care? Have you ever said that in your own heart or mine? God, do you really care? I'm yours. I've given to you myself, to you by faith. Do you care? And what's he saying here in your anxieties? He cares for you. I might need to tell you that again. He cares for you. You might need to hear it again because it's hard. He understands. He cares for you. And how do we know that he cares for you? We know it in regard to our salvation. Because we think we're being crushed. Do you remember how Isaiah in the Old Testament speaks of our Savior? so that we could be saved? He was speaking of Jesus even before the cross, and listen to what he says about the upcoming death of Jesus for his people, you who are his by faith. It says in Isaiah 53, 4 and 6, Surely He has borne our grief. He has carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed and stricken, smitten of God, afflicted. He was pierced for transgression. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement the broadest peace, with his wounds were healed All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to our own way. He has laid on him the iniquity of all Us all, yet it was his will, the will of the Lord, to crush him. You understand what it's saying? You and I are the ones who should be crushed because of our lack of faith, because of our rebellion to God, because of our sin. When he says that even in some translation, it pleased the Lord that Jesus would be crushed instead of us. In 2 Corinthians 5. 21 in the New Testament says it this way, for our sake, he, God, made him Jesus Christ. To be sin, who knew no sin? He was crushed for iniquities, so that in him, Jesus, we might be by faith become the righteousness of God. You don't have to earn your salvation and know the crushing thing. Am I saved? Am I not saved? Am I good enough today? Am I not good enough? No, you won't be crushed because he was crushed for you. So the burden of your salvation has been lifted because Jesus has been crushed for you. But what about your everyday needs? Lord, do you know what's going on here? Turn to Matthew 6 with me. Matthew chapter six, we'll start with verse twenty-five. We're going to be reading here, and I want you to just see how over and over again that your God is saying, you know, are you worried about your finances, your food, your health, what you will wear? And and and the Lord is saying, you don't have to be anxious. I've got it covered. Matthew chapter 6, starting in verse 25. Therefore, I tell you. Do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, what you will drink, nor about your body, what you put on. Is life not more important than food and body more important than clothing? Look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not more valued than they? Any of you have plans to go out and get milk and bread before the snowstorm? We're going to. We're not gonna get a lot, but we're just gonna make sure, you know, we don't know, right? Snowstorm. Snow Mageddon coming in the spring. You know, you may be doing that or not, right? The birds aren't doing that. Of course I'm not saying, you know, if you if you don't eat, you don't work. I'm not saying don't work, right? But boy, the birds do a whole lot better job than we do, don't they? Let's continue. Verse 27. Which of you by being anxious could add a single hour to his life spend. Why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown in the oven, will he not much more clothe you, oh you of little faith Therefore, don't be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? What shall we drink? What shall we wear? For the Gentiles, the unbelievers, seek after these things, and your heavenly Father knows you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Therefore. Do not be anxious about tomorrow. Who might show up tomorrow? What might happen tomorrow? If tomorrow is going to even get here. Don't be anxious for tomorrow. It will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. And I want to tell you, beloved, the troubles, the anxieties that you're going through don't happen by chance. We know that your God works some things together for good. A few things together for good. Is that right? What does he say? Oh Sufficient for the day. I I speak to people who struggle with this sometimes like some days we have Lots of troubles and some days little troubles. Some periods of time in our life, lots of troubles, sometimes almost no troubles. But God is busy baking your loaf of trouble for today. And sometimes it's a little croissant. Oh, I got a little croissant of trouble. I can get through that. It's not bad. And sometimes the trouble loaf you get is one of those submarine sandwiches that would feed the whole church You lay out four tables lengthwise, and they bring in with a truck and fourteen men carrying this this submarine, right? And you gotta you've got to eat that bun, and that's the one you have for today. And you think, there's no way I'm going to eat it, right? And you can't. Except what do you like with hot bread? Some people like butter. That's me, real butter, nothing besides. Some people like peanut butter, some jelly, some honey. I don't know what you like on your hot bread, your troubled loaf. But God who not only bakes the trouble loaf for your day or this period in your life, also gives whatever you need to get it down. 2 Corinthians 12, 9, but he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. My power is made perfect in weakness, therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses so the power of Christ might rest on me. And he has promised when you humble yourself. Then indeed his power will rest on you. You can cast your anxieties upon him because he cares for you. Do you doubt God's grace because of your troubles? Beloved, this is medicine. Market. I have it well marked in my Bible. And I only have it marked in my Bible. I have it marked at the end because of the times when I'm feeling so bad. I said, what are those verses? And I've gone to those verses over and over again, right? But I can't remember. And I said, oh, but it says there in my Bible in the back, when in trouble, go to And it's medicine for my soul each time because it's God who says it. Beloved, take it up tonight. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, casting all your anxieties upon Him Because he cares for you. Let us pray. Father and God, I hate to admit my own weakness that I didn't have a car that broke down or have a crash or find out about cancer or hurt by someone I love. It was just that I woke up and my list was so long and I couldn't even begin to do it. And yet I thank you that this and the saints of the past have told us that you carry them through everything. May we take this medicine tonight and mark it. But not just mark it, but would you have us take it, O God, by your grace? What a pleasure to be humbled before you and to call upon you as our Father and cast our anxieties upon you, because you have shown us your love and care for us. By crushing Jesus under the burden of sin, that we might become yours. Encourage your saints this evening as we rest in you For Jesus' sake and in his name. Amen.