The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. Brothers and sisters, this is the word of God. Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. Beloved, it is a tragic thing when God gives us what we want. The text says that from the shoulders up he was taller than all the people. And we'll see that as we go through. So the word seems to carry a hint of shunning responsibility and that of untrustwortworthy character. And the spirit descending on him like a dove, and a voice came from heaven. In 1 Samuel chapter 10, verse 24, long live the King. But as his ministry continues, the sinful character traits begin to surface to the detriment of all Israel. The burnt offering was to be a sweet aroma up to God. It reads in 1 Samuel chapter 16, Now the spirit of the Lord had departed from Saul, and a harmful spirit from the Lord tormented him. And that brings us to our fourth point. And then it ends in distrusting God. Can't you imagine the crowd, the Israelites and the crowd there, they're yelling at Pilate. And whoever receives the mark of its name, beloved, both kingdoms are eternal. He's still there, still trying to wash the blood of Jesus off his hands. Are you in? But when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. Father, thank you for the church. and in our communities and in our workplaces that people will see the light. Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through that one man, Jesus Christ. Dr. That two men would affirm that the donkeys that Saul had lost were found, and they would make sure that his father knew that he was safe. Jonathan was worthy of the throne. Talking to demon Nicodemus says, truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of the water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. You couldn't find a piece of the ground to step on because of all the bodies. We're going to uh our springboard textbook today will be in John chapter chapters 18 and 19, and we saw this in uh the bulletin. So to answer that question, to get clarity, we must look at the king. We're going to look at the king's coronation. only understanding but unspeakable joy that will sustain us and lead us home to you where we shall enjoy you and glorify you forever to him, are you the king of the Jews? Verses twelve through sixteen. About the sixth hour, he said to the Jews, Behold, your king. But a guide to my own downfall. And he had a son whose name was Saul, a handsome young man. Are grasshoppers to us. And so they inquired, 1 Samuel chapter 10, verses 22 to 23, it says, so they inquired again of the Lord, is there a man still to come? He did not care to part with it and sought to kill David, whom he looked upon as his rival. Mark chapter 1 verses 9 through 11 it reads, In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And this was an act of worship to God on Saul's part, but it is not a sweet aroma, and it does not bring peace, but enity between God and Saul. But it's going to go to another. It's not that Saul didn't have any love for God. But it is a cover-up for his self-love. His lack of honor and love for God went even further when he truly did not repent of his sin against God. And Saul's servant said to him, Behold, now a harmful spirit from God is tormenting you. with these groups is a act of worship. They worship God or they worship the creature. They're worshiping. And the Philistines struck down Jonathan and Abinadab and Maukeshua, the sons of Saul. opposed God and ceased being a king and abused his office as a tyrant and his sons paid the price for his rebellion. They repeat, he repeatedly told them, accept my kingdom. He said this, they knew exactly what he was talking about. twenty seven verse twenty four. Saying the the mindset of the Jews about the kingdom was not God-centered. What the expected expected state would bring for Israel in a national and temporal sense. that Jesus Christ is Lord and the Jews said, we're getting off this train. Beloved, everybody is a slave. Who's your master? Each all those nations, tribes, and languages and tongues are there to as a testimony as Christ conquering all the nations. but with justice. I can tell you a little bit more about the things that he's seen. He gets us there at last. is how have you responded to Jesus Christ. Father, may we be a testimony to all concerning the kingship and the lordship of Jesus Christ because we know And without not knowing their way, not knowing which side is up or down, there's so many voices that are not true, that are lies. Father, we pray that you would open people's eyes to Jesus Christ, that they may be ushered into his glorious kingdom and brought from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. serpent. Adams stand over the whole of human history. Christian, that the point of this message today is to bring clarity to what the Bible says, who you truly are. And who you are not. need to ask ourselves today is which one are you in Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? My kingdom is not of this world. I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called the stone pavement and an Aramaic Gabbatha. murdering him and what led to Jesus' rejection of murder? King on trial. Word of God back to bear in Israel, and it is in this climate that Israel makes requests for a king. Together and came to Samuel at Ram Rama and said to him, Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. a king to judge us like the nations. Of darkness. whose name was Kish, son of Abel, son of Zeror, son of Becharoth, son of Athiah, a Benjamite, a man of wealth, Wealth. Up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. Man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hid their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. And Christ indicts Israel for the evil disposition of their hearts for walking by sight and not by faith. Among men is an abomination in the sight of the Lord. Verse one and verse nine it reads, Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head, and kissed him, and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be prince over his people Israel? Reign over the people of the Lord, and you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies. Experience do not confirm that Saul was a prophet, but these experiences coming to pass does confirm that Samuel was a true prophet. He has hidden himself among the baggage. And an abandoning of one's duty. The war with the Philistines had increased. Worship according to God's word gives reverence to him and brings blessing and encourages his people. The prophet Samuel was the one to offer the sacrifice to the Lord on behalf of the people, and the king was to lead the people according to God's law. One commentator said, hypocrisy does not believe the word of God but takes refuge in works and despairs. More than they fear the Lord always acts foolishly. Before the elders of my people and Israel. Faith cannot thrive in an environment where worship is not regulated and God is not honored above all things. The Spirit of God has departed from him and an evil spirit now torments him from this point forward. Father, save me from this hour. God's word. to the bloodthirsty mob, and Israel is crying, Give us the king like all the nations. Give us his blood. of this foe I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice, so there there will be one flock, one shepherd. the good shepherd and that the k that the kingdom when he came preaching the kingdom or when he mentions the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God in the gospels the Jews were infuriated because in their minds the kingdom uses to accomplish his its perk his purposes, it still is rebellion against his kingship. darkness. Revelation chapter 5 verses 9 through 10 and they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and open to open open its fields, for you were slain. From every tribe and language and people and nation, you have made them a kingdom, a priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. the wine of God's wrath. Said that Pontius Pilate, since his death, is by the banks of the River Styx in hell Matthew Meade, the Puritan, says, It is from Satan's cunning, who, if he cannot keep sinners in their open profaneness, then he labors to persuade them to take up with a form of godliness. to our profession of religion and consent to anything but our conversion and closing with Christ for salvation. now occupies the supreme seat of cosmic authority. Father, we pray for our nation that you would have mercy upon it and that people will be saved. Strengthen us by your word. We know, Father, that those who will not have Christ to rule over them, they shall never have his blood to save them. Well Father, may we proclaim Christ in our speech. We must all hail the king to see the tale of two kingdoms. We pray that Jesus Christ will be exalted in our midst. Amen. But my kingdom is not from the world. you are not Caesar's friend. For every one who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light lest his work should be exposed. Happen overnight. We see the tale of two kingdoms in the king's character. about Israel during the time during the time of Samuel, this the same trial. to what God wants. He was taller than any of the people. And who repeatedly violated a concubine from morning until night. Who were lovers of money heard all these things, and they ridiculed him. the Lord and he he had to grow in wisdom and stature and favor with God and with men All these signs came to pass that day. But not by way of sanctification, by way of conviction, but not by way of conversion. Because later on you see that he he's even willing to kill David to keep the kingdom. To Israel's acceptance of a king who lacked courage and faithfulness Christ had the Spirit of God without measure He does not listen to God. And then even the attempt to placate God is itself a way of dishonoring God. is sin. By God by the word of God is eternally detrimental. thing left. He doesn't seem to be too concerned about what God thinks of him. No one will come forth to face Goliath. Say that they were overwhelmed with fear. And this points back to the character flaw when he hid during his proclamation as the king of Israel. Jesus Christ, the true King, worshiped God according to his word. He did this by offering up himself as the perfect sacrifice to God. He was obedient even to death, the death of the cross. that. So he led his sons to death, and then he killed himself. is. Sons to glory. in hell are a testimony to Christ's conquering of them. Day or night these worshipers of the beast and its image So Christ has conquered the whole cosmos through his birth, life, death, and resurrection. However, the kingdom of darkness is not obliterated from existence. Devastated by Romans in 70 AD. Which is a river of blood of the condemned trying to wash the blood of Jesus' murder off his hands to no avail. Them on in entice them on in their lust with a total neglect of heaven, then he entices them into such a profession as is sure to fall short of heaven. Know that it has hated me before it it hated you. hates you. But I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice. Listen to what our king says. Jesus is enthroned at God's right hand, and all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. before him, either willingly or unwillingly. Jesus Christ has overcome the world. The universe is no democracy. Jesus does not rule by referendum, meaning a general vote, but by divine right. Are you in? David Van Drounen from Westminster Theological Seminary said this. to the king who is enslaved to sin. He set aside, he's sacred. Of the Lamb. So as we do but keep the rest, and to the doing of some duties so as we neglect the rest. And the Jews. Kingdoms climax in the person of Jesus Christ and Adam. Of Saul, while the people were mistaken about their choice. Away with him, away with him, crucify him And that brings us to our next point. after the people's heart. And the reason for this is that Saul did not worship according to God's word. This is a lack of love towards God. Before the elders, I'll dishonor God, but you honor me. A place where worship is designed for the creature leads to the creature being honored above the creator and then it eventually produces doubt and fear, not faith in God. The untrustworthy character. sees the Father doing. blamed people for his sin. Or the covenant curses of the covenant community. Have no king but Caesar. The kingdom resides with me, not with you. And that Jesus' kingdom is not confined to, nor is it Israel. Jonathan, who was worthy to be king, to his death by his disobedience, Christ led unworthy sinners to enter the kingdom. The case. Father, sustain our joy and keep our eyes all on your Son, our Lord, our Savior, our King, Jesus Christ. Thank you for this momentous event to hear the word preached. and shaken be comforted, and may the comfortable be disturbed and shaken. A righteous king, a king after his own heart. Saul impatiently waiting on Samuel took it upon himself to offer the sacrifices. And this is the inevitable, inevitable result of all who attempt to reign apart from God, they lose their kingdom. The people shake their fists in God's face and reject the true King. Takes it from me. The Jews knew exactly what Christ was saying when he said what he said in John chapter 10 about him being the good shepherd. And finally, John chapter 16, he says, I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. Of the life of Saul in comparison to Christ, so we can see clearly these two kingdoms. So one act of righteousness leads to justification of life for all men, for as by one man's disobedience, the many will be made, the one man's disobedience was condemned, by one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. For the light. Jesus was born in a manger. So next comes the public proclamation of Saul becoming king of Israel. In this world, the kingdom of darkness loves its own, doesn't it? True faith in God. We need to respond in faith in our great God. And from this point on, Saul is no longer the king. Not to blame people for his own doing. His father's disobedience brought death to Jonathan. Therefore, 1 Samuel chapter 31, verse 4, therefore Saul took his own sword and fell upon it. Gerhardisba says this the conception which the average Jewish mind had framed of the new order of things and the interests which in its view attached to it were not sufficiently God-centered. Was supposed to be Israel. I have overcome the world. Father, thank you for this time. Pilate said to him, What is truth? It was only Israel's enemies who were described as tall. Of Jerusalem, the destruction of Jerusalem was horrific. To build your own kingdom? You have um you have uh Cain and Abel in Genesis four Genesis four eight through eleven. But Saul disobeyed. We'll dishonor God, but you honor the creature. And he entrusted himself to God throughout his whole life. Saul's son Jonathan was king material. Okay. The people, Israel, cried out to Saul, a man who was displeasing to God, not fully endowed with the Spirit. But sin constantly challenges his rule. And Jesus is about to be ripped from the kingdom, just like Saul. While Christ is equal to the Father in every way, he listened to God. John chapter 10 verse 14 through 18. The kingdom of God is the supremacy of Jesus Christ. This portion of scripture gives us a detailed look at the reality of the tale of two kingdoms which are opposed to one another. They wanted a king that would undermine God's kingship. However, in Saul's coronation, God was not well pleased. And this brings us back to our main text in John. Do you love God? In 1 Samuel chapter 15 verse 3 it reads, kill both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey. We're going to get to that. God sent Saul to devote their Malachites to complete destruction. So we see this when Goliath comes to challenge Israel's champion. There are only two races, one in Adam and one in Christ. The kingdom was ripped from Saul. Listen, and the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest. One to everlasting life, the other one to everlasting death. It is not about coronavirus. And it's not going to be easy, beloved, to ask people that question or to live that out. And his father was described as a mighty man of valor. After all his miracles and most of and most of all his preaching of the word of God, they rejected him. Christ's coronation was glorious and complete. My servant David shall be king over them, and they shall then they shall all have one shepherd. It's a pleasure to be with everyone this morning. War was brewn with the Philistines. And that is exactly the end for Saul and his children. In all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. God's response was not that he is anti-king, because he's not. He was not faithful in the thing in the little things. Well, what about Saul? So the kingdom is the supremacy of Christ over all things. It leads to the dishonor of God, creature above creator, and then it ends in distrust distrusting God. So our first text, John chapter 18, if you have your Bible, verses 33 to 38. This has happened before. The true King of Israel, Jesus Christ, had a glorious coronation. All those in Adam, like Saul, will be overthrown from their reign, and all those in Christ will share in his glorious kingdom. But a Puritan Matthew Mead says this A hypocrite may have the gifts of the Spirit, but not the graces. The beast is the nation, or is the nation. He says, but take heart. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, and may we all hail the kingdom. Jesus Christ says in John chapter 16, when a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come. Father, we pray that you will usher many more into the kingdom. Everyone who makes himself uh makes himself a king opposes Caesar We see the tale of two kingdoms in the king's career. And this is what is seen throughout all of Saul's career and kingship all over Israel. Here Christ lived a perfect life and he is here to save us from our sin. Both will glorify God forever, and he will rule over both forever. Is He your greatest treasure? St. His family was not worth wealthy. Saul gathers his army against them. Saul was the king of Israel, and the king should have went out in the name of the Lord to face the adversary, to fight for the people and the glory of God. Do you have a fist in the air or on your profile page? Strengthen us as we help us to remember the gospel, and may that be strengthened to us through joy. It is a monarchy. The Bible is clear there are only two kingdoms, one of light and the other of darkness. Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? And beloved, that is relevant for us today when there's so much fear and guilt running around. In 1 Samuel chapter 15, verse 24, it reads, He feared the people and listened to their voice. We see the tale of two kingdoms in the king's catstone. Their reaction to Christ was brewing for a long time. He lacked true worship. But for this purpose I have come to this hour. For whatever the Father does, the Son does likewise. Crucify him. Are you living by sight instead of faith? Finally, the third sign is where Saul is empowered by the Spirit of God. The word translated hidden can also mean to withdraw oneself. Israel was supposed to have supremacy over all the nations. As Jesus is before Israel and Israel and Rome being condemned to crucifixion with their fists in the air, it looks like the kingdom is about to be ripped from Jesus. Thank you for your word. It is not about Democrat and Republican. And we pray, Father, for all of us that you would strengthen us by your grace. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. Augustine says this, for what am I to myself without God? Saul places his responsibility for his sin on the people. So let me say this again. And then the only place left to go is death. But the kingdom of darkness is eternal. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, our great and triumph God, we come before your throne to request that you will speak to us through your word. Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. Everyone who was of the truth listens to my voice Amen. But I lay it down of my own accord. Everybody's a slave. And then in John chapter 3, he says, and this is the judgment. And what we see at the trial of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is a manifestation of that hatred. Second, the second sign was that Saul was to accept two loaves of bread from travelers on their way to a place of worship. And the peace offering was to be friendship and peace with God. He was referring to the his reign over the whole cosmos, and that's what infuriated the Jews to murder him. We're going to look at the king's career. So here Samuel anoints Saul with oil and gives Saul three signs that will happen to confirm his rise to the throne. The temple was destroyed, and it was a massacre of Israelites. That's what we should be asking people. And this brings us to Saul. And that brings us to our second point. Don't think for one second that secularism is separated from worship. It was so bad that in the opening chapter of Samuel, when Hannah goes to pray to God to bless her womb, the priest Eli couldn't tell if she was drunk or praying. So the problem is not that they wanted a king, it the problem is that they wanted a king after their own heart and not after God's own heart. Saul, even though the Spirit rushed upon him, was not of the Lord. He kept Agag the king of the Amalekites and the best spoils of war. Jesus repeatedly told them to follow him There were wicked priests everywhere. But the thing displeased Samuel and when they said, Give us a king to judge us, and Samuel prayed to the Lord. The second major mark in Saul's career is that he does not honor God. Christ was explaining scripture, he was interpreting the Old Testament scripture to the Jews. And for those online, glad that you can join us online. He says, Two great figures, Adam and Christ, overshadow the whole of human history. Revelation chapter fourteen, nine through eleven. Israel in that era was in the downward spiral that we read about in Judges. They rejected the God who they cannot see, who have fought for them, done miracles and wonders for the creature that is pleased. When Saul and Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed and exceedingly afraid. He was a godly man, full of courage, and faithful. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. Saul does not honor God but himself. He is just a tyrant warming the seat of the throne. So it seems like Saul was the perfect fit for a king. Thank you for Jesus Christ our King. And beloved, we can see through our the turmoil and unrest in our world today that the world does not know who they are. So Jesus is on trial. It's just that he loved himself so much more. We see this because in Luke chapter 2 they offered two doves or pigeons at the temple, and that was a way for people who were not well off to provide an offering to the people. John chapter 3 verse 34 says, For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. They were falling apart before the Philistines. I am the good shepherd. Rome was splintered again and again and again and broke apart and eventually was no more in 1453. And what's happening in our nation is an act of worship, no matter how chaotic it may look. When you cultivate a life of worship that is not regulated by God's word, it leads to the dishonor of God, creature above creator. You can also say, have courage, stand firm, be strong. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. The kings of this world and all secular governments may ignore this reality, but they cannot undo it. God Himself has appointed his beloved son as the preeminent king. Please raise our minds and thoughts heavenward and captivate our hearts after our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The same trial that we see in John happened during the days of Samuel. We're going to see the triumph of the kingdom of light and the tragedy of the kingdom. Although Saul's family is prestigious, the tribe from which they came from was not. That's not the issue. Both kingdoms, beloved, the kingdom of light and the kingdom of darkness, this may surprise you, both are eternal. It is about the struggle between two kingdoms. It brings God's wrath and God's response through the prophet Samuel is that Saul's kingdom will not continue. Do you worship God in spirit and in truth? There's a saying, like priests, like people, and therefore we're going to look at the king's character. Well you can see in John chapter 7 Jesus talking to his biological brothers he says the world cannot hate you but it hates me because I testify about it. Saul is the only Israelite specifically noted in the Bible as being tall. And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves before men. No one, he says, no one will take your joy from you. The Son of God worshiped God in spirit and in truth. In John chapter 12, verse 27 to 28, it reads, Christ says, Now is my soul troubled. John chapter 5, verse 19. They sieged Jerusal uh seized Jerusalem so much that they started to eat each other in there. Beloved, the most important question for everyone on this planet. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Those who refuse to do so will have their knees broken with a rod of iron. May we proclaim Christ in our lives. First Saul does not listen to God, which leads to sacrilegious worship Now this is a tragic, this tragic event is one evidence that shows that children do in fact take part in the covenant blessing. They're not there so God can honor everybody's nationality He also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the holy. Now we're going to go to John chapter 19. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. So we're going to rewind time, go back in time to see this tale of two kingdoms so that we may hail the true king. And hates the kingdom of light. He stepped out of his place. He publicly dishonors God, who is perfect and sinless, but he wants to be honored. However, it was quite the opposite, beloved. You are my beloved son, with you I am well pleased. We have no king but Caesar. He has ascended to sit on the throne in the new Jerusalem, and he will bring to consummation all things under his kingship. Father, uh empower us and keep us, Father, as we go through these difficult times. And people who are unfaithful in the little, giving them more is not going to make them more faithful. And this is the true king, a worshiper of God, a lover of God, and trust God all to the glory of God. However, the throne was not given to him, but to David, his closest friend and brother. You're done. And we pray all this in the precious name of Jesus Christ. However, they were outnumbered. Isn't that the narrative today? They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Samuel gathers Israel to recognize Saul as king. And he was not to leave any The issue is: who is your master? He does not honor God. He loves his Father, and the Father loves him. Let me read that again because what we're seeing in our nation And they too have tribes from every language and people and nation in it to give glory to Christ's kingship. This is an echo of Adam, who opposed God in his kingship and brought death to all his posterity. Not to mention Saul was tall and the most handsome of all in Israel. And we see that in Deuteronomy chapter 1, verse 28, and Numbers 13, when the Israelites were looking at the Canaanites, and he says, The comparison of Saul to Christ shows a profound weight of glory given to the true King who had no sin compared to the Saul's career as king is defined by opposition to God in three ways. Bless us, your people, to hear our King, Jesus Christ. The main reason Saul hid himself, as we will see, was that of irresponsibility. Here is our Lord Jesus Christ before the kingdom of darkness, and they are crying for his blood. Romans chapter 5, verse 17 through 19 reads, For if uh because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man. Oh, but beloved, in contrast. Father, we pray for the churches that they will stand strong and remember that you The Spirit rushed upon Saul, and he prophesied, but the spirit did not indwell Saul. In John chapter 3, verse 5, Jesus said I know my own, and my own know me. Are you worshiping the nations, your ethnicity, the government, yourself? Such are all the works and even worship of those who do not receive the word of God, for whatever does not proceed from faith. And Saul was ripped from the kingdom. We see the tale of two kingdoms in the king's coronation. John Gill said this about this text. Father, glorify your name. We're murdering you. The battle that is raging around us is not about racial reconciliation. And we're going to look at the king's capstone. So while so many take worship so flippantly, the truth is worship that is not regulated. He comes to challenge Israel and he openly defies Israel's God. So in contrast to Saul, Saul It rebels against his rule, and while he uses it to accomplish his purposes, while he So my question to close out, beloved, whose kingdom R. And the Bible is clear that there are two kingdoms, and that came after the fall of mankind. So with that said, let's stand and pray and read our text for today. Israel was being unfaithful to God. The scripture is pointing here to Israel's rejection of the Almighty God as their king. Finally, he does not trust God, and this is a lack of faith. Pilate wants to let him go, and they're shaking their fists at him. Hence, it was preferably thought of as the kingdom of Israel over the nations. And then while many would have it have attributed Saul's looks as an asset, this was actually an indictment against Israel. The kingdom of darkness is eternal. Thank you for ushering in the kingdom. Anyone who fears, listen, anyone who fears the seeming necessity of the moment. And Saul gives the reason for his disobedience. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he And John Gill was saying it was not that Saul was feeling pressure that he hid, it was a defect in his character. C. Just to give us some closing comfort. It says, There was not a man among the people of Israel more handsome than he. What have you done? The nations collectively reject him as king. To favor the use of the phrase kingdom of God. For rejecting Christ, let's talk about Israel and Rome. So many people are lost The people cried out before Jesus, the beloved Son of God, who had the Spirit without measure. In 1 Samuel 15, verse 30, he says, I have sinned. They were in a battle. The chief priest answered, We When Jesus talked about the kingdom, he was not referring to Israel and Palestine, but to the whole world. Scroll says this It is the profound political reality that Christ When he turned his back to leave Sam, his back to leave Samuel, God gave him another heart. Saul's kingship started out well with the defeat of the Ammonites. Jesus repeatedly told them to follow him. And it reads, From then on Pilate sought to release him. He has a lack of love towards God. You have Moses and Pharaoh. And the people got what they wanted in Saul. He came in true humility and a heart to serve God in all that he is and does. Saul did the burnt offering and he did the peace offering Saul wants to be presented with glory and honored in the eyes of men. Jesus said to the Jews, I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he, you will. In 1 Samuel chapter 8, verses 4 through 7, it reads, Um, Then all the elders of Israel gathered together. It is not that God isn't ruling now because He rules all things. The issue is He made provision for a human kingship in Deuteronomy chapter 17, verses 14 to 20. He lived a perfect life before God, and he came to remove the stain of sin from his people. You're either in Adam's race enslaved to Satan or you're in Christ enslaved to righteousness. If any one worships the beast in its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, he will also drink In the future, every knee will bow The light has come into the world. He surely was a king like all the nations, a man Once again This created fear within Israel's troops, and this was a time for them to seek and worship God. John is talking coming from Revelation 13 and he's seeing these visions visions in Revelation and he just re-he's going back Let's pray. He lacked love for God. That's where this is hidden. This is our kingdom. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world May we proclaim proclaim and teach Christ in our homes. They hated him so much that their rejection led to their The scripture says that the Spirit of God rushed upon him and he prophesied among them. Instead of us submitting, Do not respond. They they they understood that Jesus was saying that he is the true king. And we see this in Luke chapter 16. In the world you will have tribulation. He came from one of the most influential families in the tribe of Benjamin, a family of. And then a voice came from heaven. It says in 1 Samuel chapter 31, verse 2, And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, For this reason the father loves me, because I laid down my life, that I may take it up again. This charge I received from my Father. Joseph's account of AD 70 was horrific. So also you have sorrow now You in Exodus you have Joshua and Canaan and you have David and Goliath and these opposed And by the way, this is not the only time that Israel has put the He says afterwards when he was settled, Saul was settled in the kingdom. And he came up out of the water. Saul didn't want to be abused by the enemy, and he committed suicide. Sounds familiar today, doesn't it? They believed that they should rule. The kingdom is that every knee will bow and every tongue shall confess. Now it's not necessary because there is this thought that good cannot exist without evil. Jesus answered, Jesus' death ushered in the kingdom. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep, I have other sheep that is not the same. And it reads, So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said, John if Jesus Christ said this in John chapter 15, verse 18 to 19. However One is dying to eternal death, and the other is on its way to glory. He was saying, I'm the king. It says in Judges 21 verse 25, in those days there was no king in Israel. However, he is nowhere to be found. Nay, rather than part with his interest in the soul, he will yield far. There are only two kingdoms, God and Satan, Adam and Christ, and the question we We're going to look at the event, the trial of the king before Pontius Pilate. The people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. But by his grace, he brings Samuel on the scene, and Samuel the prophet brings the One is conquered by grace, and the other is conquered by the Satan cares not which way we come to hell, so as long as he It is a terrible thing to bend your knee to a mob. Everybody worships. The shunning of responsibility. The fate of every other individual depends upon the two of them. Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. When you cultivate a life of worship that is not regulated by God. Some are lies, some are true, some are not. He was despised and rejected by men. They shall walk in my rules and be careful to obey my statues. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men. Remember in Judges, it was the Benjamites who acted like Sodom and Gomorrah. Now, beloved, this is a kint to Saul's character because Saul was not a good shepherd. And we pray now that Christ will speak. So at the heart of the kingdom of darkness, there is a hatred. Now appoint for us They would have had life and to accept his kingdom. And the Lord said, Behold. Immediately he saw the heavens being torn open. The emphasis was placed largely on what they expected. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? And he does not trust God. He was telling them that he was the king. It reads 1 Samuel chapter 9, verses 1 through 4: There was a man of Benjamin. If anybody was to be king, it was Jonathan. It's not about coronavirus. He says, uh the he says to the Pharisees, it says the Pharisees. Now honor me. God knows your hearts for what is exalted above. The true king was despised and found lacking among the people of Israel. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It's going to bring tragedy. And the Lord said to Samuel, Obey the voice of the people. And that's exactly the end for Saul and his children. Beloved, there are only two kingdoms, one of light and the other of darkness. And then what we're also going to do, we're going to take a whirlwind tour. That was true then, and that's true now. However, the divine author gives us hints in his description. And fear. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. Whose kingdom? In First Samuel chapter ten The Spirit may be in him by the way of illumination. Amen. That's in 1 Samuel chapter 17. However, this did not. This was to say that Saul was God's anointed. And what shall I say? The only place left to go is death after. And beloved, that's what the kingdom of God. And Jesus was talking to Israel, to the Jews, and when We pray that by your Spirit you would grant to us not only But the Jews cried out, If you release this man. By your blood you ransomed people for God. He will consent to the leaving of some sin. Let's finish their story up. Everybody worships. He said it was so bad that you You have the seed of the woman against the seed of the certain. He lacked But he doesn't. While Saul led his son. Pilate is bending. He says, If the world hates you, For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose The prophet Isaiah says, For he grew up He does. He he brought many And Father, may the distress. So when Jesus said that he was The first sign was that Listen to Ezekiel chapter 30. From his shoulders upward. Nations in heaven and Saul, like Adam, opposed. For rejecting Christ, Israel was It was a law that established. And this is the If he cannot entice And you shall reign And now these are And uh Dr. And it is said. It was held A D seven But dear Two atoms First point. Either the No one That is not