If uh you haven't opened up your Bibles, you'd be so kind to do so as we will be continuing our study, uh which we began last week of First Corinthians. If um If any of you don't have the journal booklets that we had available for you, there are some available. uh that are in the um uh the narthex you may be able to grab one on your way out today uh if you enjoy journaling and taking notes uh we have two types that are available for you there but they're the same exact text They just have different covers, which you may enjoy having a particular one. I do have a question for you, of which I do believe most of you know the answer to. I'm sure that You have heard of the term sophomore, have you not? And um and so um the question that I do have is do you know what the derivative of that word and where it comes from. Oftentimes we hear sophomore for the second year of a college student. You really don't hear it very often uh in other places. You like in the workplace, you know, when a person celebrates their one-year anniversary, if they celebrate their one-year anniversary, people say, oh, you're in your sophomore year. It hardly ever happens. The only other place I think in society that I hear that is in athletics. In sports, typically they'll say that if an athlete has survived their first year, they're they're in their sophomore year. And I've even heard in um in baseball they uh have a great deal of challenges their second year, so they call it the sophomore jinx But you know where that word sophomore comes from? Well it actually comes from a uh Greek uh term, but it uh originates in seventeenth century uh England where they um well they pronounce it sophomor. or sophister, basically meaning a student that is skilled in debate is derived from the ancient Greek word soph for Sophia, uh wise, and moros, uh, which means foolish. And I think you may know that moros is the uh is the derivative of of where we get the word moron, meaning idiotic. Well, commonly translated as a wise fool. That's what a sophomore is. It refers to, again, second-year students who have enough knowledge To be arrogant, but not enough to be truly wise. Why do I bring this up? Well, it's because Dr. Bruce W. Winter In his book of Philo and Paul among the Sophists, provides a compelling argument That helps us to understand what it is, what is underlying what Paul is combating in his first epistle to the Church of the Corinth. It had implications in the world dominated by Roman Empire in the first century, and it has come back to have implications on the church today in the 21st century. Well, it uh it is basically called sophism. Um exactly what is that? Uh it basically means that it wise, uh a wise person. Before it became to be in vogue to use the word specifically for wisdom, it had an additional application of being Skilled. The word originally was also used for someone who was skilled in his or her craft. So if you were a metallurgist, they would say you're a sophist. You are wise and skilled in that particular area. Over a period of time, it came to be known as a class of itinerant. Wandering or traveling intellectuals, teachers who speculated about the nature of language and culture, and who used rhetoric. to achieve their goals, which was to persuade others to their view. Now I'm going to go over, I'm going to take a minute or two to talk about sophists and what it is that they teach Because it will have a great deal of impact in helping us to understand, specifically uh in chapter one, uh what I believe uh is uh underneath what Paul is dealing with. So let's look at this. But before we do that, I just want to mention uh uh a fairness to Sophis We really don't have a lot of information about what they actually taught because we don't, they never really wrote down and made textbooks of what it is that they believe. Most of the information that we have about sophists or the teachings of sophists is from other people that write about them, perhaps in a negative manner. or just make references to a sophist who believes the following things without making any references to their agreement or disagreement with it. Alright, so let's get into it. One of the things that they have would really be focused upon is that they believe that truth is relative. Truth is what you believe is truth. There is no objective truth outside of what you believe individually to be true. Does that sound familiar to anybody today living in this decade in this century? It should. That's That's the world in which we live in. And we'd call that kind of thinking post-modernity. A major tenet of their system, the sophists, is that a person's subjective reality is the only reality that exists and can be possibly known. This leads us to the belief that truth is what people thought it to be. Now you may have heard that beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. Well, this would be something like truth is in the mind of the beholder. And in order to convince others to your opinion, your truth, you need the skills of communicating And communicating well. To convince others through oratory and rhetoric. These are what they thought Of course, and taught, for the right price. Because they believe that there's nothing that is inherently right or wrong, You could go ahead and teach whenever you wished. You could with these skills convince others to your side. You may ask, why are people willing to pay for something like this? Well, this had value when it was first conceived. Its origin was in Athens, and Athens was, as you know, the birthplace of democracy. In order to get what you want, you had to convince the voters to your side. So you had to learn how to effectively use language and debate. For those who wanted to get their way via a vote or hold office, you need to convince other people to support you and to vote for you. One of the things advocated by these teachers is that you would want to get support and have your supporters to back you publicly. You guys get that? One of the things that they taught was to get people to support you and for them to now publicly support you. We see all this in in modern times, don't we? Sophism is practiced in many arenas, but we see this in law a lot, and then of course in politics. Candidates, for example, in primaries are encouraged to have supporters do what? Advocate for them. Run their banner, if you will. One of the outcomes associated with this type of movement and thinking is, of course, factionalism. We often hear of people assessing someone's argument as, you've heard, this is just sophistry. I'm sure you've heard that term before. And here's a definition to that statement that's typically said. Sophistry is the use of clever, deceptive, and fallacious arguments that sound convincing, but are fundamentally illogical. Often designed to deceive or manipulate. This is important. To deceive or manipulate. It is characterized by its intent to persuade Regardless of the truth, often focusing on emotion or rhetoric over sound reasoning Okay. So this background, if you haven't already caught it, has implications for what Paul is about to address. So Corinth, if you recall, was very much into philosophy. And Sophists would have had their impact upon the city. I think as we progress through this passage this morning, it may become more and more clearer to you, speaking of the passage, if you haven't already done so. Let's go ahead and open our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, where in which we will be reading verses 10 through 17. Would you please now rise for the hearing of God's holy and errant word? I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, and that there be no divisions among you But that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there's quarrelling among you My brothers. What I mean is that each one of us who says, I follow Paul, or I follow Apollos, or I follow Cephas, or I follow Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptize none of you except Crispus and Gaius, so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. I did baptize also the household of Stephanus. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. And not with words of eloquent wisdom. Lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds. Holy Spirit, be with us now. Help us to understand. Help us to see. As we have already learned, that it is you. Who have brought us into the light through the work of Christ. Our Heavenly Father has called us unto salvation, and you have given us eyes to see We pray now, Holy Spirit, that you would continue to help us to see spiritual things, for these are spiritual things and cannot be discerned with the human mind, the fleshly mind. So we pray that we would understand. We would be convicted where conviction is necessary in our hearts. And that you would grant us the grace, Holy One, to overcome those sinful things that we are still practicing. And we ask this all In the name of the Father, and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So verse 10 transitions us from the greetings in verses 1 through 9 What Paul is now doing, which is he is making an appeal. Some translations have it as I beseech you. Some have it as I beg you. And from this verse, this appeal is, as we can see, a major focus. of the purpose of this letter. His appeal is for the church to have unity. As we shall see from verse 118 all the way through chapter 4 and verse 21. Paul is in opposition to disunity within the church and will argue to that end. It is within chapters 5 through 16, the balance of the book, that he will take up specific issues that must be dealt with before there is genuine unity within the church Given what we know about his relationship with the Corinthians, the best and most, I think, simplest way to understand this word for appeal is I ask you. Paul's ask for there to be unity, a oneness of mind, and ultimately of purpose A oneness that requires that there be no divisions within the church. He addresses them as brothers, as I'm sure you noticed, appealing to them as siblings. And he makes his appeal in the name of Christ, reminding us and them who we are and how we have come to be siblings. But Paul is not only a sibling with the believers at Corinth, he is also an apostle of Jesus. So his appeal is both as brother and spiritual father, authority to them. He mentioned that, if you remember in the first verse from last week, where he said that he was called by the will of Jesus. By the will of God as an apostle of Jesus Christ. This is a very important concept. That is to say, how Paul understands redemptive history and his place within it. And we're going to return to this concept in just a little bit to help us understand another aspect of this, or another portion of this passage. So he wants them, it would seem, to be of one mind. He says, speak the same thing. Let there not be any division, and the word there is schismata, wherein which we get the word schism. We need to speak the same thing. Why? Because God is not contradictory. God does not speak with forked th tongue. He speaks truthfully and consistently. Please note that what is assumed here is that God is truthful and at the same time the fountainhead of truth. This means that there is truth that is outside of us, objective truth. No, let me first point out what he is not addressing. He is not talking about us being in perfect agreement in peripheral matters, but he is concerned about the central matters. Speaking in unison regarding what we believe. That is, confess the very same things. The mistake that we can make is when we say, you can believe what you want to believe about. Anything within the church. No, we have to believe the same fundamental beliefs, that is, the core beliefs of the Bible. The periphery stuff allows us to have some room for disagreement and not break fellowship with one another. Some of the central doctrines of the church are that of things like the doctrine of God, the doctrine of Christology, the doctrine of what we call soteriology or salvation. These are foundational things that we must all agree because they are interrelated with the most important thing, and that is of the gospel message that we have from the scriptures. So, what is the importance of this? Well, the Sophists, you see, they didn't teach this. Remember, there was no objective truth, right? Everything was subjective. He doesn't want them to agree for the sake of agreement, but for them to have not be factional, but instead to have the same mind. The same mind of what? And the clue here is is is that they say the same thing, right? That that's what he's focused on. The I think the the New Jerusalem Bible says this really well. He says that you all be in agreement in what you profess. What you say in what you profess. So when we look at the text, we see that what we're Or what they are saying are allegiances to different human leaders within the church. Is this starting to sound familiar? Some say, I follow Paul. Some say, well, you know, I'm of Apollos. And some say, well, Cephas is my man. You follow? This is what it is that they are saying. Paul wants them to stop saying these inappropriate ties to the leaders of the church. Does that happen in our churches today, do you think? You know, instead he's telling us, and we'll see this in chapter 3 and 23. We should all be saying, I follow Christ. And at the end of verse 10, he says, to be united. The word for united can be translated as restored. It is a word that was used for resetting a bone. It had surgical connotations. It is used here similarly to reset broken relationships and reconciling factions. So when I uh was growing up, maybe you you use this term, or maybe you still use it, well occasionally I'll use it. Whenever I used to need to buy something or someone asked me a question about something, I would say, I got a guy for that. You want to buy some jewelry? I got a guy for that. You want to buy a cart? I got a guy for that. Paul, where did you get this information? Paul doesn't say, I got a guy for that. But he does say that he got word from someone in Chloe's household that there are those quarrels among them. So what he describes next is really the factionalism that we already have alluded to Some say I follow Paul, some say I follow Apollos, some say I follow Cephas. Which of course, by the way, we're talking about Peter the apostle. We could all fall, I think, into this situation. Being reformed, it's easy to fall into what the Corinthians were doing. We are no different It's easy for us to say, certainly it is easy for me to say, and I have said in the past: well, I'm a Calvinist. Calvin's my guy. If you're a Lutheran, you may say, well, you know, Martin's my guy. And if you're a Methodist, you would say, well, Wesley's my guy. Or even within the Reformed churches, it's easy to say, you know, I follow the teachings of R. C. Sprohl Some people will say, well, you know, I I listen to the podcast of Sinclair Ferguson or Lincoln Duncan. I never miss his sermons But you get the idea, right? But when the focus is the man and not the message, we can fall into this very same trap. And it becomes like these camps, somewhat like political camps. You know, I I remember, you know, as a as a young Christian being a part of a church with several pastors and you know hanging out with my friends and they would say, well, so and so is my favorite pastor. Pastor. So and so is my favorite pastor, and so so is my favorite preacher and and so forth. And you know, you just you you you fall into that trap and and we're focused on on the man and not the man. Who is Christ? We really have to be careful about that. These people In Corinth were practicing what they had grown up with and what was popular in their time Are we not afflicted by this as well? You see, in every generation, the church faces this One culture after another. The church faces this. So beginning in verse 13, he moves from exhortation To examination, self-examination. He asks a rhetorical question: Is Christ divided? The answer is obviously no. Was Paul crucified for you? No. When you were baptized, were you baptized into Paul? No. He continues, when I was there, I only baptized Crispus. You know, remember the former synagogue leader in Acts chapter 18? And then he says, Gaius. Who, by the way, is believed to be the same Gaius in Romans chapter 16 and verse 23, who showed him great hospitality And he says he baptized the household of Stephanus. And he says, but beyond that, I can't remember anymore. Now, some may be thinking, if you are, how does this affect the infallibility of Scripture when Paul says, beyond this I can't remember anymore? Well, let's remember that infallibility doesn't equate to omniscience. He is stating the truth. He simply doesn't remember. And this should remind us that he is also human. When he was called to be an apostle, he was not perfected, and neither was he made omniscient. Paul's finiteness does not undermine the authority of the Word of God, as does any other writer of the Bible And he begins this statement with, I give thanks He gives thanks that he didn't do so much baptizing. Nor that he didn't baptize because he wants to focus on the real reason he came to Corinth. Yes, he baptized, obviously. And yes, he continued to baptize, but he didn't come for the purpose of baptizing And here's the undertone that I mentioned earlier for Paul. For Paul, he really saw his calling as an apostle. To have eschatological significance and fulfillment. In Malachi chapter 1 and verse 11, if you'd like to turn to it, which of course is the first book. Right before Matthew. Or I should say it's the last book of the Old Testament. Malachi 111 states For from the rising of the sun to its setting, my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and the pure offering. And then it says, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. Paul saw Jesus as the Messiah, being the trigger. To the fulfillment of this prophecy. God's name would be great among the nations, the Gentiles. Paul is an apostle, which means one who was sent out by someone An ambassador, if you will. And now he has been sent to proclaim the good news of Christ. In fact What is behind in the book of Romans, chapter 10 and 15, which says, and how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. Now, where's that coming from? That's coming from Isaiah chapter 52 and verse 7. This is the foundation that he uses in Romans. And that passage says, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, your God reigns. Because God sees because Paul sees the preaching of the gospel, the commission that he has been given by God. is an eschatological fulfillment. This is why he says, look, I haven't been sent here to baptize. I've been sent to proclaim the gospel. Stop using me in some factionalism thing that I'm a Paul guy This is first and foremost for Paul of importance. So stop this factionalism. I didn't come to baptize. I came to proclaim Christ. Verse 17, he continues. I didn't come to be revered by you. I didn't come to have your devotion to me. I came so that I might proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. That is what we do. That is what we should be doing. And when we lose sight Of that very important thing and the focus of proclaiming Christ. And put it on something else, anything else, like proclaiming politics from the pulpit, being engaged as a church in social issues of the day, self-help, felt needs. You know that there really are a lot of things to be focused upon from the pulpit. We lose sight of our mission and factionalism and disunity can just seep right in. And if you're thinking that's just not that's nonsense, Pastor, go take a look at all the liberal mainline denominations that are out there. And see what you'll find coming out of the pulpit on a Sunday morning. Most of it will not be the gospel. If any of it. Paul continues, if you will, I didn't communicate in a manner that the sophists would exhort one to use. Arguments with eloquent speech. Guys are seeing this? I didn't use it in any way. that I would perhaps maybe win a prize in the Isthmus Games. If you guys didn't weren't here last week, you've got to go back and see the sermon to catch that. No special oratory. No special rhetoric. No special wisdom devised by man. I did none of that. What I proclaimed when I proclaimed it to you was the unvarnished objective truth given to me by God. See why this is important, right? Because those within the church who had bought into sophistry May have been tempted to think that it was just rhetoric. He may have used, that is Paul, eloquent, eloquent speech. to win me over. But you know what? It doesn't really mean that it's true. It's just sophistry. No. Using sophistry or sophist methodology. Not for Paul. But you guys do see that he's taking a shot here. Do you see what he has to battle? The underlying cultural values and importance of the day. He is saying such methods of eloquence and word usage May end up in winning an argument and impressing an audience, but they will not in the end add up to anything of importance. Because if I did use that methodology, the power of the cross would be emptied of its power. The power to do what? To save. The cross of Christ for Paul is not just referring to the death of Jesus. But it's sort of like shorthand for all that the cross accomplishes. So then, if you're wondering, and I'm hoping you are, how does speaking in a powerful way, an eye-catching way, a way that draws attention to the speaker? Empties the cross of its power. Well, Paul tells us this in verses 18 to 25 to which we will look at next week. Will you please join me in prayer? Heavenly Father We ask that you would help us to take a long, hard look and examine ourselves and see if. We have anything other than Christ as the main focus Anything other than the gospel and the proclamation of the gospel. And we pray that if we do, that your spirit would point that out to us. May we come here on Sundays and continue to come here on Sundays because of your beloved Son. May we all say that we were we are all Jesus's. He's our guide. Help us to take our eyes off of good and effective ministers of the gospel. And put it upon you and the gospel itself and your son. And we know that we can't do this without your spirit moving within us and granting us the grace we need. And so we ask these things for your glory. And in Jesus' name. Amen.