So as we continue our study in First Peter this morning. We have just ended a three-part series on the way in which believers are to respond to different authorities, which we find ourselves within various institutions in society. We are to be obedient. The word Peter uses is submit to the authorities that God has placed over you. But it was more than just mere submission. And may I add, submission to godly demands. We are not to submit or obey demands that are clearly sin. What Peter focused upon was that of how we should respond to situations when we are being punished unjustly. For our faith. How are we to respond when people are slandering us for our faith? Today we'll finish up this section of our response here in verses 8 through 12. By way by way of, I'm sorry, it's verses nine through twelve. Um, by way of preview, we will have three points. The first is found in verse eight There we go again, which is as a consequence of what Peter has taught, how should we treat one another? The second is how we should respond to the world in verse 9. And verses 10 through 12, Peter gives us the reason as to why we should do this. Now, would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? Which is from 1 Peter chapter 3, and I will do verses 8 through 12. Sorry about my confusion there. Hear now the word of God. Finally, all of you have unity in mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a tender heart, and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless. For to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life and see good days, Let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on And his ears are upon open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would be with us now as we turn to the Word of God to edify us. to strengthen us, to convict us of sin where conviction is necessary, and to help us to see our blessed Savior. So that we may rejoice to be in his presence. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. One of the things that history has taught the church is that whenever it is under pressure, whether she finds herself being attacked physically by the world or is being pressured, to conform to its cultural and or religious mores, it can fall under one of two responses. The first is to fall under the pressure and ultimately deal with internal strife. that could very very easily cause the church to close her doors. The second is to be united and supportive of one another. Given that Peter has been talking about persecution and responding in a biblical manner to those wishing to do evil to believers, he now turns his attention to how church members Should behave towards one another. The way that we treat each other under times of adversity will have a direct impact on what the results are. He begins in verse 8 with finally. Now the NASV translates the beginning of this verse as to sum up. I think it's a better way of conveying Peter's sentiment here, which begins and ends in verse 12. This is to the Christian community in general. So Peter is saying, to sum things up, this applies to everyone, in the face of the church community being slandered, ridiculed, and persecuted for us. Our faith, our response within the church should be well, first it is to have a unity of mind No. He's gonna go ahead and give us five items that he wants us to consider. Now One thing that we should consider is that when you look at these uh commands or these things that he's wanting us to consider and act upon, they are all commands. They are not, if you will, suggestions. This is going to be something that we need to look to God to help us to live out in our lives with one another. So perhaps another way of looking at this is how is the church to be, if you will, a place of refuge? A place where we are to support one another when we are suffering. So the first one is he's calling the entire church to be thinking alike. Be of one mind. Now this doesn't mean that we're going to hold the same identical opinions on all matters, which by the way, I don't see how any group of people can do that. Uh but what he means is that we should be sensitive. To others and agreeable to each other's concerns. That we should be sensitive to one another and agreeable to each other's concerns. The thing that undergirds this unity of mind begins with a common theological teaching. And the teaching that we have in common should come from the Bible There must be a shared values and beliefs within any family unit, or it can become fractured and cause disharmony. We know this to be true when the Lord Jesus Himself taught in Mark chapter 3 and verse 25. And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. We can see this sentiment was in action in chapter 4 and verse 22 in the book of Acts. Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul. This is an example of the brethren being sensitive to the concerns and needs of others. In similar fashion, We are called to be sensitive to the opinions of others. We do that by taking the time to understand the other person's opinions. Opinions. We do that by taking the time to understand their motivations as well. Whenever I've done that, It serves to remove any false notions that I had about another's motive. And when when they're when their goals, when I see that their goals are not different than mine, I'm freed up to practice deference towards them. After all, we're trying to achieve the very same thing. It doesn't always have to be accomplished exactly the way I want it to be. We don't have to be uniformed in all things to be united. Some of us can be Nationals fans. Some of us can be Orioles fans. But it's not something that divides us from our faith, right? We have to be careful to not allow minor things to become major things. Now the second in our list this morning is for us to be or to sim to be sympathetic, for us to sympathize. This is to share, to connect emotionally with others as they go through grief and sorrow. To be able to do that for someone who is undergoing a painful experience is such a blessing to them. We should make an effort to connect emotionally with a person's circumstances in life. And as you could well see, that is something that is very helpful to a person who is undergoing persecution for their faith. The third is to be filled with brotherly love. Now, this is specifically focused on love for the brethren. Not a general love for all of humanity. Peter's concern is focused here. It is to the church. Do right by others Placing others before ourselves, doing unto others as you would want them to do unto you. The scripture teaches us that we have no need to learn about brotherly love. The Holy Spirit's presence in us naturally manifests that love. But it's us who must put that into practice. The fourth is to be good-hearted, compassionate. This means that we are to be generous and compassionate of others Now, I don't know if you're aware of this, but this actually literally means we have to be good intestine. The reason why I say this is because the ancients believed that the source of emotions came from the intestines. We moderns associate the heart as the source of our emotions, not our intestines. But the sentiment is the same, isn't it? To be compassionate and to be generous, to be good-hearted towards one another. To be good-hearted in this context is to have an internal desire to give someone rest from their pain. It is to have an internal desire to give someone. The fifth and last in this verse is to be humble of mind. This means that you do not see yourself as greater than others, not seeing your needs as being greater than others' needs. Humble people do not threaten or challenge other people's rights, do they? The opposite to this, of course, is being prideful. Which says that I am more important and others have to do what I say, and my rights are more important than other people's rights. This means that we don't have to resort, when we are being humble-minded, to the tactics of the world to defend who we are as co-heirs in Christ. Peter calls on all believers to share the same thoughts and attitudes, thinking harmoniously. We are to be tender-hearted and compassionate towards one another in humility. We can see all of these are in some way related to one another and also support and supplement. one another in dynamics. Now, having taken the time to point out how we, that is broadly the church, as the church community are to care for one another. He recaps for us how we are to respond to evil actions and behaviors for our fate. We should not return like for like. Despite the fact that we would think that it is both proper and just. One of the things that was primary teaching of the Lord was that of non-retaliation. Not only not to retaliate in similar fashion. Parallel thought to that would be to not trade insult for insult. But this is so human, isn't it? I call it the oh yeah principle when someone insults us or does something to us. Or perhaps, is this really what you think? Well, let me tell you. Dot, dot, dot. Another similar response is for us to attack back by pointing out another person's problem instead of dealing with ours, right? In contrast to all of this, Peter tells us, on the contrary, instead of retaliating, we are to return this behavior, this bad behavior, with blessing. To bless includes the meaning of speaking well of someone. But it's not just a matter of speaking well of someone. It also has a religious meaning of extending to that person the prospect of salvation. This hope and aim of salvation blessing is entirely consistent with what Peter has been teaching us thus far, hasn't it? It is that by returning good for evil that the person on a day of visitation by God may prove to be a blessing to that person with the grace of salvation. That by having a sweet spirit before an unbelieving spouse, in return for reviling, they may yet come to faith. And then he says, it is to this that you have been called. The this which we have been called to is referring to our Response to suffering for our faith. When it came to slaves, he used the very same language To this you were called in the face of unjust suffering. Chapter 2, verses 18 and 20. It is that we repay unjust suffering for our faith with. Good. Then he moves on to the blessing that we will inherit. We respond the way that we do to persecution, not because we haven't inherited our eternal blessing. It is because we have already received our eternal blessing that is kept for us in safeguard by God Himself It is the evidence of God working out the salvation that He has blessed us with. At the same time, it is us responding to the salvation and the inheritance that we already have. This is what we are called for, and this is what we are called to in those situations. To bless those that have intention to harm us for our faith. Don't you see? What Peter is calling us to is for us to be like our Savior. We are to return insults with blessing. Jesus incurred much along the way of insults, but he received his inheritance. by returning insult with blessing. The salvation you received, brothers and sisters was due to the blessing Jesus brought to you even when opposed by evil and insult. Our returning good in place of evil can have an impact for many generations. We Christians are not to return evil words with the same, but just exactly the opposite. Matthew 5. 44 tells us, but I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Now the idea here is not that you pray for their death or that they get zapped. You're praying for their salvation, right? For God's grace in their lives. The goodness that we offer to those who persecute us will hopefully be used by God to lead them to repentance. And we see this in Romans chapter 2 and verse 4 very powerfully, where in the second part of the verse it says Not knowing, do you not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? God's kindness to us led us to repentance. God's mercy to us had led us to repentance unto life. For when we were God's enemies, he showed us kindness instead of giving us what we truly deserve by him, which is justice. He instead gave us mercy, and he won us over with his love. May we not imitate our Heavenly Father And perhaps by our good deeds in the face of evil, God may use that to win another person, another soul over to Himself. Yes, of course he can. Now, Peter ends his thoughts on our response by quoting from Psalm 34. And it is from verses 12 to 16 in Psalm 34 that he is quoting. And he ties these verses with what he's been teaching so far. Now, I think that this is a corrective in some ways for those that are antinomian. This means for those who would say that God's law has no impact on me today. For those that would say I'm already justified, so I don't have to do anything to be saved. Jesus has done it for me. And then go into some sort of spiritual hibernation or decide that they're going to be some sort of a carnal Christian, which of course is not any Christian at all. We as Christians are not to use our assurance of salvation and doctrine of justification as a reason to ignore our pursuit of personal holiness. to do good works, abstain from sin, partake in the fellowship of the saints, and all the things related to living a Christian walk But Peter is teaching us that we must do things and respond with good in the face of evil. This is what is reflective of a changed heart. And those that do these things will inherit our blessing, which is to be embraced by Christ when he returns and have our inheritance in the new heavens and the new earth. But there is more here. Psalm 34, which is penned by David, and a summary form is about David. Bearing testimony to the truth that he is saying, I have found that the Lord is faithful, and if you trust him, you will find him to be faithful also. The eyes of the Lord are indeed upon the righteous. This doesn't simply mean that he's only looking at their deeds, for he does that with everyone, good or wicked. But rather, what it means is that he has his hand of protection and blessing upon those who do good, the righteous. Those that obey God will have his attentive ear, but when they are disobeying him, not living, for example, in understanding with their spouses, As we have previously seen, the Lord will not listen. Our calling to be adopted into God's house Does not exempt us from receiving insult and evil. Our response to evil is to speak truthfully and kindly And we are called to return good for evil. Such a response in the face of evil if evil reveals a life. A heart that has been transformed by a new birth given to us by the Holy Spirit We are not defined by others' behaviors or statements about us. We are defined by what our Heavenly Father teaches us. And as it was beautifully lived out by the Son of God, the Lord Jesus himself. The truth is that it's very difficult to bless another person when we are internally angry. Isn't that true? It's hard to do this genuinely when you're really looking to hurt someone back, just like the way that they hurt you. People can see through an insincere attempt to bless someone with their behavior when their behavior has been hostile towards us. When we don't turn to God in those moments, we fail to pope in the life-changing power of Christ. So my point is that it should not be a begrudging compliance. Oh, I have to be this way. To follow our new parentage, we should genuinely desire to bless others Going back to the Psalm here, it reminds us that the face of the Lord is always upon us. Whether responding to persons within the church or even outside, we must rely upon the Holy Spirit to change us from within to be possessed by the heart of Christ. to genuinely want to do good to those who do evil to us. The last verse in the quote. Which is from 3416, says there's a strong statement here about God's character It says that God blesses the righteous and punishes the wicked. Now, this may make all the difference in the world. And I think it does make all the difference in the world. If this is not true, then we have no reason to bless others when reviled. Make sense? If this is true, we can and must respond with blessing. What makes the most sense here is to bless others. And this goes back to God's character. It is in that confidence that we have in God, the fact that He keeps His promises and motivates us to respond in righteousness when reviled. It is because we know that God sees all things and keeps track of all things, and at the right time, and in his own perfect way. He will vindicate and reward the righteous. He vindicated the Lord Jesus and rewarded him as the King of Kings. Now this, frankly, should set you free. We can love We can respond biblically because God balances the books. And this quiets our spirits within. They should want us to be among the righteous and not among the wicked. Being redeemed by Christ. We have our books already balanced. We are in God's eyes already righteous We are already secure in Christ and bound for glory. We already have our inheritance and the inheritance to come, which is the Lord Jesus returning for us And citizens in the kingdom of God that will come to earth in its fullness. To return good for evil really tests. The faith that we have, doesn't it? To return good for evil really tests the faith that we say that we have in God. The psalm is telling us that not only in his eyes on the that he has his eyes on the righteous, but his eyes are also on the wicked. His face is against those that are wicked. This means that if they don't repent, one day God will vindicate you when you are being treated poorly for your faith. And one day God will punish them for persecuting you for your faith and your trust in God. Now we don't know all the whens and the hows we and all the details associated with that, but we we know that God promises it. And it's really all that we truly need for us to be able to move forward in loving those that would have evil for us, mean evil for us. So that is the reason why we should be like our Lord the Jesus. God is watching and will vindicate you and reward you for your faith. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for your many promises, your abundant love You showering us with your very own Son. And we thank you, Father, that you continue to watch over your people. We thank you, Father, that you grant us the grace that we need to be able to reflect your character because we confess that on our own. We would do things differently. We would not do them your way. We would do them in the way that we seem fit. We pray, Father, that indeed you would remind us that you are a God who keeps your promises and that you are watching. And at the appointed time, you will vindicate us. And that you will protect us and reward us for your faith, for our faith in you. So we pray. That you would help us more and more to reflect the Lord Jesus in our lives. That when we are reviled for our faith, That we not return it with reviling. That when we are insulted, that we don't return an insult back to them. Or when we are persecuted, that we don't do the same harm back to them, but rather trust you and be like our Savior. So that you may be pleased to use that in whatever form or fashion that you wish. up to and including the bringing in and the opening up of the eyes of future followers and worshipers of who you are as our great God. And we pray this.