I recently thought through over the last several election cycles that um I've observed and As I thought through how far back um election cycles that I have been around for I realized uh that uh time really does go by fast. I remember all the way back to Jimmy Carter, um the president who recently passed, as you know. Um one of the things that um my mind seems to sort of collate, if you will, is statements made by people Perhaps even unlikely people to receive calls by the newly elected uh chief executive. Of course, obviously I'm making reference to the president in the United States. Um these are people that would be called upon, captains of industry who have made tons of money all of their lives, throughout their lives I should say. They have incredible success in whatever field that they're in, and they have really heavy responsibilities. who have been called by the president to uh take on a particular role within uh his administration. Uh you y you think about their lives and and you gotta realize sometimes it really doesn't pay to leave their posts. and respond to civil service. Sometimes these folks have been retired, perhaps for a couple of years, and now they're being asked to give that all up and and come in and take on a great deal of responsibility. And um I I've always found it interesting as I hear them in interviews, um, you know, why is it that they're They're asked, why is it that they're doing this? And the typical response that you'll hear over and over again is that it's an honor. It's an honor to be called by the President of the United States in our particular case to come and to serve my country They say that it is a high honor and calling to be able to serve my country. They say, and they typically will say I'm compelled. uh to uh answer with a yes because uh because of uh what I believe about my country and the honor that it represents to me. Now, I suppose that not all of them have entirely altruistic motives, but I choose to believe that there are many who do wish to serve because they see it as an honor. And joyfully respond positively. Now, I compare that to the response of Christians when we are called to serve God in various ways But sometimes, as the scripture teaches us, we are called by God to serve Him by suffering for our faith. Now, I've seen the response to this call by Christians in a variety of different ways. Suffering, by the way, doesn't always have to be a physical suffering. Sometimes it's an attack upon our reputation. As we've been studying through Peter, we've seen and heard about slander, right? Slandering our reputation. Sometimes it's suffering by us getting out of our comfort zone and doing things that we don't want to do or think that we can't do. Sometimes it's being taken out of our comfort zone of our day-to-day and getting our ordered lives messy. How do you respond? How do you view it when God calls you to a particular task in life? Do you consider it as some of these people who have been called by the president in honor to Serve. A joy to serve God. Now you've got to realize that this is probably putting them out, and they are experiencing some sort of suffering as well. How would you respond? How do you respond when God calls you to a particular task Now, Peter's been teaching us on how the citizens of the kingdom of God, who are sojourners, in this world are to live. He's been focusing on our interactions that we have within society so far, given that with those that God has given authority over us. All the way from the governments to the families that we are in. In short, we were taught that we are to be submissive and obedient just as long as we are not commanded to sin. There has been a hinting of how we are to behave, how we are to respond to situations where we are persecuted for our faith. Peter has been consistent, hasn't he? It is to be like Christ. Do not respond evil with evil, but do good. Do not insult when you have been insulted. And Peter points out, for you may never know, God may use your Christ-like actions to bring salvation to that person. In our passage today, it is about how we respond to persecution. And next time we study Peter. We are to see Christ as that perfect example which has been lived out for us. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word And the following is from 1 Peter 3, verses 13 to 17. Hear now the word of God. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed Have no fear of them, nor be troubled, but in your hearts honor Christ, the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to any one who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slander, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, attend to us now for the preaching and teaching of the Word. We pray that you would unstop our spiritual ears and allow our spiritual eyes to see our Savior. Convict our hearts and minds where it is necessary, and mold our wills, so that our lives may be conformed to the will of God. And we ask this in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So Peter starts us off this morning with a rhetorical question. When you are doing good works, who is going to harm you for doing them? Now rhetorical questions, by definition, have the answer already built into them. Look, the point is that no one is going to hassle you, bother you, or even call the police when you're doing good, right? Go ahead. Stay under the speed limit. Highway patrol is not gonna stop you. Go ahead. Pay for your stuff when you leave the store. The owner's not gonna call the police on you. When there's a long line, wait for your turn to be served. No one's going to give you a dirty look, or should I say, a disapproving glance, for not cutting in. No one is going to come and remove you for staying in line and waiting for your turn, right? So Peter begins: who's gonna harm you for following the rules This is what he has been saying all along, hasn't he? Submit, to submit to the authorities that God has placed over you. Now this rhetorical question does demand a negative response, right? No one. But there may be times when you want to do good for others, but will be persecuted for your faith. This being the case, that case, who practices righteousness, those who practice righteousness rarely do get persecuted. Both the verbiage and the grammar here indicate how rare it is. However, Peter does recognize that there are times when Christians do suffer for righteousness' sake Despite it being a rare situation, there is a likelihood that there were those in the communities to whom Peter is writing to that were experiencing persecution for their faith So then Peter picks up his teaching here on how we are to act in these situations. So the first thing that we must keep in mind is that when you are persecuted, For your faith and respond in the proper manner, Peter says, you must bring to your mind that you are blessed. This immediately reminds us of what the Lord taught on the Sermon on the Mount, doesn't it? In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 10, he said it Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of God. In this context, he is not referring to some future blessing, and is not speaking of some material blessing. Blessing here is to be understood as being happy, being joyous. Sometimes blessed in Scripture just means to be happy Aren't there times in your life when you're just happy for God's love and his provisions in your life and soul? And when people ask you, How are you today? You just want to say, I'm blessed. Which is really shorthand for happy. But then what should we understand as the source of our happiness when we're being persecuted for righteousness' sake? It's very simple. It is because God is pleased with us. It is because God is pleased with you. I've often heard Christians give testimony that they hope. Their hope is that one day when they die, they will hear those words that God said Said to Jesus that we all want to hear, right? My good and faithful servant, in whom I am well pleased. Why do we have to wait that long to experience that joy? Why do we always look to that end in life for us to be happy to hear those words? God is pleased with us whenever we are obedient and lead lives of holiness. Peter is telling us that whenever we are being presented or persecuted for righteousness' sake, for obedience to God, we are blessed We are and should be happy. Why? Because our Heavenly Father is pleased with us The Lord Jesus is pleased because in our own limited way we are being like Him. We are imitating Christ. Now, in our response to persecution, not only are we to recognize that our Heavenly Father is pleased with us, Peter continues in verse 14. And he says, in the midst of the suffering, we are not to give way to fear. For fear only shakes the foundations of our trust in God. But God instead keep focused, but instead keep focused upon God. Focused upon Christ when we're facing fear. We are not to give in to fear or fearing those that would persecute us. Sometimes we don't serve God, I think, because we fear what people may think, because what people may do to us, or what they may say about us. I think we make up scenarios in our heads and live life like that's exactly what's going to happen. Instead of living lives of joyous and happy lives. We think to ourselves, what will people think invite if I invite them to church? What would people think if I tell them I think biblically about issues on things like gender identity, same-sex attraction? And we can go on for quite some time, can't we? Peter is telling us not to fear. Don't live in fear. Fear can paralyze your witness of Christ, can't it? We are to trust in Christ. Keep Him uppermost in your mind and in your heart. When we live in fear Isn't that hard to do? It's when fear sets in that causes us to take our eyes off of Christ. And be distracted, or even begin to doubt God's promises, to stop trusting Him And trust in something else, or in someone else, or maybe in our own understanding. Peter is calling us, whenever we are in these situations, to keep our focus squarely upon Christ. We are called to not just have a cerebral knowledge of Christ, but one that has a volitional implications to it. It means that our faith must follow through with our actions. Or it's a hollow faith. For those that are saved, it may be a weak faith that needs attending to Just like when we get injured, we need to go see a physician or go to the hospital. But for others, it's a wake-up call for them to assess if their faith is genuine. For them, and if I think this applies to you, it's time to ask. What type of faith did the seed, the call of the gospel, produce in me? Was it one of the first three types, or was it the fourth type? For Jesus did say, some members of the visible church, when they count the cost, that they would leave the church. It could be the lure of wealth and comfort, and for some it is the pain of persecution. For the Christian, we must make Jesus holy in our hearts, to set him apart from all other things and focus upon him solely. Filter our life decisions, our responses to situations through what He has taught us. By continually maintaining Jesus as the sovereign in our hearts, we will be reminded. That we don't need to fear man because Jesus is the sovereign over all creation. Now, having advised us to consider that we are blessed, to not give in to the fear of man. Thirdly, to keep Christ sanctified in our hearts, he now moves us to a fourth thing which we should be prepared to do when we are being persecuted for our faith. We are called to provide an apology for those who question our faith. An apology is not to ask for forgiveness for our actions. It comes from the Greek word apologia, which means to provide an argument for your position and or actions. An apology was used as a legal term that was used in courts. A person who was to come up and provide an apology for any charges that were made against him. Now, given the use of this form in the first century, it has led some commentators to think that Peter was giving advice to some in the Christian community who had been arrested for their faith. Now, I think this is really too narrow a definition or application of this word. Peter's concern here is not legal, it is that we prepare to witness to the unbeliever. We are to so equip ourselves with the knowledge of our faith that we are prepared to offer in response to anyone who makes a charge against our faith. The point is that if we are being challenged for doing good and are being persecuted for our faith, we are to provide a response when someone is asking us why we are doing what we are doing. Or they may be circumstances when we're sort of abstaining from doing things. And in that case also, we are to explain why we are abstaining. A perfect example of this was when Christians were accused of being atheists. Now I know that sounds kind of odd, but Christians were considered atheists in the first century. That was a term that was used when you didn't believe in multiple gods, and more importantly, when you didn't believe in Caesar as being a deity. That was seen as a sign of rebelliousness against the empire. And Christians were persecuted for this. Christians rightly abstained from Caesar worship, as well as the belief that there were multiple gods, as we are monotheists, just like our spiritual ancestors were. That there is only one true and living God. Apologists for the church wrote letters to the emperor explaining why they didn't offer sacrifices to the emperor. And responded to governmental authorities explaining why Christians are not rebellious and how they are called to pray for those in authority because God has placed them in those positions. And so, when accusations are being made against us, we should be prepared to provide an apology. An argument for our position, in order to explain our behavior, whether it is pro or con. Now, let's take a moment here to consider the benefits of being prepared. By having a good argument, it will benefit those who are sitting in judgment over us. This will explain and may propitiate their anger against us. But not only may it address their concern, but it may help them see things from God's perspective. This, of course, has other benefits as well. It may cause them To ask more questions about what it means and how one becomes a Christian. As you're working your way through this passage, It becomes clearer that Peter is helping us to see that even through our suffering, for righteousness' sake, his goal is for us to be prepared to use it for the purposes of evangelism. Now let's take a moment to consider the benefits for those who are making an apology. That would, of course, be us. It may avoid the unpleasantness of pain or further pain. Which we might have experienced at the hands of those who are judging us. Another is, of course, again, may provide us an opportunity to clear the pathway to telling them about Jesus and why he died on the cross. Even if they don't agree with us, we can still do the right thing. And if we are to suffer for our faith, we can count it a privilege to do so. Would you consider it an honor when called by God to serve him? What if it means suffering of sorts? Would you answer? How would you answer? But when we offer an apology, when we're offering a defense for our faith, We are to do it in a spirit, as Peter says, gentleness and respect. This language of gentleness and respect reminds us of how we are to act towards those who are in authority that he's defined. We're not to revile in return for reviling. We shouldn't insult those who insult us. Throughout the entire time, we are to maintain a Now, another way of saying this is to having a clear conscience before God. Since we know that we're not perfected until we enter into glory, we are to the best of our ability and to the grace of God be upright before God. We can learn, I think, a lot from how Daniel's friends, Shadrach, Meshech, and Abednego, responded to the king. When they were facing the wrath of the emperor, because he wished his wishes were not obeyed. They said, O king, live forever. But we will not obey and suffer the consequences. They were respectful and they were gentle in their response. It was so obvious that sanctified in their hearts was their beloved God. They had a fear for God. And their fear for God was greater than their fear for men. They recognized that by disobeying the emperor, they may have lost their lives. But they were not going to sin. And they were going to communicate this in a respectful manner. I think there are some wonderful benefits about this approach, being gentle and respectful, is that it communicates that there isn't really animosity in your heart. The disobedience does not reflect a heart of rebelliousness. It's not a personal attack against them or the authority that they possess. It does not reflect on our part. And I know better than you attitude. I think that all these can really remove concerns about pridefulness from those that are judging us. It's an attitude that states the following. I understand what you must do. I am not taking it personally. I'm not saying that you wish ill will necessarily against me. This is what Jesus communicated to Pontius Pilate, did he not? He saw that Jesus was, you know, really not being prideful or seditious. In fact, I think that he was trying to find a way to set him free as a consequence. See, this respectful and gentle way of approaching is very helpful for us to understand. How we should respond to those that perhaps are persecuting us. What you're saying Is that I understand, but I cannot comply because I love my God and Savior. and my conscience is bound to him, because my soul is bound to him. Now he says that we should maintain a good conscience, right? What does that mean? Maintaining a good conscience Well, one possibility is that he means in your response, do it in a way that you can walk away from that situation, not complying with ungodly demands, but at the same time thinking to yourself you know, maybe maybe I could have said it more nicely. So you don't think I didn't really represent God all that well in that situation. But it could also mean something along the lines of having a clear conscience more generally before God. I mean living the Christian life in such a manner, in such a way that your conscience is clear before the Lord, as in you are repenting, which was what we looked at the confession today. From your sins regularly and looking to live more of a life filled with holiness. What I'm saying is that you are working on your personal sanctification. You're not part-timing it. You have a clear conscience before God. I think one of the benefits of a clear conscience is a clear witness. Having a clear conscience before God in man will give you a platform to proclaim God's truth to those that don't know him in a very convincing manner Having a clear conscience and the winsome apologies that we offer may cause those that are oppressing to feel shame for their actions. It's like pouring coal over their heads, the scripture says. But that is not a good thing for the Christian to want, is it? We we really shouldn't w walk away from those situations wanting that, right? That they feel shame for themselves. That's that's really not helpful. That's not what we as Christians should be aiming for. Peter ends his thought with, it is better instead that you suffer for doing what is right. Than for doing what is wrong. It's important to maintain a good conscience before God, yes. For if God should will it that you suffer if it it is a far better witness to the unbeliever to see you suffer and still hold unto God for who who is the one that has brought it on to you, the suffering. For it certainly is better than to be punished than what? By God for our sinful actions. That is not a convincing witness, is it? Nothing turns the eye of an unbeliever more than to see a believer hold unto his faith in times of trouble. Wrongful suffering, when pointed out in a winsome manner, this then becomes a powerful opportunity for us to proclaim Christ. When God comes a knocking on your door and says, I'm appointing you to suffer for my glory, I want you to return good in the face of unjust treatment. What would be your response? Will you say, when the King of Kings calls me to service? It's a high honor and a privilege. There's no way that I could say no. I only want to say yes. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, indeed it is a high privilege to be able to call you Father Lord Jesus, it is indeed a high honor and a privilege to call you King, Your Majesty. We pray that as we continue to live out our lives for you That you would grant us the grace to recognize what a great privilege it is to be able to serve in your courts. Grant us the grace we need in those times to live out our lives, to respond in the way that your word calls us to. To respond with grace, to respond with good to those who would do us harm, in a winsome and gentle manner. Prepare us and order our lives in such a way that we turn to your word and study daily and learn more and more about you and of the gospel. So that we may be able to give a good and effective and convincing argument for when those times come Why it is that we do what we do, why it is that we abstain from the things that the world wants us to do. And we pray that you would use that for your glory in whatever shape or form that you wish. But in the meantime, we pray that when those things happen, that you would help us to not give in to fear, but rather to place you first, to sanctify you. In our hearts and our lives, and we asked this all for your glory