Preaching later on. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Good morning. Indeed, it is time for us to gather around the throne room of grace. Would you please join me as we pray? Our Heavenly Father, you who are the creator of all that is, both visible and invisible, it is you and you alone that gives us life and breath and sustains all of mankind graciously. By your compassionate power and mercy. We give thanks to you this Lord's Day for the countless ways that you provide for your creation with common Grace. You give us the air that we breathe, the rain that gives us food and drink, and you cause the sun to shine and sustain your creation on the This planet. Your people gather this morning to worship you, our Heavenly Father, because of your special grace, because you have given us all Eyes to see, spiritual eyes to see, and ears to hear the gospel. Holy Spirit, work upon our wills, our hearts, and our minds. To proclaim many praises to our great Savior, the great messenger of the covenant. Would you help us to recognize how truly sinful Our hearts are. May we recognize each day that our salvation had nothing to do with any goodness of our own. But had everything to do with your electing love and the finished crosswork of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Heavenly Father, help us as a church to capture your biblical vision for our lives and to seek out, to seek you out, so that we may indeed glorify your name in all the We pray for the country in which we minister the gospel. We pray for a movement of your spirit to bring many unto repentance and life. And we pray especially, Heavenly Father, for those here in Laurel within the city that we minister directly. Father, we pray for those that govern. We pray that your Spirit, the Holy Spirit, would restrain secular leaders from corruption and injustice. We pray that they would legislate even the finances, even the finances of our country with prudence and biblical principles We pray for the peace and security of our country. We pray for those in our congregation that feel burden and discomfort from chronic pain We think especially for our sister Linda Purnett, that you would comfort her in her times of pain, and that you would remind her of your love for her. We pray for our sister Joan, Joan Jernigan, for healing, for strength, and stamina Father, we also pray for our brother and give you thanks for Bill Sproul, the successful operation surgery that he had on his shoulder. We pray, Father, that you would continue to heal him and that he would uh not feel any discomfort uh as he is experiencing recuperation. And Father, we we do pray for our brother Timmy persons as he begins uh his summer internship. We thank you uh for it, and we thank you for him, and we pray, Father, that it would be successful. Successful, that he would prosper in it, that he would enjoy it, and that you would use these experiences to glorify yourself in his life. And Father, we do pray for Latrice Morgan's uncle. Who passed away this last week, whom she was very close with. We pray that you would sustain her and that you would comfort her and her family for their loss. Father, we do lift up the African Bible College in Kampala, Uganda. We ask that you would provide the funding that they need in order to keep their doors. Doors open and flourish. We ask that you would send them many students this upcoming year to prepare for the gospel ministry We pray, Father, for those that are graduating, that you have prepared them and that you would prosper them in the gospel ministry that you are calling them to. And Father, we ask that you would do these things all for your glory. And Father, we close in our prayer this morning with the prayer that the Lord Jesus has taught us. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not unto temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom. And the power and the glory forever. Amen. If you haven't already done so, um would you please open your Bibles uh to First Peter as we will be in chapter Chapter 4, the last part of it. And which we will get to in just a moment as we will read together. Up until the nineties, that is the nineteen nineties, our country had not been engaged in any serious Military engagement for a couple of decades. And it had become fairly safe to join the military. Up until that point, generations of young people entered the military to gain valuable work experience, discipline, and have access to benefits that were for the purpose of continued education. Perhaps many of you know what I'm making reference to, and that is the GI Bill. But the 1990s ushered in a sustained period of military activity I recall seeing interviews throughout that decade by soldiers that were complaining about going to war Perhaps you may have seen some of those interviews if you're from that time period and old enough to remember. One of the quotes I recall from such an interview was I signed up for the military, not to go to war. Their response to this notion was that of surprise As if being a professional soldier meant never being exposed to the possibility of combat. Let me ask you, have you ever signed up for something, anything that you thought would be fun? Only fun, and then it seemed only to bring you annoyance, frustration. Or some sort of suffrage. Well, it seems to be that whenever I turn on religious broadcasting Most speakers are always talking about how tangibly wonderful it is to be a Christian And along with that, how God has laid out promises for your prosperity. Monetary prosperity, romantic prosperity. And you have got to go get your share. And by the way, when it comes to your share, the sky is the limit. In fact, if you watch these shows long enough, you get the impression that God is some cosmic ATM machine. They preach that. You turn to him in prayer, and if you believe hard enough, he will give you whatever your heart desires. desires. And part of that demonstrating or planting the seeds of faith of faith is to give to their ministries This way, you can increase your chances at harvesting your dreams. It's like buying extra lottery tickets or something. Even back then, I used to wonder what happens to these people who believe these speakers on religious broadcasting. Well, they make some sort of commitment to God, I would think, thinking that God will pay off their bills in perhaps, who knows, two weeks, three weeks. Mr. or Mrs. Wright will enter their life, if they're single, in no time. And if you're married, the spouse, your spouse, will treat you like the royalty that they think they are. What happens to these people based on this one-dimensional understanding of what it means to be a Christian? What happens to those that are in it just for the benefits? Just for the spiritual GI Bill? What happens to them when they turn off their TVs and walk into a Bible-believing evangelical? church and God begins to test their so-called faith What happens to them when they encounter suffering for claiming the name of Christ? Do you think maybe they are surprised by suffering? Christian, when you experience suffering for righteousness' sake, Should you be surprised? Our writer, the Apostle Peter, has something to say about this. Let's turn our attention now to our text for this morning, which is from 1 Peter 4, verses 12 to 19, to hear Peter's thoughts and teachings on this issue. Please rise if you would for the reading and hearing of God's holy word. Hear now the word of God. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice in so far as you share Christ's sufferings that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, You are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. But let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And If the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore Let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, minister to us this day with the Word of God. Open our minds and understanding to the plans of God, the will of God, and grant us grace to conform to his will, his ways. And give us hearts to desire more and more to be like our Savior. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So before I get into the text this morning, I need to take a moment here to talk about it from a Like 50-mile view, if you will. I want to zoom out for a bit. If you have your Bibles open, I'd like you to take a look at the passage itself. All the passage that we have for this day. But I would like you to look exactly at the beginning of it Actually, go up a one verse or so right above it, you'll notice from last week, which was what we studied from, it ends with a doxology To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Now many theologians uh not really too many conservative ones, would say that the text that we're studying today is an insertion that was put into 1 Peter after it was put together, because there you have a doxology, and therefore it must have ended right there But of course, we know that you don't need to put a duxology in order to end a specific book or any writing that you have. We have examples of that through other writings and other books where in which the apostles, as they're describing something, suddenly they want to glorify God, and they have a doxology that they give, and they continue from there. Now, that's why I that first I that's the first reason why I don't believe this is an insertion. However, they would also argue, as you go to the bottom of this passage and look at the next verse, which is chapter five and verse. one. You will notice that as we go through this, there seems to be a disjunction because he's talking about a variety of different things that we're going to be looking at today. And then he begins with verse 1, chapter 5. So I exhort the elders among you. It seems as if there's no really connection here with what just passed, which is our passage. for today. And so they would argue that this is an insertion after the fact. And so I want to I feel the burden to let you all know that this is an aspect of the passage that we're looking today. That this is under what's called higher criticism. So having said that, let's get into the passage itself and see if in fact there's any truth to this, or maybe there might be actual connections to all of this also. Together. Now, as we've seen, one of the major themes in the book of 1 Peter is that of suffering for our faith. And how Christians are to respond to the persecution that we have. Now, it should not be surprising for us to read about the church. Being persecuted in Peter's time, just as it is in our time. Certainly the persecution received by the church from external or internal elements has waxed and waned throughout the centuries. But from the beginning the gospel has brought on change that was and continues to be unacceptable. by the world. Our Sunday school study of the Book of Acts this last year highlights the opposition that began w within Judaism and expanded out to the Gentile world. And this coincided with the gospel ministry, beginning with Judaism, and moved steadily outward to the rest of the the world. Peter describes the trials as fiery. Peter, I think, has in mind the fires that refined silver and gold. We have a Proverbs, which is 27-21, which states, The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold. Just as fire is used to test these precious metals for genuineness, the Christian is also put through these fiery trials to test for authenticity. Just as fire would reveal to the refiner counterfeit metals posing as gold. Or silver. God's testing fires are designed to reveal, first, to ourselves the genuineness of our salvation. Second, our true level of commitment to God. And thirdly, to the church, if one is genuinely saved. Or not. For the Christian, a genuine believer, trials or testing play a more vital role They are designed to strengthen and cleanse us from sin and prepare us against challenges that could arise in the future. When you place side by side the offense of the gospel to the unbeliever, and God testing and refining your faith. Should it come as a surprise to you when you suffer as a Christian? I shouldn't. I think it shouldn't. I think, frankly, when you do put these together, it's just a matter of time. Peter anticipates, I think, your next question. If we should not respond with surprise at fiery trials, then what should be Our proper reply. We should rejoice. Did you say rejoice, Peter, at suffering and pain and loss? As Christians, we take comfort in the teachings that, for example, Romans 6. 5, that we have union with Christ in his death and Resurrection. But we are to remember that there is more to our union than that, in that we share in his sufferings for righteousness' sake Paul tells us in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 10, that I may know him, making reference to Jesus, and the power of his resurrection, and their And may share in his sufferings. The Apostle John tells us in 1 John 2:16. Ought to walk in the same way in which he walked, being obedient to his father even unto suffering. Our rejoicing in our suffering for righteousness' sake now will lead to even greater rejoicing when the Lord returns. Both suffering and rejoicing are parallel experiences that reveal an ongoing, and as odd as this sounds, A healthy, living, and vibrant relationship for the Christian Now, the more that we suffer for doing righteousness, and especially in situations when we're being persecuted for our faith, the more that we are to rejoice. It seems almost counterintuitive to rejoice during these times of persecution. But the Bible is clear that our increased suffering should result in an increase of our joy. Because it will have a purifying effect on us. It will put us in a place where we can have compassion. And mercy for the lost. And it serves to confirm that we are indeed Christ's. This thought of assurance seems to be a major concern for Peter. There were those within the communities to whom Peter ministered that It's obvious that the word sure of their election, their salvation. Peter writes in 2 Peter 1. 10, therefore, brothers. Be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure. He's addressing concerns that they had. One of the benefits of a continued suffering for the cause of Christ by a believer is that it is an indication that he or she Is saved. Christians struggle with the fear of knowing if they are God's elect. These fiery trials Which includes persecution for the faith, provides evidence for the resident, genuine faith within. This should assure you of your calling and election, and that should bring about rejoicing in your soul. The Lord Jesus taught that people leave the faith because they don't or didn't count the cost for following Him. He said that if you're going to follow him, you will take up your cross and follow him. Luke 9, 23 and 24 say. And he said to all, Jesus, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. And in Luke 14, we're told that we must count the cost of following Jesus. And there are those that won't consider or don't consider what it will cost. And when the time of testing, the fiery trials in life come, The fact that we must take up our cross and follow him, the sufferings that come from that causes a person to reconsider. If this is really what I signed up for. What do you mean I'm getting shipped out? I didn't sign up for that. But those that are genuine, but doubt, this is supporting evidence to them And the covenant community, that the faith is genuine and it shines brightly like gold and silver. It does seem amazing to think that increased suffering increases the joy that we have in the Lord. But Scripture seems to bear this out. Again, back to Acts chapter 5 and verse 41, we are told. So they departed from the presence of the council, the apostles who were just beaten. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name Acts 16, 25. But at midnight Paul and Silas, who were in prison, were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Even as they were suffering in prison, they were rejoicing. Colossians 1:24, we we see the heart of Paul as he writes to the church in Colossae. I now rejoice in my sufferings for you because he gets it. He understands. When Peter says to rejoice and be glad, what he is saying is that we should rejoice with great spiritual joyfulness. This can be a silent internal peace that satisfies the soul, knowing that you are being used by the master. for his glory, and perhaps for the eternal good of those that are persecuting you. But as we participate, as Peter says, in the sufferings of Christ, we shall be all the more joyful That is, be overjoyed in the participation of Christ's glory when he returns. We rejoice now at the sufferings that we have, but at the coming of Christ, our joy will be with exaltation. At that time, there will be no longer any suffering, but only glory for God's elect. Christian, do you spend any time thinking about that? And when you do, what goes through your heart? What goes through your soul? How do you feel? Knowing that when Jesus will return, that your suffering will ultimately come to an end. Immediately come to an end. Now, Peter in verse 14 now gives us that second rejoicing under suffering. The blessing that was mentioned in verse 13 was in the future, but now we see that the verse is in the present. What is this blessing? Peter tells us by invoking the powerful imagery Of God's Shekinah glory coming down and resting upon God's people in the Old Testament. God's resting is now extending to the New Testament believer. God's Spirit had rested and rests upon you now because you, we, the church, is now the temple of God. In the Old Testament, believers had God's presence in their midst, but he no longer rests in the tabernacle or temple to be found in Jerusalem. He rests upon you and you and upon us. How much more of a blessing can you ask for? That would bring you joy. That the Holy Spirit is not somewhere you go to in a building to worship, but the Holy Spirit is within us. Guarantee our salvation. Now Peter is quick to point out that not all who suffer can consider themselves blessed It is only for those who suffer for the sake of following Christ. Certainly, suffering can be experienced by a murderer or a thief. Or an evildoer or some troublesome meddler, this type of suffering should bring upon that person shame. Because what he has done is indeed evil, ungodly, and shameful. Yes, even the unbeliever in an unbelieving world understands shame. Why are we as Christians to abstain from these types of behaviors? Because they bring no glory to God, but instead they bring dishonor to our great Father. However, if you are ever charged with being a Christian, you should never cower or be ashamed of that charge. This was highly relevant to the church, which was about to undergo another set of persecution from Rome. If a person was charged with being a Christian back then, his or her life was in danger. Is it so much different today to be charged as a Christian? Well, there are parts of this world that discontinues In fact, Christians in places like Burma, China, India. Iran, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Syria, and Vietnam, and the list can go on are persecuted for following Christ. And these are just a few. Let, brothers and sisters, let not the comfy cushions of the The chairs which we sit upon delude us into thinking this has no relevance today. Peter uses the word revival In verse 14. And this means to be subject to verbal abuse, to be slandered against. In our societies today, to be charged a Christian can be a term of ridicule. In school or work or social settings, your lifestyle as a Christian, that is, abstaining from getting drunk doing drugs, maintaining sexual purity, and the like of all of these things opens you up to ridicule and rub. Beloved, if you are labeled as a Christian for leading a godly lifestyle, you should not feel Any shame. No, instead of shame, you should praise God. The opposite of shame is praise. Shame for God turns a man into a coward. But praise makes the same man bold. Become bold for God through your praise for Him. Hymn writer Joseph Grigg wrote the following: Ashamed of Jesus, that dear friend, on whom my hopes of heaven depend. No, when I blush, be this my shame, that I no more revere his name. Joseph Great. If you suffer the charge of leading a lifestyle that resembles the Lord's as opposed to a murderer or a thief, then you bring honor not just to yourself. But more importantly, but to God. Surely to know that you have brought honor to God's name is that alone is reason enough to suffer with rejoicing. It seems nowadays that whenever you you you we we hear the word judge or judgment. We tend to restrict its meaning to condemnation. But the reality is that it doesn't have to mean that, nor is it restricted to that meaning. When we read in verse 17 that the fiery trials are the judgment of God, it does not mean that he is condemning the church itself. And of course, those in it. He is refining, well, you and I. And so what we are to understand is that God has begun by judging the church first. And the judgment or evaluation of the balance of humanity, those outside the church, will be when he sends his son. Now, there's an order that Peter lays out here. For us, doesn't he? Now, let me go ahead and take a moment here to go through the text and see what Peter has in mind here when he's saying this. Or perhaps how his thinking has been influenced by the Word of God. The ESV has the translation of the Greek, which is. Oikas to Theo as the household of God. Note household of God God, but it literally means house of God, not household of God. Dr. Dennis Johnson in his book Fire in God's house really explicates this well, and I use a lot of his information here for our edification. The point is that historically this phrase referred to the house of God, the temple, and not the people of God. It literally meant the temple. And I think that this is a better translation for us to use as well, because that's exactly what it says. In fact, the only other time in 1 Peter when he uses this word is in 2. 5. 1 Peter 2 5, where he says that we are coming to him, you are being built up into a spiritual house, meaning that we are the new temple, the house of God. Additionally, the text literally reads from and not with. The time has come for judgment to begin from the house of God, not with the household of God. Y'all with me? Okay. Now with this in mind, let me ask, is there something in the scripture now suddenly that that Peter has drawn upon or is pointing to that would help us to understand what he means. Yes, there is. We would need to turn to Ezekiel chapter 9, where we see that the Lord is calling the executioners of judgment to draw near. That is to bring judgment upon Jerusalem for its sins. A mark is put on those that groan over their sins and side with God. That's in chapter 9, verses 4 and 5. And in chapter 9, verses 5 and 6, the rest of Jerusalem, who do not have that sign upon them, are to be punished. The major point here is that God tells them to begin, and here it is, from my sanctuary. And Ezekiel records, so they began from the elders who were inside the house. That's Ezekiel 9. 6. So Peter is helping us to understand that it is from the house of God that God begins his judgment. Now when Ezekiel is beginning with the elders who are in God's house, it helps us to understand. What seems to be for many a disjointed thought in the next section, chapter 5 and verse 1. Therefore, elders, I exhort you. The judgment comes from the house of God and goes out from there, beginning with the elders. The judgment. With this in mind, we can see that the next section is not so disjointed Is it now? It's not something that was just spliced together and inserted. But it's a natural outflow from what he has in mind regarding the judgment of God. Now, how does it connect? Well, we have already established that the new house of God, the new temple, 1 Peter 2. If you haven't seen that, go back and watch it on the videos or listen to it, is made up of human stones. And not physical ones, living stones, as Peter states, who are and make up the new temple, the new house of God. That's you and us, the church, right? It is from this house, the new house, that God will begin to judge first and then out to the unbeliever. Now, interestingly enough, we see this also in Malachi, chapter 3, verses 1 through 5. Saul puts it together There is this prophesy that the prophecy that the Lord Himself will suddenly come into his temple. His house as the messenger of the new covenant, who is like the refiner's fire Is this all starting to sound like anything Peter's been saying so far? He states it is so that they may be refined to make offerings in righteousness Now, this in verse 5, all of this, right, he's saying about going into his house, suddenly he's coming to his house, and he's refining his own people, and then in verse 5, he says. Then I will come near to you for judgment, meaning unbelievers From the house of God, first believers, and then the unbelievers. Peter's telling us that God is judging or refining the household of God first, and the time for God to judge the church will end. And the time for the world will be judged at that time, and that time has not arrived yet, but when he comes, that time will come for them. Those, for example, who slandered, who murdered, stole, or have been troublesome meddlers, for example, will be judged. But this time they shall not receive an innocent, but instead the Verdict will be guilty for disobedience. And their fiery ordeal will be for the purpose of punishment for evil and disobedience. So then, if this is the case, God has come. And if He is to be likened to the refiner's fire, Why should we be surprised when we experience trials and suffering? For God said in Ezekiel and in Malachi that he would do this. First, from the house of God, and then to the unbeliever. Like he did in the Old Testament This is what we should have expected. It was foretold. We should not be surprised. Because Jesus has come. And we are the new temple. And he's going to refine us first, brothers and sisters in Christ For our good and his glory, and those that would persecute us And the name of Christ. If they do not repent from their sins, like we were given the grace to repent from our sins, will then face that same fiery trial Without the presence of his grace. But how are we to take this piece of information? We are to rejoice. Because it's happening just like he predicted. God's word is true and it's happening. Now we must be cautious in understanding what the word saved here means in terms of eternal salvation. At times it does not mean eternal salvation from sins. It i in some cases people were saved from their physical maladies when Jesus healed them. In this case it means what? To to pass the trial. Of God. Having understood this, we can now understand this verse to mean that the fires of God's holiness is so intense that even the righteous Those who have been made righteous feel pain and barely pass the trials of the pain And if this is the case, then Peter asks rhetorically, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? If we're the ones that are just barely getting passed by, what will happen to them? The answer is clear. The impious sinner will, by implication, find it to not be a momentary and enriching. And cleansing fire, but one that is eternally painful Do you know what your verdict will be on Judgment Day? When Christ returns Guilty or innocent? Are you unsure? Do you want to know for sure? Now in verse 19, the therefore is there because it brings us to this conclusion of Peter's thoughts Peter's point is that those who suffer according to the will of God must remind themselves of God's character. God is a faithful and right and good and wise God This means that even when we don't understand why God is putting us through suffering, Peter just doesn't hold back, does he? There's no sugarcoating this. He's going to speak truth to us. It is God who brings about suffering. For various purposes, right? When we are experiencing this suffering, what are we to do? We are to continue to entrust our souls to him. Now think about this. To trust someone to be good and suffer at his hands In the meantime, without any under sometimes, without any understanding as to why, would demonstrate what to fallen men. A faith and a trust and a love. Wouldn't that get the curiosity or interest of one who is not loved? Loved unconditionally by the world. And by the way, the world doesn't love condition unconditionally. It's all conditional. But while you're undergoing the trials of God, do not complain, brothers and sisters, or be disobedient, but do good. So that an unbelieving world may want the calmness and the peace and the joy that you have that only comes from being a child of God. God. As Christians, we do not suffer due to fate, accident, or an irresistible force. We suffer because it is God's will. But this suffering is motivated by God's good and perfect will. This suffering has a limit and it has a purpose. It is designed to build faith and purify us. It sets us apart from the world. We should not be surprised at suffering, but respond with joy. Joy at knowing that in the future we will join in the glory of Christ when He is revealed and that God has rested already upon us. Heavenly Father, uh these can be very hard words To hear and to process. We pray, Father, that you would help us to understand more and more. Who you are, what you are, and of the wonderful plans that you have made for us. Grant us the grace to return love for evil. Help us to be like our Savior. Who returned love for when we treated you with evil. Thinking that we knew better, didn't trust in you, didn't believe in you, made up our own gods, and had them serve us as we could. Deal with our guilty conscience. But instead of punishing Rightfully punishing, and sending us into an eternity of pain. You gave us love. You gave us your Son, so that we may have life. Help us to realize. how much it cost you. Help us to be like you. Help us to be merciful. Help us to be kind. Help us to manifest your glory in our lives in these situations. And help us, Heavenly Father, to rejoice Knowing that everything is going according to plan. And nothing can stop your plan And neither would we, as your people, would want to stop that plan, but rather help us to gain greater confidence. And knowing that this was prophesied. And that we should not be surprised by suffering because you are You are cleansing us. You are purifying us and you are preparing us. And you are using us for your glory. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders who will be assisting me with the distribution of the elements to please come forward.