I think there are many statements in life that we hear. I think a statement that we hear every so often in life is Just trust me. Just trust me. Most of us, I think, have heard that, and perhaps maybe some of us have said that as well, somewhere along the way in life, right? People say, the people who actually say of us, you know, just trust me, say so, and the following is, I know what I'm doing. It's a sure thing. I wouldn't let you down. When or where do we normally hear something like this? In a variety of different places and at different times in life, I think, right? Sometimes we may hear this from a used car salesman who says, just trust me. This car is a great car, and of course it's followed up by this was uh driven and last owned by an old lady who only drove it to church on Sundays, right? I just realized we may have a lot of those vehicles to be sold in the near future, right? Or perhaps it's a loved one who may say it, right? Just trust me. Perhaps it may be a stockbroker who says to you, just trust me, uh this is a surefire thing, this is the best two cents penny stock that there is out there. Remember Microsoft used to be two cents as well. Well Microsoft never was two cents, but you'll hear that. Just trust me. This is a surefire thing. Now, parents say that too, right? Parents say, you know, just trust me, and as we as children should give deference and we should obey our parents. But that is another time that we do hear that. Another time that we typically hear this is of a colleague, right, at work who will say, just trust me, I know what I'm doing, follow along. And then finally, we could hear this too whenever we need legal advice. We hear this from lawyers. They'll say, just trust me, I know the law. So sometimes this happens in our lives when we don't have enough information to make a proper decision. And when this happens, there what really exists is there's a gap that requires faith. There's a gap that requires faith on our part. Now, I don't know about you, but I have um I I don't mean have said, although I have said, trust me, uh I I've I've experienced this myself. I I mean being put in a position Where uh I have to trust someone. I know that most of us have been in that position as well. And when we take it on faith in those situations, what do we typically hope for when we're trusting? Well, we hope that we haven't made a bad decision, right? It's one of the things that we hope for. We can end up feeling a variety of things when we do that, depending upon who and what it is that we are trusting in. Some of those feelings can be what? Anxiousness, right? And if we're betrayed by someone who says, trust me, some of the things that we we feel are our our sadness and of course we feel anger uh along with that. I think one of the things that we we don't want to end up is is in a bad situation. Perhaps be embarrassed We don't want our decisions to cause us to put us to shame, if you will, to be let down I I don't know if you guys um are familiar with this, but there's a um there's a series out there, it's a TV series called American Greed. Perhaps maybe some of you have seen episodes of this. It really I think it's probably on the 15th or 16th season that it's in production. And um for those of you who've seen it will know, uh, but basically is a story or episodes about greedy people who take advantage of other people. who basically lie to them, who end up stealing from them. Of course, there's a lot of trust me. I know what I'm doing. Trust me, you can rest assured that your investments are safe. And in every one of these cases, they're con men you know, trying to deceive people. And I I I always find it interesting. You know, these are people that have been doing it for like sometimes decades. twenty years, thirty years of doing the same thing, deceiving people, uh, gaining trust and then taking all their stuff, their resources, their money, their investments, their real estate, having them sign it over to them. And, you know, you would think that, you know, after twenty years or thirty years, people would step up and and and say, look, you know, turn them into the law. But Um it's interesting that they they they don't. There's so many people out there who place their trust in them and don't go to the authorities. Why is that? You know, you sometimes wonder about that. And I think it's because they're ashamed. They're they're uh they're embarrassed about placing trust in someone. You know, I really do find that an intriguing and very interesting aspect of humanity. So, you know, here's a person who lies to you, and instead of that person feeling ashamed We feel ashamed. And so we don't tell other people about it. That's a very intriguing human dynamic. And I think that uh that's something that we need to um consider, this whole issue of trusting, and it has a lot to do with our passage this morning. So in our previous sermon, we studied a couple of things, of which one of them was what the Apostle Peter said regarding having the knowledge of Christ. This meaning when one comes to trust Christ in his offer for salvation and entry into the kingdom of God. As it relates to anyone who has honestly understood and placed his trust in him, Peter says the following. Genuinely placing your trust in what Jesus has to offer you will never be in. It will never prove to be untrue. It will never fall flat. Christ will always deliver. Christ is someone that you can always trust. Now, the construction of Peter's broader thought in this paragraph, verses 3 to 11, is a bit complex and we have to break it out. Especially for the focus of our passage this morning, which is uh specifically verses 10 and 11. That being the case, let us now turn our attention to the passage this morning, which is from 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 10 and 11. But I'm going to begin reading from verse 3 to refresh our minds and for us to have context. And would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? Hear now the word of God. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason. Make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control. And self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. Therefore, brothers, be all diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. For in this way, there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination by the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, everything around us is temporary and fleeting. We place our hopes in them and find out that one moment they're here and the next they are gone. In the Bible, Holy Spirit, you teach us that the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Remind us this day that the things that stands forever is what our God says and what our God promises us. Our hope is in you, Holy Spirit. Be with us now and help us to see the truth of the word and help us to trust in it. And by your power to conform to it, obey it, and rejoice in it. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So what Peter has just said is that if you possess and practice And he gave us a list of them, right? Faith, virtue, knowledge, self-discipline, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, and love. If these things are what you possess and what you have been practicing them more and more in your life, then you can rest assured. That God's call, the gospel, will not let you down. It will be true in your life. that the gospel call is both true and effectual. But this assumes something It is not only the presence, it is us putting to practice these characteristics which we possess, because we have accepted Christ's offer of salvation. Genuinely, and without reservation. Now I want to make a distinction here Sometimes we get offered something, although outwardly we say, sure, this sounds like a good thing. We may agree to it provisionally, internally. We're sort of trying it out though We may, you know, kind of go ahead and do the things that are required, but internally we haven't given ourselves over to it. We're not really sold on that idea. And it is possible that people around you may say, oh yeah, it's real. In that person's life. I can see the change where their lives are bearing fruit in that direction. But really inside, that's not the case. Peter's making an assumption here. He's writing to people that have genuinely trusted. And it's not a provisional one. Yes, of course, Peter is fully aware that there may be people in the churches that he is writing to that haven't. But it's and he is making an assumption, and it is for people that are genuine. Christians. I mean, really, the truth is that only people the only people that can know is that person. But sometimes one can fool oneself into thinking that. But God really, really knows If it's genuine. My point is that we can fool ourselves and we can fool our neighbor, if you will, but we can never fool God, because it is God who weighs the heart. Sometimes it may not even be the person who has true knowledge of their salvation. Now, I am going to come back to that in just a little bit. So how are we we to determine if the proclamation of trust or faith that we have is real. Well, it's true that this is a tricky thing. But Peter's point is very important. He said in verse 8, 1, if these qualities Are yours and two, they are increasing. Now, this tells us that salvation is not a one-time trust in Christ. And then you're good. You can walk away. Practically speaking, when when one is not abstaining from sin by the exercise of self-control, or when one doesn't continue in their Christian walk by worshiping the Lord regularly or learning from the Bible, for example. This would indicate that they are not steadfast in their faith and love for God. These would be examples of not maintaining a consistent and growing faith in Christ. But this statement, I think, is buttressed by the fact that these qualities are not increasing in your life. As I mentioned last week, we are not saying that we become immediately perfect, or even perfect in this life, no matter how long we live. No one will experience perfection until we enter into glory. But instead of perfection, what we really are striving for is direction. It's not perfection, it's direction. A direction towards a godly character in the Christian life. Now, as Peter concludes his introductory marks in verse 10 and 11, We see that what he is conveying is that becoming a Christian is something that God does. And we receive it by faith alone. But it is not a faith that is alone. It is a faith that naturally produces fruit. Good deeds, or another way of saying this, is works. This fruit, if you will, is evidence of its presence and genuineness. But it is a fruit that is also considered throughout the Christian life. He has said in verse 3 that through the divine power of God he has granted us all things pertaining to life and godliness. This means that at salvation, we have all that we need to produce the fruits of salvation. And in anticipation of his dealing with false teachers, which is going to be coming up very, very soon in chapter 2, we don't have any needs for some special knowledge. to get into the presence of God, to get into the good graces of God. We have it all in Christ through his crosswork. As we move into verse 10, it's as if he's saying, Peter, if you are hearing these things like, in order to be a proper Christian or to be in good shape for God, Come here. I have some special knowledge for you that the apostles don't have. Peter would continue to say, if they, these false teachers, are disrupting your sense of security in Christ. Or are you doubting your calling and election if you're looking to have assurance of this wonderful salvation that we have, if that is your concern? Here's what you need to do. Is that you? You sometimes wonder if you're saved. She says, Peter says, be all the more diligent in practicing what God has already given you the ability to do. Verse 10 begins with the word therefore. This is referring to something that has already preceded and is now coming to a conclusion. What preceded is that we don't want to be blind or short-sighted, forgetting that our sins have been cleansed. We don't want to end up there. For the person who ends up there, he would be demonstrating that he has not been changed by the gospel. He has not been changed by the frameness that God did for us. This was, of course, when we first came into the knowledge of Christ. Election is an act of God. But man's response, yours and my response to it, the outward behavior of that faith Or trust in the gospel is the proof of it. Make sure for yourself. Make your calling and election sure. This happens when we apply God's grace in our lives Like peanut butter and jelly, peas and carrots, Christian calling and Christian living go together. God calls men to commit themselves to Jesus Christ. And once you have done so, that call must be implemented by holy. living. However, we have to keep in mind that not all who hear God's divine command to repent and believe ultimately progress in Christian conduct. Which again is the evidence of your lecture So if you confirm God's calling with a life that follows it, Peter concludes two things will follow. The first is that you will never fall. Another way of saying this is to stumble. Now, we may stumble, and James affirms that when he simply says in James 3. 2, we all stumble in many ways. But what Peter has in mind here is that the Christian will be spared a disaster that ends up in eternal grief. If you trust in Jesus, he will carry you through this life and unto eternity. You shall not be embarrassed for trusting in Jesus. You shall not be put to shame for trusting in Jesus. A life of steady progress, you see, should characterize the Christian, and his glowing Christian character should be the silent proof Of God's election in his life. If there's any emphasis in this verse, I think that it has to be in Peter's exhortation to be all the more eager. all the more diligent in confirming God's calling and election in our lives. Term indicates making something a high priority in one's life where we will have to burn up a lot of physical and moral energy. So we must put into practice what God has called us to put into practice. Now, if you apply yourself to godliness, Peter says that you will reach your heavenly destination. And as you do, you will receive a rich welcome into the eternal kingdom of God. Peter has some things to say about this kingdom of God. The first is that it is eternal. Perhaps another way of understanding is through Jewish thought of the time. which was let's say that is the age that is to come. The New Testament conviction is persistently this about the kingdom of God That in the person of Jesus, the age to come has sort of invaded this age. It's like sort of overlapping. The last things have been inaugurated. Of course, they wait completion. And it is the completion part that Peter has in mind here. There is a future realization of eschatology. There are things that are yet to happen. There is the already, for example, we are partakers of the divine nature. But there is the not yet. And verse 11 is focused on that not yet part. Finally, the kingdom of God is characterized as belonging to our Lord. And Savior. Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. It is his kingdom And one enters into it by a relationship with him. Are you already a citizen of Jesus' kingdom? Is he your king? Have you entrusted yourself to him? What does it mean in this verse? It is thus. You will have an entrance richly provided for you, the eternal kingdom of Christ. Thus is another way of saying in this way. In this manner Typically, when we come across the word, we anticipate the way the thus is about to be defined. The point is that in this way normally precedes. But here, in this context, it is preceded by what has already been said. In other words, it looks back to what has already been taught us by Peter. It looks back to the pattern of moral behavior outlined by the character given to us in verses 5 through 7. It is in this way that we enter, richly enter into God's eternal kingdom. And by having lived a life of applying God's grace, you will not only have assurance of your salvation, but it will lead to an entrance richly provided for you in the eternal kingdom of God. It describes us as a rich, referring to God's generosity Giving us yet again something that we don't deserve. More of God's grace. Perhaps it might be better to read this passage as, your entrance will be richly provided for. So the picture here has been described in a variety of different ways. One of which is like a patron who has lavishly welcomed home his servant who has done a good an excellent job. Perhaps even a close friend who hasn't seen for years, where the house has been festooned, and he's called together dignitaries in town, and there's party favors, and there's spread everywhere and and he he has not spared a single expense in welcoming that person his friend into his house But sometimes it was also done as if you were an Olympic athlete. If you had won an event. And back in those days, you would return to your city and there would be a rich celebration welcoming that hero. And there would, you know, music and and and there would be uh a variety of different uh uh celebrations for that athlete. A rich welcome to the city. Now, i i i i i i i i i i we can understand how that works, right? We don't have to go back to the first century or perhaps watch one of those old movies, uh, from the Roman era to to h to hear all the trumpets blowing and all that kind of stuff and the horses and whatnot. Uh you know, I remember uh as a little boy watching videos um of ticker tape parades. Uh I grew up in New York City, it's one of the places, ticker tape parades, when um When one of the teams won a national championship in some sort of event with all the city that would come out to cheer them on and they would be driven in a motorcade. And that motorcade would be uh ending at City Hall where the mayor would come out and greet them and thank them and congratulate them for their great victory. This is the same type of reception that Peter is saying You will have. God will not hold back anything to celebrate your coming into the kingdom of God. Now we're talking about the eschatological age, right? At the end of the age. Wow. That's fantastic. I don't know about you. But I'm I'm looking forward to that. A part of what Peter is doing here is that he's answering the question, the age-old question that even was asked of the Lord himself. Who will enter the kingdom of God? And what must one do to enter it? Christ is referred to here. By Peter as what? Lord and Savior. This is his salvific title, as well as his authoritative title. He is the King. He is the Lord. Perhaps Peter is using both titles here, which by the way is very rare in the New Testament to say Lord and Savior. To point out that not only is he the Savior, but he is also our Lord. He is to be followed. He is the King. He is to be obeyed And this should be reflected in the life of the follower who has been gifted all these character traits All the things that we need for life and salvation. We already have them, but we must practice them. Why? Because He is our Lord, not just Savior. And this is what a true believer can expect: a great reception at the full arrival of the kingdom of God. At the end of the age. So if some of you are still wondering, or occasionally ask the question: Am I saved? Let me first share with you that the scripture teaches that if you are one of God's elect, you will not lose your salvation. You cannot lose your salvation. But what can be helpful for us is to go through what Dr. R. C. Sprohl has taught and written in many different places regarding this particular issue of figuring things out. Making our call and election sure is not making what God has already decreed a sure or certain thing. If God has decreed something, it is already sure. It's already certain that it will happen. So if he's already elected you, it's a sure thing. All of our efforts, our diligence cannot change a single thing that God has already decreed. We cannot know with any certainty certainty that we are not. Elect. We cannot know with any certainty that we are not elect. So if I'm certain that I am not saved, For example, I do not know if I will become saved either today or tomorrow or perhaps on my deathbed. I just don't know. So we can't really know if we are not left with certainty. However, as our text teaches us, we can know if we are saved. Right? That's what this passage is telling us. So you may ask then, what's the purpose of all this? Before I get into the purpose of all this, let's consider the grid that Dr. Sprohl has offered for us. It has four slots, right? And everyone falls into one of those four categories, so you guys determine for yourselves as I start to give them out to you. The first one is unsaved people who know that they are not saved. Unsaved people who know that they are unsafe. The second is saved people who are unsure if they are saved. This passage is dealing with this, right? The third is for saved people who know that they are saved. They have assurance. And fourth and last, unsaved people who are sure that they are saved. Now you may ask, how is it possible for unsaved people to think that they're saved? In my opinion, I think this is a truly frightening thing when you think about it. I'm reminded of the passage in the Gospel of Matthew And I urge you all to pay very careful attention to this. It's from Matthew chapter 7, starting with verse 21, where the Lord Jesus says the following: this is at the end of judgment. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, confessing that they're saying that I, you were my Lord, you were my king. Will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven, those who put to practice the character of God in their lives. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not? And they'll go on saying a bunch of things. Didn't I do this for you? Didn't I do that for you? Didn't I do this? And then Jesus says, and then will I declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me. He doesn't say, I I knew you once. No. He says, I never knew you. There is no such thing as Jesus knowing you as his child and then losing you. We've already determined that. He says, I never knew you. You were a person who believed that you were saved, but you are never ever saved. I don't know about y'all, but this is frankly the most frightening passage for anyone who has any knowledge of the gospel or of Christianity. Nothing more frightening to live out a life thinking that you are gods, and then you die, and you point to your works, which is not what you should be pointed to. And God says, I never knew you. Depart from my sight. Wow. It's my opinion, I think, this is indeed a horrifying thing to experience. Once you hear that, there's no other hope, there is no other chance. You must turn to Christ now before anything like that can possibly happen. Now, you may ask, you know How can this possibly happen? I think the first way in which this could happen is that you may have a false understanding of the gospel. A common misunderstanding is that in order for one to be saved, you have to believe in God, and there's the big word, and you have to do good works. Again, this is in order to be saved. That means that these people would believe that if you do enough good Good works, and if you do enough of it, you'll make it. This is a false gospel. Another common one is that you can know the gospel, truly, and even tell it to other people. Now this is nothing but mere head knowledge. Just having intellectual knowledge. You know, it really doesn't go any further than that. Another way is for people to not only know the gospel correctly, accept the fact that all the events in Christ's life was accurate and true. But they don't give themselves to that knowledge. An example of this is given to us again in the book of James. Where he says about someone's supposed faith. He says, you believe? Well, guess what? So do the demons. They're not saved. So none of this really gets you true salvation. But it may lead you to think that you are saved. There are many people that have a false understanding of salvation. Something that they became saved when they simply attended a Billy Graham crusade years ago. Or maybe they they filled out a pledge card, right? Saying that, yep, they want to be saved or they're saved. Or because they responded to an altar call at some point in their lives. Or maybe they point to the fact that they were baptized at some point in their lives. Or even because their parents or their grandparents were Christians, they would point to that and say, well, yeah, I am because my my my grandpa was a pastor. Now, it is possible that you were saved at any one of these events that I just mentioned. But it's not the event or the relationship that you have to folks I mentioned that saves you. It's something else that saves you. It's one, possessing a proper knowledge of the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ, believing that those things are truly historically accurate. They are true that they really happened. Christ died and was resurrected from the dead on the third day And three, here it is. It's trusting yourself to that reality. And that causes a permanent and should cause a permanent change in your life if you are elect A permanent change in your life. It's accepting the offer of salvation and resting in it for the forgiveness of your sins. It's repenting, turning back, right, from your current sinful life to that of following Jesus as your King and God. And what that does is change your desire from pursuing sin to pursuing righteousness. Slowly but surely doing good things for the glory of God It becomes less and less about you, and more and more about God and what God has done in your life. And you are called to be an active participant in that process So let me close this morning with a quote from Dr. Sprohl, who says in his teaching on this, nobody has ever been saved by a profession of faith. You must possess it as well as profess it. You must possess it as well as profess it. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives. We thank you that we are saved by faith alone. And we thank you, Father, that as we are saved by you through the power and presence of the Holy Spirit. For what Christ has done for us on the cross. That you also give us all that we need for faith and life. Help us, we pray, more and more, to be diligent in exercising these character traits that reflect your divine nature and in our partaking of it. And we know, Father, that we can't do it on our own. So we need your grace. And we ask for it. More and more. So that we can reflect your son, your character. In our lives to a lost and broken world. And we may have assurance of our salvation in the process. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your provision. Help us to worship you, to give you thanks, and to proclaim the praises of your name to the lost and broken world. And it is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.