There's an element in nature called pyrite. There are deposits of it in several parts of the world, and it has the characteristic of looking like gold. In fact, in the 16th century it came to be mistaken for it. Explorers from Europe found large amounts of gold and pyrite in the Americas. At that time, Spain was shipping large amounts of gold and silver back to Europe, as well as pyrite masquerading as gold. Jacques Cartier, as his exploration of Canada, was funded by the promise of gold, which over time was discovered to be pyrite. One of the first expeditions, I don't know if you're aware of this, to Jamestown, was financed by the hope of finding gold, which also ended up being pyrite. Hence the term was coined. Fool's gold. Today, fool's gold can be defined as any flashy but ultimately worthless investment. Or anything that can be mistaken as having genuine value. Imagine making an expensive investment in digging up gold And when the gold comes in, it looks like gold, but in the end, it's a worthless rock that has no value. How would you feel if you were in that situation? James doesn't want us to invest in fool's gold. He wants us to know what real and genuine faith looks like. Knowing that you're really saved is not really for God's benefit. The value is for any person who's making an outward profession of faith. Each individual is to look within and understand the gospel, accept it as true, and trust themselves to it. Genuine faith. is comprised of three parts. And we'll get to this very shortly. We're saved by faith alone. However That faith that saves us, this is the main point of James' teaching. The faith that saves us contains within it outward manifestations of that belief. We call it works. We call it deeds, works of righteousness. James wants us to put our faith, our religion, if you will, to the test. What James has in mind is to see if we have invested our faith in fool's gold, a pyrite type of faith. or if it is a real gold who is in Jesus himself. Now if you recall, James offered a test for us. The real type of religion of faith that has value is that one that demonstrates itself in restraint, self-control that is proven by a tame tongue. Two, one that does good deeds, not expecting anything in return. And finally, number three, one that is sold out to God Not allowing the world and its enticements to sully your profession, your profession of faith that might lead to any sort of apostasy. In our passage today, he further develops the understanding of faith as well as its relationship to works. If you haven't done so, would you please turn your Bibles to our passage this morning, which is in James chapter 2, verses 14 to 26 That's in James chapter two, verses fourteen to twenty-six. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body. What good is that? So also, faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder. Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. And the scripture was fulfilled that says, Abraham believed God. And it was counted to him as righteousness. And he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way, was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way? For as the body, apart from the spirit, is dead, so also faith, apart from works, is dead. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Let us pray together for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, be with us. Now we pray as we continue to worship our great triune God. We pray that you would be with us now and help us to understand clearly what it is that you have prepared for us through our brother James. We pray that you would unstop our spiritual ears and open our spiritual eyes, so that we may be able to understand, be changed, and glorify God with it. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So let me just go ahead and begin by talking about the constituent parts of what is the type of faith that leads unto salvation. The reformers, I'm making reference to the 16th century reformers, recaptured and reiterated what it means to have about saving faith. They taught that it was comprised of three very important parts. Now, you may have heard these terms in the past. They're Latin terms, and please forgive me if I'm mispronouncing them. The first is notitia. It basically means content of faith, notitia It's proper and it's sufficient knowledge. It is basically the nuts and bolts or the content of what it is that you believe. The second part is ascensus. It means intellectual assent. Not just acknowledgement of understanding, but it's also agreement to that truth So it's one thing to understand. It's another thing to agree that it is true. And now there's a third aspect of it. So we have notitia and the census, and the third one is fodicia It means basically to entrust yourself to that truth. To entrust yourself to that truth. So what is required for genuine salvation is all three parts. It's not enough to understand, or in addition, to say, I believe it to be true. But you must also entrust yourself to that truth so that as you live your life, your life will demonstrate that reality. Anything less than all three is not genuine salvation. Now being armed with this knowledge, let's move forward to our second point this morning. What's the value of your faith? The section begins by identifying whom James is addressing. He starts by saying, brothers. Then he asks two rhetorical questions rapid-fired, where the second question relies on the first, and the first one makes sense in the light of the second question. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Second question. Can that faith save him? Now the word good can easily be translated as benefit or profit. Can that person's claim of faith in Jesus Christ as his personal Savior Can his claim of faith save him? James further qualifies the hypothetical individual who is not identified as a brother in Christ. as having no deeds or works of righteousness. Please note James is not saying that the works or deeds saves him. It is the type of faith that the man has. He asks, can such a faith As that save him? Are you following him? It's important to see that. So the sum of what James is asking is What does it profit or benefit a man to say that he is saved, but yet his life doesn't demonstrate a changed soul? I presume and hope that many of us here, if not all of us, have made a profession of faith. If you have Let me ask you, has that been the end of the matter for you? See, James is objecting here to the type of faith that does not benefit a man unto salvation. This affects every one of us, doesn't it? Let's continue to follow on James' argumentation here. In verses fifteen and sixteen, James employs another hypothetical to make his point. In verse fifteen, he says the following. If, or in some translations, suppose you discover a fellow believer is in a distressed situation. He is without food and proper clothing. And in verse 16, he brings his readers into the situation, those in the church, that is you and I, and said to him, Go. I wish you well. Keep warm and well fed. But does nothing about his physical needs. What good is that? The tone of the hypothetical brother speaking, it's not meant to be condescending. He uses holy words. Go, depart in peace. He's pointing this hurting brother to God for help. When you dwell upon the response, it's not that the advice is troubling here. But the problem we are to see here is that the statement is cloaked as some sort of religious cover for not doing something. That would be the equivalent of us similarly saying something like, trust in the Lord. God is good. God will provide. Or anything that is Christian-sounding. James ends with a question. If a congregant sees this and does nothing about the brother's situation except offer Christian-sounding advice, What benefit is this? He is not asking what the actual benefit is We already know the answer to that question. What James is asking is, what value is this to the faith claim of this person, the congregant? Y'all see that? In verse 17, he brings this all together. In the same way, in the way, this advice is worthless. And that's the point here. The faith that the person proclaims to have in Christ If this type of faith claim does not demonstrate itself in action, this is, as James says, dead faith. A dead faith has no value. It is a pyrite type of faith. It is a fool's faith. Just as the words to the poor hungry person will most certainly prove to have no value. So shall the profession made by the so-called believer on Judgment Day also have no value. I think that this is pretty frightening stuff, to be honest with you. Now James continues. by using a a common practice of his day to deal with potential of objectors, right? He has a potential um a hypothetical objector who comes out and he uses this in a diatribe. A hypothetical protester in verse 18 comes in and basically says, faith and deeds need not go together. He is objecting to James's assertion that faith without works is worthless. that they don't need to go with one another. Y'all follow what James is doing here? Many interpretations have been offered for verse 18. There really are numerous amounts in order to come up with what this passage is trying or attempting to say. And they really go from, you know, not even mentioning to some that are uh slightly satisfying. But we don't have time to go through all the different litany of explanations. I think the best way to approach this is to be consistent with James' argumentation here. Now, if I apologize, I'm going to get a little too technical, but it's important for us in order for us to unpack this passage. Dr. Davis, in his commentary on the book of James, points out that the in verse 18 that the u and the i should be used in the Greek distributively This means that, in its simplest terms, that the you and the I would be replaced by one and another. The U and the I, when used distributively, would be replaced by one and another. The U and the I would make reference to no one in particular. And this fits in properly with someone will say Which is, of course, the hypothetical introduction to the sentence. In this case, the objector is saying, one person may have faith, Any other person may have works, presumably as a gift from God. Now put this all together now. What the hypothetical objector is saying is, since we know that everything is a gift from God, including faith and the works that set before us. How can you, James, demand works of someone if indeed they are gifts from the Spirit? After all, each person is given gifts according to the Spirit. But James is opposing this view, which states that faith and works should be separated and considered mutually exclusive He is not talking about the quantity of works, but rather its presence in the life of a genuine believer. This being the objection, James responds to this challenge by telling the person, show me your faith apart, separated from works. Presumably, works of righteousness, and I will reveal my faith by my works James finishes his response to the hypothetical objector by telling this person that having cerebral, or we'll use the term now, notitia. And affirming the truth, assentia, alone is worthless He compares the faith of this person of all beings to choose from, demons. Fallen angels. And he refers to the Shema, which we made reference to a little while ago, Deuteronomy 6:4. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. It begins with the most important tenant of knowing and understanding God, that there is only one God James points out that even the demons know and believe But what good does this do them? The answer is obvious. It has no value to them. I think we can begin to see the problem here is not with the content of the profession, but with what is in the heart. The Fudisia, right? Well then it does have to be asked, I think. Do you believe that Jesus is God? You're a sinner? He died on the cross for sins as a substitute for all those who believe in him and repent. But that's all that it means to be a disciple of a follower of Jesus Christ. I think that the last thought is profound The demons know the truth about God. They don't live in ignorance, but they live in fear of this reality. They shudder. I think the irony of all of this is that those who know the truth about God generally do not respond as the even the demons do, who shudder in fear. Is faith in God an intellectual exercise for you? Is faith in God just an insurance policy for you? You know, I I've heard it uh said many a times, and uh sadly in many a pulpit, that that that try to get people to trust themselves or believe in Jesus, that that say that, you know, Jesus has died on the cross. And and and he's made it available. Salvation is available. And all you have to do is he's given you a check. And all you have to do is endorse the back of the check. You just have to sign it and you're saved. Well, I think that as we go through James here, we see that it's much more than that. You just don't sign the back of the check and walk away, and it's all done for you, like an insurance policy. This section of scripture provides for us a necessary correction to easy believism. or what's commonly called as carnal Christianity. True religion begins with faith But it is a faith that works. It is not enough to say that I believe in Jesus and walk away from it There is no such thing as having a faith in Christ and it not showing itself in your life. Now, having argued from the negative, James now moves on to providing positive examples of what he means by a faith which is alive and useful. The point to look for is that this type of justifying faith, as we shall see, is accompanied by works or deeds. The deeds justify, in this case, vindicate the type of profession that the so-called Christian makes. James asks his hypothetical debater if he wants positive proof for his position. Now it's interesting to note that throughout the centuries in the Jewish community, if one wanted to make a reference to acts of righteousness or commend someone for their works of charity, they would compare themselves and invoke the name of Abraham. Oh he, he is his heart is like Abraham's, he he he gives out uh of his wealth like Abraham did This is something similar today to invoking Mother Teresa's name for engaging in some sort of charity. James is not content to make use of any run-of-the-mill works of Abraham. He instead uses the test. Capital T, capital E, capital S, capital T. The great test God put him through when he commands him to offer his son Isaac as a sacrifice. In order to understand more clearly what James has in mind, we must first identify in contrast exactly what Paul, the Apostle Paul had in mind for this Greek word that is used here, dikayanu. That means to justify. When Paul uses it, for example, in Galatians, or he uses it in Romans, he means in the context of being declared innocent in God's court. This happens when there is a transference of righteousness to the sinner, who in turn transfers his sins to the Lord, Jesus upon trusting in him by faith and faith alone. This necessarily includes fiducia. You guys get that? It necessarily implies that it needs to have all three aspects of it Now for Paul, the Apostle Paul, justification is concerned about how a person gets into a right relationship with God. For James, it's what that right relationship looks like For Paul, it's how a person gets into a right relationship. James is concerned about what that right relationship looks like. James is not saying that works gets you into a right relationship, but that a right relationship, proper faith, must produce works. Now there's a second meaning for the Greek word, as I just alluded to it a second ago. It means to be vindicated. Another way of saying that is to be demonstrated to be right. Matthew 11, 19 is a good example of this. I'll read that for us. It really the focus is on the last part of the verse. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Look at him. A glutton and a drunkard, a friend to tax collectors and sinners. And then, yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. Same word. Wisdom does not to be declared innocent in God's court. What it's saying here is that wisdom is proved right by the deeds, is vindicated Therefore, this verse states that Abraham was considered righteous when he offered his son. In what way? He was vindicated. What was vindicated? Since we know that we're declared innocent only once in our lives, the righteousness in this verse cannot be referencing God's forensic declaration. of justification upon Abraham. Instead, James is using the word in a sense to mean vindicated. If anyone were to doubt Abraham's faith in God, he proved its presence when God tested it. This testing was not for God's benefit, but it was for Abraham's and consequently for our benefit as well. So let me ask you, if someone were to conduct an inquiry regarding your profession of faith, do you think that your deeds would sustain a verdict of proven, vindicated, in man's court? Would they be able to get a vindicated also in God's court? Abraham's faith was not just saying, but it was saying and doing. Abraham was responding to the implanted word. Do you remember that from James chapter 1 and verse 21? The implanted word which took root and bore crop in his life. You see how all this is connecting together? James wants us to see that faith and works do have something to do with one another. He says working together. The example he just gave of Abraham sacrificing his son is a clear example of how faith and actions work together. The assumption is that if Abraham only had notitia and essentia faith. demon-like faith. He would have stopped at the point of sacrificing of his son. So then They work together. One flows out from the other. We must make sure not to lose sight of the linguistic connections that James is continuing to make in this letter. It was in verse 1 and chapter chapter 1 and verse 5 where we saw that it was testing that made our faith complete or perfect. You see it here in this arena is in the progressive sanctification for which James is concerned, not declarative justification. Guys make that distinction. It's within progressive sanctification and not in declarative justification. In verse 24, James begins with the words, you see. It's much like a a therefore. The point that James is making is that it is from one's works that God pronounces one righteous at the final day of judgment. James is not dealing with the question of the forensic legal justification of sinners. But instead he is using the word to justify, to stress what pleases God. What pleases God? God is pleased only when confessed faith leads to action. Here, the function of alone in this verse becomes very much clearer. The confession is necessary. And for James, faith in this verse does not have the full Pauline. sense, meaning genuine salvation, but rather simply a confession, like, yeah, I believe in Jesus, not containing all three aspects of genuine salvation. The fact that James says alone in this verse points this out emphatically. Such a faith will, in the end. So then, we are to see that in this verse we can read it as the following. See that a person is justified by what he does and not by confession alone. The faith, the confession, must produce fruit. Deeds Another way of looking at this hypothetically would be, on the day of judgment, God will look upon the entire pool of everyone who has made a profession of faith. And he will declare righteous only those whose deeds or those works demonstrated a living faith. That possessed all three aspects of salvation, saving faith. He does this by stressing the fact that there's a difference between a religion A faith that has value and one that does not. Now, if that were not enough, James offers a biblical example where someone's works deeds earned God's pleasure. Rahab. was the harlot in Jericho whose faith, when put into action, earned God's pleasure. It was not when the spies came that she believed in God, but it was put into action when they came into her midst. The point being that all of all of her faith conversations with the spies, if not followed up, if not followed up by deeds, would have earned her a verdict of Guilty on Judgment Day. The addition of the alone is James's strong emphasis that the type of faith Which, if it is bogus faith, can never justify. For faith to be genuinely salvific. It must accompany a sustained, changed life that produces works consistently. It must possess an intellectual faith, notitia, affirmation to that truthfulness, which is the essentia And a fudisia, which is a trusting of oneself to that content or faith. James closes with a summary statement that he's also said before, by the way, in chapter 1 and verse 17. As a body without a spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead. To illustrate, the illustration here is actually very appropriate. Just like a human can't live without his spirit, you know, an energizing life source, so faith without deeds is dead. Just having mere intellectual knowledge has no power to save, as James has already proven via the demon illustration. James wants to point out that only a faith that is backed up by works has value in God's justifying court. What kind of faith do you have? Does the faith that you have in Christ possess all three aspects of what we've talked about today? And would your works, your works of righteousness, as you understand them, stand at the judgment as works that would vindicate That your faith is genuinely salvific. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this corrective that you have provided us to help us recognize that A salvation that is genuine before you is one that not only understands a sense to its truthfulness, but also entrusts ourselves to that truth. And that truth is the Lord Jesus' work upon the cross. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you did die for us. And all that we have to do is to no longer trust in our ability to make ourselves right before God. For that can never be But because you've already done everything that needs to be done. And we thank you that you have not only given us your righteousness, But you have taken unto your account our sinfulness and received the punishment for our sins. What a great God, what a great Savior you are We ask that you help us to understand the reality of this more and more, and especially those that perhaps that have not come to that place even today here, or even those on the streaming who are visiting with us. We pray that you, Holy Spirit, would help them to see the truthfulness of what is taught today from your word, and that they would give themselves And that they themselves would would see, begin to see more and more your work in their life That demonstrates the vibrancy, the presence of a faith that does save, not a faith that doesn't. So that we may not one day hear those awful and frightening words When we claim, look at my works, look at my works before God on judgment day. Have I not done this? Have I not done that? To hear those horribly frightening words, I never knew you. Those works, they do not vindicate that profession of faith. Be with us, we pray, Holy Spirit, and change us and help us to trust in the Lord Jesus and Jesus alone.