And I'd also like to let you know that uh uh uh that uh I would like for you to, when you have the opportunity and haven't done so yet, to express your appreciation uh to the search committee because they have represented you well. And the technology of computer self-awareness, I think it's been around for a long time. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up for me. And so um I'm very glad to be able to do that. uh could only do uh so in nebulous terms. And then go ahead and preach. He went to the Bastille as a visitor, and when he met his friend, they switched clothes. The biblical word for that, for turning away and satisfying God's anger, is propitiation. Chapter ten and verse eighteen. And reflect the Lord Jesus in all things that we say and that we do, knowing that we can't do it on our own and we need your grace. Galatians chapter 2, it'll be verses 19 and 20. Uh for uh several months now. And so we look to you now to help us as we expound God's Word. And it was released as the first of a trilogy which gained massive success and widespread popularity. Now Neo is in utter ignorance of what is going on around him. When you go to work, now I'm quoting directly, when you go to work, when you go to church, when you pay your taxes, it is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth. My systematics theology professor, who was also a preacher of many years, Dr. Now it's interesting to note that in verse 19 of this passage does not begin with, I died to the law, but rather it starts with, through the law, I died to the law. But if the law was a vehicle, we have to ask, what was Paul's original intended destination? I say perfectly because that's the minimum requirement that God has set forth for any man to enter into heaven. A new life made available through the crosswork of Christ. But when the man has been executed for that crime, the law no longer has a hold over him. He owed God reparation for breaking his law. The only way that we can work off our sins is by suffering eternally the penalty for them. Part of the definition of justice is that you have to make the violated party whole, right? There was always this fear inside of me. From death to life, he tells us. It is the number one grossing movie in America and internationally. just because of the associated nostalgia. We can say along with Paul, it is no longer I who live in the flesh, but it is Christ who lives in me. Now now think, if if every Christian in this country lived that way, what would our country look like? Paul tells us that the believer is the temple of God. But God is in us. And our identification with Christ on the cross. For example, in Romans 8. for us, remind us as we wake in the morning, as we go throughout our day, even as we prepare for sleep, that great and wonderful love that the Lord Jesus has given to us. I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. and gave himself up for me. stand when there's the reading of the word, so I apologize. that we may be filled with the gospel this day. And love our neighbor as you have called us to do. humanity's future. And when Microsoft Corporation introduced the ChatGBT software to the world. Now the problem is that those within the matrix don't know that they are experiencing what they are experiencing is not real. Instead, it's a complex program designed to keep them in the dark, however, happy. The red one would reveal the true nature of things. That God has given to us, and that is similar to that pill, which is the law of God. The second is from death to life. Are you trying to get into a right relationship with God on your own works, on your own good works? Psalm 51, 5 tells us, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Because if I'm being honest with myself, I don't measure up. to God's standards. based solely upon your good works, would you enter into heaven or would you go straight into hell? We can answer that with a simple question. Paul is using this metaphor of dying to the law to communicate the freedom that he has gained. But that is only because Jesus vicariously died for us. It seems that from a human perspective, we can pay off or work off most debts. Amongst them was one particular man. It's about and takes about takes place in the French Revolution. So they did. That we might become the righteousness of God in Him. He was raised justified by God because he had personally fulfilled all of the law's demands. You died to the law. Our sinful desires to elevate ourselves died And he answers that question. Our goal for our work is to, our careers is to glorify God, to glorify Christ. Let me take it a little further. Frankly, he is the best interior designer there is. Why not, you may ask. Now this last phrase really glues everything together, doesn't it? Scripture tells us that Jesus did it without compulsion. Help us we pray, Holy Spirit, to take stock of that deep, deep, rich love We may take stock take stock of it. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit This love that Jesus has for you is intensely personal. And he stole away my heart and ran butt back up to heaven with it. A piece about AI, artificial intelligence, regenerative intelligence, and understandably so I think, because tied to this technology is the hope and fears of The hero in the movie, Neo, is approached by this enigmatic character called Morpheus, who could enter into and out of this matrix. Now, this is a enormous and impossible task that no man born with a sinful nature can possibly achieve. And so the purpose of our lives changes. We still have a personal identity and an identity which which has Christ's Spirit residing in it Shall we pray for the illumination of the Holy Spirit? But, Holy Spirit, we confess that without you, we neither could have known Christ, nor understand Christ, nor even the word that you have given to us in its depths and its beauty. In the movie, after an armed struggle with their creation, only a small group of humans escaped to fight on, burrowed deep within the earth. You should let your congregation know what you're going to preach about and then tell them what the points are. It was the Mosaic law of God, which accepted, which acted as a vehicle, as a means by which Paul died to the law by his own personal ability. By God revealing his law, we know clearly what the standard of behavior is in order to be justified before him, to be declared innocent in his court. denial, and continually trusting in his own ability And requires some explanation. We see in Paul's day, a rabbi was considered married to the Torah, the law. And it is Christ. Christ was representing you on that day, taking the punishment that you and I deserved. By joy and not out of fear. And begins to ask herself questions decoupled from what the world wants her to represent and achieve. Help us to accept righteousness and holiness and help us to hate our sins so that we may glorify our great God and Father. If you have your uh Bibles with you, uh would you turn to uh the book of Galatians, chapter two, which is where I'll be preaching from this morning. Help us to unstop our spiritual ears and our spiritual eyes so that we may hear and that we may see Christ. You see, I'm reminded of a movie that goes back to 1999. and plugged into a sophisticated software program called The Matrix. You see, Paul wanted to be justified before God. Now it is true that the promise of eternal bliss awaits anyone and everyone who lives out the law perfectly in their life. Because of his sin nature. So let me ask you, are you trying to be a good person? In what way did Paul die to the law? He's not saying in the same manner as the two thieves on the cross would have been able to say it. Flying, I love to fly. That is to point us beyond itself to a rich relationship with God For those who are in Christ by faith, there is a connection with Christ's work on the cross. We are still physically alive. Purpose. But here, Paul tells us that Jesus actively delivered himself up on the cross. It was Christ's desire to do this. We thank you. You see, where the first Adam led his bride from life to death, the last Adam. Or some hope that you would have come to him. The premise of the movie is that most of humanity has been taken captive by man-made artificial intelligence who has gained self-awareness. Like everyone else, you were born into bondage. But humanity doesn't really see itself that way, does it? Which pill would you take? This sin nature is what creates an enormous chasm between ourselves and God. This is precisely what Paul finally concluded. He couldn't do it. Do you think that God should call, that if He should call you today to stand in judgment? All the time. a substitute to take man's place. Charles Dickens, famous writer, wrote a book called, perhaps you're familiar with it, Tale of Two Cities. Christ did the same. That's good news. It is as if I was there. Or should be in the process of dying. But you know, it's been the summer of Barbie, hasn't it? Barbie is faced with the theological question. For Paul, Christ was the main meaning in life that informed him of everything else. Is Christ the soul overarching purpose, meaning in your life? See, for Paul also, there were different areas of life like these things, but they were all tied together to the desire to elevate Christ in all that he did. Living every moment of your life with a conscious dependence on Christ. As a consequence of being the king in your temple, my temple, your life He can move the furniture around in any way that he likes. God the Holy Spirit, when He moves the furniture the way that He likes in your life He accepted having the Father condemn him in our place. We have no claim upon the Father, and we certainly have no claim upon the Holy Spirit for what God has done for us, right? The love that he demonstrated for Paul on the cross was debilitating. I used to love the world and the things of this world, but then Christ came from heaven. Now to further bring this out, it's commonly held that for as long as a man who has committed a crime and is alive, the law has a claim over him To be for his son Jesus. So if you have your Bibles open, I'd like to go ahead and read the passage this morning for us, and that's verses 19 and 20. Know that Christ has taken that away from you. Don't you see now that his love is irresistible? Basically, I'm asking you, does the law, has the law revealed to you your inadequacy to fulfill its demands perfectly? All those who belong to are or are in Christ are justified along with Christ by faith alone. This means that we are freed from the curse and the guilt of the law. And this takes us now from death to life. So let me ask you, Christian, what is the purpose of your life? Wait a minute. How do you respond to when God reorders the furniture of your life? There's a famous Scottish Presbyterian minister, Samuel Rutherford. He was then offered two pills to choose from, one blue and one red. The Bible teaches us something similar, doesn't it? We don't have to get very complicated here. Think about this for a second. I like it right where it is. As he states, he delivered himself up for me. In your place. If you do, even today you will be able to say, even after you exit these doors today, you will be able to say the following. I have been crucified with Christ. Praise the Lord. gave life to his death bride. Why would the God of creation humble himself and take on human form to present himself a scapegoat for sins? Paul answers that question, right? What's my purpose in life? Why did you just throw it out into the curb, Holy Spirit? For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. The answer is yes. Let me ask you, do you are you resisting? Now in other places, Paul states that the delivering up of Jesus was an act of God the Father. If the Holy Spirit is wooing you today, even now, to come out of the darkness of spiritual death Neo asks, what truth? Now, I don't know if you're thinking this, but some of you may be thinking, Pastor, that may be compassion, but this is bad news. It should, shouldn't it? He was not coerced into it. Saint, have you thought about that? How do you know? But I no longer live in that fear because of Jesus and what he has done for me. It seems these days it's impossible to access your favorite media outlet without having to hear, see, or read You can know there's a difference between personal and vicarious atonement. 2 Corinthians 5. What if every Christian in this world lived that way? Maybe a little bit? From life to love. Before the foundations of the earth were laid, the Father must have shown the Son his bride, the church. I have to love him. The one that vicariously died for me, the Lord Jesus. 32 it states, He who did not know, who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. So I would like to give you my points this morning, and there are three of them. So I used to live in fear. Loved me. Hmm. You see, Paul, the Apostle Paul, did not have an issue with this. The man who was due to be killed walked out scot-free and was never discovered. What happens if the plane crashes? And what it would have looked like at the end of the ages, and the son saw and knew every believer that the father hand picked to be his bride. We no longer live for ourselves, but we live for God. Why are you going towards the front door with it? And I would look down from the window and I'd see the the landscape ahead of me. We thank you that indeed that you love us and you demonstrated that love for us upon the cross at Calvary. Has your heart been stolen by Christ? I'd like to express my appreciation for their generosity, um, their hospitality, their kindness to me and my family. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. How would your life look if you lived your life that way? We individually and corporately make up the temple of God. This is the word of God. Now remember that there's nothing wrong with the law of God. When he finally realized that he was unable to gain entrance into heaven through the law, his hope in the law had to die. Now the question was how could he be released? All of this commotion over AI feels like it's been a very long time, but it really was only a good six to eight months ago. But our personal aspirations that sought out our own personal glory And also um I would also like to thank uh Pastor Holmes as uh he has been a blessing to me too, has helped me through the process. You know, in in the final analysis, Jesus didn't have to do it. Shall we pray? So then, let me throw this back at you. Let's just consider the Ten Commandments. 21 says the following. Paul was given a new life, a new spouse. He tells us in verse 19 that he died to the law, and now he tells us what he was alive to. This summer has been, well, of many things, amongst many things, and for us in Texas, a very, very hot summer. My purpose in life is to live for him You see, he took our rags, our sins, and he gave us the royal robe of the Son of God. To be crucified with Christ implies a radical transformation within the believer's life. Now, although we've been crucified and resurrected with Christ vicariously. He says, in Christ I died to the law. Do you ever forget that? We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would grant us the grace to accept the changes that you are making in our lives this very day. He did that for you, Saint, because he loves you. How do you know that Jesus loves you? He was not guilted. He accepted having the Father turn his back on him, a thing never experienced in the Trinity, in the second person of the Trinity ever. Good morning. Christ was representing me on that day. That's a fair question. But after being brought to life through faith, Paul provides a look into Christ's motivation. Have you thought about that recently? Until Paul was brought to a recognition that he lived in ignorance It's interesting to note that one of the law's purposes was to work itself out of a job. Do you find yourself sometimes saying, Holy Spirit, why are you moving my love seat? And this vicar atoned for sin and obtained an eternal redemption for man. It's like stealing something from someone. However, before I begin, I'd like to express my appreciation especially to the search committee of which I have been in contact with. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Christ's crucifixion, his death on the cross, turns away and satisfies God's anger. And a great zeal for you and service to our great God. He wanted to enter into a right relationship with God, but it was going to be by living up to the standards of God. And Morpheus answers, that you are a slave. At the end of the book, something happened which is very similar to what happened on the cross. What will happen to me after that? Have you lived perfectly to the law? And what does it mean to have died to the law? What would our world look like? It is because he loved me Holy Spirit, we thank you. And he tells them that it's all around him. He would see himself the way he really was, as well as the world that is around him. And it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. Is this somewhat reflective of your own life? You see, the law reminded him over and over again on how he just could not measure up. See, when you swallow this pill, it opens up a door to discover He was not shamed into sacrificing himself. I'm living and learning, as they say, right? Have you ever broken any one of them? Our goal in life is to help our spouses to glorify God. You see, he died, knowing that you would be courted and wooed by his spirit. See, we can't help but love Christ when he steals our hearts away. That was a that was a very popular movie that was introduced and produced by Warner Brothers. See, Paul doesn't stop at death to the law. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf. I always live in fear of the righteous condemnation of the law. I think it's been successful because it's a well-written story. Christ's Spirit lives in us. From death to life. And by this crucifixion, we are now set free to live for God and obey Him, motivated. Paul teaches us that Christ lives in us, that he resides in our thoughts, in our wills. She gains self-awareness, she takes the pill, I guess, of the real world. This addresses one of the most profound philosophical questions of life, and that is of teleology. Help us to seek Christ afresh this day. Morpheus begins to explain to him that the matrix is but Lord Jesus It's working good. The Apostle Paul tells us something. The moral law opens our eyes to who we really are before a holy and just God. And I used to be very fear very fearful that I would not make it into heaven What are you doing with my favorite armchair? Hey, I spent a lot of time in that chair. And that brings us to our third point. The guilt of our sin was transferred to Christ upon the cross. If you were provided with an opportunity to see yourself and what reality around you was like. The first one is from ignorance to death. Robert Weyman, taught me that You see, Paul gets it Born into a prison that you cannot smell or taste or touch. It's like sliding out of the pan and landing right into the fire, isn't it? Now, I I don't think that it's been so successful at the box office Do you ever doubt that? He said, You can quietly walk out as though you were me, and I'll stay here and take your place. This very same Christ, which Paul identifies himself with through faith, says of him. If you recall, it was a prominent theme in the Terminator movies, was it not? But God appointed a vicar You see, when he was raised from the dead The Barbie movie has taken our country and the world by storm. And I couldn't love the world anymore. That we are all born into the bondage of sin. Speaking of his body, he says in John. So why did he do that? But when it comes to God, So I see that I've forgotten the first thing that you guys normally do and that as it you You owe that person reparation. One courageous friend came up with a plan I, in Christ, I died to the law. I think it would look radically different than what it is today. Now when I was in seminary I mean to get into heaven Relationships like marriage were considered in force until a person died. It is in this sense that the demands of the law have been satisfied for every believer. He put it this way It is beautiful. Amen. Paul has already dealt with the technical side of vicarious atonement. He is dead to the law, and now he is free to find a new spouse. When men fell away from God, We're not like the Old Testament saints who needed to go to Jerusalem. He freely gave his life for his bride. And He has set up home, He has set up residence in every genuine believer. All believers, in this sense, have died with Christ. It is not as if Paul was physically crucified. And I thought it was so wonderful. That God the Father handpicked you. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loves me. Christ died as my representative on the cross. You see, it brought Paul to his knees. But this notion of AI And the third one is from life to love. Now, when Paul says he was crucified with Christ, Every moment of Paul's life was lived out with a conscious dependence on Christ. And the other one, sacrificially, died in his place. Do you live your life every day with the knowledge that Jesus loves you? We thank you that you have shown us Christ. So then You see For everyone here who has placed their faith in Christ, Just once. Fighting The blue one would return into his life of ignorance and bondage. That's wonderful news And he does it by faith. It is glorious. It's not some theory But God, in his compassion, has given us his law. You see, we came into this world with a nature that is bent upon sin. And so we ask that you would do that. You have to make atonement, a payment. Paul knew that Jesus loved him. That's from the Won't you accept Jesus' love for you this very day? Perhaps you have seen it. Paul states something fascinating. There were many prisoners in the Bastia waiting to be executed by the guillotine. Can we say the same thing? You may ask, well, Pastor, what about family? It was an act of his will. So that we may be able to go out Do you live in fear? Is it to live for Jesus? That is God reordering his life. And I remember Our goal for our children is to glorify God. I thank you, brother, as well. Now, if this troubles you That is, I live for Christ. My sin. It's called The Matrix. What was flawed was Paul. We have no claim upon him. Very similar to what Pastor Rick had just mentioned to us. The temple in Jerusalem to be with God. From ignorance to death. That is, our old selves died. It was vicarious. In Christ The rest of humanity is taken captive. What about work? From life to love.