Have you ever been accused of being messy? You know, uh I'm seeing there's a lot of heads uh shaking back and forth here. Um you know uh crumbs Kind of messy. Your room is kind of messy, clothes all over the place. There's a variety of different types of messy, right? Sometimes we can say a person is a mess We're making references to making bad decisions in a person's life. In the passage that I've selected today from Luke chapter 7, verses 36 to 50, there's a different type of mess. that I'd like to point out to you today. I hope that we can see this type of mess. And in fact, that's the title of the sermon this morning. Are you a mess? So let us uh take a quick gander and through the the chapter of chapter 7 of the Gospel of Luke, verses 36 through 50 And one thing that uh you have noticed uh if you particularly like the Gospel of Luke is that he's very fond of um Showing Jesus' life and ministry through the lens of banquets, meals. In fact, he has seven meal references in the gospel altogether. Uh our account of um the Gospel of Luke today is the second of the seventh that he has altogether. And it's interesting because the first one that he does, which is only uh a chapter, two chapters before in chapter five. There is a sinner who is giving a banquet for Jesus. Now that's Levi, the tax collector And in that story, it's the Pharisee who intrudes into the banquet. Now we're going to see in this story it's just reversed. It is actually a Pharisee who is giving a banquet for Jesus, and it's a sinner who is intruding upon the meal. So I'd like to ask you to please rise as we have the reading and hearing of God's gracious and inerrant word. Here now from Luke chapter 7, verses 36 through 50. Now one of the Pharisees was requesting him to dine with him, and he entered the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table. And there was a woman in the city who was a sinner. And when she learned that he was reclining at the table in the Pharisee's house, She brought an alabaster vial of perfume, and standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. and kept wiping them with the hair of her head, and kissing his feet, and anointing them with the perfume. Now when the Pharisee, who had invited him, saw this, he said to him, himself. If this man were a prophet, he would know w and what sort of person this woman is who is touching him, that she is a sinner And Jesus answered him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he replied, Say it, teacher. A moneylender who had two debtors, one owed him five hundred denarii, and the other fifty. When they were unable to repay, he graciously forgave them both. So, which of them will love him more? Simon answered and said, I suppose the one who he forgave more. And he said to him, You have judged correctly. Turning towards the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered into your house. You gave me no water for my feet. But she has wet my feet with her tears, and wiped them with her hair You gave me no kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume. For this reason I say to you, her sins, which are many, have been forgiven, for she loved much, but she who is forgiven little loves little Then he said to her, Your sins have been forgiven. Those who were reclining at the table with him began to say to themselves, Who is this man who even forgives sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. And this is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Let us pray for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, we come before you as your people continuing to worship you. And now we are at the feet of the word that you have created for us and look to you to help us understand, help us to apply to our lives. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would convict us where convicting is required. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you it not stop there, but rather grant us the grace to be able to repent, to change our lives, to reflect. The Lord Jesus in everything that we say and that we do. And we ask that you would do this for the glory of God in the name of Jesus. Amen. So Luke picks up the narrative by telling us that a Pharisee, named later in the story as Simon, invites the Lord Jesus to dine with him. The Lord arrives at his home and he reclines. The fact that the Lord reclines tells us that he is the guest of honor. And this is not an ordinary meal, but rather it is a banquet. A banquet in this time period is described as a semi, semi-public event. It's not quite an evening meal with friends, and neither is it a formal event like a wedding. We're not told exactly why Simon the Pharisee wanted to invite the Lord. Perhaps he heard him preach and was curious. Maybe he wanted to learn more, or maybe he invited Jesus, hoping to trap him with his words and his deeds. In all fairness, this motive is really not given to us by Dr. Luke, and so it's important for us to remember that. Simon sent the invite, and Jesus accepted. And when Jesus arrives, he assumes the proper posture at these meals. He reclines. Now reclining requires you to rest on your left elbow, my left, your right, on low couches, low-to-the-ground couches, with your head towards the meal. and other participants at the banquet. Your feet extended outward, leaving your right hand to be used as the hand for your eating. This posture was customary for formal eating occasions. Imagine if that's how we ate today in formal eating occasions. We'd have to get a lot of couches, wouldn't we? What's interesting is that these events were semi-public. They were not private. No doubt there were formal invitations delivered by servants, but it was also informally broadcast that a special guest was dining at so-and-so's house within the community. Since these banquets were typically held at the homes of wealthy and or prominent members of town, they would be held in the the the homes courtyard, not in the living room or anywhere else. It would be in the courtyard. Anyone from town, uh, and everyone basically was sort of invited to the banquet. You could just show up, but you were not technically an invited guest. Everyone knew that food or refreshments would not be served to uninvited folks. Additionally, they would not be allowed to sit at the prepared table or recline, should I say, but rather they would have to sit or stand against the walls. not permitted to interact with those at the table, as that would be considered, as the English would say, bad form. Historians tell us that uninvited guests were typically there for two major reasons. The first is to listen to the conversations at the table and to learn from the guests of honor. And secondly, When the meal ended, they were allowed to help themselves to any leftovers. Now, for a Pharisee, being ritually clean was an important practice In a world where spiritual cleanliness was at a premium, accepting an invitation to and hosting this kind of banquet left one perilously exposed to individuals that were unclean. This is because anyone considered unclean could have walked into the house. And right into your courtyard, making your house unclean. Now with that in mind, well, you would have guessed it, right? A woman enters into the house and into the courtyard, who is unnamed But she is introduced to us as one that resided in the city and who lived a sinful life. Over the centuries, many a preacher has pointed out that the language used to describe her indicates that she was a prostitute. The passage doesn't exactly point that out. But the code words women from the city and a sinner seems to suggest that she may have been one. And as a consequence, she would have been considered Now in verses 37 and 38, we see no less than eight actions on her part. I'll go through them very quickly. One, She learned of the Lord's whereabouts. Two, she brought a jar of ointment. Number three, she stood behind his feet. Number four, she wept. Number five, she washed his feet with tears. Number six, she wiped them with her hair. Number seven, she kissed his feet, and number eight, anointed them with perfume. Well Now we're not told when or where, but this is a woman who has knowledge of the Lord. Perhaps she was present when he preached in public. Being in the crowds, she heard his vo words of grace and forgiveness, words that proclaimed that her sins would be forgiven. A woman who had lived with much shame and sin, whose eyes had been opened, now given a brand new chance in life. being purified by God's grace, hears of the Lord being at a banquet at Simon the Pharisee's house. She is not going to lose the opportunity to thank her Savior. And she's made her mind up, hasn't she? She's not going to settle for standing in the corner of the room or against the wall, but she takes with her an alabaster jar of perfume, probably her most prized possession planning to pour it out upon the Lord. She was going to be what we would call a party crasher. She doesn't care. If she makes a public fool of herself, this is the Lord. And she wants to express her gratitude and love to him, and nothing's going to stop her. So she arrives, and immediately she stands behind the Lord's feet. This would have been normal as the guests again faced one another, and their backs were to the walls, and their feet were away from the table. Now we're told that she begins to weep. And this is just not a tear. The language used here is as if it's raining tears. We're told that she washed the Lord's feet with her tears that streamed down her face. It is curious that she would even have to do that. You see, when you're invited invited guests to a banquet, it is customary that the host puts his arms on the shoulders of the guest and gives him a kiss. This is called a kiss of peace. The guest is then offered to have a servant remove his sandals and have his feet washed. An oil is offered to be put upon his head to be refreshed. The woman sees that the Lord had not been given this common courtesy. So she with her tears serves the master by washing his feet, perhaps tears of joy mixed With anger at the indignity against the Lord. As she's washing his feet with her tears, she's not offered a towel. So she creates one by loosening her hair. And wiping the dirt mixed with her hair, perhaps with whatever makeup that she have may had on at that time. All the while this is going on, she can't help but kiss the feet of the Lord in appreciation. This is clearly a woman who understands her debt to God and is responding with great gratitude, not concerned about what others will say about her actions. And when she finishes, she anoints the Lord's feet with her perfume. Very expensive perfume. Now, if we step back for a moment and we should, and use our imagination, what this woman looks like at this point. It wouldn't be pretty, would it? Have you ever seen a a woman cry with mascara on? I mean, a lot of mascara with a lot of tears. You see, her hair is filled with the dirt and dust that would have been on the Lord's feet. You know, back then they didn't have clean concrete pavements or asphalt streets to walk upon. They walked on the same dirt roads beasts of burden did. Whether it was a donkey or a horse, or livestock that was herded back and forth. So you could well imagine What and why people, why people's feet needed to be washed more than their hands. I suspect clumps, sticky sections of her hair, and her face dirty. And if she did have some makeup on, it would be drooping down now. And she would be smelly from the streets. Certainly, what can say in comparison to how she looked when she first walked in, she would look now perhaps scary. Deformed, even hideous, potentially I'm reminded of a sort of like a dirty bird's nest as an image. Or even an old Russian man with a long beard, you know, eating his borsch You know, that's the soup that is sliding down his beard with pieces of bread hanging upon it. Not pretty, is it? Luke then immediately turns our attention to the host who is watching all of this and he says the following to himself. Now he he the Pharisee is saying this to himself and not to Jesus. He's not saying it out loud. If the rabbi knew who this woman is and her reputation in the community, he wouldn't have allowed her to touch him. Make him unclean in the process. He assesses that he can't be a prophet, after all, as he would have known this and would have prevented her from doing what she did. Ever find yourself in that kind of situation? I mean the Pharisees situation. Why doesn't a fellow believer put another who is sinning in their place? Why doesn't that fellow believer judge the sinner? You know, call a spade a spade. You know? Dude, that's wrong. Tell them I think that this should remind us that things are not always as they seem, and that we need to extend grace. We need to be patient Speak kindly. Find out what's really going on. Don't make assumptions on just what you see Move with actions that demonstrate you have their best interests at heart. For those of us that that weren't saved at an early age How do you think you would have responded if a brother or sister was in your face when you sinned or broke social custom? Jesus is judged by the Pharisee for not knowing the woman and chastising her for touching him. The Lord turns to the Pharisee, this time, by name, Simon, and says, I have something to tell you. And Simon responds, what is it? The Lord tells him a parable and asks a question from it It's a story about two people who owe money to a moneylender, of which neither is in the position to pay that moneylender back. And what does the moneylender do? He forgives their debt. A denarius is the standard wage for a day's work for the first century in first century Palestine. Consider that one of the person's debt was 500 denari, which equates to two years of wages. Now think of your annual household income and multiply that by two, and you can see that it's quite a bit of money. So in the grand scheme of things, one of them owed about two years of salary or two years of work, and the other about two months of work. Both of their debts were forgiven. The Lord asks him, of the two, who would love the money lender more? Now Simon answers, but almost begrudgingly, like with great caution, as if he's in a trap, and that trap is about to be sprung. He says, I suppose the one who owed more. And Jesus tells them that you have judged correctly. But it seems as if this will be the only thing that he has judged correctly. To the fact that Simon has called a woman a sinner, no less than three times the Lord breathes not a single word of condemnation. But Simon, whom we can identify in this text, at least to this point, has not committed sin, now gets a blistering disapproval from the Lord. Jesus points out that when he arrived, he was not greeted with a kiss of peace. When he arrived, his feet were not washed. And when he arrived, was there any anoint uh any ointment for his head so that he can be refreshed? You know, there's a character. His name is Michael Scott, who is a branch manager in a TV series called The Office. I think it's fair to say that he is the master of the awkward moment. He would always say or do something that made people uncomfortable. When the Lord rebuked Simon the Pharisee for his lack of generosity and inhospitality, the people in the courtyard would have found themselves in the same awkward situation. On the one hand, here is this woman standing there, a scary-looking mess, acting like a fool. by their social standards. And on the other hand, is this respectable member of society, high and mighty. Who is being chastised by the Lord for his inhospitality. The point here is that the woman who crashed the banquet Was the true host. She was the better host. She is the one who recognizes herself When comparing herself to God, she sees herself lacking, coming up short. She, while being humiliated Throws herself upon the Lord Jesus for the cleansing of her soul, to be the mediator before the Father. She makes her soul the place of banquet. She properly invites and greets the Lord to be the guest of honor. For her to be in the presence. is to be brought to tears because of his love for her. She is the one that has been forgiven 500 dinari. She can only but want to be in the presence, love on him, serve him, and do whatever she can for him so that he can be seen as a fragrant person to be around. Wanting him to be honored, to be seen only in the best light possible. In Luke's account of this event, Jesus receives this woman's hospitality as an eloquent, though unspoken, confession of faith The Greek verb used here, have been forgiven, is in the perfect passive indicative. Now, this means that the first part of what the Lord says gives us insight. Her sins, which are many, have been forgiven because she has loved much. This presumes that salvation was already applied to her. Now the apparent demonstration and outpouring of her love for the Lord was an expression of gratitude. But the Lord's next statement makes it clear what the formal means of her salvation was. Her faith. Faith in what? Faith in whom? Well, I think we can agree that it's obvious from the text, right? It's her faith in the Lord Jesus. Although I can see how one can fall into the trap of that implication, but her salvation was not based upon her love. If that were so, then one would argue that salvation is based on the quality of love. Well, that would lead us to what? A works-based, feeling-based salvation. That would then make it, you must love me before I will forgive you. No Her response of love was because she was first forgiven. She made a public fool of herself because she could not but love him. Are you like that? Do you forgive only when you are loved Do you love only to be forgiven? Neither of those positions, frankly, are biblical. In fact, they're anti-biblical. And counter the example of the gospel, what the gospel communicates. It's wrong and it's manipulative. It sets up plenty of opportunities for idolatry and all sorts of other problems. I think that we can see that, can't we? No, her love was an expression of something that had already happened. She had already been forgiven. It was a gift of God received by faith and faith alone. Let's remember the parable Two debtors are forgiven, irrespective of merit or works on their part. It was grace. Finally, the Lord attributes the woman's salvation to faith, not her love for the Lord. It was based on faith. Now to me, this is good news. I mean, if I or you don't have a relationship with the Lord, it doesn't happen by doing things. by sacrificing things to be forgiven. It happens because of what the Lord has already done upon the cross. His receiving the punishment of my sins upon the cross made it possible for me to have a relationship with God. It is the sacrifice that the Lord made of himself, as the Lamb of God, which opens the door for me to have a relationship with the true and living God. As a believer, I now want to host a banquet within the halls and dining room of my soul. It is my love for my Savior that motivates me to do so. Now, if you're not there, the good news for you is that you don't have to do stuff. To be saved. The Bible tells us that it is our faith in Christ, our trust in Christ that is needed for us to be saved. Now, for those of us who are saved, this woman's response is cause for reflection I have to tell you, I for one am convicted. Do I, as a Christian Lead every day of my life with this effusive display of love for my Lord and his people. I think this passage calls us Christians to consider our lives. I mean our walks with Christ. Now let's be realistic and not necessarily idealistic. I think it's fair to ask ourselves. How can I demonstrate my love for the Lord in a way that reflects the debt that has been paid upon my behalf? But that begs the question, doesn't it? But it gets us in the right direction. So then, let me ask you: how much have you been forgiven? Has it been two months worth? Has it been two years worth? Twenty years worth? Two hundred years worth? You see, the truth of the matter is, the more you come to recognize how much of a sinful heart that you have, and how wicked the human heart is. You come to recognize how much of a debtor you truly are and how important and loving that sacrifice was for you on the cross. You want to love the Lord more? Want your soul and life to be a place where you can host a banquet for the Lord and demonstrate wonderful hospitality to him? Contemplate about the shame. Contemplate about the guilt and the debt. That is no longer yours. In conclusion, I want to return to this woman You know, the one that we're talking about, the mess. Her hair mixed with dirt and dust from the streets, caked in there by her own tears. And although it looks like some sort of a bird's nest, this is the face of love. A love that comes from being forgiven. Man, if you were there that day and knew If you're one of those people that's standing there on the wall in the courtyard in the back, and you're watching all of this go down, and you knew From where this love was coming from, I suspect you would not be overly concerned about how she was socially humiliating herself or how she looked. I think you would be amazed. And frankly, wouldn't you want someone to love you? The same way as well. Wouldn't you in some way be envious to have someone love you without a concern for the world, but just to be and want to be with you. A person who says, forget what everybody else thinks about. I just want to be with him. You know, Christian? We know someone similar, don't we? There was a man who was similarly a mess. I mean, he had blood dripping down from his forehead. His back was cut up from being whipped. His eyes, his cheeks, all black and blue, perhaps puffed up from being smacked and punched by Roman soldiers Spittle and blood sliming down his beard. Roman soldiers Who had been garrisoned in a God-forsaken province of the Empire. Soldiers who had had their buddies knife. By zealot, terrorists, insurrectionists, just like this guy. Roman soldiers who wanted some sort of revenge, someone to release their anger upon. letting full vent of their anger upon this convicted rebel of the Empire would have been very therapeutic for them, wouldn't it? About the time he was hoisted upon the cross. You see, he was a scary-looking mess. It was love that motivated this woman to become a mess for her savior. In comparison, She was nowhere near the mess the Lord was, almost unrecognizable, beaten and shamed. See, out of love, the King of Kings became an ugly mess. So that you may become beautiful in the eyes of God Love him back, brother and sister in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you that you sent your Son. To take our place in every possible way. The truth of the matter is that we are that mess, and we deserve to look like that mess That the Lord Jesus experienced for all of our sins. And even worse, we thank you, Lord Jesus, that you took upon yourself that very same. Disturbed, broken, hideous countenance with blood dripping down your face So that we would not have to. So that we would be cleansed. And that we would be beautiful before you. Just unbelievable. And how wonderful that you love us so. Help us, we pray, Lord Jesus. To be more like this woman who loved you with a proper and unbelievable love. Giving of herself, not caring what others thought about her. What the world thought about her, but just to please you for your love