Over the last month we've uh taken a a deep dive, if you will, into section of James uh that has led to the his third test of true religion, religion that has value. And that third test was being worldly Being stained by worldly ways of thinking and acting. To overcome worldliness, James's solution was what? Turning to God for His grace. The very faith we need to trust in God's ways in the face of great challenges and trials. We then moved on to uh James digging into the subtle ways. The church believers are impacted by worldliness. The first was ignoring God in our plans and ultimately ignoring the reality of God's providence, leading us to arrogance. And the second was the selfish misuse of wealth and power which ultimately brought about justice in those people's lives. Today, James will address how we are to respond to situations when we are on the if you will, short end of the stick when we have been taken advantage of and can't seem to get justice. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy, infallible, and inerrant word, which will be from the book of James, chapter 5, verses 7 to 11. Hear now the word of God. Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it until it receives the early and the late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold. The judge is standing at the door. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Behold, We consider those blessed who remain steadfast. You have heard of the steadfastness of Job, and you have seen the purposes of the Lord. How the Lord is compassionate. And merciful. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit Gracious, Holy Spirit, enlighten our minds, hearts, eyes, and ears to hear your word. Help us to understand what it teaches. and melt our hearts to the truth and reshape them to conform to the will of our Heavenly Father, so that we may reflect our Lord in the way that we live out our lives. And it is in his name we pray. Amen. Back in nineteen eighty eight There was a song written by Bobby McFerrin, I hope I'm uh pronouncing it properly. Uh I I I can Pretty much tell some of you have already figured out which song I I have in mind. It is none other than Don't Worry, Be Happy Let me go ahead and read a couple of the lyrics that comes through this. He starts with, I uh uh uh here's a little song I wrote. You might want to sing it note for note. Don't worry, be happy. In every life we have some trouble. When you worry, you make it double. Don't worry, be happy And then he goes on, ain't got no place to lay your head. Somebody came and took your bed. Don't worry, be happy. The landlord says your rent is late. He may have to litigate. Don't worry, be happy. Ain't got no cash. Ain't got no style. Ain't got no gal to make you smile. Cause when you worry, your face will frown, and that will bring everybody down. Don't worry, be happy. Now there is this song I wrote. I hope you learned it note for note. Like good little children, don't worry, be happy. Listen to what I say. In your life, expect some trouble. When you worry, you make it double. Don't worry, be happy. Be happy now. So that's a it's a it was a very popular song and um very fun to listen to as well. But when you when you go through the entirety of the song and you go through the lyrics, you look for a reason. Why? Why should I be happy? Why should I not worry when I've got no money and my my landlord is about to kick me out? Why should I be happy when all these things are happening and there's just no reason for it? And at the very very end, he says something. Uh the the the what he offers, he says it will shoot it will soon pass. That is the reason why we should not worry, but instead be happy. I don't know about you, but that really doesn't provide me great deal of comfort that something will pass when I'm still sleeping in the streets Something similar is so we have to ask something very similar of our pet of our passage today, don't we? James starts us off. By saying something, how it is that we should live our lives if we are those people that he has just described in chapter five, verses one through six, those that are being taken advantage of. So let's dig right into this. By just one Word, one edition of the word, we know who it is that he is now talking to. He starts this by saying brother or brothers He switches from writing to the unbeliever or making reference of the unbeliever in chapter 5, 1 through 6 to those within the church. Now he's addressing, he's telling us, in light of what James has just taught us in 5. 1 through 6, he begins in verse 7 by using the word therefore To tell us how we are to live out our lives, how we are to respond. We are to be patient. This verb in this context is in the imperative, which means that it's in order We have to be patient. James is calling his readers, you and I, to be patient. But in the midst of doing what? And one may ask, as a consequence, why? The what has to do with being taken advantage of by the wicked rich. Who have used their status. Their power and wealth to take advantage of perhaps you, or someone that you love, someone that you care about. We are also called to be patient. If it's not you, Or someone that you love, and seeing and you're seeing someone live the good life, and you're thinking to yourself, you know that would be nice. Well, maybe I should do the same. The temptation is rattling around in your head. To that, James says, be patient. Do not fall into that trap of doing what the world does. That's the what. What is the why? We should be patient It is because the wicked rich, he tells us, will one day, be as James says, be slaughtered. He is referring to what he has had in front of his mind throughout the entire letter. Judgment Day. That's the day that they will have justice. If you were to ask James How long? How long do I have to be patient? He implicitly answers that question, doesn't he? Where to be patient until the second coming of the Lord. The coming of the Lord will put an end to all the injustices on earth which will include the iniquities of the wicked who are oppressing those to whom he is writing, which includes you. Now, when you consider the answer to the why question, I think it becomes clear that God's judgment on the wicked becomes the reason. that sustains us in our trials and our suffering, doesn't it? One note before we move on. For a book that has been highly criticized for being in the canon because of the lack of references to our Lord. One can point out yet another example of James's hope in his brother's return to provide a remedy for temptations to commit sin. James moves to an illustration here to help his rent wait. In Palestine, three-quarters of the annual rain came in between December and February. But it's the rains at the beginning and end of the rain season that are particularly critical for the growing season, thus the early and late rains that James is referring to in this text. The patience, the the patient farmer's reward is his what? His precious crop Just as the farmer receives a reward for being patient, we also will receive a reward if we do not capitulate. When you see unbelieving friends or family succeed, and live the Good life. And you're struggling for being a Christian and leading a Christian life. Not taking the shortcuts, not sinning. Are you sometimes tempted to give up your faith? I mean, pack it all up and move on. Or maybe you may think, well, not apostatize, but comprise your faith because of your impatience. I think we can all see how not being patient, I specifically mean sin, can cause damage in your relationship with God. Can we not? If being patient is so important that James is saying this in the imperative, why do we find ourselves at times? Being impatient. I think that there are several reasons we can offer But one that really stands out is not trusting God. We acknowledge that He is the sovereign of all humanity and over all things. And we also acknowledge the doctrine of the providence of God. Now, this may be a little hard to hear. But the problem is that we don't trust in his wisdom, his goodness, his omnipotence, and if the truth be told, sometimes we don't trust that he loves us. Where do you fall on this question? You see, if you believe all these things all the time, then you wouldn't struggle with being patient. You would trust, just like the farmer, that in due time your faith will reward you. Would you not? Do you see that patience or the lack thereof is so significant in the successful passing of tests and trials that God puts us through? Tests, trials. Now, doesn't that sound vaguely familiar to a topic that James has previously brought up? James repeats his call for us to be patient in verse eight You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Just like the farmer is patient, we also must be patient. We are called to be settled about our faith, especially in the reality that the Lord's return, A, will most certainly happen, and B it could be any. How does knowing that the Lord could return at any minute affect your behavior It certainly makes me think twice about committing sin or walking down the road of worldliness. Christian, are you resolved that the coming of the Lord is at hand? How do you think one's life is changed the more established he is about the Lord's imminent return? How does this affect your ethics, your day-to-day ethics? I think it would make pursuing personal glory less enticing and pursuing God's glory more appealing, would it not? We then are commanded to stand firm in the face of temptations and trials. Now in chapter 1, James taught us the following. Consider our trials to be a cause for joy, because of the maturity that it will produce in us. Three, he advised us to ask for wisdom in the midst of it so that we may have a God perspective and not a man-centered perspective. Here James, encourage us to stand firm in the light of eternity and the coming judgment. The timing of the Lord's return must be understood in the context of salvific history. The complex of events that took place in the first century birth of Jesus, the crucifixion, the death, and the resurrection, all inaugurated the last days. And we must realize that at any moment, this unrevealed period of time before the return of the Lord may come to an end. Every generation, from James till now, the return of Jesus, including ours, has to reckon with this reality, that he could come back any moment. Now as we move on to verse 9, admittedly, the beginning of it doesn't seem to connect well with this section. at first. But when we consider it in the broader context of the letter of James, it makes a little bit more sense. So to have this fresh in our minds, let me say it. He begins with, do not grumble against one another. You see how it just doesn't seem to flow very uh smoothly. Brother, so that you may not be judged. Behold the judge is standing at the door. Now, when I think of the word grumble, uh it sounds very onomonopaic to me Doesn't it? In the English, of course. If you say it a couple of times, it sounds like it, doesn't it? Grumble, grumble, grumble, grumble, grumble. It sounds like you're grumbling, right, doesn't it? However, in the Greek, the word for grumbling means to sigh, to complain, or to groan. But in the broader use in the Bible, it connotes a groaning that comes from the pressure of oppression. The best way to bring that out is in the book of Exodus in chapter 2 and 23. It reads, During those many days the king of Egypt died, and the people of Israel, here it is, groaned because of their slavery. And cried out for help. James has been concerned about sinful speech all along, right? We saw that in chapter 1. Chapter three, chapter four, he's been talking about that. Grumbling fits in well with his broader concerns, doesn't it? It's the use of the tongue Sadly, grumbling tends to be against those whom we are close to and love. And if it's a the person is a conflict avoider, it's because loved ones are considered safe. Isn't it true? That we tend to grumble more when we are under pressure and stress. Seems then that the church members who are feeling stress and being persecuted from those outside the community were grumbling against one another. Do not grupple against one another, brothers, he tells us. It has been observed that institutions Families, organizations who don't have a healthy way to respond to times of difficulty tend to implode by doing what? By attacking one another What can this cause within these various units of society? What are causes of this? And what are effects of this? And what are conclusions of this? Factiousness. Pain, vindictiveness, backbiting, isolating, purging, and we can go on for a while. What should you do when you're in this situation? Be patient And turn to God's waves for dealing with whatever the situation may be. Grumbling won't solve the problem. It may even make the problem worse. The type of grumbling that James is concerned about leads to critical, sinful judgment Of the type, James has already warned against us. Do you not remember? James 4, 11 and 12. Do not speak evil against one another. Brothers, the one who speaks against the brother or judges his brother speaks evil against the law and judges the law. All those who profess to be Christians must be mindful that we are called to judge with righteousness. And not with hypocrisy and evil motives. Because on the day of judgment those who profess to be Christians and have judged consistently in a manner contrary to Scripture, will be revealed as non-Christians. These people receive the same judgment they pronounced on others. Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. However, for those who are undergoing persecution, the imminent return of the perfect judge, who will give perfect justice, should comfort those Who are undergoing persecution. So, as a result of this, what else should the return of Christ cause in the hearts of believers? Well, I think it would be things like patience and endurance. And the pursuit of righteousness in the face of being sinned against. Let's not gloss over that too quickly This is important. Let me say it again. The pursuit of righteousness in the face of being sinned against. The human condition is that when someone hurts us and we can't get them to stop, comply, or get justice, we tend to respond In kind, sometimes in very sinful ways, we become impatient with God We become impatient with God giving us justice. We just don't like His plan. We don't like his timetable. Instead of returning love to our enemies, we give them a dose of their own medicine That's what they needed. Now I'll get some satisfaction. But when we believe in God, I mean trust in Him to care for us. In the face of injustice, we can be patient. We can be long-suffering. Not take things into our own hands and run the show the way that we think it should be run. So do you see that when you have faith in God, one of the things that it will produce is pursuing righteousness in the face of being sinned against and suffering. But we must remember that the return of Christ is not just so that we can witness justice against the wicked. The return of Christ should also be a reminder for the church that a day is coming when wicked thoughts and wicked deeds will be questioned and examined. We as the church must repent from such behavior So that when that door is opened, we will be prepared. Are there any areas of your life that need to be tended by God's grace? If there are, what must you do? Repent. Ask God to give you the grace of repentance. Now in verse 10 James exhorts us to be patient by reminding us of the prophets who demonstrated great patience. in the face of trials and persecutions. The prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord endured much personal suffering, like Jeremiah, and some lost their lives, like Isaiah. When you're undergoing trials and suffering, James exhorts you to think of the prophets and the pains they underwent and endured. Because they trusted in God's wisdom. When you think of the prophets and the pains that they endured. How does it affect your faith? And the trials and the suffering you may one day or are now undergoing. Frankly, this is very hard to understand. This passage is hard to understand. When you look at their lives You think to yourself, how? Why? How does this give me greater faith to be more patient? I mean can you imagine being called by God to be a prophet and be told, you're going to go to my people and you're going to tell them that they need to repent and he tells the prophet they're not going to listen to you. And they're going to treat you horribly and they're going to kill you. How does that help build faith in you? Does it? It's hard to understand. Well, you see, for them to have survived and gone through the things that they did, it required for them To trust in God's wisdom and timing. This requires patience in a grander plan that may need to unfold over several generations. So think of the prophets who went through such terrible suffering and pain. They did so because they trusted in God. They trusted in his wisdom and his plan and they were patient because they knew that they were They were part of something really grand and big that would have taken generations upon generations for it to unfold. This requires you to have patience that may go beyond your lifetime or several generations for God to unfold his plans. We have the benefit of being able to look back at these prophets who foretold of some guy that God would send. That he would be a suffering servant. How many generations did that take? Hundreds upon hundreds of years. that would require enormous trust and patience. So whatever it is that you may be going through, you don't have an answer to But it may take several generations before the Lord comes back, or even if he doesn't come back before then, for God to unfold his wisdom in the plans that you'll be able to see from heaven. And how it is and why it is that you suffer. So when you're in this situation, think of the prophets who suffered and died. To give you strength to be patient in the difficult circumstances that you're in, because you're part of a plan that takes generations that may unfold. When you analyze James's teaching with that of the Lord, you know it's truly amazing. And it betrays how Jesus' teaching dominates James' thought life. If you go through James and read the Sermon on the Mount, it's almost like word for word, almost. In verse 12, James wants us to bring to mind that those that are considered blessed. are those that remained steadfast in their faith. Now we must remember that to be blessed is not to be happy. To be happy is an emotional state. But to be blessed is the state of our relationship, the fact that we have one with God. Those that are blessed are God's adoptive children and can never lose that title. However, those that are happy can lose their emotional state. James has already discussed the notion of being blessed, and this takes us back to chapter 1 and verse 12 Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life. Which God has promised to those who love Him. The greatest blessing a human being can ever have. God Himself. Before James moves on, he he gives us a second example of enduring suffering It is none other than the prominent symbolic figure of patience in the face of adversity and trial. Job. Certainly, those that knew of Job also know that God brought about in his life all these things through all the trials. In this verse, it seems as if James is thematically putting things together very nicely, isn't he? In the beginning of his letter, if you remember, he asked us to consider it all joy when we're undergoing trials. James opens in this verse verse five eleven by saying Behold we consider. Those blessed who remain steadfast. J See how he's putting it all together? James is giving us the perfect example of a person who persevered under suffering and trial. Job, and we consider him blessed. Even in the midst of his complaints of of the complaints and pain He did not waver in his faith towards God. Why? Because he was single-minded. He was not double-minded The thing that James calls us against. Job was single-minded in his trust of God. Why do we consider him blessed? Because in the end, Job matured spiritually. Dramatically. He understood the majesty and sovereignty of God like never before. He began a prayer ministry and he glorified God greatly. Finally, as an Old Testament foreshadowing picture of God's blessings in the new heavens and the new earth that we are to look forward to. He showed us symbols of those that we can relate to. He gave him material wealth, long life, and more children. James wants us to gain the following perspective from Job. Although Job did not understand what was going on, We can see how his experience led to his spiritual maturity. And whatever it is that you may be going through right now, You may not understand why God is doing the things that you are experiencing right now But God has good intentions for you. He wishes for you to prosper. And he will make you to prosper in the way that he sees fit. Although we are not promised material blessings in this life We can look forward to enjoying these symbolic fruits of what the eternal life will be. Things that we would enjoy and take pleasure in. Those are our rewards. Now the final phrase of this verse, probably a quotation from Psalm 111. 4 or perhaps even 103. 8, is a reminder That God has a purpose for your suffering. He is not a God who likes to watch you squirm for his pleasure. Do you sometimes think that? He doesn't. He is a merciful and compassionate God who is working things out for your good and his glory. When we trust in our Heavenly Father, It will produce patience in us Jesus trusted his father. When Pilate asked him if he were king Do you remember his response? He said he was, and he had legions of angels he can command to do his will. I'll tell you what, in the face of the injustice that Jesus was experiencing, it sure would have been tempting to not be patient. He sure could have given the Sanhedrin a dose of their own medicine, and you can throw in the great Roman Empire as well. He trusted his father. That in due time he would receive his reward by being patient. He endured his suffering with patience. The Lord Jesus trusted his Father to give him his bride. And so he was patient and endured all of the tests, the trials, and the suffering. For us. God lived up to his word then, and he will live up to his word on judgment day Jesus was patient, just like the farmer who gets his just reward. Jesus was patient, trusting that his father would give him justice, as well as his reward for his obedience. He, Jesus, would get his treasure. You are his treasure. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you that you you look upon us Filthy, rotten sinners as treasure. But we are treasure in your eyes Because of your son's righteousness. We are jewels Because of your son's goodness and his love to us. Help us to see ourselves as you see us. Help us then to trust you and in your plan that has unfolded from not from the prophet's suffering, but all the way back to the garden. And how you have been long-suffering and patient to deal with our sins Help us to be like you to be patient. Help us to be like our Lord to be patient and to trust you And to not doubt you, to not fear you, to not misunderstand you, but to trust you. and to obey you with a heart that has been changed and is gushing out nothing but love For you. We can't do that on our own. We need you to help us to do that. And we ask for your grace