Peter tells us that our subjection is not only to the top leader, it is also to all levels of authority within that country. For leadism in prayer. We're not to be slanderers and we're not to be malicious. If you would turn your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 2 and rise for the reading and hearing of God's Word. And unstop any any desires that would prevent us from listening to our Heavenly Father's will for our lives. We have another example there where in chapter 3 we have Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego disobeying the emperor and not bowing down to the idol that he had constructed of himself. of God's word, they are not to submit. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for all people. and drinking the blood was understood as the followers of this executed rebel from Nazareth were murdering, unsuspecting And so the way we are called to deal with it is to be obedient to the authorities, to be honorable, and do good things that naturally flow out from the gospel. Then he takes up yet another notch. We may have anywhere from a little to much in common with their ethics. Then, seeing ourselves ontologically as the new Israel of God, who are sojourners, the question that arises in people's minds are then, how are we to Beginning in verse 13 and all the way through chapter 3 and verse 7, he will address a variety of relationships within the context of order in society. If you look at your Bibles, he uses the word submission and then defines the type of relationship. In chapter 3 and verse 1, Peter turns to the institution of marriage and submission within the household Or to governors, as sent by him to punish those who do evil, and praise those who do good. Amen. uh explains this head on and very clearly. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. The first one is from Exodus chapter two and verse fifty-one. I told her that we don't get to make that decision if something is an option. Who may not be believers, or for that matter, morally upright. And that is better than chaos. Now it may seem kind of sort of odd to us to hear this, but let's not forget that Peter is writing within a culture and a historical context where public honor is a very important thing. for the kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way God's chosen instrument of justice will silence the slanderer, which Peter rightly points Please note that in Peter's expressing charity, nowhere does he say that we should ignore what others are saying about us. An example of this ignorance that led to slander early in the life of the Christian Church was over communion. And for them, freedom meant political freedom from Rome. And from the rain of sin in our lives, we certainly do have freedoms, don't we? which became a slogan for a cover for evil was when Paul had to deal with it in Corinth. It may seem as if it begins with honor everyone as an introductory summary statement that is later broken out by the following three categories, defined as everyone. Now, the reason why I think we shouldn't see it this way is that the list does not include unbelievers. And given the context in this passage, they should be on the list. This includes all sorts of people in general, including the unbeliever. So not only are we to honor the brotherhood, he calls us to love the brotherhood. have searched the scriptures this day, that if there's anything in us that that your spirit needs to isolate, bring out, that He would. On the one hand, we have to be careful to not dishonor, put down, slander, or anything of that ilk for and towards our leaders. And on the other hand, to not blindly love, fear, and follow our leaders like we should our heavenly fathers Jew and Gentile together as a holy nation, a new race of people who are a royal priesthood offering sacrifices to God. Interact. Starting in verse 18 and going to the end of the chapter. We will look at each of these three in turn that run through chapter 3 and verse 7. The following is from chapter two of 1 Peter verses 13 to 17. Honor everyone. so that we may live lives as sojourners with every breath, glorifying our great God. So this really applies to whether you live in the United States or whether you live in Canada, Bulgaria, or Romania, or anywhere in the world. Peter simply doesn't have this in mind here. What he has in mind here is submission to an authority. Being like him more and more should be a consistent goal of our lives. Other ways of saying this is because of or for the sake of the Lord. The basis is that it is what brings joy to the Lord. Empires and governments have changed, and along with that, geographic boundaries may have changed as well. The point is that this submission to governmental authorities applies to countries that we are established in. The thing that these have in common is the obvious forcing of God's people to commit sin, to do something that is against God's law. Now, an important aspect to this is that we are to obey all the laws of the rightful authority, whether we like them or disagree with them. When we have Christian liberty in an area of life, God gives us the freedom to participate or not, choosing one thing over another with a free conscience. The thought here is that we don't get to say, I don't agree with my governmental authorities' decision to build a bridge in another part of the county or state I think instead the fund should go towards building a hospital wing at the nearby hospital. One being paying my taxes. In this case, no one is being ordered to do this. That we now get to choose which laws we no longer wish to obey. What I mean is that because they disobeyed the king in not bowing down to an idol, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedniko. But yet, Peter is writing during his administration. One of the functions of the governor is to vindicate the reputations of those that have been falsely accused. Dr. As we look back at the Assyrians and the Babylonian empires and their leaders, we can show that they were actually called servants of God, executing justice But they themselves were later judged because of their sinful motives. I can point to a morally wicked leader who was toppled by other servants of God. That same power is not something that other members of society are privileged and tasked to exercise. We are not to take the sword into our own hands. This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. The presence of Christians in these positions can be the exact instrument by which God uses to answer our prayers. So then we are to see that God wants us to be obedient to the officials that He's placed over us. The one that does not believe in God is a biblical fool, because the fool in his rebellion against God is ignorant of his ways. The biblical fool looks at Christians as if we're strange because we act in unexpected ways innocent people so that they can practice their cannibalism in their worship service. It shut the mouths of foolish people. Peter assures us and reminds us that we are a free people. that the zealot party had in mind in the first century. From having to do good works, to earn righteousness, that we are free from abstaining, from sin. and of a kind that is not tolerated even among the pagans. We go from being slaves to sin to slaves to righteousness. And was honored, feared, and praised, not unlike other small g gods. For our state leaders, our congressmen, our senators, and our president We are called instead to be submissive, obedient, and honorable towards those whom God has placed in authority over us. May we honor all men. Let's go back to the previous century and look at Nazi Germany and how the people elevated Hitler in their hearts. And we have to ask God for the grace to conform to His will. So that we may lead lives that are honoring to you, that is glorifying to you. Peter. Each citizen is a living stone, being built up into the temple of God where God the Holy Spirit has returned and resides. Last week, Peter returned to the idea of us being sojourners on this planet, reminding us that we have a homeland elsewhere With a king who saved us from death, with values and personal ethics that, depending upon where we may find ourselves on this planet, How are people, how are the people of God to interact with the authorities that they may find themselves in? For example, for those that reside in nations that have kings, people say that they are a subject of the royal crown of whatever the kingdom may be. They were, if you recall, told to kill the male children. Anyone who knows even a little about the Emperor, Emperor Nero, knows he was not anywhere near being what we would call salt and light to the world. Our translations don't end with a period. Against the Christians at the time, especially in the first several centuries. And be subject to civil penalties. Now, this is not to say that he is being disrespectful towards authority, but he is concerned that the people of God do not lose sight of the priorities in their lives, in our lives. Now this is significant. Even when we are being slandered, because us returning good for evil may be used by God, should He visit them for the purpose of salvation Not that one institution is more important than another, but for the purposes of maintaining order and peace. Peter is telling us that we as Christians must submit to those whom God has put in governmental authority over us. The Bible makes it clear that it is God who places or removes authorities. For there is no authority except from God. We are to submit to the authorities that have been placed over us jurisdictionally. And so we see that the first priority of God's people is to obey God. We all have personal preferences, don't we? Building a bridge over a wing at a hospital seems like an amoral, not immoral, aworal decision. Now, I recall having a conversation with a believer who asked this question in another way, which frankly was much more morally correlated. To judge those who do evil and punish them. Sorry, unbelievers hold as moral and what Christians hold as moral. We know that political patronage is a reward for support, political support. Being successful here for doing good, proper moral conduct is supposed to be a source also for praise. Charitable in that person makes slanderous remarks against us may just be ignorant of the truth, or perhaps misled himself or herself. That our salvation in Christ does not mean that we have freedom now or a license to practice unrighteousness. One of the things that we must remember is that when God saves us and gives us freedom, it is freedom from sin and Satan's realm. A law unto yourself. Then he returns down again by using the word honor a second time. What we have to note here is that it's like he's crescendoed at God. Fear God, he's crescendoed, and then he returns back to the same level as where he was before. We have to be careful to not stumble in either direction. He tells us what God's will is related to these institutions and society. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. And since we know that as it is his sovereign right, he tells us that we must obey them. So, for example, we are not subject to the laws of Japan unless we are visiting or vacationing or working there. So to make this clear, Christians in Abu Dhabi are not subject to obey the laws of Malaysia. She said, I don't want my tax dollars being sent to pro-abortion-related entities. Who was a very morally wicked man and did a lot of evil things. In fact, we pray for our leaders, and we pray that they are surrounded by believers that are given godly counsel as they make their decisions. It is foolish behavior to not really know the truth and begin to make things up upon ignorance, is it not? He says, it is actually reported, I find it interesting that he uses the word actually, it is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you. So, if we are to understand in that way what he is saying, then we are to see it as it including the brethren, God, and the emperor. We are prone to do the very same thing. Please join me in prayer. Personal institutions. So Peter begins with how we are to live out our lives as Christian sojourners in whatever country we may find ourselves. We are to be subject. It continues and tells us that the submission is guided by and limited to on account of the Lord. That they now had a license to disobey other laws that are not in clear disobedience to God's laws. The authorities are really sort of an extension of God. Because he has commanded it. And he will exercise vengeance through his needs, the authorities. Yes, it is good for Christians to work for governments that act according to God's will. Is out of ignorance, not knowing the truth. with his conclusions. It is that our approach to address wrongs should be kind and charitable. But it was a very harmful slander against the church. Instead, we are to live lives as godly servants of God. And you are arrogant. To or towards autonomy. Peter has inserted a guard. These leaders are not the saviors of our souls. Now, as we digest what God has done to us personally as well as corporately through the span of redemptive history theologically Although Peter is writing to the newly created nation without borders, it is important to note that Now, there have been times in the life of God's people who have displayed, disobeyed those placed over them. Peter David says in his commentary, governors deserve submission because even the worst of them preserve some semblance of conformity to pagan standards of good. Persons should not expose themselves to slander. We should all look internally and see if we're doing that. Holy Spirit, give us eyes to see as we gaze into the Word of God. For God is not a God of chaos. Well, then maybe you might be asking, well, what about if the president or the emperor or the prime minister is immoral? Many believe that Peter wrote this letter under the administration of the Emperor Nero, who reigned from A. The reason why, for example, a governor or bureaucrat had been sent by the emperor is that they are to first The authorities are also to praise those who do good. Verse 15 begins with a sort of like a look backward, or referring to what God commands. Verse 17 seems like a summary of what has been said with an important caution. The Apostle Peter, having defined our status as the Israel of God, which is made up of citizens from every nation. Please be seated, and as you do, please join me in a prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds. Since the unbeliever didn't know what was going on, bits of information, like eating the body Now, if you're sitting there and thinking, you know, being subject to the ruler is going to be oppressive and limiting to what I want to do in life. Be subject, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as Supreme. Heavenly Father. Love the Brotherhood. What about working for governments? Now, I personally sympathize with her sentiment regarding funds being sent to pro abortion entities. How are we to interact with all sorts of institutions, governmental institutions, economic institutions May we love the brethren. Now, not only does he define the comprehensiveness, but then gives us the purpose or function they have in God's plan. Because for those who have studied the cult of Roman emperors, you would know that the emperor was considered a deity. Ought you not rather to mourn? We also should be charitable with our assumptions about other people's motivations, as we don't have the gift of mind reading. Now, I understand, and I agree, that there are overlaps in what believers hold as moral and what But the verse continues with a comma. He's already told us that we are sojourners of and citizens from another place. Romans chapter 13, verses 1 through 3 states, Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. Self-governing. Fear God, he says. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. If you're asking what do you mean by this, we don't have to go back to Peter's first century. Fear God. We all have our likes and we all have our dislikes and we have Christian liberty as well. We have to be careful, brothers and sisters, not to commit idolatry in our hearts. In fact, he's not in the same level the emperor is as the brethren when you see it this way. Well, we've already gotten some teasers, if you will, by Peter. As Peter states, for the sake of the Lord, we should take comfort in knowing that wicked leaders will be judged by God for their evil. That's called vigilanteism. Everyone should do their due diligence, for when the truth comes out, it can harm the slanderer's reputation instead. Now, we have to be careful here not to water down the meaning of subject. Not only that, but we must remember that the fool, by biblical standards, is defined as the unbeliever. And most importantly, fear you in a healthy and proper way. And our conduct amongst the Gentiles to be good. If you recall, it says, But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live. We don't get to choose to do that. He then talks about economic issues within the context of the institution of slavery within the Roman Empire. I think it's fair to say that they're the instruments that God uses to administer justice and to maintain peace. I think that uh taking a step back and reviewing where we are for a brief moment is helpful for us to orient ourselves to our text this morning in first. But we are to do so winsomely This means that they will prosecute things like murders and theft and so forth. By repeating the word honor again, a guard for us not to have an idolatrous love. Honor the Emperor. What God the Holy Spirit frees us to is obedience to God. It is not a freedom towards autonomy. Many times it was not slander that arose from ignorance, it was malice. Let him who has done this be removed from amongst you? The rest of the sentence is giving us further rationale and an example. We already have that in our King, the Lord Jesus. And those that exist have been instituted by God. Secondly, to publicly praise those that do good. They believed that they were to obey God and God alone as their God and king. When people speak falsely against God's people, it harms God's reputation. And as we look to the Lord, we see that he was obedient to the authorities himself. What brings joy to us, as Christians, is when we imitate our Savior. And even if we were, it is not a consequence. Let us learn from Peter, who is well aware of this reality. An example of the misuse of freedom It is God's way that there be order in creation. The second example of this is from the book of Daniel. We should give honor to those in authority over us, but we should love the brethren and fear our God. He uses the same word for the next two sections, and he doesn't have in mind an economic or marital citizenship. This is required for the Lord's sake. What I mean is that because we're called to honor Now this is a little different than what is normally thought of as a reward or praise. I think we should see it as honor everyone. This is a healthy type of fear that we have in approaching our great God. The type of freedom that Peter has in mind is not the type of freedom Because the authorities, when they address your complaint or address slanderous complaints against us, It is submission to authority. First, it's subjection to governmental authorities. The Lord says that the act of vengeance is reserved for him Peter, it's not clear exactly what he means by this, but you know, when we consider for a moment that we are free, We are freed up now to joyously obey God. This is the word of God. And those who resist will incur judgment. And if they're being forced to do anything that is in direct contradiction to the clear teaching. Is it okay for Christians to work for governments? When this was finally investigated by the authorities and it was proven untrue, It is his right as the sovereign of the universe. In my lifetime, and in many of our lifetimes, And if this is what Peter has in mind, then we can understand that he is telling us. With that being first, he takes it up a notch. For this is the will of God. For it is a corrective in our lives in every possible way. Now, at first reading, you may not catch that caution. Let's tackle the first of the three today. Give us ears to hear. Now let's go down a little bit deeper down this rabbit hole. Honor all human beings and puts the emperor on that same level. This is to fellow fellow believers. I have in mind Saddam Hussein of Iraq Now, in verse 14 In fact, yet again, as we look at the book of Romans, Paul explicitly prohibits it. Being successful in commerce tends to be a cause of praise and celebrity by politicians. And we ask, Father, that indeed, as we We are called to be subject to leaders Before we do. We are to submit to the authorities. And if you didn't offer worship to the emperor, you were liable to being labeled a traitor. But wherever we are, we are to do good In the book of Romans, Paul really Although the authorities are given the power of the sword to administer justice, And this time it is towards the emperor. Either are we doing in one direction or are we going in the other direction? And grant us the grace to repent. We are to honor everyone, and that does include unbelievers. Therefore, I will not obey the laws of the states. So if we're forced to abort children, we should disobey. He tells us what not to do. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, it was very obvious. You follow? God has set these patterns of authority for the orderly governing of life. Wars, for example, have caused this Or at other times he may just do it directly. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Can I protest by declining to pay my taxes? This can very easily become slander Excuse me. That by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. And we can see this in 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 4. Obviously untrue The word literally means self-law. He says, For this is the will of God, looking backwards. That of course means those that are unbelievers. Do you all see the tie-in here? Honor everyone. We living in Maryland are, however, to submit to the laws of the United States. Let me give you two examples I have heard people say that it's another word for citizenship. That we are free from the guilt of sin D. And most importantly, to love you back. It's not so obvious. And they by definition fall within preferences also. 54 to 68. We are not to be deceivers. But I think that ultimately we must obey God. He is a God of order, and his household is designed that way. It's neutral, if you will. And he chooses instead to be charitable. Love the Brotherhood. And that we may conform to your word. However, in the end They are to keep the peace. Do I have to obey then? It is not a freedom. Amen. We are not to be hypocrites. And we ask this in the name of the Father. He says