Now, if you haven't already done so, please open your Bibles to 1 Peter 3, verses 1 through 7. But at the end of our passage today, we will see that husbands, who are to be the heads of the households, are given instruction on how they are to treat their wives. in a foreign land, as well as in 218, where it was for Christians who found themselves as servants and slaves in a Roman citizen's household. Who are not believers, and their husbands' response to the faith can range anywhere from tolerance to hostility Whenever we neglect our relationship with God, whenever we are disobedient, this is going to affect our relationship with God, does it not? So let us pray. Going from the largest and moving to the smallest unit within society, he now focuses upon the relationships within the family unit. Since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. to help us to be obedient to our Heavenly Father. Where in chapter two and verse thirteen it was to the citizens of the Kingdom of God, living as sojourners. For the desire to please our God. Now please note that Peter is very clear that they are to be subject to their own husbands and not to other people's husbands. And the re relevance of this attitude will become a little bit clearer to us as we go down the passage. Before we proceed, I think it's important to note that sometimes the word for submission is interpreted or used to mean to be considerate of and a demeaning status if you are the one that has to submit. So Peter continues that the unbelieving husband, and the word for unbelieving, has a sense of in rebellion to God's word. They have been through six marriages because they delight in sharing themselves with others outside of their marriage. For bonding and learning about your spouse. In the New Testament, it's also used to mean human beings. In Romans 9. And there's nothing pejorative here. concerned with husbands living in an understanding way with their wives, so much so that he will interrupt his relationship with them. And when that happens, and perhaps you have heard before, that the that the vertical affects the horizontal a fruitful prayer life until you are living in an understanding way. with grace and mercy of your Son the Lord Jesus. Peter has been developing his theme of submission. The emperor, the local governors, the masters, the employers were not given instruction as to how they were to treat those that were under their authority. When they see your respectful and pure conduct, do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, and the putting on of gold, jewelry, or the clothing you wear. But let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious Grant us grace to recognize where we are falling short, and the grace of repentance, to not only confess our sins, but also to turn to you Well, he's been making reference back to chapter two, verse thirteen, and chapter two, verse eighteen What is his teaching? I do it because I'm supposed to. The first one is from the Gospel of Luke, chapter 2, and 51, which I'll read for us. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. A second time that's used is in Luke chapter 10, verse 17. This is when the disciples returned from their mission and reported that the demons were submissive to Jesus' authority. It does not mean that if one is superior in authority, that they have more honor or should be treated differently. Well, that means being more of a servant than anything else. And in his economy, he has defined for us how that is to be expressed within his household We are to interact within a society, within an unbelieving world. Because he says, who do not obey the word. He says, without a word, may be won over, presumably, to Christ, that they may be saved. Situations could arise when his demands may be in the form of wives being persecuted for their faith. Now, I'm not talking about tolerating or accepting any sort of domestic violence or any types of abuse. Now the word for respectful is a word that has attached to it fearful. I don't think it's saying that we are to be fearful to the authority over us, as was the case, when, if you recall, he was describing the emperor. When the unbelieving husband sees that his wife is consistently trusting and obeying her God He will conclude that with her pure conduct, she is a woman that is trustworthy and a reliable woman Those are virtues that are very naturally appealing. But what he is saying is that the adorning that which makes you appealing or attractive to your husband, the focus must not be on the physical things. Not one that is loud, harasses, or is belligerent. And in this case, the imperishable comes from the beauty, from living out a godly life. And this is the type of person you want to be with for a lifetime. This type of spirit will be appealing to unbelieving husbands. She was able to do this because she trusted in God. Now, here again, Peter is pointing out writing to the church, the New Israel. That believers are the true daughters, spiritual daughters of Sarah, not physical daughters. But I think that's by design. Just as Peter is non-specific about what understanding is, he's equally unspecific about what he is referencing to as weaker. Please note, this is only being used in comparison. Their authority should not be mistaken as women having a lower spiritual standing before God. He knows that he must have an active prayer life. This goes beyond just the physical. The Apostle Paul tells us that husbands are to love their wives just like Jesus loved the church, unto giving up his own life for her. Continuously living in an understanding way with your wife. holy nation that is set apart to be God's people in this foreign land that is not our own. First, if you recall, it was the government. As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And this includes the family unit. Let's take a quick look at how this word for submission is used in other contexts within Scripture. And obedience is the action that flows out from our submission. Where is this coming from? There were many times when she trusted and obeyed Abraham when it was even dangerous. Another category would be an understanding of what the Bible teaches on what's God's design for marriage and a husband's responsibilities. That a man should not domineer his wife physically. being given instruction by God on how we are to interact within a variety of different institutions found within the structure of society. We should not think for a moment that the smallest unit within society as being the least important. Wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel. Likewise, this is another way of saying in the same way or in the same manner. Thoughtful, or to act in a loving manner. Submission, sadly, has associated with it negative connotations of authoritativeness, despotism, abusive exercise of power Authority does not imply inferiority to our persons. Certainly, we can see how, especially in the first century, as people were being saved and coming into the church, where there may have been many women whose husbands had not converted along with them. As he continues, he provides hope that as he has already done before, that with submission to their authorities, their husbands, that is, that with a sweet spirit of submission. that she may win her husband over to the Lord. There, it was by our godly conduct in obedience to the authorities placed over us that And within this context, Peter says that with your submission, he may be won over without a word. as if to cram it down their throats, nag them to convert, make themselves difficult to get along with. That people are saved. In the event of being married to a husband that is mean, cruel, and against the faith And praying for patience and endurance, meanwhile suffering for our trust in Christ. But here, as it was there, fearful is the healthy fearfulness unto God that leads us unto pure conduct. Not insisting on one's own rights, or not pushy, not selfishly assertive, not demanding one's way A woman, or for that matter a man, who trusts in God is enabled to submit to her husband or authority without fear, or that it will ultimately be harmful to her. Because there were times when she was. To not disobey. Until you submit to my will. That is, the condition of your relationship with God will have an effect on the relationships that you have with your neighbor. We pray, Heavenly Father, that your Holy Spirit would grant us the grace that we need to search at ourselves and to see if we are short in any area. This third section, unlike the other two sections, has instructions for those that are in authority. Submitting means willingly submitting to your husband's authority or leadership. And this may suggest that they led lives in opposition to God's ethics, not something neutral, but perhaps even hostile to it. but by their good and godly behaviour that they will win their husbands to Christ. But God does use us in many ways as instruments that convinces unbelievers to trust themselves to Christ. This means that we should rely more upon God's grace by praying for a person's salvation. The thing that must be most noticeable to a husband is the internal beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. In the end, it really is being loved for not for what you look like, but for who you really are inside. They have a wonderful way of removing unwanted barriers in life by committing murder. Due to the immediate context, I think he has in mind the authority structure. This means that misuse of authority is absolutely unacceptable. The word translated as the weaker sex is the Greek word skaeus, which means a vessel or a jar or a container. Men and women have equal love and standing before God. What specialness they have is that they have the special duty and privilege of serving their wives, just like the Lord Jesus did for his bride. Men are not to allow their wives to lead their families down paths of destruction. In this context, we are to see that so important is the relationship of marriage that if the horizontal is not good, it will affect the personality. For your word enriches our minds and our hearts. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting to their own husbands As unto the Lord. Peter sharpens to whom he now has in mind. But that does not mean that having authority and being under authority is to be seen as something necessarily as either positive or something negative. Clearly, the demons were not being considerate, thoughtful, or living in a loving way to either Jesus or his disciples. Which includes Christian families as well as the broader church community. That is not to say that this condition no longer exists, for it certainly does. On a day of visitation, by God, that they may be saved This does not mean that wives would be permanently silent, but that they would not continually preach the gospel to their husbands. It is in those times that the believing spouse can return good for malicious and selfish behavior. But knowing that our good behavior can be used by God to bring a person to salvation, a silent witness to God, if you will. This does mean that submission does not extend to immoral behavior. This, by definition, does mean that Christian men would never ask their wives whether they are believers or not to commit sin. Now in verse 3, he suddenly, Peter, opens the topic of how a woman adorning herself with jewelry, the way she does her hair, and what she wears. Do not rely upon the braiding of your hair, the shiny and dazzling bling that you could wear, or even the wonderful clothes that would be attractive. Don't, don't be caught up in the external. Imperishable, but jewelry and clothing will not. I have been attracted to this person because they are such wonderful liars. Or they always want more in life, and they won't allow silly laws like theft to stop them from attaining their beloved satisfaction in life. This trusting in God should take away the fear, should take away the anxiety, should take away the worry from obeying unbelieving husbands. One thing is understanding your wife's preferences, concerns, fears, her interests. The word for understanding here is what he offers, and it has the connotation of being informed. It is unclear exactly what Peter is specifically saying when he uses the word understanding. Just like God honored us when we were weak. Solomon and Adam. Otherwise, your prayers may be hindered. Have you been honoring her? That we would see it, and that we would confess it, and that we would ask for the grace to repent from it and to be obedient to you To love, to submit, the way that you have called us to, and not in the ways that the world has to find it. So that you would be glorified. I mean things are just not getting answered. Although Peter would not give different instructions to women who were married to believing husbands, Peter's immediate concern is how as Christians A godly woman places her hope in God, and as a consequence, does not live a life of fear. If they do what is right. Husbands are reminded by Peter that women are co-eternal heirs with men. It's been going on for a while now. Both husbands and wives are called to live out their lives together in obedience to the word, simply because God has called us to do so. In like manner, extends out to two things that Peter has been teaching about. He says in verse 4, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. When one is kind, when one is gentle, when one is generous, sacrificing, loving. Sarah is presented as a paragon of godly submissiveness. This should remind us that we husbands are not called to love our wives when they are just being obedient. The following is from 1 Peter 3, verses 1 through 7. In general, and as we have pointed out previously, being submissive does not in any way mean that someone is inferior or lacking in dignity. He uses a word we have heard earlier, doesn't he? Trust and reliance upon a God to supply one's needs and to protect Now in verses 5 and 6, Peter offers an illustration from the life of Sarah. Look, maybe you should consider what the word is teaching. She was ultimately submissive to her husband. This is to be understood as a form of discipline upon households and husbands Have you ever come to a place where you, now I'm speaking to husbands, when you're wondering why God is not responding to your prayer life? Now Peter turns his attention to husbands. Or have you been selfish? As a godly woman from the past. This trust in God, this trust, as he says, is very precious in the sight of God Just as an impaired relationship with God will impair our relationship with our brother, the opposite is also true. You see, bestowing honor on those that are weaker in society is a common theme in the New Testament teaching. It's continuous. 21, has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for a dishonorable use? Holy Spirit, be with us now as we worship in the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. Likewise, wives are not called to be submissive to their husbands if it fits in with what they want to do or when they are being loved. As we uh zoom out a bit from where we are in the book of Peter, we're reminded that Peter has identified us as a When a person or whether a person is a believer or not, godly behavior is an internal beauty that is imperishable. But by the works of Christ upon the cross, and only by faith, trusting in Him for their salvation, can anyone ever be saved. A third is the realization that a properly functioning and fruitful marriage has incorporated in it personal and private time. Now, on the other hand, just as women are not called upon by God to obey their husbands by disobeying God. It is that they are to be subject to their own husbands. Have you been giving her deference? If any Christian husband is to have an effective ministry serving God, So, Peter's first focus is for Christian wives who may be married to unbelievers. What does this have to do with what we are talking about? And the relationships within it have not been immune to this recoiling against submission. Verse 2 states that this may be accomplished by when he sees respectful and pure conduct. I have never heard in all my years anyone say any of the following. Peter says that you are now her children, spiritual daughters. But if I were making the rules, dot dot dot Our motivation to obey the laws of the land, our employers, and within the household, is as if we were complying Understanding can mean a variety of things that the husband should educate himself with. And we ask that you would do this, so that by our good deeds, that you may on a day of visitation to those that are unbelievers, bless them. Maybe you're feeling that way today. This warning is against any abuse of authority as well as neglecting to live in an understanding way with your spouse. But instead in all situations, he is to honor her as a weaker. God is pleased to give or bestow honor on the weak or less honored in the world's esteem. In verse 1, Peter begins by saying likewise. Now we've seen this word conduct before, haven't we? So the husband is called to go about the business of understanding his bride. If the woman is viewed as the weaker vessel, the man is also viewed as a vessel as well. The second was within the context of economic situations, and today will be the third. The second is what we're doing, and that is being submissive to those that have been placed in authority over us. And this type of behavior is precious in the sight of God because it demonstrates an attitude of humbleness. We ask this for the glory of and in the name of our blessed Savior, even the Lord Jesus. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening. And that by it you will be glorified even more in Jesus' name. He first commanded us to be submissive to the civil authorities, second to be submissive to our employers Not only is there a caution against men thinking themselves as possessing a privileged status, but they are also given a warning. Maybe you should consider if your behavior does or does not match up to God's standard. Now, this is significant. Now, this passage is referring to Jesus as he submitted to the authority of his parents. It is evident from this passage that God is overly Imperishable. And it's more than maybe is just not God's will. In God's economy, he has revealed to us that he is not a God of chaos, but he is a God of order. And this passage is telling husbands that you may not expect Have you been living in an understanding way? We see that in Acts 9. To biblically honor your wife will only enhance your relationship and ministry to God. But that is not the meaning here. That language was already expressed by Peter as the gospel and its subsequent consequences in the life of a believer. And if this is appealing to unbelieving men, I guarantee you it is especially so for husbands that are believers. This if also reminds the readers that they are not to imitate Sarah when she was disobedient. It is to Christian wives. He did not misuse his power. The 72 return with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. It's not saying that women are weak. Sarah placed her hope in God. She obeyed her husband and she called him Lord. The in the same way has the sense of also, or as we are talking about this issue. Now, I'm not saying that there is no such thing as an abuse or of a misuse of authority within society. That means that obedience to sinful demands made by the husband should not be obeyed. For your word convicts our hearts and our souls. Now this external prepares us for something that is not seen by eyes tangibly. Men are not to take advantage of their authoritative positions for the satisfaction of their selfish desires. A gentle and quiet spirit will last for an eternity. Women are to imitate their spiritual mother in her obedience to Abraham, even when it appeared dangerous. It is possible that he also has in mind physical strength. Maybe you're feeling that way now. This is the internal personality. This means love bombing does not count. Authority means more responsibility. 15, where it says, But the Lord said to him, Go for he is a chosen instrument for vessel. The first is the motive for the Christian to be obedient to this teaching. They are to submit to the will of their husbands. Meanwhile, we are sojourners waiting upon the Lord to return. When the word is used in the New Testament, it's referring to the eternal heavenly things. So husbands need to be cautious in not thinking that they're extra special before God. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. I'm sure that many of you know personally, perhaps, sisters in Christ who have husbands. It's like he's saying, God's saying, I don't want to hear from you. Well, Peter is not prohibiting women from adorning themselves with jewelry or fine clothing. It is not a type of submission that expresses itself in a manner that communicates And this word is in the continuous In chapter 2, verses 11 and 12. She adorned herself in similar fashion Likewise Peter reminds his readers that We know that he has in mind unbelieving husbands in this context. There is an attractiveness to all men In the same way, what? It is by her good conduct This was a tragic lesson learned by Ahab. But I would argue that it's just as important, if not more important, within the structure of broader society. I think this is done because our broader society objects to the notion of authority in general. I have two passages in mind. It is, of course, not by our good works, or any of our works, Being gentle implies a meaning of And as you do, would you please rise for the hearing and reading of God's holy and infallible word. Instead, he gave us an invitation to the wedding feast. We find ourselves as sojourners This is the word of God. That is unacceptable, whether it is from a believing or unbelieving husband. Submission is the posture. Have you been neglecting her? And within the kingdom of God It is not visible, it is something that is experienced. Men should not think this. And of course, this is in general. And we ask that you would do this Amen. Amen. Is there not? Please be seated and join me in prayer. Of course there is. Husbands.