Well it is very good to be back with you this morning. And I've I've been looking forward not only to this morning. But also to a weekend, a few weekends from now, when we will all be retreating together to the Holy Land that is White Sulphur Springs And one of the reasons I've been looking forward to that is that the whole Wolf family is going to be with you. All the years that I have gotten to know you and have been coming to preach for you. I don't think the families ever come. I think Christy might have come way back when, back in the day. I'm confident the kids have never come. And so I've always wondered if if you've begun to wonder if I really have a family. Or if I've just sort of referred to them on occasion and made them up. So um this morning is a kind of first evidence. Henry and Philip were willing to uh come up and and join me this morning to come and And and worship you. So the three of us are here this morning as a kind of first fruits of the harvest. And Lord willing, in a few weeks, Christian. Charlotte will show themselves to you as well. But we are grateful um for how you have loved and cared for our family, sight unseen, by praying for us in many ways over over the years and that's one of the reasons why I'm looking forward to the five of us being with you here in a few weeks. But it is certainly a privilege now this morning to be with you um to worship our God and to consider His word. And as we prepare for that ministry, let me pray for us. Our Father, we bow before you and we do thank you for how you have been pleased by your Spirit to knit us together in Christ. And we confess again that he is the tie that binds us. He is the bond. He is our union. Communion, and we boast in him. We thank you that you've made us fellow disciples, fellow worshipers, fellow learners in Christ's school School, fellow students of the Word. And we come to the Word now again to learn, not just to fill our minds with true notions, But to learn with heart and mind together, that we might hear you speak to us, so that we leave this place having heard from our God. And having been transformed by divine power. So would you bless the ministry of your word even now? We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen Well you can see in your bulletin this morning that the passage of scripture that we're going to be focusing on Is Joshua chapter 1. Joshua chapter 1, although we are going to take a few glances back at Deuteronomy first. Before we dive in, I want to prime the pump a little bit. Before we even get to Deuteronomy and Joshua this morning, I want you to stop and think about your own life. these days. Stop and think about what's going on. And in particular, this, I want you to stop and think about maybe just one thing That's going on in your life these days that is requiring strength and courage of you. Maybe just one thing that's going on that's requiring strength and courage of you. It could be something that you're going through right now. I suppose it could be something you're pretty sure you're going to be going through in the not too distant future. Whatever it is Before we dive in, get something concrete in mind. And with that in mind, I think the pump will be primed. And we can take a look at these texts. Remember, the last time I was with you, we looked at the very end of the book of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 34, and what we saw when we looked there was the death of Moses. Remember, before he died, the Lord showed him all the land, and then after he died, Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him. So the people of Israel obeyed him. That is, they obeyed Joshua and did as the Lord had commanded Moses. Joshua provided. And remember, one of the things we saw was that that's just what Moses. Beforehand had prayed the Lord would do. When Moses realized that he wasn't going to be the one who would lead the people into the land, he prayed. He said, Lord, give someone to lead them. After me, so that they won't be as sheep without a shepherd. That was Moses' prayer, and the Lord answered that prayer. He answered it by giving them Joshua. And that was one of the lessons that we learned last time from Deuteronomy. 34. God is good to his people. He's good to his people to give them just the leadership they need. In the days of Moses, what they needed was to be brought out, brought out of Egypt. And Moses was the man for the job, and he did it. And then at the end of the days of Moses, what they needed was to be brought in, to be brought into the land. And Joshua was called by God and equipped by God to be able to. Bring them in. So that's where we were last time, very end of Deuteronomy, chapter 34. So after the leadership of Moses, Came the leadership of Joshua. After the book of Deuteronomy in our Bibles comes the book of Joshua. And even though when you've turned to the book of Joshua, You've turned to a new section of the Bible, still there are links that connect the end of Deuteronomy and the beginning of Joshua. And this morning what we're going to be doing is focusing on one of those links. One of the links, one of the threads that runs Right from the end of Deuteronomy into the beginning of Joshua is a particular phrase that you keep reading. It's a particular imperative that keeps being spoken. And it's one of those Old Testament imperatives that practically leaps right off the page of the Bible into our lives today. And it is, be strong and courageous. Be strong and courageous. That's language that keeps showing up at the end of Deuteronomy and then on into the beginning of Joshua. And to notice that, we're actually going to back up from Joshua back to Deuteronomy 31. So that's where I'm going to start reading for us this morning. Deuteronomy 31, beginning at verse 1. At this point, Moses is still alive. He's still speaking to Israel. And here's what he says: Deuteronomy 31. Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel, and he said to them, I am 120 years old today. I am no longer able to go out and come in. The Lord has said to me, You shall not go over this Jordan. The Lord your God himself will go over before you. He will destroy these nations before you, so that you shall dispossess them. And Joshua will go over it in your head as the Lord has spoken. And the Lord will do to them as he did to Sion and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and To their land when he destroyed them. And the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you. Be strong and courageous. Do not be fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. So there it is for the first time in verse 6. Israel, be strong and courageous. Then the text goes on from there, still in Deuteronomy 31 now. Moses has just been speaking to the people of Israel as a whole, beginning at verse 7, he now turns and addresses Joshua personally. Look at verses 7 and 8. Then Moses summoned Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, so this isn't some private conference. There are a whole lot of witnesses to what he says, and here's what he says: Be strong and courageous. For you shall go with this people into the land that the Lord has sworn to their fathers to give them. And you shall put them in possession of it. It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear. So you see in a number of ways he's saying to Joshua what he just said to the people as a whole, including this, Joshua, be strong and courageous. Skipping down in that same chapter, Deuteronomy 31, verse 23. Now it's the Lord Himself. Who speaks to Joshua? Deuteronomy 31, verse 23. The Lord commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, Be strong and courageous. For you shall bring the people of Israel into the land that I swore to give them, I will be with you. So by the time you reach the end of just this chapter, it's been said three times. Be strong and courageous. Now we skip back to Joshua chapter one. Having seen what we've just seen in Deuteronomy 31, now we turn to the first page of Joshua. So at this point, Moses is dead. Joshua now holds the reins of leadership. And Joshua, Joshua chapter 1, picks up right where Deuteronomy left off, including this phrase. This very language, be strong and courageous. Look now at Joshua 1. I'll read verses 1 through 9. After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, the Lord said to Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' assistant. Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses, from the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river. River Euphrates. All the land of the Hittites to the Great Sea, toward the going down of the sun, shall be your territory. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life, just as I was with Moses. So I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous. For you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. Only be strong and very courageous. Being careful to do according to all the law that Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you go. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will ha you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened and do not be dismayed For the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. So here again, three times. Verse six, verse seven, verse nine. Be strong and courageous And then there's one more. The text goes on from there. Joshua chapter 1. Joshua assumes his new role. And he has some things to say to the tribes who are eventually going to settle on the east side of the Jordan River. And so he reminds them of their commitments, their obligations. He says all of that to them. And then listen to what they say back to him. This is at verse 16. Joshua 1, verse 16. They answered Joshua, All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will go, just as we obeyed Moses in all things. so we will obey you. Only may the Lord your God be with you, as he has, as he was with Moses. Whoever rebels against your commandment and disobeys your words, whatever you command him shall be put to death. Only be strong and courageous. By the time you get to the end of Joshua 1, you might wonder if Joshua had been tempted to say, okay, I get it already. This is starting to feel like a kind of stage production. One member of the cast after the other steps to center stage and sings the refrain. And then finally the whole chorus steps up and joins in. Be strong and courageous. Combining the end of Deuteronomy, which we saw before, and the beginning of Joshua, it said a total of seven times, six of those, to Joshua himself. Be strong and courageous. Now, as I said before, this is one of those phrases, one of those imperatives that practically leaps off the page of the Old Testament. Into our lives today. As extraordinary as Joshua's role was in the history of redemption, and it was an extraordinary role. And as different as our circumstances are today compared to his, still. Strong and courageous is something that we ought to be as well. In 2012. Listen to the Apostle Paul, Ephesians 6:10. He said, finally, be strong. Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. So their strength. Listen to Peter. 1 Peter 3:14. He says, even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. You see, there's courage. So that's why I say this is an imperative that we read in Deuteronomy and in Joshua that resonates with us today. Not only do we have a sense, an instinct. That these are things we need to be, strong and courageous. But then we open up our Bibles, we open up to our New Testaments and find confirmation of that. That this is something that Christians are called to be to this day. This is our calling as well, to be strong and courageous. And there are several vital lessons that we can learn about being strong and courageous, that we can learn from this material that we've heard in Deuteronomy. Joshua. So here's how we're going to reflect upon these things. We're going to start with the basics. What do we learn here about what strength and courage are? Basics. Then we're going to move on to the basis. That is to say, the foundation. How is it that anybody can actually be marked by these two virtues? And then we're going to look at some flesh and blood examples of these things in the scriptures. So that's how we're going to press on here. The basics, what strength and courage are, the basis, the foundation for possessing these. virtues and then some examples. So the basics. What is this strength? that's in view here. When Joshua is told over and over again to be strong, the strength that's in view is strength of heart. It's that firm resolve to do what God called him to do. It's that unwavering trust that God would do what God had promised to do. And so ironically, it would have meant Joshua knowing his own weakness That's a kind of prerequisite for biblical strength, is knowing just how weak you are of yourself. This is strength that would have entailed Joshua admitting his own inability left to himself to accomplish what he was supposed to accomplish. Zechariah 4, 6 says, Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. That's the stuff of real biblical strength. Not by might, and yet it turns out it's by might after all, it's just that it's the might of the mighty spirit. Not by might, meaning not by yours. But by his, by the strength of the one in whom you trust. Well, listen again to the way Paul puts it. I read this before, Ephesians 6:10. Finally, be strong. In the Lord and in the strength of his might. That's bound up with what real strength is. It's knowing how weak you are on your own. And trusting in the one who is Almighty. Now, what about courage? What's the courage that's in view here? Joshua was called to lead Israel over into the promised land, even though it was not going to be easy to do that. The nations of the land, the nations of Canaan, weren't going to lie down and let it happen. They were going to fight. And so Joshua His mission wasn't just to move the people across the river into the land, it was to move an army, uh a martial people across the river into the land, where they were going to have to fight for it. And so he was going to have to have courage. And they were going to have to have courage under him. The calling to be courageous is the calling to have that firm resolve to do what God has called you to do, even in the face of threats and obstacles. Even in the face of those things that might at first glance have you recoil. Things that might cause you to shrink back from what you've been called to do. And so being courageous means having an underlying motivation that trumps whatever propensity you might have to shrink back. And that root, what that underlying motivation is, is love for God and a devotion to his cause, to his glory So those are the basics. That's the strength that's in view. That's the courage that's in view. Now, part two, as it were. If those are the basics, what's the basis? What's the foundation? For strength and courage in the Christian life. What are the keys to being marked by these things? That is to say, marked by them in the way that we ought to be. And there are three lessons to learn here. And they all begin with PR. Nothing wrong with a little alliteration along the way. Notice, first of all, the importance of God's presence. When it comes to strength and courage, notice the importance. of God's presence, and that too leaps off the page as you read Deuteronomy and Joshua. Because that's a running theme in these passages. Not only is it said over and over again, be strong and courageous, but in every speech in which that's said, it's linked to the reality: God will be with you. Over and over again. Listen again, back in Deuteronomy 31. What does Moses say to Israel? He says, Be strong and courageous, do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. It's the presence of God. Two verses later, he says it to Joshua: It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. And then again in Joshua 1, the Lord says to Joshua, Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. The Lord your God is with you, with you wherever you go. Now, obviously, in terms of his divine being, God is present everywhere. So something else is in view here. This presence of God. The idea is that God will be present with Joshua and with Israel in terms of his favor. In terms of his fellowship, he will be with Joshua as one who is for Joshua and as one who is known by Joshua. So the courage that's in view here isn't the kind of courage that faces some challenge and says, I've got this, I can handle it on my own. On my own. No, true courage, biblical courage, faces some challenge and in the face of it says, Lord be with me. And it might not just say it, it might cry it with some intensity, with some urgency. At the heart of real courage is that willingness to cry out. Lord be with me. Lord, give me a keen sense even now of your presence You see this reflected in a number of places in the Old Testament. Listen to Psalm 124. Psalm of David. Psalm 124. It says this: If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let it be the same. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us, then they would have swallowed us up alive. And then it goes on from there. To say, well, in effect, we weren't swallowed up alive. Then it must be that the Lord was with us after all. That's Psalm 124. That's a Psalm of David. And that is clearly not the confession of a man who was thinking, we could have handled that on our own. He admits it freely. Let Israel now say, if the Lord had not been with us, we'd have lost. We'd have been defeated. But he was with us. And that's why we won. The Lord who is on our side, he was and is at our side. He's not some distant ally, somebody we've just heard rumors about. David knew that, and so he could write a psalm like that, Psalm 124, and because David knew it, he passed it on to his son Solomon. Listen to 1 Chronicles 28. Here's David speaking to Solomon. 1 Chronicles 28, verse 20. Then David said to Solomon, his son. Be strong and courageous. There it is again. Be strong and courageous and do it. Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed, for the Lord God, even my God, is with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. So David knew it. And then Solomon learned it, at least at first, from his father Hezekiah knew it as well. Listen to 2 Chronicles 32. 2 Chronicles 32. Here's Hezekiah speaking to the people. Be strong and courageous. So there it is again. Do not be afraid or dismayed before the king of Assyria and all the horde that is with him, for there are more with us. Than with him. With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. Same calling, be strong and courageous, same basis, the presence of God. He is with you. And that's why you can be these things. And for Christians today, it's the same thing. It's true of the Christian's life. The life to which the Christian is called requires strength and courage, and so he needs to know and he can know that God is with him in the sense that he is for him, in the sense of favor and fellowship So it's true of the individual Christian, and then it's true of the church as a body. Same principle. If ever there were a calling that required strength and courage, It's the great calling, it's the great commission that Christ has given us. Here it is again. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. Now, that of itself is positively overwhelming. That mandate. To say the least, that's going to require strength and courage. It's a great commission, and so it's going to take great strength and great courage. And so what does Jesus say next? Presence. He says, Behold, I'm with you, always, to the end of the age So there, even in our own experience, the presence of God. So that's the first of them. The importance of God's presence. Here's the second now. The importance of God's promise, the importance of his promise. Remember what God had promised Joshua. He'd promised to give him victory in the land. Listen again to Joshua 1. God says to him, Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses. And then he describes the land. And then he promises: no man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. You shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. So think about what that means for Joshua, as one who's called to be strong and courageous. What that means is that he's to be those things, he's to exhibit those virtues, strength and courage Not wondering all the while how it was all going to turn out. As if there were some great cloud of uncertainty that was hanging over the whole project. It's not to say he knew precisely how it was all going to work out. Probably couldn't have been able to foresee the whole episode with the Gibeonites who pulled the wool over his eyes. But he did know with certainty that God was going to give him the victory in the end, somehow, even if he couldn't describe in detail the somehow. God's promise. So God's presence is important. God's promise is important. And then third, so is God's precept. That is to say, so it is the conduct, the course of action that God has commanded. Listen again, Moses says to Israel in Deuteronomy 31, the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you. And then in Joshua 1, the Lord says to Joshua, only be strong and very courageous. Being careful to do according to all the law that Moses my servant commanded you, do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left. So that helps too. That helps to fill in the picture here. Joshua was called to be strong and courageous, not in doing any old thing that he wanted to do. He was to be strong and courageous in the very thing that God had commanded. Him to do no more, no less. He was to be strong and courageous in obedience. In obedience specifically, in his military leadership, in his obedience generally to the law of God. And for Christians today, it's the same thing. We're to be strong. Strong and courageous in obedience. In fact, that's the key. It's in doing what God has commanded, in spite of factors that might push you back. It's in doing that. That real strength and courage are on display, that they really shine for everyone to see So we've learned here about the basics, what strength and courage are. We've learned something about the foundation, the basis, the presence and the promise and the precept of God. Thankfully, the Bible doesn't leave us just to imagine what these things might look like. Because the Bible gives us a host of real-life flesh and blood examples. Of strength and courage. And of course, Joshua himself was one of them. And you just need to keep reading the book of Joshua, and you can see that. Joshua was an example of this. But there are others, other examples, and of course the chief example was Christ Himself. Your Savior. No one in the whole of human history was ever called to be strong and courageous the way he was. And he was both of those things and more, without spot or blemish. Unflinching, unswerving strength and courage in the life of your Savior. And think about it. In his life, what was the basis? What were the foundations of his own strength and courage? Well, it's the same three things: his father's presence Because you remember what he said, John 16: Behold, the hour is coming, indeed, it has come when you will be scattered each to his own home and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone. For the Father is with me, present. So to promise. Hebrews 12 says that we're to look to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Joy had been set before him. Joy had been promised him. So he could exhibit strength and courage knowing what the promised outcome would be. Presence and promise, and sure enough, precept Jesus said, I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And so he exhibited strength and courage In following through on a mission that he'd been given, not one that he just invented on his own. So Christ was the chief example of this. And because he was, because Christ was strong and courageous to save sinners, well then the Apostle Paul became an example of these same things. Remember what Christ said to Paul. This is what Christ said to Paul one night when Paul is in Roman custody in Jerusalem. Acts 23, it says this. The following night the Lord stood by Paul and said, Take courage, for as you have testified to the facts about me in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, so you must testify also in Rome. So there's the calling. Take courage. Surely that's going to require strength of him. And what was the basis of it? How could Paul be those things? What would it look like for Paul to be those things? Same three realities the Lord's presence because did you hear in that verse it said that the Lord stood by Paul and told The Lord's presence, also the Lord's promise. Because he said, You must also testify in Rome. Well, the implication of that was, Paul, I promise you. I'm going to preserve you in such a way that you get to Rome and can do it. The Lord's presence, the Lord's promise, and the Lord's precept. You must testify also in Rome. The implication of that was. Paul, you're to be strong and courageous in carrying out the marching orders I've given you. Show strength and courage in doing this that I've given you to do, which is to tell you. Testify to me in Rome. And so Paul was called to strength and courage. And the foundation was there, the basis was there, and Paul followed through. He was strong and courageous too. And because he was, Paul can say to the rest of us, just as he said to the Corinthians, be imitators of me, as I am of Christ. And isn't that where we today in this room find ourselves? We've learned from Deuteronomy and Joshua. And we've seen those realities played out in Joshua and in Christ and in Paul. And Paul says to us today. Be strong and courageous in your own lives. So let me conclude this morning with a few Reflections, a few applications for us today. As we think about bringing these things to bear upon our lives. One of the dangers that we face in this Especially when we start thinking about biblical models, biblical heroes like Joshua and Paul and even Christ, the danger is. That will end up thinking about being strong and courageous as if it were something that's limited to dramatic moments in the lives of famous men. The temptation is that we'll end up thinking, well, sure, these things are stirring to read about, but what does this have to do with me? After all, I'm just a And then you fill in your own blank. I'm just an engineer. I'm just a housewife. I'm just a student. I'm just an associate pastor. Joshua was one of a kind, and so was Paul, and of course, so was Christ, and their lives were full of drama, and their lives were full of historic significance. But the rest of us, let's be honest, we're a dime a dozen. Our lives aren't nearly as dramatic, not nearly as significant, and so we might be tempted to think that the language, be strong and courageous, doesn't fit our little old lives. But it does. It does. It does. And didn't we see that when we set out? That the New Testament confirms this, confirms our instinct. No, this does apply to us. And so we actually ought to think precisely in the other direction. Instead of starting out with, oh my lord, my life is so ordinary. Therefore, conclusion: be strong and courageous does not apply to me. No, work in the other direction. Start with: be strong and courageous does apply to me. I know that it does Because God Himself has said that it does. Well, then that leads me to the conclusion that there must be a drama about my life from the moment I get out of bed. As ordinary and unnoticeable as many of my moments may seem to be. Because whatever the precise moment may be, whatever the particular circumstances may be, may be, in which you are called to exhibit strength and courage. I urge you when I first got up here this morning to think about something concrete in your life that's requiring strength and courage of you, or it's about to. Whatever it is, in the midst of it, you can remind yourself of these three things: presence. God is with me. He's not just omnipresent as God, he is that, but he's also for me. And he's known by me, the presence of God. And you can also remind yourself of promise. However, this turns out, the Lord has promised He's going to work it for good somehow in my life. And you can remind yourself of precept, commandment. God has commanded me To exhibit strength and courage in this circumstance for his glory. Learn to look at life that way, and suddenly each and every little challenging moment becomes a little battle scene. From the moment you get out of bed, sometimes just getting out of bed can be the first battle in the war. Oh, it applies to you. In spades. And then a final word. Joshua was told over and over again And over and over and over again. To be strong and courageous. And that's an opportunity for us to be reminded that in Christian discipleship there is a place for being reminded. There's a place for hearing things again and again you've heard so many times before. Never say, tell me something. don't already know. It's not a Christian disposition. Tell me something new. Yeah, I know, I've heard that before It doesn't belong on the lips and in the hearts of Christians. There's even a place for hearing these things again from brothers and sisters in Christ, even though you've already read them from God in the Bible. I think one of the most remarkable moments back in Joshua 1, you remember at the very end when the representatives of the tribes. Tell Joshua to be strong and courageous. Because at that point he's already heard that directly from God and not just once. And you can imagine that Joshua might have been tempted to point that out. Look, I've already heard that from Almighty God. What on earth makes you think I need to hear it from you? But of course it would have been silly for him to think that. Because so it is as it is now, so it was then. That's the way the church works. That's the way it's supposed to work. First, God speaks to us in his word, and then we who are his people, we take that word that we've heard from him, and what do we do? We turn and speak it to one another. We make God's words to be our words so as to encourage one another. That's the way it works. So let's learn from Joshua 1. Let's hear it first as God's word. And then let's turn and face one another and say it to one another as our words. Just as David spoke to the church, just as David said to Israel in Psalm 31, David said, Be strong and let your heart take courage. All you who wait for the Lord. May it be so. And amen. Let's pray together.