I'm reading from two texts. And one text is um Romans eleven, nineteen to twenty-two, and the other will be Psalm eighteen thirty. So follow with me if you would. Romans eleven, nineteen to twenty-two. two, you will say then branches were broken off that I might be grafted in. Well said, because of unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by faith. Do not be haughty, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, he may not spare you either. Therefore consider the goodness and severity of God on those who fell, severity, but towards you goodness. And now from Psalm 18, verse 30, as for God his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is proven. He is a shield to all who trust in him And shall we pray? Father above, you've given us a mighty and a glorious word, and it seems that you always give us that word just when we need it, and we thank you. Lord for your gracious wisdom, your your kindness, your goodness to us. We pray that you would g uh give us, Lord, that grace to enter into these things now. That you would be pleased to Change us. For we need change, Lord. We need to be molded more into the image of Christ. Grant us such. We pray even now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Um This is directed to the young ones. Do you have to write essays? Says anyone? I think so. That was meant to be something of a rhetorical question. And it seems as you get older you have to write the essays longer. So at some point you only have to write a half a page, and then it's two pages. And as you go up in years, it gets longer and finally you're uh uh your senior thesis, it may be a minimum requirement of say twenty pages. However, as you graduate from college and you get into the real world, I guess I can You're not trying for length, you're trying you're working for brevity. Um and it's a hard thing to do. I it was able to Abraham who who gave us the quote that said, I would have I would have uh this uh he wrote out a speech or something like that, and he said, I would have written less, but I didn't have an opportunity. Meaning it's hard to crystallize, to condense, to make it linear, concise. That's what I've tried to do here. I have all these ideas I want to put put in here and yet I have to just say, okay, let's get rid of all these. Let's just let's stick with the main point. So the uh the theme this evening, and it really does follow from last week, I know it Will be uh in some ways you won't be able to tell that, but I'll let you know as we get into this when that is supposed to be, and I believe it'll be clear to you. So when we read Romans 11, 19 to 22. The text here speaks of the goodness and severity of God. Goodness to the Gentiles that now He has loud them in. He has brought them into the covenant communion. And the severity of God towards those who, because of their unbelief, God would reject, at least for a season. And these would be the the Jews. So the the goodness and severity of of God have to be kept together. And as a little aside here, the modern liberal church wants to sort of strip out the severity of God. God and focus just on the goodness of God, so you end up with a heavenly Santa Claus. But once you strip out the severity of God, the judgment, the nature of sin, and things like that, you end up with not knowing how do you deal with pain and then you can't do that. cruelty and misery and those sorts of things so they the modern liberal church ends up having to say that God is simply imitate. He just he's not all powerful. He's just there sort of wringing his hands and that's where the liberal church ends up. We don't. We believe in both the goodness and the severity of God. Now, having said that, um We're n I'm not going to speak on both of them tonight, so I will concentrate more on the goodness. So uh it is not an attempt to to say that I'm not that there's no place for the severity of God, I'm just not going to address that. So what we're going to do is look at goodness, God's goodness in a biblical way. And what I'll do is I'll start with this and I'll say, let me read Read again Psalm 18, verse 30. As for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is proven. He is a shield to all who trust in him. When biblical writers speak of God and his way as perfect, They are speaking in terms of his goodness. So I'm once again, I will be more than willing to admit I'm drawing some of this from Packer's book. Book Knowing God, which I heartily recommend you read and reread. It's a more modern-day classic, and I hope that some of the things that I say tonight will encourage you to go back and read Read it. Now I'm going to bring in the young ones again. Westminster, uh, the uh the shorter catechism, question and answer number four. I'm going to ask you to recite it or read it. Can you do that? Now I've worked to memorize it, but being up front and all jittery, I'd only mess it up. So I'm going to ask you Young ones to help out here. What is God? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his Being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. And at some point I'll get up here and I won't be so embarrassed to say that I have to read it. But in that answer, what do we find? We find this word goodness. And A number of things that I'll be saying tonight, Skip said this morning. So I actually had to rip out half my exhortation and start over again. I'm kidding. But it's just amazing how how so often some of the things I intend to say follow on from what Skip said. And this is no different. So let's look a little bit more carefully at um, well, let me say one thing first. When we speak of something that's goodness, when we speak of goodness, we can go to a dictionary and it'll say something like admirable, attractive, praiseworthy. But when In in in uh theological terms, when we speak of of uh of goodness, it refers to these three moral quantities or qualities or categories of his mercy His grace, his graciousness, and then his love. So what we find then, and I'll talk more about them in a little bit, but mercy has to be To do with the effect that God has not given us what we deserve, right? Graciousness means that He has given us what we don't deserve, and then love means He has given us all that He could possibly give. So we li we pull all these things together into this uh character of God, this characteristic of God called his goodness. And now, because we've said that when we say as for God, his way is perfect, refers to his goodness. Goodness, let's recount the context of that verse in Psalm 18. David wrote it after when Saul was finally killed by the Philistines and the hunt for David was over. So he he could finally breathe a breathe a sigh of relief. He's done nothing but struggle, suffer, run around the country, try to screw. Escaped Saul's hands, and what is his comment then in the middle of Psalm 18? As for God, his way is perfect. He was merciless. He was gracious. He loves me despite what I have done and who I am. So let's just recount some of these things in that psalm. Remember when David, obviously he slew Goliath, and he was also successful in the battlefield. And what we found was a growing dislike and a hatred of Saul for David. Does that ring any bells? So at some point Saul is throwing things at David, and one point Jonathan even has dinner with his son. father Saul, and Saul is now just bitterly angry that David's not there at the table. And I forget the exact words of Jonathan, but what does his dad do? His dad throws a spear at him. So at this point it's excruciatingly So then Jonathan goes through this activity where he fires an arrow and he's Basically says goodbye to David forever because he realizes that then and there that David's gotta go on the run. What does David first do? He goes to Gath of the Philistines. Now isn't that a smart move, you know? What does he think he's gonna do? He's gonna escape Saul by jumping out of the frying pan into the fire? That wasn't, I don't, I mean, it's not clear to me that was the brightest move in the book. And what could God have done? They knew who he was. They knew he was the one that killed Goliath. Could God have just delivered him over to the Philistines and said, Oh, let's get rid of this guy once and for all. He's a terror to us, a menace on the battlefield. Let's get rid of him and just kill him. David's gone. History. What does God do? God fails him out. God is gracious to him. And what happens again? God gives David the opportunity to kill Saul, right? I think that was actually a couple opportunities. One was in a cave when Saul had had uh withdrawn himself and David came cuts off a little bit of his coattail and then shouts as Saul is running the other is moving the other way and he just basically says, I could have killed you, Saul, but I will not kill the anointed. Well, okay, another Where he could have taken vengeance, he could have gotten Saul out of his hair at that point. But he doesn't. So I think what we can say is that God worked in him in such a way way that prevented him from doing what would come most naturally to humans. I don't think the scriptures explicitly state that, but I think we can say something of that. How often how often do we want to take matters into our own hands? To get out of a difficult situation. Or, as I referred to previously, how often do we want to run from a bad situation because we're uncomfortable and we don't like being here, so we're just going to run away from it? When God in fact wants us to stand put and to continue to work at what He wants us to do. Those are ten facts. Aren't they? And then finally, another instance is do you remember where his soldiers, and I gather there's a something like six six hundred of them. They're at they're out in the sticks, out in the boonies, and they're guarding Nebal's Nabal's flocks. And the shepherds know that he's doing them a good job because none of their not one of their animals is moved Missing, none of the animals are killed. You know, one after the other, they have just done everything to protect the shepherds and the flocks. And so David g gets the idea that we'll make Maybe we we we we need some food here. Send some of the soldiers down to work to see if we can't get a meal from the from the Bal, for example, on the Bal, which it means full, or it sounds something like full. It's hard to imagine. But somehow there must have been a similarity there of some kind. But what does he do? He says, get out of here, go away. I don't need your help. You're not gonna you're not gonna take my food and eat it. So what do they do? They go back, they tell David, and David is really angry. What have we done? We have protected these people. We have protected the flocks. We're going. And by tomorrow morning, every male in that place is going to be dead. So 400 of them go. And what happens Abigail, Nabal's wife, Rick uh is told what's going on and she says, quick, get all this food together, prepare meats, prepare breads, put it on donkeys, we're gonna meet it. Right? And what does David do? He kills not only all the animals, he kills all the women and all the men. Is that how it goes? No. That's not how it goes at all. He doesn't kill anybody. Why? Because Abigail, out of her great wisdom, said some things, and I didn't quote them all, but let me quote one of them. She said She pleads with David that this will be no grief to you. I think what she's basically saying there is if you do this. You will bear it the rest of your life. It will be one of those things that haunts you in the dark night of your soul. Don't do this, O my Lord. And she persuades him. He sees the wisdom in her words. So what's the point? point out of all this. Could God have brought could God have left him just to kill the men, and now he's done is made more enemies and he's got this he's got this action of wrong that he must also carry. with him. No, God prevented him from entering into that. God kept him again. So An application to that is how many painful memories has God spared you from? Do you keep track of them? I know I have some. I don't think I've kept track of them. So the point is that God gives his gracious hand to us, doesn't he? He gives us his mercy and he gives us his grace out of his love. Love. Right? So on these on at least these three occasions, and there are more, what has God done for David? He's been merciful, he's been gracious, and he's Now David can say, as for God, his way is perfect. Just Perfect. So where are we going with this? Let's recap. God's goodness includes what? His mercy. Not giving us what we deserve. It includes His grace. He has not only withheld what we don't deserve, he has abundantly given us what we don't deserve. And his goodness then includes his love. He gives the best for his own. Now let's go a little bit further and speak of the first thing. Alright. And let's let's think in terms of now, and then I'll get into something else in a little bit. As with David, God gives us what is good. He wants us to know his goodness. After all, isn't that one of the other lessons we can take from some Psalm eighteen verse thirty. He wants us to know that. He doesn't want it to be an obscure thing. He wants us to know his goodness, his mercies, his grace, his love. These are things that he desires us to know. They're not hidden. He wants us to live by faith, knowing that there is a blessing at the end of the road. There will be a blessing at the end of the road. But be patient, and God will give his reasons one day, as I believe also was a paraphrase of something Skip said this morning. Be patient, he will give his reasons. One day. It may be hard now, maybe very hard now, but we will know one day why it was the best thing that He could have given. He will wipe away every tear as we read in the world. The book of Revelation. Every tear that we have. And Skip also cited, we are to love him and cling to him. Those were Skip's words They work well here. But let's mention another point here. Let's speak of love from the distant past. In other words Let's speak of God's foreknowledge of us. Now, when we speak of foreknowledge, so for example, Romans 8. 29, for whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed. Now, some would say that God has known what was going on in time past. He knew who would be receiving Christ. Christ in faith, and then he would select them. He would select them for that faith, knowing that they would receive him by faith, which doesn't quite make a lot of sense to me, but that's how Some would see that. It's just a knowledge. Yet when the scriptures speak of knowing, it frequently speaks in terms of an intimate relationship. So when Adam knew Eve, what was it? That he just knew her? He knew when she would get angry if he did this certain thing. He knew her idiosyncrasies and he liked to get under her skin. Is that what the scriptures mean when they talk about Adam knowing Eve? No. What he meant was he knows her, but it's an intimate, deep, affectionate love. So when the scriptures speak of God's foreknowing us, that is what is in view. Now, let me give some scriptures to back that. Let me go this way. Do you remember from last week we spoke of Paul wanting to know God? Paul, one of his greatest desires that I may know Christ and his resurrection from uh uh I guess that's Philippians 3 verse 7, I believe. That I may know him in the power of his resurrection. That was his consuming passion. That was one of the points of Philippians. His heartfelt letter to the Philippians. That I may know him. His all-consuming. Consuming passion. But what do we find though? Galatians 4:9. But then, indeed, when you did not know God, you served those By which nature are not gods. But now, after you have known God, or rather are known by God. So the point that's being made here. Is that not simply do the Galatians know God, they know God because God had known them from the dawn of eternity. They only came to know him as he has always known So we find that God's knowing his own and God's loving his own are very closely related. And let's speak of Romans 9, or let's look at Romans 9. 13, which Paul also quotes from Malachi 1, 2, and 3, as it is written, Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated. These are words of eternity past. Now, we can say that Paul hungered to know God But only because God had known him from eternity past. Now, a little aside here, what does it mean For God to have known us from eternity past. I would just challenge you to think about that a little bit. What does eternity mean? What does it mean that from the dawn of whatever? I mean, you can't even say the dawn of time. You can't say the dawn of reality. God's reality has always been In from eternity past. I'm not even sure what we can put our arms around that. From eternity past, if you are his, then you were known from that eternity past. as his own. Now that's pretty mind-boggling to me. I as a I as a scientist, engineer, having taken quite a bit of math, I don't get I can't get my arms around Eternity Pass. very well. I'm sure Skip can't even know he may not know his algorithms from his logarithms, but he may have a deep appreciation for eternity. But I sure don't. I can't get My arms around that. So what does it mean then when we just think about the fact that in the mind of God from all eternity, those whom he knew, he loved, he foreknew, he brought them to himself, he wanted them conformed to the image of Christ. Christ. He predicted predestined them. He elected them. He brought them to be his own. He brought that into fulfillment in some marvelous way. From The dawn of eternity. So, where are we going? Paul hungered to know God because God had already known and loved him. So I would ask you. Is there anything in you such that you desire to know God as Paul did? Do you desire at all to know God? Or is that just some sort of a uh a knowledge concept out there. And I would say that's something that you can check in your own heart. Do you have desire to to know God at all? Do you have a desire to love God? Do you have a desire to obey Him? Do you have a desire to know in this circumstance what would the Lord desire me to do? Do I feel pain when I know his displeasure? I know that he isn't pleased with this. Do you seek to know God? Do you seek to love Love God. If so, you have been known and loved from eternity past. It's something we can always be asking ourselves the question of. There is perseverance of the saints. There is God who's protecting his elect, and yet we ought not to be, in a sense, too comfortable here. Now it really wasn't the strain or the vein I was going to go here, but I do want to mention in passage. That Jesus did say to some, depart from me, for I never knew you. I never knew you. So I would say to you, Look at your own hearts. Do you love him? Do you seek to honor him? Do you feel regret and remorse at your sins? Do you long to be delivered from sins that you I would say these are signs of grace. And you can then take comfort in the fact that God has called you from that dawn of time. Pardon me. What does time mean to God? Time is a meaningless concept to God. So again, I'll leave you to meditate. On this. So, as with David, he wants us, he wants us to know him. He wants us to know his goodness, where his goodness is what? His mercy, his grace. His love. These are the elements then of his goodness. And as for God, his way is perfect. And he speaks Now I wish to close just by quoting from one of my favorite authors recently, Professor Packer. So let me read some things that he has said, or just a very brief passage. That is certainly striking to me, and I'm hoping it's just as striking to you, concerning the love of God God's love to sinners involves his identifying himself with their welfare. Such an identification is involved in all love. It is indeed the test of whether love is genuine or not. If a father continues cheerful and carefree while his son is getting into trouble, Or if a husband remains unmoved when his wife is in distress, we wonder at once how much love there can be in that relationship. Wouldn't we? We would wonder. For we know that those who are tr who who truly love are only happy when those whom they love are truly happy. also. So it is with God in his love for man. By his own free voluntary choice, he will not know perfect and unmixed happiness again. Till he has brought every one of them, one of his own, to heaven. He has in effect resolved that henceforth, for all eternity, his happiness shall be conditional upon us. The thought passes understanding and almost beggars belief, but there is no doubt that according to Scripture, such as the love of God. Father above, these things do indeed beggar belief. Lord, it's these things we beg. We would never grasp on our own unless unless your scriptures taught us so, and unless other men skilled in the scriptures were to bring these out such that we could know them in this intimate way. We do thank you, O Lord, for your goodness, for the blessings that we enjoy from that goodness. We enjoy from all your character your characteristics and your attributes, but we can And delight even now in your love. And we thank you for Dr. Packer's portrayal of it, the blessing that it is for us. Lord, we pray that you would grant us Lord, we pray that you would make us more your own. We pray that you would stir us with a deep. an intense desire for you. You did so for Paul. We ask that you would do so for us as well. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.