And my task really is here to come to minister God's word, for which it is a privilege, and to come and report. How in the world of this missionary organization can it be blessing Israel when Jesus is not mentioned? That's over two months ago. in Fayetteville, Arkansas, but just recently uh laboring out of bounds. uh around Europe and then to what was then Palestine to uh explore the situation of the Jewish people because of a burden to reach out to them with the gospel. Now chapter 5 goes on to talk about better things, walking by the Spirit, not by the flesh, and of course bearing forth the fruit of the Spirit. We're uh blessed tonight to have an old and dear friend of mine and uh in recent years of our whole congregation, Reverend Stephen Atkinson to minister God's word. and Witness to Israel, which will celebrate this November its 175th anniversary as a reformed outreach to the Jewish people. Uh the name Robert Murray McShane will ring a bell with many of you, and if it doesn't, it should. So I turned this evening to the book of Galatians. I want to ask the question, what are we Gentile Christians doing to fulfill Romans 11. You were bothered. That we must show. The Jews were not rejecting Jesus as Messiah. I'll tell the story of this little leaflet. Well, all Jews are going to heaven anyway. and finding the red heifer and helping get the third temple built, we can make the second coming happen. I I I checked your webpage and uh noticed that under missions you have Christian Witness to Israel as and and the link to our website. as I'll do more at the end of the sermon, and also to just stir your heart once again to the work of CWI. Stirring the church and building a burden. And it's as a theological burden is restored in the US for the ancient people that we will do the mission correctly. since 2012 and yes I am driving home starting the drive tonight and hopefully getting the rest of the journey. on the roads. and Gentile believers living side by side on this piece of dirt than at any other time in history and in any other place on the planet. But let me let me quote to you. The pilgrim fathers were determined to establish a land in which they were free to exercise their Christian faith. in a sense summarizes the whole. one and three and five in a different order. And I'll be repeating it throughout the sermon, so you'll get it a few times. Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. She was around 18, 17 or 18 at that time. Because you call us fate a shovel. has a relationship with God and will come to redemption. is to educate Christians about their biblical and moral imperative to support Israel. And if we're bewitched concerning the subject of Israel and Jewish people, our mission will be all over the map. Send your 25 bucks to help poor Israelis buy matza for Passover. I was asking the rabbi, your ancestors prayed that the nations of the world would know the God of Israel and his salvation. He still said, well, it's good that the nations of the world know the God of Israel. And later on I was retelling the story or telling a little bit about the story in the evening, panel discussion meeting, and uh I kind of put on my Liam Neeson accent, and uh I will find you. And I see Jewish mission, real evangelistic Jewish mission neglected. Nothing is more certainly foretold than this national conversion of the Jews in Romans 11. Who hindered? Those kind of things. No, our radical dispensationalism is greet is is breeding ground for the distractions. The Late Great Planet Earth that I read when I was a teenager, and the 52 million left behind books. healthy biblical diet of the word, then healthy spiritual lives follow and healthy missions and real Christian witness to Israel on our doorstep. a teaching elder in the PCA, uh an assistant or associate pastor, uh uh which is it, Stephen? In the nineteenth century, and uh he and others in the uh uh the Church of Scotland went on a mission to uh uh back in the early uh 1800. I find such an affinity with you and with your pastor. I I appreciate that greatly. in the 1820s, 30s, 40s. who had raised him from the dead and all the brothers who are with me to the churches of Galatia. Who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever and ever. live in the USA. Pray that these may be maintained. I'm tempted to drop back a page or two to Northern Ireland and if you have Operation World, read what it says about Northern Ireland, because Northern Ireland is Bible Belt Europe. That by the mercy shown to you, Gentiles, they, the Jews, may also receive mercy. to bring the gospel to the Jewish people. Well, first of all, let's make a few introductory comments with regard to the book of Galatians, and then we'll move into those three texts. after the death of Christ, after time's crucial event, after the shedding of blood, after that it is finished, Tetelus die, after that remission of sins. The Savior no longer occupies his place, and the doctrine of the gospel is utterly ruined. then Christ died for no purpose. translation because the the the folly is spiritual folly. You're committing theological treason. with the with the uh little praise group that you had at that time. It's almost as if Paul's pen, if we had the original, perhaps his pen went right through the parchment at this point. A sense of being stirred. Let's get back there, he's saying. For Jew and Gentile alike. singular gospel to our Jewish neighbors. With fancy talk about Israel. Come visit the land, stand with Israel, send us several hundred dollars and we'll send you a beautiful prayer shawl. For the nation of Israel. But one of the matters on the Saturday afternoon was a live streaming with a rabbi in Israel. stand with us militarily because we're the only democracy in the Middle East. I scribbled a little question on a piece of paper and passed it up to the front, to the to the host, and and he then uh asked the question of the rabbi. And again, in these sermons that shaped America, we have Cotton Mother, we have Jonathan Edwards, Benjamin Morgan Palmer, Gerhardis Voss. by the hands of first century Jewish missionaries. The rich recipients of your mercy, of the oracles of God that have been passed to us, the unsearchable riches that are ours in Christ. beyond our understanding or imagining with every spiritual blessing in Christ. How we desire a contagion, a holy contagion of the gospel in our lips and in our lives to all we meet. Help us to get bothered and once again run well in the things of God and the mission of God. But it does actually tell the story very well, and uh it's worthy of our of our interest. That there shall be a general conversion of the tribes of Israel is a truth which in some measure has been known and believed in all the ages of the Church of God since the apostles' days. There's in the 1600s. How did we get from McShane's our duty to Israel, Romans 1. And maybe that's where some of the dispensational mindset has come in with an Arminian theology. We got a problem. And uh it's I asked if this would work that I could fit in the Sunday night. Maryland this morning at a Chinese church, non-denominational church, and I'll tell you a little more about that in a moment. That's one of the frustrations I have. And so there is this twofold aspect to bringing this message of Galatians for the glory of Christ. of all types. not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. the gospel of Christ. Superficial Christianity to be duped, distracted, diverted. Now I haven't time to go into all your spiritual history. Um and I think as Operation World pointed out oh as Operation World pointed out The Puritan, Scots, English, Irish, that Puritan pilgrim fathers, we say. A lot of places. But I'm delighted also to be here just to thank you, as I do once a year, to come and thank you for your support, for your prayers, for your financial support, and just being with us. is eager to write about our common salvation, but he finds it necessary instead to contend for the faith. It goes on to speak of generosity, evangelistic vitality, and ability to dream big are major factors in the surge of gospel progress. Forgive me also perhaps from moving uh perhaps more swiftly to application and doing exegesis light. But time does forbid us taking that extent of these texts and digging really deep into them. And contend for the faith for at least a couple of reasons. from the uniqueness of Christ and his work dishonors the Lord and damages the spiritual health and vitality of the believer and the church. It's a confused mess. Galatians 3. Christ plus circumcision, or the Judaizing tendencies. You have lost your critical faculties. That you're so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and returning to a different gospel. Prosperity preachers, health and wealth, name it and claim it. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? Who bewitched you? Or the images of, as we find in our cars, that someone cuts across us, who has cut in on you and forced you off track. Jesus for Gentiles. In the U. And if we don't understand the sovereignty of God, perhaps we think it is up to us. Pugh the harbinger. Again, I know, as I said, I'm preaching to the choir. And then if you'll turn back the page to chapter 1 and we'll read verses 1 to 9. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. And pessimism about the reality. statistics and their needs and their strengths and their challenges. And according to Operation World, there are 92 million evangelicals in America. And so in some ways I have to speak in summary rather than building up a textual argument. to the evangelical church in the U. through the sacrifice of the ultimate Passover lamb. Now, I don't know if you noticed as we read chapter 1, as we began, Paul, unlike in his other letters, he has no opening commendation and praise and thanksgiving. about the nature of the gospel, of salvation, of justification by faith alone. Who has bewitched you? You were deluded by a different gospel. And actually we could have taken another text if you I'm jumping all over, but Galatians 4. about the subject of Israel and so distracted. Can I ask a simple question? Can Christians stand with Israel? In the light of Psalm 67, you can read that for your homework, and we we read it to the rabbi. And yet there are those who want us to leave the Jewish people alone. Your interest was in a lost people who needed to hear about their Messiah and his atoning death. 18th and 19th century Puritan theology had that increasing burden for the ancient people and their salvation. It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. This message is perhaps a little bit more unpalatable than messages that I've brought in the past. encouraging things about our common salvation. But I also find it necessary to sound an alarm. I'm on a green card. We are living at such a providential time, dear friends. that by the mercy shown to you that they may receive mercy. And I bring us to Galatians. And for the well-being of the church. When the glory of justification is ascribed to another, the Savior no longer occupies his place. Let him be anathema. But bothered. We need to be encouraged, don't we, to be thinking about our good beginnings. When instead we ought to be bothered, burdened, and run well in bringing this That calls itself the largest pro-Israel organization in the US with three million members. And how in the world of American evangelicalism does it have three million followers? And our Jewish neighbors hear nothing, nothing about Jesus Who has bewitched you? How can you bless Israel without Jesus? If I can say it kindly, that there was a wide variety of uh involvement in the conference, some of which I was happy with, some of which I wasn't entirely happy with. Thank God for Jewish missionaries who told about a Jewish Messiah I look out upon the confused, bewildering mass of Israel missions. That you have providentially placed us on this piece of dirt. were full of that theology. Houston, we got a problem. Because theology drives behavior and theology drives missiology. to the Jew first and also to the Greek. And as I come to visit you this evening, I find a similar constraint. Since 1999. Bothered. And I will tell you about Jesus. There is a wonderful pioneer American spirit, which which I have I've traveled Now, again, I'm preaching to folks with a better theology, I know. There's a reason for that. Galatians 3, 1. to whom much has been given, much will be required. So in a blessed country, gospel blessed When Jesus said, it is finished, some were saying, it's not quite. You are so quickly deserting, present tense, clear and present danger, so easily being diverted to a different gospel, so easily distracted. One of the commentators says, the apostle's pen is dipped in fire. A little aside, some of you might remember my daughter visiting here about maybe two or three years ago, I can't remember exactly. But we come from Northern Ireland, where you call us fate of shovel. Well, let's ask three questions then. Theology matters. And so $230 million a year goes to Israel-based ministries. Israel is marketable, just as Jesus is marketable. It's one of the best missionary compendiums, I suppose, of of all the nations on the earth and their This is the Apostle Paul. I read it cover to cover. Remember Calvin's quote, the Savior no longer occupies his place, and the doctrine of the gospel is utterly ruined. Is there another way for Jews without Jesus? that they had received a commission, a great commission, to go into all the world. And then also another thing is that, and it's not just in the US, it's all over the world. And so enter all manner of charlatans with their knowledge of some secret in some obscure verse in Daniel and Ezekiel, and we will sell you the secret. Who cut in on you? So Galatians 3, verse 1, and then back to chapter 1, and we'll read the first nine verses of chapter 1 also. I was checking through my notes as to what I preached to you on previous occasions because And I'm torn between delight and distress, between optimism about the potential. We have about six to seven million Jewish people living in the USA. Evangelicalism is just the same. Bewitched, bewildered. You were burdened. You were running well. How you can bless Israel, how to stand with Israel. For the honor of Christ and for the well-being of both the ancient and the current people of God. But someone has sold the secret. It's probably dated around 48 A. It's not just a theological phrase, it's the gospel. But it's a bewildering mass when it comes to Jewish mission. In Christ's name we pray. Like this. Oh, has it? You go to Starbucks and you've got 17 choices of how to start your day. But the third text I bring us to, and then we'll move on to some points of application. Leave us alone, he said. Sometimes our strengths can be our downfall. And its finder says this. But you were running well, bothered, burdened You were burdened. But let me say this. Amen. S. I checked this one as well. Why didn't you leave us alone? But who cut in on us? I come to the U. Or JB Phillips translated, you idiots. But I think those have cut in on a Puritan and reformed approach to the whole subject and has distracted us and confused us and bewildered us and even perhaps bewitched us With regard to Jewish mission, I hope it's not unkind for me to say it's a mess. Bewitched, bewildered. At the mess of evangelical Christianity. And he's even more graphic in chapter 5, verse 12. But I can't. Don't want to need to go into details. But in the realm of the kingdom, sometimes the enemy can twist that make it happen, Spirit. I have the magazine of another so-called mission reorganization. If anyone is preaching another gospel, let him be eternally cursed. My Scottish ancestors, 3,000 years ago, when that psalm was written, were dancing around stone When there's more emphasis on flying away than filling the earth with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea, there's something wrong. Thank you, Brian. 1. Okay. There are some crazy drivers about. Another quote. Bewitched, bewildered. When I come and and I just do one sermon, I I wish I had a whole series to to take us into the book of Galatians. You want your coffee strong? Those who insist on circumcision, just let's go one stage further How can we permit them to go to a lost eternity? Israel is here. Let's bow together a moment's prayer. Chapter 5, verse 7. , the potential. And I'd value a response. May the Lord bless to us the reading of his word. Oh foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? You you tell it. Well, are we bewitched? Just uh please take it, it's on the table. I'm ministering out advisors. I have been in the area just these past two or three days with another colleague. And as you see from your bulletin, I want to suggest that we are bewitched, bewildered, and maybe not a little bothered. I travel widely. But verse nine, chapter one if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel contrary The sense of being disturbed and prodded. This was good. Who has bewitched you? I hope to become a citizen. Let him be eternally cursed. Now I hope I'm not pressing things just to make that bewitched, bothered, and bewildered three-point sermon. I I was in regular pastoral work for 18 years of my ministry life, but now I come and I just got one shot And I find that uh you are with us in uh a number of ways, technologically, financially, prayerfully and and and in so many other ways. I think Skip rightly pointed out that our ministry, our evangelistic ministry to the Jewish people, started out of a Scottish burden. Please permit me this from your British cousin. What is the greatest blessing that you have received? And the little girl says, Mommy, Jesus loves this, doesn't he? That was the heartbeat of this nation. And the dual covenant theology. The images of an athlete that is running and running and then suddenly someone trips them up. Of course, Isaiah 9, verse 10 was all about 911. Torah for Jews. And so uh the organization has changed names and and other things about it have changed, but it's got a wonderful history. You were running well. They are confused and bewildered. If only we would bless Israel by standing with her militarily, by getting all the Jews back to the land, by watching for those blood moons. S. It was Jesus who was refusing to be the Messiah to the Jews. When there's more emphasis upon the land than upon the Lord, And so I'm asking the question, what are we doing? Who cut in on us? and I find your supermarkets full of choices. In the previous verses, just scoot up a few verses into chapter 2, and chapter 2, verse 16, he's making it very clear that a person is And she was really impressed because she had spent the last few years in the South. But where's the beef? Because out of theology comes healthy Christian living, and out of theology comes myssiology. Are we foolish enough to believe there's another way? When there is more emphasis on the rapture than upon the redeemer. The Galatian church was burdened for the gospel. Matthew Henry rightly points out, to recover them from their backslidings, he puts them in mind of their good beginnings. This nation, this country was burdened. America's Christian legacy is undeniable and foundational to its identity. You're accepting the doctrine of devils. And if we Gentiles who have received that mercy from God are to show that mercy to the Jewish people, it is this gospel. Jesus is mentioned once. And I want to consider three texts from Paul's letter, which When the scripture speaks of of that kind of folly it's it's not just you you haven't got the smarts it's it's you've got spiritual folly What has hindered us? The finished work of their Messiah, Jesus. Amen. But I've never seen anything like that. S. The Judaizer has cast a spell by his enchanting words. You can get it here. I believe that every Gentile person can only come to God through the cross of Christ. Not with three million members whose mission quote I believe what Operation Well says about this great country. Let's pray. I've been traveling regularly here for CWI since 2005, and I've lived here in Arkansas. That's what he is saying about our country. Calvin says this. But a great portion of the evangelical community is at worst bewitched, at best bewildered. Okay. And out of that, this new ministry was born in 1842. O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? The problem is a theological one, and therefore the solution is a theological one. Well let me move to the texts before I get into the preaching already. And of course the rabbi came back and said, well, come and visit us. It's good the nations of the world will come and support Israel and stand with Israel. And I believe they set before us a a timely warning. Any addition, subtraction, distraction Do you see the pen on fire, as the commentator said? And when I'm using that word bothered to kind of summarize this point, it's a sense of being burdened. The Jewish people wanted him to be their Messiah, but he absolutely refused. That means he's a member of the PCA Presbytery, but he's laboring with the Christian D. First of all, how are we bewitched? It never mentions Jesus once. And if you would turn with me to chapter 3, I want to read just the first verse, and then I want to turn to chapter 1. And I'm sure we will. I love this country. And particularly as it pertains to my pet theme, and that is Jewish mission and the whole subject of Israel. You were running well. They didn't leave us alone. All right. I visit a lot of different churches. Through the law, I died to the law. according to the scholars. Your best life now. But I was in Denver uh a few months ago, and uh part of a a conference um that was I will not leave you alone. And so it is a joy to come. And pertaining to the question of Israel, pertaining to the Jewish people. You want your coffee a little light, you can get it here. There was a plainness, there was a perspicuity as to the true gospel and the turning from it. And so he went on with all these wonderful things of how the Christian Church can stand with Israel. I'll give you my response, but I'd value any of your wisdom. John Stott says he expresses astonishment at the fickleness and the instability of the Galatians. And I want to do that as well We have a supermarket display. I could refrain myself no longer, and I wasn't chairing the meeting, but Jonathan Edwards, 1703 to 1758. And also, as I'll come to in a moment, I am astonished, I am perplexed, I am bewildered. It's easy for And we're good at buying secrets. I have viewed the American evangelical scene for 18 years, traveling here. Now, I don't know if you follow Operation World We thank you that they did not leave us alone. And of course, if they are to be converted, if they are to come to know Jesus, how shall they hear, except someone preaches to them? One, for the glory of Christ, and two, for the good of the church. The Galatian error of Christ plus Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort You you were you were running well Our Father, we thank you for the gospel that came to us. He's for a number of years uh on the staff of our covenant church in It's a delight and joy to be back with you again. I have a measure of delight and distress. Justification by faith alone, by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. That you have providentially placed so many of your ancient people right on our doorstep. We haven't time to enter into a whole-scale discussion of the Schofield Bible Thank you that you have providentially placed us at this time in history. I usually come on Sunday mornings, but uh I was in Gaithersburg Who has bewitched you? And when preachers and pulpits have a restored I'm not sure if if if that's a a helpful Really? And uh she enjoyed being with you. Back to chapter one and verses six and seven. And you please don't misunderstand me. When it comes to Israel, it's not just the health and wealth. The enemy can twist our strengths, can't he? 20. And how can we get back on track? So, dear brother, it's a pleasure to have you back once again to bring God's Word. It's not perfect, but it's been the result obviously of decades of research. You are out of your mind, he says. Teleevangelists, marketing Jesus, faith healers, wonderworking charlatans, peddlers of God's word. What? See, my friend, I'm preaching to the choir. What is our Christian witness to Israel in this gospel-blessed country to our Jewish neighbors? In other words, we are about 15 to 20 years. And Paul is confused and bewildered. And as I viewed the the scene, I am torn. The only gospel Where's the gospel? John Scott, you remember his quote, he said the Galatians were fickle and unstable. Well, he hummed and had and didn't really have an answer. We can make it happen. You are the land of choice. That's our mission? You were running well. When the glory of justification is ascribed to another The third text is a Galatians 5, verse 7. Is it not Jesus? Now let's get bothered, burdened for telling Jews about Jesus. I have already said of my delight Increase Mother, 1639 to 1723, said this. 16, is to bring the gospel to them? I want to make just a couple of observations. The Galatian error in Paul's mind was an acceptance of soul-damning heresy. Paul, an apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father. I want to say nice things. Now if this was just a slight blip on the evangelical landscape, I could ignore it. Some televangelist has put you under their charm, three million of you. Well actually my status has changed I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. Let me explain why. Um But another one that uh fascinated me was sermons that shaped America The wonderful American pioneer spirit. We have an obligation, a divine commission 15 to 20 years. Or send us five hundred and we'll send the shofar. It's mentioned in the story of a little girl that sees all flag waving. Uh he was a a a wonderful, godly Presbyterian pastor. How can we support Israel? I was in Denver. There are more Jewish people Let him go to hell. No eleventh commandment thou shalt be nice. But who hindered you? It's man's problem from Genesis. I'm tempted to say he's got Scots-Irish ancestry, but I'm not sure about that. We sit here this evening About forty-two to forty-five percent of the world's Jewish population. I am perplexed about you. You know what I mean by that. How can we stand with Israel and not tell them about Jesus? And so the final question, in fact, I'm I know this is preaching, but I'm tempted to ask you the question. On that foundation developed one of the largest and most dynamic Christian movements in history. 31? And in 522, we have that list. And on the subject of Israel, pre-the modern state of Israel, your interest was spiritual. I'm preaching to those who understand the sovereignty of God in all things. Chapter 221. And it's largely on tele-empire building. Second point, how are we bewildered? And he needs to expose the error Some I have a greater affinity with than others. Oh, how we desire this blessing to be shared You see, see how he puts it? Where's Jesus? Who has bewitched you? And the live streaming was to ask the rabbi in Israel how I'm thankful also that at short notice he fitted me into the schedule And how we must share that salvation with our neighbors and our Jewish neighbors. I love the Lord's people here. So forgive me that. You were running well. Thank God they didn't leave us alone. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And why can't we be as burdened as we used to be? Well, that's for another time and look at Now, of course, we may be a little bit more conservative and we might drop that number a little bit. What? Come and visit the land. In the light of Psalm 67 And I said, you didn't leave my ancestors alone. God, you're dragging your heels a little bit. I gotta leave that to your pastor. Your supermarket shelves are full of choices. Bewitched. Let me remind you of Romans 11. Are we foolish enough to believe there's another way to heaven for the Jewish people? I know We're not immune from it in the UK, but just everything's bigger in the USA. Who caught in on you? And so you have dual covenant theology. I'm not so sure. I read the 32-page magazine And if justification were through the law I I I don't even know it it was one of the young persons that she was speaking to. I hope I'm not doing injustice to the text. And she was really impressed by the Northeast Stephen is their U. And I firmly believe that it is theology that drives missiology. And it reminds me of the beginning of the letter of Jude, where Jude Bewitched. I believe that every Jewish person who lives in the light of the Torah, which is the Word of God, The letter to the Galatians is one of the earliest letters. Galatians 3. And there's a serious problem. I am astonished How did we get from that to Instead I I I want to simply lay open three texts from chapter And uh CWI has its roots in that mission. Get a love for the land of Israel. I think she sang. There is a an enchantment. S. I thought it was a little humorous, but actually it's a it's not a Christian book. But the one thing he said, but don't tell us about Jesus. How you can bless Israel? representative whose primary job is to minister Not many churches have that, so What has happened? You really do make things. Satan tempts us with a special insight. And we look forward very much to your ministry tonight. My ministry is not so much frontline evangelism, but And my question in summary was was like this. It's marketing Israel. Are we confused? It's about 18 to 19 hours drive. 1 31. Stephen is a native of Northern Ireland. Bewildered We'll send you this beautiful ram's horn. No And that's the only time he's mentioned. Amen. I am perplexed. I'm astonished, he says. You were running well. But I'll not get off subject. Bewildered. Get a love for us. We are blessed There's a critical problem. Three million members. You put a man in the moon. Two ways to heaven. We can make it happen. My daughter's twenty one now, so Thank God. You fools, he says. I want to ignore it. Here's what Calvin says. Who cut in? He uh is uh Welcome. Pray for me Oh Romans 10.