Well, we're going to be addressing various the subject of the floor. I would suppose you know with those project. Most of it's everything if we are the colours. Or the always sort of what the logic relationship are. Another way to describe it, I think, is ambivalent, public science. And if you think about it, in the church, for instance, The form church is saying one of the three marks of the two church is the exercise of biblical current discipline. In 42 years the past, I discovered. And one of the phone critics are all for limitful discipline as long as it's applied to somebody else. That's when it's applied to us. That's the horse of another force. And so I would ask you as we begin to turn in your Bibles to Ephesians 1, because this will be one of several passages that will be centerpiece in our thinking. Beginning with verse 18 and 1, Paul has this decade. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of his calling. What are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints? And what is the surpassing greatness of his power? Toward us to believe. These are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might be brought about in Christ. And raised him from the dead, seeing him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power. And dominion. And every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the wonder. And he that is God the Father put all things in subjection under his feet, things God the Son. He gave him his head over all things to the truth, which is his body, the fullness, the sin, his service, all in all. Well, you and There is enough truth there for a series of terms. God man is to think about some of this. Elements that hopefully when you leave here, we'll have, if nothing else, the deep explicit of the importance of this area of truth in the scriptures. I'd like to propose to you that God has a great deal to say about the subject of authority. His the son's authority, the authority even of the spirit, and then delegated or conferred authority. on humor being both within the church and vote. Now, one of the questions I like to ask people is what is the difference between the kingdom of God and the church? For those nearly synonymous terms to describe the same entity. The church and the kingdom one and the same. Do you want to be brave and describe the different? Do not see a few of you. I guess that means I have to be it. Well, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's miserable for all of the people who were just there. We pray publicly and gather for worship and their offering to the family members. In it there are some who are unbelievers. There are cares among the weak. One of the first principles about the church that Jesus Christ laid out. Christ is a dead, Jesus read. Now it's a little trivier defining the kingdom especially for now. Because when I ask for what is a kingdom, even if we're not talking about the kingdom of God, is okay. Especially when our countries are just a republic, if you think Mexico and the democracy. Republic. It says here is the proof of the speech. It is a realm of a sword with the key with a two extra. And the authority of the students are what can you do with this function of the people. is such historically understand that enough even the people that we Americans would call citizens. I hope you remember that. If you decide you don't want to live in the United States anymore and you want to go to Great Britain, you can never become a citizen because there are many citizens of Great Britain. You can become subject if you cannot become true. And one of the ways you describe the subject of sin is the same thing. The realm of the story in which depends on the geographical territory, the infrastructure. The people and everything else belongs to the team. And if you think that I'm sort of sucking a little bit. Return to the first thing. And this is very plain explaining. First Corinthians. Paul was talking to the Christians who were behaving since easily sinning in a lot of ways. One of the ways they were sinning If we do not have an appreciation that Christ is not only the savior of our souls, but our body, and the Christians. And so in verse 19 he says to the Christians and of course to us. Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God? Now put this out there and let most people who are professional Christians. But look at the end of 16. You are not your own. You are not your own. Now let's get it up. So my brainwash is the idea of independent things. I am my own man, all such central things. Because look at verse 20. You have been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body. Do not show you bought with a price. If you are a Christian, God owns you twice. He owns you because He created you through profit and exodus. And then if you saved, Christ owns you because He saved twice. From the condemnation, we just all come into this world. So, your one, you have a savior. who as he left this realm, having been raised from the dead, you turn to Matthew twenty-eight, had something very telling to say In Matthew 28, just before he ascends into heaven, he says something to them that is an attention getter, in my opinion. Matthew 28, verse 18. Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I command you. And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Now over the years, I've heard many a sermon on verse 19. Many a sermon. And that's as it should be. But if we preach verse 19 without verse 18 and 20, we do despot. to the words of Christ. Because notice how he begins. All authority has been given to me. That's not quite all, is it? All authority in heaven and on earth. Now, do you think tonight you believe that? You believe that all authority in the universe has been given to Jesus Christ? You believe that? Sort of startling. Now, if you look in verse 20, there's something very interesting. He says, teaching you, or teaching them, these whom you make disciples. to observe all my lovely thoughts so you can find personal self-fulfillment and have a good self-image. Not what he said, is it? Teaching them to observe all that I command you. Now when you see the word command It implies something. It implies somebody in authority The person who's commanding is presumably someone in authority. And if you are under authority, then presumably, if you understand the word Command, you understand that your response should be the word obey. Obey. The dreaded O word. It's awful, isn't it? Obey. And the dreaded six-letter word that begins with S is just about as bad. Submit. Think of it for a minute, parents. How much of your interactive time with your children do you spend trying to teach them one simple idea? Obey your parents. Four words. If you really want to get specific, it's children. Obey your parents. And sometimes it takes us ten, fifteen, twenty years to get through the heads of our offspring, and maybe twenty-five or thirty. Obey. Obey your parents. And some people will come along and tell you that when you've turned 18, you don't have to obey your parents. Bad, bad, lie. If you really believe what the Bible says about parenting and fi families and so on, as children We're under the authority of our Father until either he dies or we get married. And there's a few other exceptions, but in principle, that's the basic bottom line. So this idea of obedience is an idea that just keeps cropping up again and again and again in Scripture. And I submit it's very easy to say, yes, I want to obey. But then something happens. That's fine until somebody in authority comes along and says, you are to do something, and inside our head there's a little voice that says, I don't want to do that. And that's when the war starts. That's when it starts. Now this is just a little bit of introduction. And I want to give you some background to get you thinking about this idea of authority because I'm going to propose to you, if you get it through your head and heart. So that the eyes of your heart, there is a fascinating phrase we read in Ephesians, the eyes of your heart see this issue. It's life transforming. I propose to you that if you can get it through your head by God's grace, That God has a great interest in our recognizing his authority directly and also the way he expresses it indirectly through other people he's appointed. in authority over us, it will be life transforming. I've watched it over and over again. The more a young person rebels the more in bondage they are. And the more they submit, the more at liberty they are. It's a great, puzzling, nonsurprising, baffling, obvious paradox. Because it's so foreign to our nature that it's one of those places we get surprised by the obvious. Our country started with a rebellion as a country distinct from that of Great Britain. And if you've read the Federalist Papers, you know that one of the great troublesome questions that our founding fathers addressed Was under what circumstances can a legitimate head of government be rebelled against without sinning against God? And the history books tend to present a rather whitewashed picture of what happened. But I had the unusual experience of doing half of my growing up in the United States and half in Canada, which became an independent country from Great Britain only in nineteen thirty-seven. by the Act of Westminster. Passed in the British Parliament, I might add, not the Canadian Parliament. And in Canada, I discovered a whole great number of people that I'd never heard about. In my schooling in the United States. They were called the UELs. Who knows what a UEL is? Mystery. Here comes the secret code. United Empire Loyalists. Guess where they came from? Guess where they came from Here! They came from here! They were people who could not bring themselves to believe that they had a biblical warrant. For rebelling against Great Britain and specifically King George. Because remember, the colonies were part of a Kingdom. Kingdom. So they objected and well it got pretty sticky And some of them chose to leave before it got too sticky, and some left only when it was very sticky, especially if some of them were when some of them were tarred and feathered. That's pretty sticky. And they fled to Canada. And I will never quite understand why, but thousands upon thousands of them in Quebec and Ontario built houses that were identical in structure. They're so they're so consistent, you can spot them through the southern Ontario countryside. The roof faces you, not the gable but the flat end, and then in the middle there's a single dormer. And then it has two stories. Three windows across the top, two windows at the front, and a door in the middle. And they were all designed that way. Which is an irrelevant piece of history for which I can give you no particular significance except to say It does have one that you can still see where United Empire Loyalists settled in British territory. So we need to appreciate that our country has had such ideas as it's all right to rebel. We have what I like to call the cult of the individualist, meaning an excessive uh attention upon one's self. And I do like to remind people that the word in Greek for an individual is idios, from which we get our word idiot. But if you think about it, I think you know that in our society we glorify rebellion. And my all-time favorite example, and some of you perhaps remember me saying this before, but I believe one of the most remarkable examples of mindless rebellion. And the acceptance of mindless rebellion, and the glorification of mindless rebellion, is in a movie made that some of you are old enough to remember with a movie star who was killed right near where I live. His name is James Dean. And he was very sulky. He had refined male pouting to a new art form. And he starred in movies about rebels. And his last one, or one of the last ones, was Rebel Without a Cause Now, if you think about it, the stupidity factor is breathtaking because if you're going to rebel, you sort of ought to figure out who or what you're rebelling against. But he couldn't do that. So he just rebelled. And a lot of people do that. They just rebel because there's that feeling within them. And I think that there are a number of contributory causes besides our uh, if you will, founding events as a country. I think we tend to have some difficulty in our thinking distinguishing between authority as a principle or an abstract idea. Authority as somebody who is as a person in authority, or even the use or misuse of authority by somebody who presumably has that role. I think we sometimes get a little muddled on the distinction between power in its raw sense and authority. And I think that we have great difficulty appreciating the fact that all legitimate authority is to be obeyed, not mindlessly. And a legitimate authority can give a bad commandment, which we can have the duty to resist. But the fact is that except for God Himself, and God his Son, and God the Spirit, and the Word of God, there is no other perfect authority on the face of the earth. Every other authority that we submit to is miserably imperfect. At best, in the Navy. Many a young man would come to me and say, well, I can't submit to my Master Chief because I don't respect him. I say, that's a very egocentric, arrogant point of view. It's your duty to obey him unless he commands you to do something evil, not because you little pipsqueak. Do not appreciate his flawed character, his miserably imperfect character. You are to obey him because he's in authority over you, legitimate, and God commands that. What a dreadful idea. And sometimes they were not very happy customers when they left my office. But the fact is that you and I have a duty from Scripture to obey those whom God has placed in authority over us. One verse from Romans 13. I suspect all of you adults know Romans 13 well, but just the language of that first verse in chapter 13. Let every person be in subjection to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God. And those which exist are established by God. Now, if you take that seriously That means even communist governments established by God providentially. He sometimes, in his grand providence, permits good governments to be established, and sometimes very bad ones. It's very interesting that historically one group of people who weren't biblical, but who did a lot of thinking were the Greeks. And they had a very astute insight into the subject of authority. They said, To live under a tyrant is bad, but to live under a king who allows everything is worse In other words, we tend to instinctively No that when people who are in authority do not properly exercise it, it's a great temptation. to anger, resentment, and a sense of despair or some other such sense. I suspect many of you have seen the phenomena of a child who is memorably bratty. Memorably bratty. Odiously bratty. And invariably the parents of such a child in some measure Are baffled by their offspring as their child teaches them to be managed by his or her tantrums or other such behavior. And we instinctively know that in such a case, one of the primary problems is the absence of loving, well-thought-out, consistent discipline Now, as with everything else in Scripture, limited authority, and such as parents have can be misused. There is nothing God gives us that we cannot misuse, abuse, corrupt, or pollute And the legitimate authority that God gives us, it is always limited, it's never unlimited, it's never absolute, as with every other gift of God's common or redeeming grace. It can be misused. Now, one of our cultural traits is when something is misused, we then tend to assume the something is wrong because it's been misused. And I could spend half an hour citing examples. But the fact is, if someone in authority abuses authority, that doesn't mean authority is wrong. It means the person in authority has abused their authority. That's what it means. And so you and I, when we see dreadful excesses of authority abuse, need to guard our hearts That we don't in some emotional manner begin to have this sense that that authority in and of itself is wrong. I don't think we particularly like the idea that authority is an accountable entity. But would you turn for a minute to Luke 12? And as you're turning there, as we're reviewing some general thoughts here on the subject, I propose to you that Christ had a great deal to say on this subject. I've read to you his final comments that after his estate of humiliation was over. He declared that all authority in heaven and earth was given unto him, and presumably he exercises it flawlessly and sinlessly and righteously and magnificently. But listen to what he said on the subject of derivative or limited assigned authority. Luke 12 Peter said, verse 41, Lord, are you addressing a parable to us? And you can read that parable in verses 35 through 40. Verse 42 here is Christ answered. Who then is the faithful and sensible steward whom his master will put in charge of his servants to give them their rations at the proper time? Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you that he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But if that slave says in his heart, My master will be a long time in coming, begins to beat the slaves, both men and women, and to eat and drink and get drunk. The master of that slave will come at a day when he does not expect him, an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and assign him a place with the unbelievers. Now that's pretty strong language. That's pretty strong language. The slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will shall receive many lashes. But the one who did not know it and committed deeds worthy of a flogging will receive but few. And from every one who has been given much shall much more be required. And to whom they entrusted much of him they will ask, all the more. Clearly Christ, as head of the church, assigns authority. He assigns authority to elders, be they teaching or ruling elders. He assigns authority to parents. He assigns magistrates. And what is here clearly taught, not just implicitly, but explicitly, Is God will call to account every person who's ever been placed in a position of authority? So authority isn't to be understood as some free-for-all power that can be visited. upon others, some free for all uh perhaps abuse, but is something that is to be understood and carefully applied For both the benefit of the recipient and the one who exercises it. So, here in the Bible We tend to forget that every time the Bible says obey or submit, there's always one or more authority persons in view. You can't get away from it. You cannot get away from it. Bad laws and bad enforcers do not constitute a right to disregard. So. Something we need to define. Now, if you cannot define something. And you say the classic American exit. Well, I can't really put it into words, but I know what it means. I want to tell you you're self-deceived. Because if you cannot define something, you haven't reached entry-level understanding of the something Sometimes I ask people, how do you find God define God's love? And they said, well, uh I know what it means. I feel it in here. I'm thankful if people feel it in here. But that doesn't mean you understand it. I'll offer you a definition. And if you have a better one, I'm genuinely interested God's redeeming love, which in some measure he calls us to replicate in our treatment of others. means to do what is in the best interest of another as God defines that best interest. Now, if you leave off that second part, you're in trouble. Because that's clearly saying it cannot be on your and my terms. If we don't put that in, as God defines that person's best interest, then the only other option is to lean on our own understanding and to be wise in our own eyes, and that's a recipe for disaster. So sometimes people tell me love is a feeling. And I say, well, not biblical love. There should be feelings in love, heaven help us, if we're ice-cold, calculating people who don't have any affectional sentiment. But love rightly understood, that is agape love, is that selfless concern to render unto another that treatment or whatever else that God requires, the basis of His Word. Well, we want that kind of a definition with authority. And if you really are interested in this subject and get your dictionary out, you'll discover there's a lot of different ways that authority gets described. It's been described as a jurisdiction, meaning either an area of territory or a group of people or some combination thereof, or one or more people have. Some kind of power. It's called a jurisdiction. Some would say that the best way to describe an authority is to say it's the individual or individuals who exercises some kind of control over another. It can be called one kind of authority, moral or mental efficacy. Now you say, wait a minute. Where's that? May I see a show of hands? How many of you have spent time in the military? May I see Look at that. A veritable reservoir of experience. Tell me, have you ever seen somebody who was in a position of authority and couldn't convey it? And had to announce it. And have you seen ever in the military, when those of you that were in it, somebody who had what we call command presence I do some part-time work for a sheriff's department in the county in which we live in California. And there is an upper grade officer who has never had any military experience. But sometimes they call police parachurch, I mean paramilitary, they they that was ten minutes? That's all Oh dear. Okay. I'll try to speed up. Um that uh uh he's never had to be in the crucible of military experience. He's third down from the sheriff. And he's insecure in his exercise of authority. And the other day he said to his men, I am the supreme commander. No. Ten thousand no's. If you have to say that, you clearly, you clearly aren't And so the way you function can convey a sense of authority that can be very real. And I submit that that's one of the most exquisite areas open to godly Christians, that if you live a life that is Christ-like That your life can begin to have a certain moral authority that can be used for great good Authority can be described as the ability to act or produce an effect, generally upon others, but also upon things. The ability to act or to produce an effect E-F-F-E-C-T that affects others. A F-F E-C-T-S. An authority can be a controlling group or an establishment, such as AT<unk>T. Does ATT have certain authority? Oh yeah of the generation of cell phones? Do they have a sorry? If you get your cell phone service through ATT, can they tell you how much you gotta pay for that service? Can they? They got authority to do it All right? Yeah. It can be a sovereign state, as I've already proposed, or a kingdom, or other some such entity of political Be a political something or other. And then I'm going to give you a working definition. It is a legitimate power or capacity to manage, influence, command. Coerce or modify the behavior of others. A legitimate power and capacity to manage, influence, coerce, command, or modify the behavior of others. For one or more specific purposes. In a very simple sense. And so the communists had that authority. They were evil. Their exercise of it was evil. But while the Soviets were in power in Russia, they had the capacity and the power, but not legitimacy in the ultimate sense, because their authority itself was in rebellion against Christ. Will you turn to Psalm 1, please? Psalm 1. In Psalm 1, we have the most exquisite opening of the book of Psalms, in which we have the distinction drawn beautifully between a man of God and a reprobate. One of the first marks of the man of God is he does not walk in the counsel of the wicked. He doesn't listen to the enticements of the world. He does not stand in the paths of sinners. He does not needlessly put himself in the way of those who are wicked, nor does he sit in the seat of scoffers. He doesn't fellowship needlessly with those who are God haters. And then it goes on in the end discussing the ultimate lot of the wicked, and of course the the blessings of the righteous. Now, there's what an introduction to the Psalms. But Psalm 2 is remarkable because it gives the context for the entirety of life and of The created world in its present form. Because the governments of men and the nations are in rebellion against God and against his anointed. The kings of the earth take their stand, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. And they say, Let us tear their feathers apart and cast away their cords from us. And God will laugh at them in derision. And then there's that gospel call. It's marvelous. Verse 10 Now therefore, O kings, show discernment, take warning, O judges of the earth, worship the Lord with reverence, rejoice with trembling, and do homage to the Son, lest he become angry and you perish in the way. There's the gospel. of the Lord Jesus Christ. But notice the context. It's in a rebellious world. We live in a rebellious world. And I want to propose to you that every single one of us is either a rebel or a submissive servant. Every single one of us in this room. In heart, if you have the eyes of the heart to see your heart, You are a rebel, or you are a submissive bond slave and servant of righteousness. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, said Samuel to King Saul, when King Saul lost his kingship and his soul. And you and I, if we aren't aware that rebellion is always against God's authority and usually against someone whom he has placed in authority over us more immediately. We don't really understand the big picture. And so as we look at authority, Lord sparing us tomorrow, I'm concerned And that God will give us the grace to appreciate it in its biblical sense. as an indispensable part of a mature Christian life. You don't understand biblical authority and what to do with it. I submit you can stay a baby Christian. You can be in spiritual diapers till you're buried, even if you're 90 years old, if you don't have at least some grasp. Of a right understanding of the authority of God as it relates to you and to me as professing believers. in Jesus Christ, who himself has all authority in heaven and in earth, or on earth. So, what you and I do with this has a great deal to say about us as believers. And I'm going to encourage you to pray That you will apply your fine minds to this. You think about it tonight and you go to bed. You could pray something, I guess, oh Lord, we've got this subject. It's a bit of a toughie. It's not really all that appealing to our fleshly instincts, but Lord, will you give us a heart to love your authority, to revel in it? and in some measure to understand the freedom that comes with embracing it and submitting to it with the same kind of submission and principle in which Christ submitted to the authority of his father even unto the death that he undertook on the cross for us. That's amazing. So it's there. It's all over the place. And if you have the eyes to see it, that can be life-changing. Neglected? Yes. Why? Because instinctively, remember this, we're born rebels But we can learn to hate rebellion. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please help us to appreciate, understand, and love your authority and the way you express it. in our lives, the lives of your people. Will you give us hearts that repent for the Spirit as well as actions of rebellion against you, and exp mostly when we disobey your commandments Lord, may we be a people who are thankful bond slaves of righteousness, and who hate the very thought of rebelling against you, our Father in Heaven, And our glorious Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us, that we would not have to live in the place you have designed. For the punishment of rebels forever and ever. So we thank you, Lord Jesus, that you were obedient even unto death under the authority of your Father and our Father We praise you for that. Father God, we ask you to accept our thanks and hear our petitions because we bring them. In Jesus' name. Amen. I defer to our fearless leader