And reading through to the 13th. Let's listen reverently. This is God's holy word. And when he, and that is of course Christ, had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, entreating him, and saying, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering great pain. And he said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to this one, go, and he goes. And to another, come, and he comes. And to my slave, do this, and he does it. Now, when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith. with anyone in Israel. And I say to you, that many shall come from east and west And recline at table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness. In that place there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to the centurion, go your way. Let it be done to you as you have believed. And the servant was healed that very hour. Amen. Please be seated. I would like to propose to you by way of an introductory thought That our Lord Jesus Christ was not a flatterer, and our Lord Jesus Christ did not hand out idle compliments. And occasional commendations, certainly never flattery. And our Lord Jesus Christ, and this particular portion of Scripture is recorded. As being first astonished or marveling, if you will, to the extent that he makes a declaration I say to you, I've not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. And sometimes that's even translated and in some manuscripts reads, not even in Israel. Now, ponder for a minute. Of whom he spoke. This is a Roman centurion, roughly equivalent in our armed services to a master sergeant. He's in one of the cruelest armies of a great pagan state, cruel in the sense of vicious treatment of enemies that were defeated. There is record of at least one instance the Roman army setting up a row of crosses that went for miles and crucifying their enemies. This man probably didn't know the Old Testament. And here Christ says, and I think if we take our Savior at face value, he meant what he said. That the faith of this centurion in some sense was of a greater quality than even that of the apostles. Now, if you've ever been tempted to think, I wish I had greater faith, here is a really most helpful place to ponder that wish. And I suspect most of us, if we're honest, have had times when our faith is shaken or weakened. And here is, I believe, something so extraordinarily straightforward, but for God's grace we can go past it. And this a great blessing. So I challenge you when this worship service is over to walk away. with an element of God's own understanding of the gift of faith that He alone can give. that can make a great difference in our lives. Would you truly wish to be commended of Christ as one who has great faith? I trust you would And so with that, let's look at what happened. This is near the beginning of his public ministry. He's already had some interactions. with a group of people, namely what today would be considered the leaders in the church. And he's moved up to Capernaum Away north of Jerusalem, a great deal of ministry there, and one of the reasons was the hostility of the Jews. That quickly appeared, that is, the leaders of the Jews initially. So he enters into Capernaum and he's already done some healing And this Roman centurion comes to him with a request. Now, we know that high placed Romans and Romans in the occupying armies had lots of servants. For many, uh if a servant died, that was not a big issue. Just replace them with another. And I think we get an insight here into the quality of character of this man because he had a care for those who served him. One of the many reasons I appreciated having three tours of duty with the United States Marine Corps. Is the character of the officers as expressed in real terms. And one of the most tangible ways In my opinion, that was expressed is that out in the field and uh uh on training or maneuvers or whatever you want to call it, uh the Marine officers and the senior uh non-commissioned officers would make a tangible effort to see that their men were taken care of before they themselves uh had their um food and so forth. And here we have an army non-commissioned officer who cares about a slave. And that's quite remarkable. And I believe that's an evidence of the Spirit working in his heart. that he would actually go and knowing Jesus was in the area, make the effort to uh get assistance, get healing for his sermon. Well, our Lord Jesus Christ, as recorded in verse 7, graciously consents to come. He said, I will come and heal him. And there are other instances of Christ making that offer, and it was accepted. And certainly that's an evidence of Amazing compassion on Christ's part that he who is the creator of the heavens and the earth would condescend to walk Some distance to heal a bond slave of a Roman soldier. But verses eight and nine constitute The essence of what became Christ's response of amazement And leading to an insight and a declaration that I believe every serious student of Scripture and every lover of Jesus Christ should take to heart Verse 8. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed. Now, a word of caution interpretively. If you think about it, the gospel is presented in many ways in Scripture. Sometimes we're told, repent and believe. We can go to a text that says there's no other name given under heaven among men whereby we may be saved, but the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. We can go to John 3, read, you must be born again. And I think we need to be careful that we don't limit Scripture. to simply one way of expressing what is, after all, the richest body of truth that we can ever receive into our souls, that the truth of the gospel. And so here we have our Savior being told by this centurion something that was not often said by the Jews to Christ, I'm not worthy. This is a confession of awareness of his own estate. Vis-a-vis that of Christ. Look at the very first word that he says to Christ after Christ's gracious concession: Lord. Lord. Most of the Jews didn't do that. Lord, and then the contrast. I am not worthy For you even to come under my roof. Remarkable! A concession from one in a service that was often noted for the arrogance of those senior members. For those of us who served in the military, we know that's a temptation as you become a senior officer, to become prideful. But then there's a third element. First the acknowledgement of the Lordship of Christ, and we must really insists that there was some sense that he had of Christ's deity. For he not only says, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof, but an acknowledgement of his grasp of the supernatural power of Christ when he says, just say the word. And he'll be healed. You don't have to come and touch him. You don't have to come and anoint him. Just say the word. I remind you of the perspective on Christ in John 1. Let's turn there for a moment. John chapter one. In the beginning was the Word. Verse 1, chapter 1. The Word was with God. The Word was God. In the beginning, he was in the beginning with God. So the Gospel of John introduces Christ as the word incarnate. Verse 14, the word became flesh, dwelt among us. We beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father. full of grace and truth. A glory that could not be concealed even by his estate of humiliation. Remember just in the previous chapter, the response of the Jews to his teachings, verse 28 of Matthew 7. The result was that when Jesus had finished these words, In the words of the great introductory sermon of his ministry, the multitudes were amazed at his teaching because he taught them as one having authority. not as their scribes. Well, of course, what a dismal contrast. So here, having said three remarkable acknowledgments, he then gives The theological underpinnings. Now you may say, wait a minute, wait a minute, Pastor Need, theological. Oh yes. Oh yes. Theological Look at verse 9. This is a verse if you've never underlined it. I recommend you underline it. I recommend you put a square around it or highlight it or do something of that sort. Because I also am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, go and he goes, another come and he comes. And to my slave, do this and he does it. What's he acknowledging? He is acknowledging his not mere acceptance of, but involvement with embracing of and application of one of the most fundamental cornerstone principles of existence and of the world, of creation, and of the kingdom, that everything That is anything in the universe is under authority. That God Himself is the ultimate authority That God the Son is under the authority of the Father. The Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son, that great confessional testimony, we don't often think of it perhaps in this way, but acknowledging that the Spirit is under the uh authority of the Father and of the Son. and that all mankind is under the authority of the triune God. And somehow this centurion was granted by God the grace To recognize that Christ was a consummate authority under authority. An authority person, if you will, under authority. Now, even talking about authority, discussing it, pondering it, it's a subject that's rich in Scripture. We really only have scratched the surface in terms of the extent of what we could have studied. But here I believe is one of the most. Concise, turgid, powerful texts to get it give us some appreciation that God has made a world in which, if we are honest, it is impossible to find anything not under the authority of God, and anything which He exempts from recognizing. that existent authority as far as that those things which can think, not just people, but angels, demons, and so on. So here the centurion is saying, I understand a principle, that there is an hierarchical structure which exists. That transcends even the ordinary world. I am in it, so is everybody else. Lord, you are in it, and because you are in it, and because you are If you will, very high on the chain of command, all you have to do is say the word, and it will happen For those of you that have served in the military, I suspect you've had this happen somewhere. Perhaps in some meeting, maybe with a flag officer, and reports are made. There's perhaps some recommendations or requests for actions which require the approval of that senior officer. And the request is heard or the recommendation, and then he says, make it so. Do you realize, in some small, tiny way, That is a reflection of what God does. God said, let there be light. And it was so And here is the word made flesh ministering to a pagan Roman who has a better grasp of this cornerstone foundational principle of existence than the Jews who had what was then the Bible in its entirety, what we today would call the Old Testament. Out of that principle of understanding flows effectual effect and power. Things happen for good when authority is recognized and yielded to with a submissive spirit. Again and again comes the commandment in Scripture, obey. And again and again is the inclination of the human heart to rebel and to resist. We think we know better. Forty-two years as a pastor has convinced me that when I come across someone who professes to be a Christian, And they yield to a commandment that they don't like. I hope you got that last part. That they don't like. that something remarkable has transpired within their soul. Because I submit it's so American. To obey the commandments we like, and then to find a wonderful and warm and usually pseudo-biblical, superficially spiritual reason why we Shouldn't have to do it. And if you want to ask me afterward for examples, I can give you many that are common in the churches. Verse 10, Jesus hears this, and he marvels. He who in his humanity had human nature in truth, but was yet truly God And in his deity, knew what would happen before he came even to earth. Yet so remarkable is this response, which ought to tell us something about us. Our Savior marvels. And out of this he says, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. Now, if you are rigorously careful with Scripture, if you are willing to take its heavy-duty implications We could well say that a God-blessed granting of mature Christian faith Is simply not going to occur apart from some embracing of the biblical teaching on authority, and especially all authority emanating from the ultimate authority of God Himself. as an indispensable element of saving, sanctifying, mature, God-honoring faith I would propose to you, you cannot find a person who does not have faith in Christ who is not also a rebel. You don't have to probe very hard. Now, to say that he found great faith is something But to say that he had found great faith greater than anyone in Israel is a damning indictment of the visible church of that day. A damning indictment. And so he then goes on to say, with a statement that itself is a mark of authority. Kingdom authority. I say to you that many shall come from east and west, recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast into the outer darkness, to that place where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What are the sons of the kingdom? physical descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the members of the church of that day. Because you remember it was even under occupation in its limping sort of fashion, still a theocracy. And he says, they're not going to be in the kingdom's heavenly expression. They're going to be in the kingdom's hellish expression, which is for those who have rejected kingdom principles, of which kingdom authority is the centerpiece. Because I remind you that a kingdom by definition is an entity owned by a king. That's the centerpiece concept. of a kingdom. It is a realm of authority of which there is an authoritative head. And those who reject the kingdom are rejecting in some fashion, substantively, that authority and its expression, whether that's direct or indirect, direct from the mouth of God Himself. or indirect through those whom God has appointed in one way or another to speak for them There's no question of what he's speaking because he said it is the place where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth and outer darkness. And we understand that as the formula expression of hell itself that was used by our Savior. And so, dear ones, here you have and I have a challenge To consider how to integrate meaningfully a right understanding of God ordained authority. With God-commanded faith. Now, let's go for a minute to that great text on faith in Hebrews 11. Can you turn there, please? Hebrews eleven I proposed several times and quite seriously during our classes And I think it's something most of us, if we're honest, can admit to. I'm a member of the class of slow learners. It's taken me about 20 years to learn to cover the microphone when I blow my nose. And I say that as a way of cautioning us To not assume just because it's familiar that we know something. Now, verse 1 of Hebrews 11 and verse 6 are pivotal text on the subject of faith. And I'm going to read the text and it's Translation which may be different than what you have, because I'll read what's now become a popular translation of verse 11. First, the bad one. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. Assurance and conviction are subjective. They're not objective. If you have a King James, and I don't remember all the other translations that properly read it, it should be then, now faith is the substance. Of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. Substance and evidence are objective. And the centurion had a doctrinal substance that was compelling. The evidence of hierarchical truth and hierarchical submission could be seen in the way that he understood that as an army non-commissioned officer. He had all sorts of people under him whom he could command to do this or to do that. But he also acknowledges that he is under authority. And he would know that, of course, from being in the Roman army, that there would be officers above him. And he's able to take that paradigm and apply it flawlessly to his relationship to Christ and to Christ's own relationship in some sense. And I say flawlessly in the sense that what he applied was faithful to the reality that God Himself has established of that linear hierarchy. A chain of command, if I may use that great military term. And we're all in it. We are all in it. Whether we admit it or not. So if I understand that God blessed faith Rests upon observable, understandable, sufficient, tangible evidence in some measure, not altogether, because the primary essence of it is substance, that is truth. the truths of God's word. And the truth of authoritative structure emanating from God's own person is so powerful. that there are those who can in the providence of God discern it in some measure even without scripture, which is exactly what the centurion did. Now in Luke we find Christ saying, to whom much is given, much is required, and to whom much is then given, much shall be more expected. And here are the Jews who had the Old Testament, which is a marvelous body of truth concerning this issue of divine, non-negotiable, absolute, and eternal authority. And they did less with it than the Roman centurion did with the command structure of a pagan army. A digression for just a moment. Sometimes I am tickled by the way that reality keeps messing up ideological and sometimes infantile illusions. For instance, in the nineteen thirties the Soviet Army did away with rank. They thought rank was a rank idea. Everybody was equal in the great lie of Marxism. But when the Germans attacked and the Russians suffered catastrophic losses, one of the first changes they made was guess what? Campers. Reinstitute rank. Because in the reality of warfare, you've got to have somebody who is in charge. Now he may be good, bad, or indifferent, but you have to have somebody in charge in a given battle situation or in a vast strategic situation or a firefight. Somebody's got to be the boss. Another place where you tend to see reality messing up idealism is in hospital emergency rooms. And there's a few other places where reality keeps messing up us idealistic Americans. And military structure happens to be one of the best. Incidentally, that's one reason I try to encourage parents to encourage their sons, especially. Notice I didn't say daughters, I said sons. To consider military service if they just are one of those people that hate school. It's a wonderful way to help them come up against reality. out of the womb of home. End of digression. But, dear ones, here we have then a very powerful statement that faith is not some kind of illusory thing. It's a very key Elements of the kingdom of God and its primarily objective, meaning whether you like it or not, whether you agree with it or not, whether you feel like liking it or not is not the point. And yet verse 6 says, without faith it's impossible to please God. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, there is essence, that substance. The verb to be is the verb of essence. and that he's a rewarder of those who seek him. How did Christ reward that centurion? He rewarded him not only With granting his commendable and compassionate request, he rewarded him with an acknowledgement of blessing that I have confidence can only be interpreted as the blessing of saving faith and God willing we'll meet this man in heaven, though he remains unnamed here. So we have a warning in this remarkable account. Notice I didn't call it a story. I don't like it when preachers call historical accounts story. I trust you never knew that, so I can say it here. But the fact is that he said, Be careful, you Jews, because you're placing your confidence in something very deadly. You're placing your confidence in family descent. That's a corruption of proper covenantal thinking. Because you think you have or know physically that you have descended from Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, that you have a place in the kingdom, not so. Because your response to the kingdom is not the response of a subject, but a rebel. When you rebel against the king, and they did kill the king, did they not? They killed the king. They guaranteed a billet for themselves in hell. And you and I have a great responsibility to be jealous for the purity of the gospel. That as we rightly acknowledge that we're saved by grace through faith and not of works, through faith alone. And we propound that marvelous gospel. We don't leave out the authority of God in it. Turn please to Ephesians 2. Ephesians chapter two. One of the most succinct expressions of that Great reformation-rediscovery of justification by grace through faith But look at the authority of God elements in this great passage in Ephesians. You are dead in your trespasses and sins. Is that an acknowledgement of unworthiness? Is it? Yes, it is. And then he describes it, some in verses 2 and 3, that we believers there walked so. But look at verse 4. But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. and raised us with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, in order that he in ages to come might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Is sovereignty abundant? Is the King exalted? Is the kingdom acknowledged? Is the preeminence of God in this passage upheld absolutely? Verse 10, in case we slip in verses 8 and 9 in wonderment at the glory of that grace, we come back. Verse 10 to his sovereignty, his kingship. We are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. What a beautiful example. of the interface of the sovereign authority of God and the marvelous grace of the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Well, in verse 13, Christ acknowledges to the centurion That his desire has been granted. Go your way. Let it be done to you as you have believed. And then, of course, in a sense, almost as if it were An added blessing that's unnecessary, the acknowledgement, the servant was healed that very hour. So what do you do with the centurion? Isn't it interesting that Christ never told them to get out of the Roman army? For those of you that want to lap from the pond of pacifism. Ponder that one. For those of you that wonder if a Christian can serve in the military, ah, idealism rearing its fuzzy head. From the pond of theological mediocrity, beloved, the last picture we have of Jesus Christ in the Bible, this verbal picture mentioned this yesterday. Is as the commander-in-chief of the armies of heaven. We need to understand that though in the new heavens and the new earth no military will be necessary, So profound a reflection of God's authoritative providential government of the human race in its fallen estate is that God even himself is described as a man of war. If you don't believe me, look at what Moses said in Exodus 15. And so be careful. Be careful that you don't jump to well-intentioned but syrupy conclusions. Concerning this man. He did more with an observed substance, namely necessary military chain of command, drew from that better theological condition than generation, better theological conclusions than generations of Pharisees and Sadducees. That's faith, isn't it? And that's faith that plays out in behavior and decisions and commitment. So faith rightly understood is a faith that has consequence. And it plays out in our everyday life if it's real. In obedience, as well as love and compassion, and so on. Jesus Christ said a lot about faith. If you look over in chapter 9, you'll see a couple of instances, verse 20. A woman had been suffering from hemorrhaging for twelve years. She came up behind Christ, touched the fringe of his cloak, for she was saying to herself, If I only touch his garment, I shall get well. But Jesus turning and seeing her said, daughter, you take courage. Your faith has made you well Verses 27 and following. Jesus passed out from there. Two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, Have mercy on us, son of David. And after he came into the house, the blind men came up to him. Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he touched their eyes, saying, Be it done to you according to your faith. And there, of course, an example of faith producing if I could put it that way, or face being instrumental, better to put it that way, in the receiving of a great blessing from the hand of our Redeemer. At the end of the day, and the busyness is done, it's good to ask, what are we here for? And I love the words of the catechism. What is the chief and highest end of man? The chief and highest end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And one of the greatest ways we glorify God is to acknowledge who He is, what He is. and who and what we are in relation to what he is. And that can't be done, of course Without an acknowledgement of our sinful condition and our lost estate apart from grace. And as we partake of the elements of the supper That same reality crowds in upon us, for Jesus Christ says, Do this in remembrance of me. This is the new covenant in my blood, shed for many for the remission of poor self-image. Inadequate ego strength, God forbid, for the remission of sin. And so you and I need to, like the centurion, willingly acknowledge our unworthy estate as a perpetual reality. That is an inseparable part of rightly submitting to the theological, the saving, the presuppositional. And the applicatory truths of Scripture, for our benefit, but much more for the honor of Jesus Christ, who the centurion recognized This capital L Lord. A couple of closing thoughts. It's ironic, isn't it? That multitudes of Jews, even as we speak, are burning in the fires of hell because they put their faith in their descent from Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Right now. Millions. And yet what was Abraham's first response to God over an Ur of the Chaldees? It was the response of a subordinate to a superior. Leave and go. And so it is with us. And you and I, if we would be the spiritual sons and daughters of Abraham. Must be as willing as Abraham and as the centurion and those whom are saved to obey him who is Remember this, not just the Savior, but the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And my closing question is. It's good to ask ourselves, is he really Lord of my life? Amen. Father in heaven. For those occasions on which we have behaved and thought and spoken rebelliously Whether on impulse and habit or by conscious decision, grant us we pray. a consummate and zealous hatred of such thinking and behavior, a passionate desire to submit to you Not only in gratitude for our salvation, but in joyful acknowledgement of your kingly prerogatives that apply everywhere and forever. May we be a people who can be justly accused of not only passionately loving Christ, but willingly and obviously submitting to Him. in all of the respects of our present existence. And we plead this in his name and for his glory and preeminence. Amen.