Here is unsolicited fatherly advice, which I don't expect you to take, but if you do take it, I'll be pleasantly surprised and thankful to be wrong. and sending a marvelous Savior who died effectually to bear the price and the penalty and the judgment of every sin we ever commit, as well as the imputed sin that falls on all of us by virtue of our descent from Adam. in a hierarchy. uh through Samuel to Saul, 1 Samuel 15, 22, there and 23, that you and I uh please God if we're uh really interested in a Um and then as we now move into uh some new material, I would like to say as a practical incentive to parents And if you remember, we looked at Christ's remarkable exit comments before his ascension to the disciples in Matthew 28. And abide in his love. and the right use of authority, for he says, I am gentle and humble in heart, you shall find rest for your souls. And a trumpet would blow, and when people heard, you know, toot toot toot toot or something of that sort, they would come to the village square. And that is that after it was read, it was understood and expected that the hearers, the subjects, the king's property, remember, if you're in a kingdom, the king owns you. he will not break off, and a smoldering wick he will not put out, until he leads justice to victory, and in his name the Gentiles will hope. for a sin that he or she had committed a lot of times. for not being able to walk out of that one very well. I forgive you. of being the recipient of my forgiveness for which I paid with my life and my shed blood. And to give his life a ransom for many. with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution. Now we don't think of it a command, we think of an invitation. And he commands us to believe and repent. Please, please, please. And rebellion by its very nature, which God says is equivalent in wickedness to the sin of witchcraft, he told that. Well, with that, I want to then propose to you that it is impossible to rightly understand Christ Himself But it comes right down to the person we meet in the morning when we look in the mirror. And he who loves me shall be loved by my Father. to one in authority, as he again and again, in his state of humiliation, reiterated his own submission to the Father. I require of you nothing that I do not willingly require of myself. And here Christ says, take my yoke upon you. And at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, there's a remarkable insight, and you'll find that in Matthew 7, 28 and 29. is to be proclaimed with authority. as opposed to just little busy local tribes running around in furry clothes or something of that sort. who has established the gospel, it should be preached with authority. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, literally to all classes of men, instructing us to deny ungodliness That's just a summary, summary of the gospel, the content of the gospel. In America, in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, I submit that's one of the most egregious of all areas of disobedience, is syrupy, sloppy. Called the Lordship Controversy. The idea that you could have Christ as your Savior, but you didn't have to have Him as your Lord. as the Pharisees was mushy in the days of Christ's earthly ministry. the right keeping of the Lord's day, not buying things on the Sabbath and so on. If he's Lord of the Sabbath, that means he's Lord of something. This is not rocket science. And you're looking at him with slitty eyes and thinking, well he's about as sincere as a angry marmoset. That's a given, and you and I either accept it or reject it. So as we look at a subject that is sensitive, we need to guard our hearts that we don't let abuses intrude on our in a position of preeminence. and its eternal consequence and significance. And that's a part that isn't in the parallel account in Matthew, that so profound is this authority problem amongst us that we love titles. And to give relief to you who are afooted, and to us as well, when the Lord Jesus shall reve be revealed from heaven. To those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, those who do not obey the good news It's going to be different. has servants in charge of his estate and then coming back and calling them to account, we ought to realize we will be held accountable for our use or misuse That's an example of an evil attitude toward one in authority. And I proposed last night that it is impossible to have a mature Christian walk Without at least some degree of competent understanding of the biblical subject of authority and acceptance of it and embracing of it and applying of it. or constrain or command or modify the behavior of others for one or more specific purposes, and of course if it's legitimate authority, presumably those purposes are righteous. And the tendency of mankind is to reject it when it is abused, but that is both unwise and rebellious to give them a righteous advantage, teach them to understand, appreciate, and respond with acceptance to what the Bible says about authority. Whatever my other deficiencies as a redeemed but not yet fully sanctified Christian, I can tell you this, I know how to take orders. When he said, after announcing that all authority in heaven and earth had been given to him, he said, of the disciples, teach them to observe whatsoever I command you. Teaching obedience is not works righteousness. Legalism rightly understood means the notion that one is saved by the keeping of the law. Verse 24. But the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandment, even so do I. Note that, as the Father gave me commandment, so I do. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments. And then toward the end of the New Testament, this subject again comes up. And his commandments are not burdensome. legitimate authority and to embrace legitimate authority thankfully and in love the more freedom you have. that remarkable, startling, and utterly surprising, non-surprising idea. And here's the comment of the writer of the gospel, Matthew, under the inspiration of the Spirit. Because if you understand history, both biblical and secular, you know that the original use of that word developed with the development of kingdoms. There were certain well understood and expected uh identifiers Usually the herald or the proclaimer or the king's messenger or emissary would come into town And for people who had some sense of their place in society, when they heard that, their ears perked up, and they really tune tune in their listening attention. And then the proclamation would be read. For a moment. worldly desires, and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Christ Jesus, who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good work. And we don't have time for that. You can probably figure out some for yourself. justice to the Gentiles. Here is the picture of one who does not abuse authority telling the Jews that he is the Lord of the Sabbath. Yet in his state of humiliation, nevertheless describes himself as Lord of the Sabbath. Don't dismiss it lightly. And we could say, of course, if your brother sinned, your sister sinned, same thing. F-I-R-S-T. Please forgive me for the sin of being rude or unkind. You and I have a duty to extend to him the transaction which constitutes biblical forgiveness, which is not, first of all, a feeling. You cannot show me a biblical truth that multitudes have not corrupted, one way or another, twisted, misunderstood, misrepresented, and so forth She said to him, Command that in your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit, one on your right and one on your left. Now, we may presume, and I don't think presumptively, that it's altogether possible that her two sons put her up to this. You know, the rulers of the Gentiles, lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them. But whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant. That's the level of maturity of this argument. The gospel of God. So that's negotiable principle. of well-defined, finite, limited authority. That is our attitude toward it. starts with an understanding of the, a right understanding, of the authority of the gospel. Now, what is the gospel? And that's good news, isn't it? Does your Bible say obey? To obey the good news means you've got to have some involvement of the intellect, the brain, the thought life. Then decide if you believe it. When I was uh newer I used to try to give them a whole list of do's and don'ts. and not as their scribes. A damning indictment. that authority. And I would like to propose to you by way of understanding it. amaze me is something that somebody could say without blushing. Why do we have to forgive her here? Well, if your brother does it seven times by the sixth or seventh time, what are you tempted to think? And yielding to it is non-negotiable. You can just imagine that little buzz going on amongst the twelve. Luke chapter twenty-two, parallel account, verse twenty-four. of authority, our understanding of it or lack thereof, and our regard for it Given as if from a throne has not understood this principle, that God is to be the one who defines the exercise and expression Five minutes. Because I understand low-tech signals. that God Himself has invented and established. Um but few things say to a young man, if you wish to do well in this command translation, keep him informed. When I went to uh new command, and often I did going from ship to ship and the destroyer squadron and so on, and I sit down with the captain and and say, You have anything to say? And sometimes they'd get the most remarkable look upon their face and even sometimes almost not to know what to do with it because uh that's so out of sync with the norm today in America. And what it means to have a walk with him if we do not understand his absolute authority in our lives. Not an earning merit issue. To be comforted. Well, it's something that you put across your shoulders to carry a burden, and it's also a submission, I mean a symbol of submission or servitude. A willing obedience to Christ is a door of liberty that is lustrous. To the various cities and towns to make a proclamation. As we are looking at non-negotiables on this subject, biblical non-negotiables, that one of the non-negotiables is that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ A sermon rightly preached, not God forbid, in fleshly authority, but in the authority of the king. That our hearers will understand. But that there are countless ways to resist God-ordained authority. When we disobey parents, we're disobeying God. Emotional subjective thinking about the Lord's Day. The Son of the Man. And he's Lord of an institution that we subsume under the term Sabbath. Which, if they did, is to their disgrace, or that she took it upon herself with understandable but misguided maternal desire to have her own fledglings. He says, You're going to be able are you going to drink the cup I'm able to drink? And that leads him into a discussion on the subject of authority. Give a sense of authority. The Christian understanding of leadership as a response to authority is very different from what the world thinks. There's a paradigm that's a little unusual. So, if we take seriously the several parables that have to do with the master leaving Because of our imputed sin from Adam and our committed sin in actuality. Heed is nicer. Vibrant walk with Jesus Christ should not only not neglect this subject, but seek to understand it and to then appreciate its place in our lives. Not just generically. Keeping a commandment is a response to someone in authority. Christ was the superb example of both teaching and exemplifying a discerning, righteous, effectual, God-honoring obedience By this, we know that we love the children of God when we love God and observe his commandments. Because there's a little loop at the bottom of that, without which you cannot rightly understand a proclamation. that the problem of teaching even presumably biblical subjects with an absence of legitimate authority is as old as the human race. No personal embellishments of the sort that we can now consider as Americans, essential to innovative speaking. Matthew 12. People with Rev in front of their name and Bible teachers in seminary and so on could argue that is, in my opinion, as damning an indictment of our mushy thinking in this country on the subject of authority. Here's a common one. Somebody in the church, in your opinion, has sinned against you. But if he says, I repent, please forgive my sin. Acuity of understanding or our submission for implementation. Good news. Repent and believe in the gospel. Because we live in a competitive world. And in fact, Jesus has some very significant things to say on that subject. Verse fifteen if you love me, you will keep my commandment. I now want to propose that teaching believers to obey is not works righteousness. The Jews could never say. I will pat you on the shoulder and say, don't feel badly. When the Romans would capture a nation or a tribe and they would take their leaders back to Rome, they would make them, quote, pass under the yoke. was that when Jesus had finished these words, the multitudes were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority. That a king would generate. They would be expected to respond with obedience. But no one disregards you. And when the Israelites during Christ's earthly ministry heard him speak, and here he is in his state of humiliation as a bond slave, he speaks with such authority. God says don't steal. That God, the Son, is going to save us on our terms. with flawless submission to the authority of the Father, carrying out the will of the Father, prophesied centuries before he came. I remember back during World War II that it was the idea that children shouldn't wiggle on the Sabbath. or Sunday, or the Lord's Day, we have different terms for it, in which we're to rest from our ordinary labors, begin and end the Lord's Day in worship and refrain from commercial enterprises and undertakings. Other ways that we can resist authority? And so he says, the kings of the Gentiles lorded over them, those who have authority over them are called benefactors. It's not biblical. Every expression of authority is finite, limited, and clearly and carefully defined by God. But as a poster child of being a slow learner, eventually uh some uh realities did sink upon my consciousness. You really want to surprise him. Rejections of legitimate obedience is the claim that that's uh legalism End of quote. My yoke it's there. If you recall, for those of you who were here last night, I propose to you that in looking at this idea of authority And the word proclaim referred primarily and especially to some official pronouncement. Now, why do you suppose Christ says that occasionally at the beginning of a commandment? And there arose also dispute among them as to which one of them was regarded to be the greatest. John chapter fourteen John Fourteen And I continue to be sadly impressed that we get young men out of the seminaries and some of them That the people are astonished. There it is. And I think that constituted a form of unwitting torture. Have you ever done that? Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, bowing down and making a request of him. This is an ultimate example of misguided maternal coaching, shepherding, implementing, interfering, interceding, and otherwise behaving badly. Chapter one. And the list goes on and on. Mark one verses fourteen and fifteen Do you want to give your children an advantage in a fallen world over multitudes of competitors? He finishes this great introductory sermon that really, in principle, encapsulates most of everything he taught in his three or three and a half years of public ministry. And anything less than that is an anemic and sorry substitute. When we argue with our parents, teenagers, if you fall into that sin, you are resisting the authority of God. You have a duty to forgive them. He may say the words, but he's not really repenting. Now, I'd like to propose to you that here is an example of odious momism preserved for eternity. However, they did not all heed the glad tidings. But uh I think by God's grace I can uh state this with some succinctness that authority is a subject, a concept. That authority, rightly understood, is the legitimate power or capacity to manage or influence Chapter 15. A great invitation. We have the authority that comes from command presence, personal integrity, and understanding principles of authority. And often the message would be, if it were in English, it would be like this in other languages, something similar. In the proper sense of the word, preach, that's the sense of what the word preach means, it is to be understood as the words of the king for which a response is expected. If we try to hide our sins and other information from our parents, we're resisting the authority of God. And I remember sitting on a horsehair couch in my grandparents' sitting room that was only used on Sunday in short pants on a summer day. Because I was expected not to wiggle. God bless you. Very bad. Called sheep by God. The good news is that there's bad news, for which there's better news when we hear it God's way, which is the bad news, we're sinners and we deserve hell forever. Romans ten and verse sixteen Jesus Christ was not a speculative theologian. Some translations don't say it. No, it's not abusive. So, the exercise of authority in the kingdom is not negotiable. Ten minutes. Doesn't this tell us something about us? Now uh we have time for another non-negotiable. I did not mention that last night, but that authority is a subject that we ignore at the very least to our loss, and at worst to our peril. Authority is not well understood. Listen to what he says. I used to tell young officers that would uh for one reason or another uh have some interface with me, especially when they came to command. Verse 23. Teach a sermon. And as you're turning there, you may remember that last night I proposed to you that there is no such thing as a biblical principle that mankind hasn't contaminated. And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee preaching the gospel of God. Wonderful. For it is time for judgment to begin with the household of God. If we're adults and we are working in the business world and we use the employer's computer for our own personal concern, we're resisting God. Gracious as well as authority. In great measure it was his superbly faithful commitment to speak the truth as God gave it to him. Verse 6. Luke chapter seventeen verses three and four be on your guard Forgive him. There's the pattern. Well they didn't heed it. Ten minutes. Titus chapter 2. You got it. The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. And as you're turning there, let me propose to you an evidence of how crucial this subject is. Even if in your heart the gift of suspicion has wrought its effectual work. And if you believe it, are you going to respond with acceptance? So y you caused me a certain amount of adrenaline rush, Eddie. This is the thirtieth time he's asked for forgiveness for that sin. He who does not love me does not keep my word. There's a yoke. Don't be careless with it. Garbage collectors aren't garbage collectors anymore. They did not have an example. Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall proclaim. Figure this one. So if you have a husband who believes that being the head of the household means that he's a mini-tyrant, he is sinning. As an exhibition of the fact that the Romans had now achieved effectual authority over that particular conquered nation or tribe. I have to submit. What's the helpful little parallel or term or the definitional term? Amen. We don't have that power. Now if you think I'm stretching the truth, and I might run a minute or two over, oh diligent timekeeper, okay? Matthew 18 says the same thing. Gracious as well as authority. Let me take you to a surprising passage on comfort, Matthew 11. And then there's some additional perspectives in the account in Luke 22. And the good news is not that uh the great Satan, I mean Walmart, has things at half price today or something like that. Well, last night uh we covered uh some ground I'm going to try to review in about two or three minutes. We compete for jobs and we compete for admission to college and so on. He will not cry out nor quarrel, nor will he hear his nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. Remember the servant who said, Lord, I knew you were a hard man, reaping where you've not sowed, and so on. No, no, they didn't heed it. That's very American to present it as an invitation, but it's also a commandment. It's wonderful to think of Christ having authority over the world and over dreadful dictators and so on. Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him. That they had substituted the traditions and laws of men for the Word of God. Well, that's resisting authority because if somebody sins against us, and we think so, we're to go to that person. For after all it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. Next one in line. Say to him, Sir, I know how to take orders. There's the divine model, the paradigm. Oh. Now that last part I'm not going to get into too much, because the question of how a minister preaches so that no one disregards him is a very interesting subject. Any of you remember that? And in your heart of heart you thought, Oh, why do I have to forgive him? That's good news. The father who believes that keeping his children in submission means to terrify them with commandments. Don't steam off on your own without running past him what you think you want to do. Your translation. Verse 28 of Matthew 11, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Not the least of which is a demonstration of her own failure to understand kingdom authority. Take my yoke upon you. But as I suggested to you last night, the more you learn to obey Now a digression. That's resisting authority. That's a warning that he is saying to us, be ready, guard your heart that you don't run roughshod over this one. Well, we better get 31, 2. This is not non-negotiables, this is sad, a sad bit of insight And so here we have a case where Christ says There is much misuse of authority and misunderstanding of it in our culture. They don't preach it. Well, I think that's unreasonable. You don't have to answer to me, but have you ever been asked by your spouse for forgiveness? Well what? I do not understand text mexicity and other forms of self-induced misery But we need to be careful that we don't think as ministers that we can make sure Thank you. It's not a lordship of the Sabbath that is uh unreasonable or unloving You've said nothing to that individual and you've turned around and complained to somebody else. Because the Bible doesn't talk about saying sorry or apologizing. Now let's try to do some qualifications that are important. But she asks Christ that her two sons will sit on either side of his kingdom throne And I will love him and disclose myself to him. What a damning indictment of the clergy of that day. Dealing out retributions to those who don't obey the good news of Jesus Christ. Oh, wonderful. Matthew twelve. Well, Christ answers both her and her sons, for he says, you don't know what you're asking. And then, depending on the size of the kingdom and so on, men would be sent out And the minute that you admit he's Lord of something, then it's incumbent upon you and me to say what exactly is he Lord of? Whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave. See that will discombobulate low tech man when he gets low tech signal I realized afterwards that was a marvelous example of benighted arrogance uncontaminated with maturity or discernment on my part. Somebody said amen. That's a commandment. Welcome to the world of watering down scripture. Mark that well. Let me ask you, have you ever had the occasion in which But the subject of authority, its exercise, its acceptance And then he says, these things speak and ignore and reprove with all authority. Hands are going up. And they answer, yes. None of us have unlimited authority, none of us have absolute authority, and none of us have permanent authority They didn't obey it! And Paul says that precisely to Titus in chapter 2 of Titus. But my bottom line is how can Christ be something of nothing of the Lord of something when it if it's claimed to be nothing? Resenting our boss at work. The phrase we don't often use. So the my digression ends with this. And then in chapter 15, verse 10. To be proclaimed with authority. This one prophesied as being a servant. And if you could interpret sheep talk and two sheep are in the sheep go, I'm greater than you. And we can't solve it ourselves and we can't save ourselves. Verse 21: He who has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. Now I'll have another momentary digression. Arguing who would be the greatest? I think you know what that means. That the exercise of authority in the context of the kingdom is not like the world's Matthew twelve, verse eighteen All right. And this is something about leadership, of course. Turn to Matthew 12, please. Do you want comfort? The Lordship Controversy. Well, verse 4 says, if he sins against you seven times a day, returns to you seven times saying, I repent, forgive him. They did not all obey the glad tidings Because the one in authority who is the Lord of forgiveness has said that is a non-negotiable spin-off. They're sanitation engineers. And if it begins with us first, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey If you love me. He existed in a situation of authority as the Son and the Spirit as well as the Father before the foundation of the world. And whether you admit it or not, Christ is absolute authority in your life. Is that what he said? A sermon should not be a seminary lecture with a little sermonic flavor. If your brother sins, rebuke him. And Jesus says to them Teaching obedience is not legalism. Now, many people tend to think that that's the end of it, but it wasn't. And so, rightly understood, if the gospel is proclaimed All right. No. First Peter chapter four, verse seventeen. Arguing that the fourth commandment's not part of the moral law and so on, which always Will you turn to Romans chapter ten? Part of a right understanding of authority That's how you obey good news. Verse 14, you are my friends if you do what I command you. And in a proclamation The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath I would like to propose to you Insanity. Oh please. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report, so faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And when I mention some of these, I suspect If we disregard our Sabbath obligations, we are And many times for lesser reasons, even people have rejected And then he says, But to give what you've asked for is not mine to give. Oh authoritative time person, how much time do I have left? So dear ones What a difference. Well That pretty well sums it up. And 30. Verse 28. Oh, please. 1 John chapter 5, verse 2. Just punishment. In chapter 2 of Titus, beginning with verse 11, Paul says this. So, if you and I, then, are serious about this subject, we need to understand it. And we are kicking against the authority of God. And then he goes back to this in verse 13, my yoke is easy. That's a right understanding of legalism. Do you really want to do that? And here Christ is clearly supporting Children. This is a no-bringer. I I love it. You have a duty to figure out what the gospel is in the light of scripture and scripture Look what he says, verse 15. And Jesus Christ is saying to us Now the word proclaim is interesting You may be tempted to think he's as insincere and ungenuine or lacking in genuine as a $3 bill. It's died down somewhat now, but about ten years ago there was a big issue in Reformed and Presbyterian circles. And the good news is God will give us what we can never earn. Obeying is a sign or mark of grateful love. If he comes and says sorry or I apologize, both of you deserve the misery you get. That's what God wants. Matthew 20, verse 20 The other ten are indignant. Those who do not obey the gospel That's astounding, isn't it? Christ is a claim on us. No. And acceptance means the implications that come with embracing it. I will not speak much more with you. In the Greek, the best translations obey. I know I have no time sense, but that was pretty bad Now, if you will, please, turn for a minute to Matthew 7. The result Matthew 20, would you turn there, please? Who decides who's going to be great, not us We now have funeral directors labeling themselves as grief therapists. Would you turn to the Gospel of John, please? Would you look turn to Christ in times of trial? The Lordship Controversy was a big argument in Christian circles about Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. But lest you think that's a single instance, Second Thessalonians. The word which you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. Will you turn to Mark chapter 1? Hear ye, hear ye! The fact that that could actually bubble to the surface and Let's be careful. And he said to her, What do you wish? What does gospel mean? What's a yoke? Obedience to legitimate authority is both caught and taught. And It is not so among you. Absolute. Despising the idea of authority in our heart. Second Thessalonians chapter one Doesn't matter If he repents, forgive him. Well, what gave Christ That's non-negotiable. And then I would sometimes say, if you really want to surprise him, For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. There it is. God has a claim on us. And so then Miserable sinner. And finally, and then we'll break, 1 Peter 4. And that is don't surprise your commanding officer. I didn't even ask The Bible talks about confessing sin as sin. No. A batter read Look at verse 8. I repent. There it is. The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. And I got down to the place where I said Consummate insanity. That's one of the cheapest of all sorry. May I, please? This is still 14. How dare you ask that, of Christ? Let's go there quickly. Let's just look at those words. Five oh five minutes. We will come to him and make our abode with him. Luke 17, let's turn there. He's not really repenting. It's a transaction commanded by God. I say, Well, Captain No, I'm greater than you. For the ruler of the world is coming, he is nothing in me. Let me repeat that He is sinning. All right. That's the Father's. Now Let's break. We are to say to him,