But in terms of any authority system that involves live, breathing human beings, they're going to be imperfect. And she says, and who can I boss? If you're not faithful in little things, you won't be faithful in the great things. Whereas angels who are greater in might and power do not bring a reviling judgment against them before the Lord. of seeking to determine if someone is a false professor, old Puritan term, meaning a person who professes faith but falsely. I'm trying to think of a good way to ask the question. And it's no mere trifle that uh the war on terrorism is contested. Uh now if you decide to get out by going UA or something, that's a pretty serious life-changing decision. It doesn't mind with what you're saying, but um the thing is uh it's it's always been confusing to me, is um is God commending the Ark and the Arkansas You mentioned the UELs who went in large numbers in Canada. Yeah, it was a even historically it was a change, but always that when it's property that's absolutely right. If one of those last and my conscience is objecting. If women were grasped and my conscientious objection were rejected, would I be bound by God to serve in the armed forces? They may, on account of your good deeds, as they observe them, glorify God in the day of visitation. the church. They can say how I'm lording over people. And to start with the Matthew 18 principle, the Lord show us first, or excuse me, the Matthew 7 principle, 3 through 5, show us, Lord, first, the log in our own eyes. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come. I'm telling you in my heart I don't have it. with a failure to understand that his authority is to be with the humility of a servant Uh, are you all right? And the Americans, who regarded the British as stuffy and problematic and all that, that it was Eisenhower that was picked. And Christ said it when he said, You're not to be like the Gentiles. He's uh skipping body before, but we'd drive down the base in Charleston, the naval base. You see, that's the way it is. Yet in the same manner these men also by dreaming defile the flesh and reject authority and revile angelic majesties. And especially those who indulge the flesh in its corrupt desires and despise authority. Clinton, should she become president? if at no other level than that this is a fellow human being made in the image of God. If I say that's my opinion from the way she behaves, you're entitled to your opinion. Let's turn to Matthew 7. So incidentally, if you get somebody to say the sinner's prayer, if you're into that, and then you tell them they're going to heaven because they prayed the sinner's sick prayer, you've made a judgment that's forbidden. You'll be of glory. but with a humble leaning upon the grace of Christ to be honest in what I observe and not presuppose a pejorative interpretation when there's insufficient evidence Um where he has I know is he went there he had limited he's not all supreme team, he had limited authority. To exercise any overthrow of that authority or to to bring that to judgment. challenge the government King George felt obliged to do it and and to to justify that the justify a reason a legitimate reason to And you can argue it up to the Supreme Court if they're foolish enough to not grant that. I said, I'm not here to manage the congregation. You know, this must not happen. When Joshua met him and fell down before him. And if you think it can't happen, that's a good way to invite God to discipline us with precisely such a catastrophic event. Uh uh very explicit in First Peter as well, since this is such a serious issue. Honor the king, servants, be submissive to your masters with all respect, and not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are harsh or unreasonable. And I didn't read Romans 13, 1 through 7, uh, concerning our duty to submit to the civil magistrate those in authority over it. If we want to call it a hierarchy, one can. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would be unprofitable for you. I'll put it simply, that it's incumbent upon us, if we think there is an abuse of authority, it's incumbent upon us to demonstrate that biblically. The salvation, power, and kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come. And that authority issue is that we're in one way or another rebelling against God's commandments in marriage. And he had learned not to abuse authority. We're not to commend ourselves, we're not to be boastful, and we're not to be pushy. I told her she was shameless. Yes. And then in time, if you show that you can be obedient to authority, someday you will start to be put in a position where you can boss others. of God's authority and what it teaches, and you are either an acceptor or a rejector. of a miserably imperfect congregation. When he says, then comes the end, when he, and that is Christ, delivers up the kingdom to the God and Father, in heaven and earth over everything and everybody. So that my post middle age ears can hear what you say. Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they in the same way as these indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh, are exhibited as an example in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire. Now before we look at verse 9 there, I want to turn you back for a moment. The Lord knows how to rescue the godly from temptation, to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment. It's part of interfacing with uh the civil government. that is so infused with arrogance that we're unimpressed by anybody or anything that God has put over us. to Michael the Archangel. We still have the obligation to speak with respect and courtesy, not phony respect or ill thought out, but respect And that is a clear biblical exception that we are to deceive the enemy. I do not believe I'm violating any biblical commandment to say it that way. Then I'm in trouble. But if I say it seems to me she does, this is not just semantics. Unless she says, I want to be a dictator, I can't say that without violating the commandment in which Christ forbids me to judge. this sort of a situation, but often when we're dealing with somebody, we confront them and they accuse us of judging. If I see somebody with an unpleasant expression and I say to them, you don't like me, that's a judgment. But you don't know until fall or the end of the growing season if all the apples are going to be rotten and withered, or whatever other kind of tree it is. So there's always a lag period between the time you begin observation and when you're able to draw the conclusion. The one they never mastered was the false prophet that came and did a miracle or a wonder and then led him astray. that the winners define the war. Fall, if you're an officer in one of the United States military services, and you believe you have been given an immoral, ungodly offer. Murder of unborn children. of independence was actually framed the whole thing was an effort to address that very issue and to set out the reasons why. He was a deist. The Bible upholds the right of private property, and our government's eroding that with more and more abuses of eminent domain and so on. We thought he was going to restore Israel. Okay. And if you think about it, what's the last picture of Jesus Christ in the Bible? And what I submit when he permitted them to bring the swords along is that was for the church and the rest of history, if we take our scripture seriously, for us to remember that as King of Kings he had the might and the right. if he had chosen to exercise it, but it was not his will, because it was not the Father's will. Because it meant he did not understand what Christ had told him over and over and over. No, my kingdom's not of this world. It takes three years for us to get a brand new idea in our head. Nor at this point the inclination. over a man is expressly forbidden. In our relationship to the world and in the church and in the home. And let's pick just one again. It will be the same challenge, my opinion, that the early Christians faced when emperors who were viciously hostile to the church came into power in the Roman Empire And if it does happen, I don't think we're presumptive to say that that's an example of painfully but indeed profoundly deserved rebuke. Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed, to malign no one, to be uncontentious, gentle. showing every consideration for all men. Or to governors, as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right. Of foolish men. We have a duty in the church to recognize that Christ has established an accountable authority system. And Paul's great farewell address to the elders of the church at Ephesus as they met with Paul at the port city of Miletus, Acts chapter 20. Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock, amongst which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God which He purchased. Almost invariably with some disregard of the session's oversight. I challenge any of you to tell me any time a church has gone through troubles when there's not been one or more people bucking the authority of the oversight of the With the authority exercise of those that are in oversight. Not just to say it, not just to say the words. Don't try to do it. And as the session worked through this, we reminded ourselves this was a remarkably clear opportunity to humble ourselves before God. That principle applies. That's secular. And similarly then in the home and the church itself. For the accusers of our brethren has been thrown down, who accuses them before our God day and night. Very much like a golden thread in a medieval tapestry. Which may have been before the Chinese invented the water drop torture in terms of antiquity. hour by hour. And then this lieutenant turned around and marched off. It's a social custom sign. He says, all you have to do is you take your right hand and you bring it up like this above your eye. By what authority are you doing these things? Clearly they did. Now, before I read the next little bit, let me ask you, are you satisfied in your own mind that you understand what a defensive spirit is? Which, if you tell me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things. Challenge their understanding of authority in a specific instance. Which incidentally, a moment's digression, does the right to govern come from the consent of the governed, ultimately? Has some substantive issues which we need to deal with and all that. He didn't have any sense of any need to defend himself to these attackers. So, beloved, in this matter of dealing with authority, it comes back finally to the issue. in subjection to him, that is, to Christ. Okay, yes. Michael because what, did he respect the devil's authority or something? And angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandon their proper abode, he is kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Trying to think of here for just a minute in Peter, but I'm Second Peter two. Every time somebody uses the name of Jesus Christ as a curse word, they're doing just that. And it's now endemic in this country. Which is blasphemous because it's not said reverentially as a part of worship. is a huge issue of sin in this country that we scarcely even address. It's going to doesn't mean we can't speak the truth in love, it doesn't mean we can't address sins. And this illustrates it fabulously. And Michael the Archangel is showing an exemplar standard of refusing to speak evil and of the understanding that he as an archangel has derivative authority. Because that's a tangible real life question. Was the government under which the Jews and the Christians lived a benign, gracious, politically correct government? And if we don't make this distinction, it makes what you question much more difficult. There's your bottom line. For in the way you judge, you will be judged. Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. So then, you will know them by their fruit. Now if you think about looking at a fruit tree, in the spring it can have beautiful leaves. Of all the people that are hardest to deal with as false prophets, as phonies within the body of Christ. fruits to determine. And so you can do the right thing in the right way for the wrong reason, and it's not pleasing to God. Time to um overthrow or remove a um a ruler like a and I'm gonna talk really about a king. So your question is a very fine question. Now the question, of course, becomes what are the criteria? And how naming things and events has a profound effect upon how we deal with them. And here's an example that military physicians may be pressured to commit what? I think that when you hear people talk today, and we like uh what's his face that blew up the building in Oklahoma City and so on. But when it's in that form, as it's usually remembered, you got a problem. I will not lie awake at night, tossing and turning in an agony of existential anguish, because you don't believe this answer. It comes only as a byproduct of responsible living, which starts with obedience, as God defines that responsible We must obey God rather than man. Along with George Knight, and we wrote a paper on this, which you can access on the OPC website if you want, and the OPCA has a good one too, a very fine one, on the unbiblical That's so us. Cleverly disguised as an apostle, the man who shot before he aimed, the man who put his mouth in gear before his brain was engaged, And take the vowels out of Joe or Joseph and put them in between the consonants of Smith. They talk a little bit and Christ, of course, marvelous counselor. And the last verbal picture of him is on a horse at the head of the armies of heaven. elect to have female pastors, that authority principle has been violated. Pretty plain, isn't it? to every human institution, whether to a king as the one in authority, there's that dreaded A word again. with his own blood. Again, I'm not taking all the passages, but ones that are representative taught in Scripture. And so that then makes it a non-negotiable that we have a duty to discern what is righteous obedience For which I'm thankful. Tumbling, senior moments. A couple of thoughts in the matter of application with respect to the civil government and the world at general. How's that Fred? That one of the marks of a person who is a non-defensive, humble leader who doesn't need to prove it is we don't get defensive if it's challenged. She said, You are Mama's boss. An amazing thing. It comes from God's direct establishing of that authority. And it's very interesting, as again, a little side note that in dealing with contentious people, I have learned, remember, slow learner, poster child for slow learning, but I have learned that. And if you're an acceptor, you'll spend some mental effort, some prayer, some thought in thinking about this subject and studying it at least once in a while. And will resume a submission to the Father that is beyond our comprehension, but is clearly identified. In a fallen, perverse world? about uh to speak in a contemptuous, despicable, and reviling manner against heavenly uh powers and authorities. of those in authority. seriously problematic because that will be difficult. hypothetical President Clinton at or whatever, trying to distinguish between the previous President Clinton. In Matthew chapter seven to verses one and two. Grapes are not gathered from bushes, thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? Try to remember. Yes. an epicenter of consummate corporate iniquity and evil. Sometimes rebelled against permissibly, sometimes impermissibly. having to do with the uh Indi early Indian War, uh one called Prince Philip's Wars. The war. Of how huge an issue is and reflected in our own governmental structure and statutes. If you disobey a lawful, what you are told is a lawful order, because you believe it's actually an unlawful order, upon whom does the burden of proof Now I'm going to tell you something that's so deceptively simple you may be tempted to disbelieve it. In the old form, kill. that the the young girls should join the OCT if they ever can't speak draft. If we've been a Christian fifty years, we're still a sheep. It's interesting because what's about conscious objection. Now that's pretty heavy. have spoken. began working at the the church in Hanford after retiring. And so if you're serious about obeying the civil authorities, you would do well to pray that God will grant us righteous leaders and specifically not permit her to assume office. Their faith. And denominations go awry and Presbyteries fall off the wagon and uh stray from the straight and narrow. but uh it's also cooperative with a submission that's not trivial. Church splits in congregations where the sessions are faithful, with the rarest of exceptions, there's invariably one and sometimes several people who are unsatisfied And it was a very painful issue, but in the end the Presbytery was unable to find any evidence of lording it over. then we need to recognize those arenas in which we have a responsibility. senior moment of revelation. And my concern is to uh remind us who are married, be you a fresh caught, newlywed, Now the my point, dear ones, in thinking about this, is that when we argue But he was sweeping a sidewalk, and uh a young lieutenant walked by, and this youngster just looked at him and blinked and kept on sweeping. to scream at him at this recruit in a rage. And he said, that person with those funny things, his shoulder on his collar, will be happy. And he was that kind of a man. Who would work with the uptight British High Command, who were very touchy about their loss of empire or their imminent loss of empire of that is in Matthew 21. You start where we all start. They began reasoning among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say to us, then why did you not believe him? gets directly into this digression, which is yet substantive and pivotal to the issue of resurrection, verse 24. When he has abolished all rule and all authority and all power, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. It's absolutely astounding. And its many explicit and clearly communicated expressions in our own context of living as Christians. That not only is the issue of hating authority here on earth, but when people become authority haters, they're not hesitant to even speak Chapter verse eight. did not dare pronounce against him a railing judgment. Odious authority in hell, but there is an authority of sorts. on an author authority of sorts, because Satan, ironically, remember we talked about the misuse of authority and corrupt authority? Because if she gets elected as president, we have the warning not to speak evil of those who are in authority. that he required. We have a duty to do so with respect for the office. to describe that potential occupant of the White House. If over the years you see a godly life, you can say, insofar as God has permitted me to know you, I see enough fruit of the Spirit and evidences of a walk with Christ that I have significant confidence in you. Stalin murdered four to five times the number of millions of people that Hitler did. Not necessarily well, uh, decides he slash she, I have to say that nowadays, um, wants to be a conscious conscientious objector. Listen carefully, comes only as a byproduct of responsible living, as God defines responsible living. Response to authority. That's unbiblical. Because what I didn't say to Rick's question earlier, talking about conscientious objection, is that the law puts the burden of proof on the applicant, but it doesn't I didn't tell you how. Well, even the government in its own way admits that that's an impossible thing because then it goes to tell you how you've proven your sincerity, which then makes the sincerity thing irrelevant, ultimately. But that's so us also. is if you are a member of a body that holds a particular position. And you're sick and tired of your master sergeant. Unless the chaplain is an excessive, compulsive underdog helper who has no other frame of reference for his duties, he will say, son, you are spitting in the wind. Or some such term and say it's impossible. Yeah, it's wonderful. They did not decide to fight. That little journey to Emmaus is recorded in the last chapter of Luke. Could not get through their heads until after Pentecost, then we need to understand that Peter's action was absolutely wrong and disobedient. Remember, the church is not a group of lustrously ideal people moving seamlessly toward glory. When are you going to restore the king? So if you get impatient with those whom you serve, shame on you. You gotta remember it. Titus, chapter three. That precedes that marvelous passage on the Christian marriage. And that was a charge that was brought against the session. But during that time I was reminded again that none of these sorts of things happen by happenstance or apart from the sovereignty of God. And verse 21. There is always an authority issue behind the argument. yesterday with some moderately reputable folks who were driving. When you don't get defensive, you end up far more effectual than dealing with a contentious person. the exercise and application of that limited accountable authority to which you have called me as your servant. I'd like to close these thoughts in terms of Christ's own ultimate example by asking you to turn to 1 Corinthians 15. The middle, well I shouldn't say it's not literally mathematically the middle, but in the body of this great discourse, there's a remarkable little digression. May God have mercy on us if we are careless with the issue of divine authority Jude 5. If all that we can do, if all we can muster in our meager sanctification is to tremblingly hand a cup of cold water to an enemy. to so express by both speaking courteously to if somehow we should end up speaking face to face to her, but in the more common situation speaking about. We can do that after if you have a problem with what I say. You do that, you're going to go to hell. It's interesting that there were two kinds of false prophets in ancient Israel. Then we need to do it with a consummate sense of our own inadequacy, our own failings, the log in our own eye, and all those other constraints. And that's a minimal answer to that question. But that's just my theological perspective, but I don't think it's wrong to call it war and terror. Not upon the government. What's your reason? And so if a denomination takes that stand and you are part of the denomination, then you have an amazing constitutional protection. When I proposed that to the congregation, I met a firestorm of wrath. And if you think about it, he said to Pilate, if my kingdom were of this world, I would call on my father with angels to defend me. From our usual way of thinking. It was manufactured by Jewish liberals centuries ago and then picked up in the 1800s. Hebrews chapter 13 verse 7. Those from Italy greet you. No elder or deacon in the church, no ordained officer, is in some kind of unaccountable or unilateral authority, but it's one that's not only accountable. authority entity this side of eternity, except of course Christ Himself working spiritually through the Spirit and the Word. Chapter 12. But lest you think that there is an antifeminine bias in the heart of God, please turn to 26, Proverbs 26. And we have a hard time putting those two together. To really exercise leadership. But of uh dear man who I met many years ago, I have no idea what happened to him as a Christian I met in my early years in the Navy later transferred to the Navy. And uh the young lieutenant passed him and then turned around and proceeded Matthew chapter 21, verse 23. We right away start to explain, defend, somehow justify whatever it is we think we're being attacked for. To give you a stimulus to think through your own leadership and to ask a simple question, Lord, do I need to improve? And if you are willing to so pray, to then ask, Lord, will you show me where I need to improve? If you're a member of the congregation, you have a duty to think through prayerfully how you respond to the authority of the miserably imperfect elders as they carry out their miserably imperfect leadership. Now, 1 Corinthians 15 is a marvelous chapter in the resurrection of our bodies. What an example of authority and submission, with a degree of perfection that will take us an eternity to appreciate. Who says what in an authority issue, and rebuking the devil is an authority issue, is of great concern even Do I ever have the right to be disobedient to a biblical principle? Does God say that every situation is going to be easy and simple? That does not mean that we are to lie, God forbid, we're to speak the truth in love in all contexts, with only one exception, and that's in the practice of warfare I will have to guard my own heart. So we need to be honest about what we think are the problems. And I'm just arrogantly assuming that more revolves around me than actually does. But to take that and then in time to be able, yes, to discern deceitfulness in another person's heart, which is one of the most difficult of all Was Pharaoh overthrown at God's command? So, yes, in the providence of God, there are times when a dictator is to be overthrown or a king rebelled against. As they argued that out and sought to debate it. deistic perspective and some debated from a theistic perspective or if you will a Christian perspective. I'll put it that way. Which I know you in your experience in the world's largest canoe club came across. Upon whom does the burden of proof fall if you take that step to disobey a command? Now who was its author, primarily? The pursuit of happiness. Because ultimately you would have to do what the disciples did. for a woman to serve as a combatant. The passage about it's an abomination for a man to wear what's for a woman or a woman to wear what's a man, when it speaks of that, it's talking in the Hebrew of the clothes that are the clothes of a warrior. Your church has somewhere taken the position that that's unbiblical. Get the contradiction? is the only one who took a warlike action. Without including myself, I've learned through the years that unless God supernaturally sends an accelerated awareness, We can handle it now. Every time. Thank you. Now does that mean that the oversight elders uh are flawless and all is right? And um we went through a tragic church split in Hanford about eleven years ago. Revelation 12, just a reminder that this subject continues to be a high-profile issue in the mind of God. This one is not with respect to the civil government, with respect to the home. Or a seasoned vet who's gone through the crucible of untold marriage events. Verse 23. If you need to defend it, it's questionable whether you have it legitimately. No. That's an example of emotional spastic rebellion. How do you find happiness? Would you like to know the secret, the big secret? They didn't do anything warlike. Draws them out and says, What are you moping about? For sinners. Happened over and over and over. But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. In the context of imperfect leadership and imperfect exercise of conferred and legitimate God-commanded and God-given authority Now, some officers are older and some are younger. That even people who hate legitimate authority are still bugged by it. And when I read this I thought, oh my, what a giveaway. There's probably a problem. Well, they're on the spot. The last enemy that will be abolished is death, for he has put all things in subjection under his feet. His kingly exercise in many ways, but not absolutely, becomes a bond slave, Philippians 2. That's a kingdom term. And that's sometimes assumed. God in his divine providence has seen fit to show that the regard for Do you mean by that that that we're it's incumbent upon us to be gracious, to be uh humble in whatever we say? No, it was a ruthless, pagan, militaristic government, as far as the subject peoples were concerned. Yet Christ said, Render unto Caesar what is Caesar's, and unto God what is God's. And so the fact is, you and I have a duty to be in an evaluative process in the light of Scripture, not with a judgmental spirit. And I believe that that happens to be a remarkable illustration of a book that I just this morning learned, a certain fair maiden in present company is reading. And the thing about the World War is what? It's called obedience. That's where the the uh transgender thing really hits the fan And Peter cuts off the ear of the serpent. So if you and I are serious then in relating to Christ as the ultimate authority and not as one who rejects authority Now, ladies, if you want to accuse me of bias Somebody does? And this youngster said, Sir, I I have no idea. to reconcile those differences and somehow get the British and the American military to work together Which, while done imperfectly, did succeed. We passed a car. And then she said, and Christ is your boss? If we're honest with how feeble we are and how far short we are, we don't have to be defensive. They can't really accuse us of too much in terms of generic accusations. that's connected with the order of the resurrection. Manner and content of what we say. Well, interestingly enough, they have the right to apply. You got it. So clearly there is a mandate of marvelous precision in its expression. Anybody here that likes arguing? but who had witnessed this event as a young man at the beginning of World War II in boot camp in the army member of the Sheriff's Department in Kings County where we live, who told his subordinates that he was the supreme commander. That is a spirit in which, when challenged, we do what? I remember our eldest daughter many years ago, we lived in Charleston, came out to me one day and she looked at me. From God, wasn't it? And for those of you that are an authority in the home, it's my prayer that God will use this Completes that work commanded by the Father absolutely flawlessly, is raised from the dead, his humiliation is over, he's given all authority. Again. Actually I was going to and I forgot. understands that it is not the place even of a supernatural archangel to enter into judgment against Well, which one? Oh no argument. Just before they leave, he tells them a new order is coming in. Nope, excuse me. Bob, um you're talking about about how the church should um deal with Hillary Colbert No judgment, because you put it carefully. That that question consumed them, and rightly so Absolutely guaranteed never to find if you pursue it. Get 'em to pass a clearly clearly articulated statement, and then you got the protection. And if you don't have them, just you wait. And in the military, we have a funny custom And so she came to me this this sunny Saturday, I think it was a Saturday morning, she said, Danny, now let me get this straight. Okay, good. See, I got it. They get to name it. The one who disobeys. Of unmanageable happiness. President Hillary. An older man came up with in the uniform with some funny things on it. Let's begin with verse 5, which is a paragraph in which verse 9 is included. Jude. You have some responsibility to understand who's in authority. Bad. Okay, this is one I'm going to put you on the spot. There we go. Oh. Inalienable right of man to life, to liberty, and then comes the great squishy one. Oh oh somebody oh somebody well look at that. Nature, in all respects, of having women as combatants, that it is unbiblical. But it's convenient because it hasn't happened, so it's a little safer. Yeah, thank you. And it's a sheepfold. Verse let me get chapter twenty here, not nineteen. Sometimes people have said to me, you're not a very good pastor, and my standard answer to that one is you don't know the half of it. And they would say, Well, I'm not happy. Now on the other hand, you go to a Bible study. But the two elders that uh uh s served in the church there, uh, in my opinion, are consummately gracious. Proverbs nineteen thirteen. Anemic turn from Ben. Are you satisfied in your own mind that you understand what a spirit of defensiveness is? Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. What a thoughtful thing. And they say, oh yes, yes, Lord. You have some obedience to be rendered to your professors. And he said, Well, yes, sir. All right. That yeah, canoe you. Peter. 1 Peter 2, beginning with verse 12. But that's an example of how uh these things can get so messy. What does it mean if a wife is contentious? And Christ has given that to the church if, if, if it is done humbly and carefully in submission to the authority of our Savior and exactly how it's to be done. And this fresh caught recruit said, Oh thank you, sir. God is the only supreme commander. Phenomenal. And that was to be done without argument. Something is never pleasing to God if it's just the right thing. Were there people who murdered Israelite kings and themselves got murdered shortly afterward? No. Let's not call it abortion. And so that's an example, and I could pick others. You passed the test. And beloved, if Hillary Clinton gets elected as president, that's going to challenge the church of the Lord Jesus Christ all over the place. And that's reflected in the first line of the Declaration of Independence. Now you unless you know Hebrew or if somebody can tell you Hebrew you may not realize it. Oh us. Bothered them. Well, look at the answer of Christ here to these Pharisees. Outstanding. What an example of reverential awe, not of the devil, but of the authority of God. No and Lord in the same sentence? He put his little peanut fisherman intellect above the vast and perfect mind of Almighty God to try to tell God. Oh, sorry. Second year, talk about it. I'm just trying to use the text. This is Jude. I you're saying that the way that we uh communicate about that and speak of that could be problematic. So if I say, well, she wants to, and then something such as rule the United States to dictate her, maybe she does, maybe she doesn't. Bob, um I've been trying to think of this question since last night when you were talking about uh the American Revolution and all And then happiness will creep up on you and suddenly overtake you in a little personal epiphany. That our system of law has it but you got like everything else, you gotta know the regs. Act as free men. Verse 17. Identify those who are in authority over us. We'll turn to Proverbs 21. Not a senior moment. Can you? There's your starting point. I've been accused of intimidating people enough times. Verse 10. Did somebody who who put who likes arguing? He likes arguing and he doesn't want to stop. You have to start at the bottom. Now I desire to remind you, though you know all things once for all, that the Lord, after saving a people out of the land of Egypt, subsequently destroyed those who did not believe. His response was bad because he couldn't get it through his head that Christ said this must happen. So Peter was in disobedience. And I've discovered remember I'm a slow learner, so I'm not pointing the finger of accusation. And there was an incident that this gentleman witnessed in which he saw a young, fresh caught recruit, possibly there the first full day, That's a judgment. I've asked hundreds of people that question. And it's a profoundly rich body of evidence in Scripture that it's an abomination. It's really translated, you shall not murder, which is very different from killing. That when you see somebody with little bumps of some sort on their shoulder or on their collar, he said, I will tell you a secret. Hockey. So having said that, now let's look carefully at verses fifteen through twenty. And see here what he's saying. What was his name? There's a huge, huge issue. An absolute, totally unbiblical statement. A senior sheep, but a sheep. And it was the same issue. I detest them. Doesn't want to stop arguing. That uh I often wondered if he was Christian. Great question. The burden of proof falls upon you. Jefferson. And when he said they said, Here are two swords, they had them, he says, that's enough I have a whole list, but I don't want to take the time for that. Verse ten of Romans twelve. Shameless. I mean if you're at the antique roadshow and your grandmother's chamber pot has proven to be valuable, uh well I used to be they say, oh God Well you've asked this a superbly, I think, important question, Chuck. The winners do. So you go in Monday morning and ask the chaplain to help you file a conscientious objector application. And I don't believe it's an exc accident that President Roosevelt picked him to be the man And as we read this, um I want to um remind you I don't know. Did that answer your question? Oh, Providence. It was only Peter. But but but um you know when are you going to restore the kingdom? All right. If you want to talk to me about it afterwards, I will gladly do so. They didn't want to submit to it. A critically important distinction. Let's call her murder of unborn children. Why did he call Peter Satan? He said, Do you know why that man spoke to you that way? Legitimate authority does not ultimately come from the consent of the governed. He will then hand back that authority that was conferred upon him as a reward for the perfect completion of his messianic work. What I am impressed. And so I offer that to you. And then uh finally in Hebrews chapter thirteen Is that well yes, that's right. Help me now. What it's saying is that Michael, the archangel, who does have his theological act together, if we could put it that way, It's called obeying one in authority. No, no, no. Every issue I ever asked the chaplain's commission or committee to bring before General Assembly the first year it was rejected. Do you need a PhD in logic to figure out that when churches This will be the greatest challenge the church has ever faced in dealing with Romans 13, 1 through 7, if she is elected. Well you're just lording it over me. Because if you are, you need to see me afterwards. And when he had come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him as he was teaching and said, Right. But the way that you end up effectually, quote, proving your sincerity, close quote. And that applies in the home and in the church and outside the church. And on the bumper of this car is a bumper sticker. And it's not just Hillary. Um, when when Jesus is about to be crucified, I mean in some ways his disciples responded in a conscientious way. Well, they tell them about crucifixion. Not of this world. Do not use your freedom as a covering for evil, but use it as bond slaves of God. At the very least, they haven't been well instructed. Are you able? You should know this, Jefferson. And if you get put in jail for it, that comes with the price of being a Christian. Quintessential proto-American, two millennia before his time. Um and he says it's gonna be different. So as you go into war and dealing with s issues like that and and dealing with an an unlawful an unlawfully behaving government. And for those of you who would like a quick help on this One of the first things I tried to do is get them to recognize the fact that the term Jehovah is not a biblical term. Yes. That's senior moment number five. I can think of all kinds of animal kingdom metaphors that come all too readily to my frontal lobes. Okay. Now if you want to go through the drill, if it meets some deep inner need to fill out the paperwork, be my guess. And it's well expressed as a New Testament principle in Acts 20. And who gave you this authority? Christ is co-equal with the Father, the same in substance, equal in power and glory from creation. There's basically two kinds of judgment that are forbidden. That yes, in the providence of God, governments get overthrown. Be careful. There's a killer. A foolish son is destruction to his father, and the contentions of a wife are a constant dripping. It is better to live in a desert land than with a contentious and vexing woman. You cannot deal with the simple authority issue. Now that's recorded for posterity. And by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. Everybody that was involved in it was a sinner and it wasn't done sinlessly. How is it to be done? There is an example of rebellion uncontaminated with anything approaching intelligent thought. But the whole point of that declaration was to declare why uh those who had uh Which you will probably be quite dissatisfied with after a short period of time. There you have to slow down. You decide you don't like your master sergeant. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls, as those who will give an account Disgracefully so. And when all things are subjected to Him, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to the one who subjected all things to Him, that God may be all in all. I've almost got your name, it's not Eli. 2 Peter 2. God's direct intervention? The burden of proof is on the conscientious objector. Don't blame the apostles. Revelation. So if you think there's a bias, you might want to start with the author, not with me. Directly from God, directly commissioned by God. The other kind of judgment is where we declare about somebody something that only God can know. But at boot camp, and you know boot camps are pretty interesting places with many social agonies going on. But when I looked at my reference, which I didn't look, another senior moment. Bad grammatical moment. And Jude is um, Jude? We never have the right to be unkind and ungracious, even to our enemies You make it a declaration. You're on the right side of that issue. And if Jesus Christ, in saying over and over and over, Well let's see what the supreme commander says about himself. But looking at it biblically and theologically, that comes from God. Was Christ being contentious? Christ was never contentious. And I used to have young people come to me that wanted to get out of the Navy or the Marine Corps, and I'd say, Why do you want to get out? Well, on second thought, I will read the one that I think is Another senior moment. Question I will have to guard my tongue because that's going to be a temptation Saul. Be careful. So the fact that there are those placed by Christ through a process that we can recognize is sufficiently And when they're young, they tend to be very conscious of the fact that they're an officer. So they take the cowardly way out. Last word picture? And they come upon me like bats flying out of a cave. They hated it, but they're intrigued as to where he has it. I am blessed. Senior moment, number four. We're forbidden ever to do that. And some debated it, of course, from an experiential or existential perspective, and some debated from a Yes. I've never had anybody who could tell me. We'll do it. They're not going to have the kind of openness with the Israelites they had during the three years of his public ministry when they were received. In Ephesians 5, submit yourselves one to another. And when it's all finished and his reign is finished as king, notice the word reign. Sec I bet that's it. If you can put it that way. So having said that, there's a distinction that we have to make. When the Pharisees commanded them not to speak of Christ, then they said at that point, when it was a clear commandment to do something evil, no. That's a limited obedience, but it's there. I mean we've had other presidents for whom the temptation Even if we cannot respect the conduct of the accumb incumbent, we have to respect the office which then is incumbent upon us. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into fire. And of course it's totally evil and only makes the problem worse. Jefferson was a committed Christian theologian? Remember, it's one of his names, wonderful counselor. So we understand that had he been king of an earthly kingdom, it would have been right, but because he was head of a spiritual kingdom, which his own disciples She likes it. That's the crucible into which Christ has put us. But other than that, we have a duty to be truthful. I believe that. So if we speak to a person who hates us And that's what the founders understood. Oh well I'm happy to apply. And I offer that to you elders, by the way, as a comfort. Like charcoal to hot embers and wood to a fire, so is a contentious man to kindle strife. And the recruit stood there absolutely baffled. It's got to be done in the right way and for the right reason. That's a whole subject area we almost never talk about. I'm not happy. And you know who that was. And if you think about it, on the road Now having said that, I'm going to tell you something that may boggle your earnest young mind. First Timothy chapter two, verse twelve. We are given this insight into the decrees and the economy of the Godhead. And of course we know the answer is no. Do I think she is a ruthless politician? And this is a classic example of such an era area of life that if we enter into that serious business Oh dear. Will you turn there? Don't whatever you do fall into that trap. My post middle age years were around too many naval guns going off and too many jet engines. Christ appears, the disciples, the two of them don't recognize him, and Realize they're not going to die if they discuss it. If you're in a Christian organization other than the church, there's authority issues It keeps appearing and reappearing. And so respecting God's image bearing in that person. Proving sincerity. But he never gave up his title of Captain of the Lord's host, which he said to Joshua in Joshua 5. He said, Well that was General Eisenhower. I said, yes, you got that right. Yeah. So when they're sad, he was a great prophet. The fact that Scripture clearly defines and constrains the authority that we do have, which is to be exercised. Figure I've got uh more than one uh idiosyncratic ways of speaking and so on that leave people intimidated. Proverbs chapter 19. Do you think he was being contentious? Do you think, Ahi, you can see there's a similarity of subject there? And I believe it's an evidence of the Christian commitment of the founders of this country. Um every so often some young person and once in a while an older person who decides to start thinking. We better ahead. And then if we take the commandment The ones who came along said something was going to happen and it didn't happen. I can't make it any shorter. When the Soviet Union collapsed, do you believe that was in part of God's providence or was God surprised by it? Is that why it's called a sheepskin when you graduate? Bad conclusion with a good question. Just to be careful against ungodly idealism and thinking that somehow maybe because we've got a college degree or something that we're not sheep. The world at large that concludes your job, if you're a student at school, So its hideousness is not smoothed over with uncuous terminology. Doesn't even matter what level. First Peter two Keep your behavior excellent among the Gentiles, so that in the thing in which they slander you as evildoers Would you turn for just a minute to Revelation chapter 12? I doubt he was because of some things he said, but he certainly had figured out a principle called kindness. And of course we know the answer is no. Then the beautiful blossoms come. And if you do, that's between you and the Lord. They scuttled off like frightened rabbits. She'd look out the window and she'd say, Daddy, can you boss him or can he boss you? If I declare something about her as a declarative judgment, which is what Michael the archangel would not enter into, Oh, that's so painful. That a great deal of our most difficult moments are when we argue. Is it possible to have a really humble spirit and at the same time Thank you. And they recognized he had authority. Because she was obsessed with my particular place in the naval hierarchy. The baptism of John was from what source? In fact, we probably better give a little bit of context because it's such a significant question. But the way we do it is going to be very, very She wants to be a dictator. And it comes up in all sorts of things, Chuck, not just in the Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. But if I'm asked, I'll tell 'em. Not picture picture, but word-picture. You may. Aha! So be careful there. A few moments later If you think yes, you have to raise your hand. Michael the Archangel, when he disputed with the devil and argued about the body of Moses, I'm going to start in the middle of a sentence, verse 9. There's your protection. That tells you there's some synapses not working. The kingdom's not of this world. Verse one and two Now, if they accuse us falsely of a specific sin, then it has to be dealt with. The little sign said, Democrats have morals too. And Mama is our boss and you are our boss, right? But he was saying to them Second Peter two. That shows a spirit of rebellion. Now, that's not saying Michael was afraid of the devil. It's the authority of abuse and hatred and so on, torment, but but he does. Okay. You will know them by their fruits And I will give you a mini reflection And Christ says, oh foolish ones, and slow to believe all the prophets. And they kept on through three years. Because we're slow learners and we're sheep. Submit yourselves for the Lord's sake. And if you do, we sympathize, right? I'm not going to tell you the ultimate authority issue. And it's again a rejection of authority, because when you speak contemptuously of someone in authority, which is forbidden in Scripture, Caesar was not to be worshipped as a king, but he was to be dealt with with respect, including the paying of taxes. Uh now that's a bit tough. Now, as you're turning there, do you remember that I told you last night about this somewhat higher What would you like to know about that scary passage? Okay. Same thing. So this business of speaking presumptively against supernatural beings But here And the point of the book is that the winners get to describe And what the law says is you have to prove your sincerity. I'm not supposed to kill. All right. There was more than Saul too. Yes. It wasn't optimum. I say, oh, well, you're not happy. The minute you make happiness a goal, you're absolutely guaranteed to lose it, not find it. Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, considering the result of their conduct, in in imitate. No, it doesn't, and we know there are tragic cases where sessions go askew. I reminded you last night, it's worth a moment's review, there is no sinless, flawless On the other hand, if the person has an unpleasant expression and then comes up and says, I hate you, I said, You hate me, then I'm judged nothing because they told me that. The the is there a proper Uh do you believe it happened sinlessly That's what essentially was done. Armies of heaven. Uh when do young ministers get themselves in trouble? And as I look at the two elements of my overbearing nature, I can say, okay, I understand. They have no guarantee of acceptance because the burden of proof falls upon them. Titus chapter 3. What does that mean? And I believe that the best example I said, Nobody. If you're a seaman recruit, you don't boss anybody. And Paul Other question? Well let me ask you, did God Himself initiate the overthrow of any king? Canoe Club. Now let's expand it a bit. They say we do not know. I trust me. Let's see if I can get the text to 1 Peter 4. We don't know the exact count. Um I think personally it would have even been better to call it the war on terrorists But notice that the exercise of a woman in authority uh in the church. When a husband is argumentative and picky, it usually goes along Remember, I proposed that last night, that we have a love-hate relationship with authority. And if you're going to make a decision of that weight, you ought to at least have some idea how you find happiness, since that's obviously why you're doing it. I'm not gonna tell you if nobody says yes. Um skip. I have a favorite story on this subject about one who may not have even been a Christian. He said, Sir, I have no idea. Where did John get the authority to preach as he did? But when he says all things are put in subjection, it is evident that he is accepted who put all things. But sometimes those kings were also overthrown by outside You think you can see that? It certainly was in the mind of God. The fact that if you're a father, you're in authority. Jesus said to them, I will ask you one thing too. Hockey. In fact I'm remembering the number of senior moments better than what I was supposed to remember. That is God's prerogative alone to determine and declare who goes to hell and who goes to heaven The same God that forbids us to judge commands us to evaluate observed evidence. But it was pursuit of prophecy. So if you're a member of a Mennonite denomination that is pacifist, PCA's got the same thing. Because Peter, when Christ said, the Son of Man must go to Jerusalem and be crucified. Oh you don't want to point any fingers. And the older gentleman walked off and somebody ran out of the barracks and said, Son, do you know who that was? But the principle really is that of humility. He does not have absolute authority in and of himself. And that is scripture makes a very clear distinction between manner and content But debated it was It's not wonderful, comma, counselor, it's wonderful counselor. I will not deal with the last part because that takes some expository effort for which I have neither the time. Verse twenty-eight. Verse 24: Greet all of your leaders and all the saints. Now you can argue that the consent of the government And I'm going to cut this short and not go into a whole bunch of supportive texts. And that oh by the way, I used to tell young officers that also, learn the regs. If a husband is contentious, what does that probably mean? This is accountability of speech. One is the pronouncing of one's end. That was the man who could say in the face of God when God told him to do something, oh no, Lord. They thought he was going, ah, here comes the chestnut You're gonna be attacked, you're gonna have to defend yourself and so on. Maybe they've got indire indigestion. And something called conscientious objection. And in the Bible study, somebody reads, You shall not I am a conscientious objector. But notice that phrase And the fact is Same thing that Jude is talking about there. But I mean was his response so bad? Revelation 12, 10. Matthew twenty-one Oh, do we Americans love bumper stickers? Three irreducible criteria for him who's an authority. Now consider the context. And if I were to take a name like Joe Smith, So that issue of authority is keep being carried through Let's go there. Oh, let's see. Daring, self-willed, they do not tremble when they revile angelic majesties. Every time somebody says I commend you for the question. There was Jeremiah. All right. Then the first little fruits appear, and the happy bees buzz around at the blossoms and all that. This is why I pushed the OPC. And the OPC has taken that position But the Hebrew word is primarily that referring to uniform. Now there's a kind of a disconnect. On the other hand, the Pharisees, for all their contempt for the multitude, feared them. Thirdly, when these commandments were given, such as Romans 13, 1 through 7, You think Hitler was bad? For such is the will of God that by doing right you may silence the ignorance If you are in a volunteer organization If we say from men, we fear the multitude, for they all hold John to be a prophet. Was he? Your questions, sir. Would you look at verse eight, which you have to read before you read verse nine? And that's why they call it a sheep skin when you graduate. Oh, week later, Lord Now, are we to submit to secular authorities? When do church members get themselves in trouble? It was a very, very difficult time. Satan exercises all kinds of a You can march up to that draft board and you can say, there it is. It's not a God-honoring name When I Third year, they adopt it. It is. Now that you've got to get that little bit of context to then go back to the Jude passage. Do not judge lest you be judged But that's a teeny tiny example of the difficulty of this issue And we had a terrible one uh from the Supreme Court that abuses it. There's your protection. And he said, Young man, That's how it works. Now look at the question carefully. I'd like you to to first dr direct your attention. Was the Soviet government Once in a while it came up. She was very conscious of who was in charge, shamelessly so. No, no, no. Do that, see? He'll be happy. That's the bottom line. Do you do you mean that Nomenclature and the significance of nomenclature. Well They come in threes. That was a big issue with our Federalist paper father. I never do. If he goes outside that authority, is there is there a proper time And And I'll venture there's some of you in this room who want happiness and don't know where you find it. Would you turn to Proverbs chapter 21? That's ending the sentence with the verb which is bad, but I kid it. If you need to announce your inauthority to your children And so if we speak about Cleverly disguised as the United States Navy. And it was so contentious, the sessions said, we've got to put this in the back burner. Captain of the Lord's host. He had no idea why he was the object of such verbal wrath. Oh, no? Yes. The same Christ that forbids me to judge commands me to evaluate all the time. From heaven or from men? First of all And then chapter 21 and verse 19. And they never, ever mastered that distinction. Better living through science. Because happiness is something that you are guaranteed never to find if you pursue it. The church is a hospital Sometimes properly, sometimes improperly Honor all men. I don't Oh thank you, Skip They're not even thinking about me. Oh. And he said, Well, son, let me tell you. It's amazing how that works. No, that's not the one the one I'm I'm uh Skip. You're not going to get it. But it isn't going to happen because it doesn't meet the criteria. Please speak up in a centurion voice. Verse 20 False prophets. Happiness Proverbs 19 and 13. Remember that? You get bossed, but you don't boss. Well, Christ is saying here to them I can't hear you, honey. Okay. That's a cultural us. And of course, if you think back And that's another whole problem. How about Pharaoh? No. Five years later they decided Did he in fact You don't have the right to make it on that or any other basis. And and if you're in one of the micro denominations I mean if you Every bit of authority that Michael exercises is derivative and accountable. Here's the secret. Who's the only person Christ ever called Satan? Jesus Christ Himself is the head of the church Said yes. No He comes to earth and sets aside Secondly. They could figure that one out. That's a military title. Love the Brotherhood. Sensible man. Oh yes. This is verse 24. And I'd say, Well, uh Right. No. Yes or no. If you're a mother, you're an authority over the children. That's what he was doing. That's scary. Revelation, chapter ten. But in I forgot to tell you that. Well, here's a wonderful example. Um Can you speak up in a more centurion voice? It's a manufactured term Would you agree with that? The right thing and the right way for the right reason. They could go from village to village five minutes. The answer is probably yes. It's fairly obvious. So please God we don't do it with a proud heart. He's what they call an officer. That's so us. And here's what it is. Fear God. Christ called him Satan. I mentioned this to But the fact is that in One sentence. Oh no, Lord! Absolutely. Oops, ended in a preposition. Nancy Mai. Take the hit. He said, Get behind me. Coming up. Yes. Oh no, no, no. Yes, sir. We're still sheep. Obedience. Um So you think