I I guess one application would be this that we need to meditate on these things as they come up. Every evening the sun goes down. It says, praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures in all deeps, fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind, fulfilling his word. That's what the scripture says. main ways is through preaching and teaching and exhortation. Bowie to come and uh teach us tonight. Um it was just a busy time and uh I actually had the opportunity to uh begin preaching through Romans 9 at uh the Bowie Church. It was packed, so we decided to leave there and go home. And sometimes they get a little sloppy in their speech. when I was asked to speak. Fulfilled because he is faithful. In our midst. for the evening service, why it's good to read our or read the word on our own, to have family worship, things of that nature, to be drenched in the word. them to think about that, that their sins could become white, that the blood that was necessary for the sins might be stopped in some sense or taken care of in some sense? and and the old sacrifices, he says this. And their lawless deeds no more. of things. think God doesn't love me. Colossians 3:16 says, Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Uh but I just didn't know how appropriate it would be to try to do that for a one-time sermon here. uh that I've been thinking about providentially. And then over to Psalm 148. Praise him, sun and moon. Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures in all deeps, fire and hail, snow and mist, stormy wind fulfilling his word. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. For the people of Israel who are near to him, praise the Lord. And I'm sure that was very frustrating. Uh I used to I was hearing comments about I'm tired of the snow. I would really like to see the sun again on a more frequent basis. This is one of the privileges that we have as a people of God, that our God is the God of creation. uh feed and things like that to to the farmer and food for us, his word goes forth and brings back exactly what he wants If I can paraphrase a quote from Cornelius Van Till, he once said, he said, we never had the great ch the great showers of revival, but the relative humidity of our home was great. for us in Christ? That are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices, and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings, these are offered according to the law. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. So that legally now we are seen as Christ with that perfect whiteness that he has, that we don't have. Have opportunity to see pictures of snow or experience snow. For this, that he's paid for this. If you could just stand, please. Let them praise the name of the Lord. Mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, beasts and all livestock, creeping things and flying birds Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth, young men and maidens together, old men and children And my wife and I had gone to workout in the morning and it was around 10 or 11 o'clock, and uh I looked out on the parking lot at the shopping center where this workout place was, and it was it was dry. Um, I know that's not the same for everybody, particularly for people that have their own business and time is money. And as the day went on, I was listening to the news and they were talking about how so many businesses were not being visited. God throws a little snow our way, relatively, and everything stops. What does he tell us? Something about his glory that is ours in Christ now. And that that's what we need. And I just want to reflect on this verse in light of the snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. But the more I thought about it, I thought, for the Israelites, red was their sin. uh the sadness he had about the Jews who didn't come to Christ, of all the privileges they had, if you look at over the whole Old Testament, The many things that God did as he adopted them into his family, as he made them his special people. Not w really wishing that, but as a as a first thought, he was so uh passionate about that. But he knew it was not a right thing, nor a good thing, nor a wise thing. I thought it had to be the blood of the sacrifices. In burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. He abolishes the first in order to establish the second. So that though our sins have been as red as scarlet, they'll be as white as snow. It's for good and not for evil. And Father, as by your Holy Spirit you convict us of our sins, as you continue that process of sanctification, and you show us the remaining sins that we have, that we would not lose heart. Another reminder of how how wicked grumbling is. And so God tells Moses, put a fiery serpent on a pole. the gospel to us. 19, I'm sorry, 16, 9, and then I'm going to read Psalm 148. Back on February the 21st, you remember, you might remember that it was a Saturday and it was a relatively mild weather morning with the expectation of some snow to come. I was disappointed. And um I actually like snow. If you watch the weather over the last two months, you know, you watch the weatherman. You know, that there was that constant, the word coming through the family over and over again. That He's given us a new heart now that loves God in truth, that loves the law, sees the glory of the law, not as a way of obtaining favor, but of holiness, of righteousness. Now I this ought to make us very glad. And uh we have an elder who uh is a part of the Dewey Church, Bruce Buchanan. But I understand that people have preferences. That it's our God who sends it. And because God has made it, as he's been pleased to do so in his word at various times, he can teach us about himself or about his ways through the weather. We have nothing to do with that. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. He sat down at the right hand of God, waiting for that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us, for after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them, after those days, declares the Lord, I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them in their minds. Isn't that what is at work in us now as God sanctifies us, as he has united us to Christ, as he's given us a new nature, as he's begun a definitive work of sanctification in us? And is continuing on by the power of the Holy Spirit. Does that make a difference? It's not just the outward words or the actions that we've committed, but the thoughts and intentions of our hearts and that Christ died for us. Don't we need to know this all the time? He goes back to Numbers 21, verses 4 to 9. We thank you that as your people now that we are the ones on the face of the earth who can really appreciate the beauty and the goodness and the wonder of your creation. The title of this exhortation is Biblical Reflections on the Weather. And uh it's a pretty rare occurrence. So I started to try to reflect on these snow passages, and that's why Isaiah 55 was brought up as a possible text. And so we have that great privilege, we have that great passage in Isaiah 55, and that all the promises that God has given will be faithfully fulfilled. And it made me think about here in Isaiah 1, where God comes, the prophet Isaiah, and they've squandered these great benefits, these great sins. But in these sacrifices there is a remainder of sin every year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. That these are all ours in Christ. But I think there's in a sense in which we need to think more of our cup as more than half full in Christ. And that Christ bore that once for all. And that looking to him that we have eternal life. But God has absolutely ordered it so that wherever we are, the weather we have is from his hand for some reason. And Tom had mentioned earlier about the privilege that we have here, and again, I'm always rejoicing that you have an evening service, that God has given us a double portion to be under the preaching or teaching of the Word. But I'm glad that you do not forget. Though your sins are black as coal, it seems like you think of white and black as opposites. In the beginning here in Isaiah, Isaiah 1, he starts talking to the people of Judah, and he talks about their sins, of the many privileges that they had had, and they don't even know their maker, as they should. And as I was reflecting on this verse, I thought, if I had written this, I don't think I would have written it that way. And to the point where Paul could say, almost hesitantly say, if I could be damned in light of instead of them So that when they heard that, they were thinking they would see the sacrifices, they would see the blood that had been poured out over and over and over and over in their lifetime and over the years for the sake of their sins. But the blood of Christ could. Isn't that what we have in justification as we have faith in Christ, as we are united to Christ? That even now that work has begun. Relationally to God now, we have been forgiven. That we are like the Father in some sense now because of Christ. That he has taken upon himself our sin, and that he has given us his righteousness. And as we see our sins now, as we're sensible, as we come, you know, every every Lord's Day, as we confess our sins as the people of God, as we come to the end of our days and we confess our sins throughout the day, that Christ has paid for this. But instead of us, as we've been united to Christ, it is Christ who takes our penalty for us. For the Christian, he'll never know, in some sense, what he really deserves because Christ has born himself. As we come today, as we come to confess our sins, that Christ has died for them. He has made them white as snow. And that he's making us like his son. Isn't that glorious? as judgment. But even more so that by your Spirit that we can understand better what you have done for us in Christ. And that though this might be a painful process and an arduous process at times, it is a glorious process. We pray this in Jesus' name. That every snowdrop, that every raindrop, has its place according to God's good pleasure and his ordering and providence. That he really does love us. Even as the children of God. That he's for us. That his wrath has been taken out on Christ, so that it would not be taken out on his people. But it's interesting how Jesus himself in John 3 talks about how people are healed in Christ. We shouldn't be surprised if at times the sanctification process is difficult. But that can't be if Christ has borne it for us. Expiation is the covering of sin, so it no longer constitutes a barrier in our relationship with God. But he sees us as pure now for the sake of Christ as we've been united to Christ. I just think, how can I I'm not sure if I couldn't have done that. But it's so important because we you know we go to our day day-to-day lives, we get busy, and difficult things happen, and sometimes it's one on top of another. In his book, Knowing God, G. But propitiation also signifies the quenching of God's wrath once for all. That we will remember your promise that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. That if you know yourself as a sinner, the scripture would say, if you know yourself as a sinner, to look to Christ, that he was lifted up on that cross for our sins. Proverbs 16, 9. I kept thinking about what were they thinking? And so as we tie it back to the snow, that what God tells us through the snow is, though your sins be like scarlet, in Christ they have been made white as snow. I think it's also important to think about when God poured out his wrath on Christ for his people, it was retributive justice. You know, I some of you know I've been taking church history, and one of the things I uh I have greatest respect for the early church is the incredible suffering they went through. So, as I thought about the snow passages, there was one passage in particular that I wanted to think about. The heinousness of their sins is the people of God. And then he says that in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, really reconciling, really making us children. That that is our hope. As I was thinking about my own sanctification and sins, oftentimes it's a very painful process. And so uh one of the main things that we need to be doing is letting the Word of Christ dwell in us richly. I think that's why there's so many times in Scripture there's kind of an incredibility of what God has done. Sometimes it's gloriously just full of joy. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, and we thank you for the many examples that you have given us in your creation of who you are and what you've done. And then but God says, but though they be like scarlet, they will be as white as snow. We're tempted to think that. Now, as I thought about this, this is an incredible reality. That you really have sent your son to die on the cross, that he really has paid for our sins, that he really has been the blood that takes away sin. And that as we have come by your grace to trust in Christ, that that is ours now. There may be some here tonight who have not yet trusted in Christ. And that's a glorious a glorious passage. If I can confess my sins right now, I need to pray. He really paid for those sins on the cross. That this is love, not that we love God, but He loved us, and sent His Son as a propitiation. Why does that happen? But when he comes to verse 18 and he says, Though your sins are like scarlet, I will make them as white as snow. And they bite. And Jesus, referring back to that, says that the Son of Man must be lifted up that those who believe in him might have eternal life. And I thought that that must have been a an incredible promise to the people of Judah. So we have this great hope of being under the word that God will fulfill his promises as we're hearing the word preached and taught, and that's why it's so good to come back. In 1 Corinthians 5, the Apostle Paul says that he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. And um so anyhow, we went about our our business after that. The original uh text was from Isaiah 55, and I've changed the text. Praise him, all you shining stars, praise him, you highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens What value are our sins? And just like nobody stops his hand from sending the rain or sending the snow to nourish the crops, nobody stops his hand when the Holy Spirit comes and works mightily on us. The Apostle John speaks twice of it in his epistle, his first epistle. We need the word so badly. That right now, as you are united to Christ, does that make a difference that God sees you as he sees Christ? That though our sins be as scarlet, in Christ they're made white as snow. For he commanded and they were created. He says, For since the law has come, uh for for since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, instead of the true form of these realities, it can never by the same sacrifices But when the snow comes, it's because he's been pleased to send it. For where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. That, as the writer of the Hebrews says, that the blood of bulls and goats couldn't take away sin They bite them and they kill them. Praise the Lord. And just as an aside, you know, the whole created order is giving glory to God in some way. And we ask you would bless our time with the effectual working of the Holy Spirit onto salvation and sanctification. I appreciate it. They talk about, well, what kind of weather did you bring for us today, Mr. Because God has set it in place. If you would let me, if I could just read a passage from Hebrews, it ties this together. Uh it would make a good exhortation, I think. We are clothed with Christ's righteousness in his white robes. He is making them as white as snow. Amen. The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. And um and as the the the week went on, there was a couple more snow days and a lot of two-hour delays and And I think in the Lord, we can ask the Lord in a humble way, Lord, you know, I would really like some warm weather. It gives us great strength and great courage in the midst of the current things that are going on. I mean, this is not a one, I mean, it's true. Uh Skip emailed me to ask if I could speak. I think that's fine. And lo and behold, the roads were all white and slippery and dangerous. That Christ really did take the penalty for our sin. As a public school teacher, I it's always nice to have a break. I'm tired, you know, I'm ready for spring. How hard it is to get a stain out of some piece of clothing or to you know have no wrinkle. And uh I've always appreciated these times because it's so obvious that we're not in control. And if he sends more snow, he has a reason. So Steve, please come on up here. You know, I know that we have remaining sin, we have remaining corruption. I. And so that as we see that snow, as we see that whiteness, We ask that you would always bring our minds back to realize this is what you have done for us in Christ. Praise the Lord from the heavens. It talks about just like God sends the the snow and the rain to nourish the ground and provide Amen. What was that referring to? And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And yet Christ has paid for that fully. And that no matter what difficulties we find ourselves in now, Packer has a wonderful chapter on this word. They're grumbling, no food, no water, tired of the manna. And when people look to it, they'll be healed. That for them, red was synonymous with blood, and blood was synonymous with their sins. Well we think it's going to be four to eight here and three to six here and one to two here and they don't know. It's for our souls. I don't think I pray to open. But his love for the Jews was so great that he had this great compassion as he saw how they had squandered this great heritage that they had, at least some of them. And uh tonight we uh once again have the privilege of having uh Steve Hollage who is a ruling elder at uh our sister church in the U. I don't think that leads to presumption. His majesty is above earth and heaven. Please be seated. The Lord hears us and he may be pleased to give us his days. As I read it, I was I I thought back to Romans 9, where Paul laments. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book. In the sense of they bring death, they bring condemnation? And I think we as believers sometimes we miss that. But sometimes you realize you're convicted and you think, how could I think such a thing? And he established them forever and ever. And isn't that what we have in Christ in the end, when he will make us without spot or blemish? And that the work of the Holy Spirit is still working to conform us to the image of the Son. That he's making us like Christ. He's he's a partner in a uh an accounting firm, and uh he said it took three hours for him to get home. It's to cause us to grow in Christ. It says, Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord, though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sin? And they cry out, they say to Moses, you know, ask the Lord to stop. And so whatever inconveniences we may have had with the snow, it's just one of those blessings that God has given us in his creation to relate back. And what got me started was And he will make them as white as snow. The Israelites were going towards the Red Sea and they were grumbling. So I thought, okay, let's go for it. By his almighty power, that happens. I understand that. If he sends snow on a regular basis and we think we've had enough, uh we ought to ask, what what do we learn about the snow? And when we look at the cross, we see what we really deserve. We went to the store and the store was crowded as usually is when snow comes. One of the words that I I love, theological words, has great import, is propitiation. Can I pray for us now? The scarlet? I was very grateful for the opportunity, and I thought about it. And that though our sins be as scarlet We're tempted to think that his wrath is towards me. So I I thought I'd have to decline, and the more I thought about it, I thought, you know, there is something on my mind. Praise him in the heights. This is what God says he has done in Christ. That is what Christ has done for us. And we're all sinners. We just read that here in Psalm 148. But it's when you see that that Christ has borne the penalty, absolutely. Weatherman? That we really are, as the Apostle John says, in Christ, children of God now. That's the reality of that transaction that goes on when we are united to Christ. I think that it leads to wanting to obey, of rejoicing in the Lord, of this great salvation that we have in Christ. And thank you for being here. And uh and I can understand that. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. And yet so many rejected Christ. I had a lot of breaks uh January and February. That was the color of their sin in their mind. It's always true, but don't we need to be reminded of that? Let us hear the word of God. I would have said, though your sins are black as soot. And that's exactly what happened. That his perfect righteousness, his purity of life, we've been clothed with it. You know, so he has some power. I'm sorry. And yet He's making us like His Son. I'm going to read from uh Proverbs So you want to get the biggest punch from your word from saying black, not red. And that it's a great blessing. That he's not lying. And um But not only that, that the corruption of our hearts has been reversed in some measure already and will continue to be reversed. And he says it only means half of what expiation means. He says that he's of officiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world, for any who would trust us. That you will not lose, you will not lose one. The God who's redeemed us is the God of creation, and he teaches us about himself through the creation. He has raised up a horn for his people. And so we have this great privilege once again to hear God's word. That in some ways those words must have been incredible to me. Let me pray. You know? For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And that's a wonderful thing. And God's given us many uh good ways of getting that into our hearts uh so that it can dwell in us, and one of the main So here I am tonight. And it just shows how dependent we are on the Lord So I started to reflect on the fact there was snow. Praise him all his angels. He gave a decree, and it shall not pass away. That ultimately this passage here points to Christ and what he has done. And so, Father, as we And uh as it turned out, it was a a pretty major snow event that day. Because you are making us like your Son, whose glory shall never end. Let us pray. And it was like Washington, D. He said, I would do that if I could. Don't you need to know that your sins are forgiven in Christ? And not only scarlet, but red light crimson. He's not, you know, that these are accurate words from Scripture that Christ took our penalty. In Hebrews 10, the writer to the Hebrews is talking about the law, the And God sends fiery serpents That there's no more wrath for the believer And they're just trying to figure it out. And that was also in Isaiah, Isaiah 1. This is what he has said as we're united to Christ. I I like I said I like the snow, so I'm always appreciative when we have a good snowy winter It's a great blessing to any family We're all fallen in Adam. Because Christ bore our penalty Looking away to self, looking to that fiery serpent on the pole, they were healed. But uh I I've been convicted that I shouldn't complain about the weather. Father, I I confess my forgetfulness here. But when Christ had offered for a t for all time a single sacrifice for sin, But as I started to think about it more, I thought, well, isn't that what God has done for me? In and of itself, that would be a wonderful thing. Particularly as we we grow in holiness and we see how deep our sins have been. That here we have this creation, every morning the sun comes up. You know, you know, we sinned. I thought, you know, I I think I'm gonna have to decline. So I'm going to ask you to stand for the reading of God's Word. We ask this in Jesus' name. All the effort that goes into those types of things. It's what we deserved as sinners. It was How could I do such a thing? Praise him, all his hosts. Praise for all his saints C. They don't know, and those lines are always moving. And we He even says some of them are, their hands are full of blood. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. was just was just shut down. I'm thinking, what do we learn about this snow from the scriptures? There's not one of us that doesn't need a Savior. This is what he said he will do in the future as well. And so Amen. It usually takes 40 minutes. 18 What do we learn about God? Then he adds, I will remember their sins. His blood does take away sin. S.