This portion of scripture is called the Iranic Blessing. It is poetic. You can see that. It has three lines, each divided into two parts. Each line is in the second is longer than the previous one, making that part of the blessing stronger and even more emphatic. And it repeats God's name, his covenant name, Yahweh. Whenever you see God's covenant name in most scriptures today, it is the word Lord, but all in all caps. And it repeats it three times for emphasis. So as we come to this, I thought that first I was going to be spending all my time on each of these six blessings or each of these six things that comes to you who are God's people. And before I did that, I had to go back and refresh myself. Well, I know it's the covenant name, and I know when I see capital L O R D, it's Yahweh. What's that really mean? And I found myself blessed almost more by that than the blessings that we'll look at. And the reason was Because of two things God's covenant name pictures. It pictures first his transcendence. God is different than you are. God doesn't need you. God is all encompassing God doesn't have any need for people or passions of anyone else or creation. God was Totally happy within himself for all eternity. And he exists that way, other than us, different from us. He is not created. He's Almighty God with all of his perfections. And so, one sense, when we read this word Lord, we're talking about this God of the universe. who has no need for us at all and is perfectly happy in himself. And yet this same name has this characteristic of imminence. means he comes to us. He comes close to us. He desires relationship. He is a relationship within the Trinity from all foundation of Eternity. I guess found eternity doesn't have foundations, does it? But for all times. Right? He has relationship and he has decided to take the relationship that the Trinity has within itself. and share it with us. It has both of these things. Now one of the places you'll see these two characteristics of God, and I want to look at that first, is in the book of Exodus. So if you'll turn to Exodus chapter 3, You'll see both of these things together. His transcendence being separate and above his creation, and his imminence being near and accessible to his creatures. One of the great places to see this is in Exodus 3, and this is a section where Moses sees this site on top of the mountain and goes there and sees the burning bush. And as he's at the burning bush and God calls out to him, God reveals who he is. And in that part he God speaking to him will see both of these things as he reveals his this very name, his his covenant name, his personal name This name, Lord, Yahweh, capital L-O-R-D, as you see it in the scripture. We're going to be only looking at a small portion of that Scripture because of time, but in Exodus chapter 3, verses 13 to 15 follow along with me. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask, what is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent you. And what he's talking about is that characteristic of God. I've always been, I always will be, I do not change, I have no need for you, I am powerful within myself. I am the living and eternal and perfect God. And you go, wow. You know Okay, God, you don't have any need for me. But then you see right after that as he reveals himself that he did that with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And through all the saints, and now Israel, because even though this God could be perfectly happy amongst himself in the relationship of the eternal Trinity, he desires to be with the men he has created. And so you see that in this next portion in verse 15. God Also said to Moses, Say to this people, The Lord, and that's Yahweh here now, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am be to remembered through all generations. And here we see the imminent. the covenant name of God. So in one sense, God is all powerful, not needing us at all, and and he's overwhelming. If we would go near him on our own, we would be zapped. That's why uh the people couldn't go up to the mountain God only invited Moses and he had to cover him in the rock when his glory goes by, or he would have been destroyed. And if a people touched the mountain, they would have been destroyed because that's the nature of this wondrous, uh, all-powerful God we have. And yet he desires to have a relationship with his people. Both things together. And if you notice the prayer that Jesus gave to you and me and gave to his disciples, how does it start? Our Father, that's very is imminent, right? Who art in heaven Right? It's transcendence. Both of them are together. And that's the way he reveals himself to us. And the reason that this is so great. Is this God who has chosen to have a relationship with us and bless us in this way, he's able to do it. Right? If I say, I'm going to bless you, you're not going to have to worry about your car anymore being broken on Saturday and fixed on Sundays because I'm giving you a new car. Right? That would be a great way to bless you, right? Would you like that? You wouldn't like a new car? Okay, well I'll ask somebody else Wrong answer. Well, I'm okay. I'll great, thank you. Now I couldn't make that promise, and I, you know, we're promise makers, but I couldn't keep that promise. Right? I'd say it because I want to be nice to him. I'd love Skip to love me even more. Right? I'd love to bless him. But I couldn't do it. Right? But when God makes a promise, not just that he is has a relationship with his people and cares for them and he promises these blessings. But because he is also transcendent, and his word never changes. He cannot lie. He never changes. They will always come to fruition. And that's the joy when you look at this, because each time you'll see each of these blessings, it doesn't say, Jerry's going to do it for you. It says, the Lord, the unchanging one, the one who created and sustains this world by the power of his word. When he says something, he will do it. And he's come to have a relationship with you. Now God is speaking to it. Moses is, God is speaking to Moses to give this blessing to the priest who will bless Israel. And as they're setting off from Mount Sinai to the Promised Land, we're not sure how many. Some people would guess 1. 5 million, some people would guess 3 million, but that's a lot. Right? I think it's a lot. And God says to them, each of them, You will have these things. Now he's blessing the whole nation, but in the Hebrew, it is the second person singular. So he's taking this blessing and giving it to the whole people, but it's to be applied to each and every one of them. that believe and trust in him. So Israel could take this and say the guy's name was Oh, I gotta think of a biblical name. You know, Joseph, right? His name is Joseph, and he says, you know, it's all Israel, but Joseph can put his name in there. And of course, now as you and I are the new Israel, God says in the New Testament, it's not all Israel who were born of Israel, but those who have the faith of the Israelites. who by faith and grace believe in the God who saves. And so not only do you have in relationship with this Almighty God who's going to give these promises to these people, each time when you look at each of these six promises, what does it say? Who's it to? You! Who is you? You are! That's amazing, right? It's not just long ago and far away, and all those people. But as you read these blessings tonight, they are to you. You can take your Bible, and if you're in Christ, write your name in there. It's okay. Now don't Write it, you know, like God said it, just write it to remind yourself. Right? But it's the second person singular These promises are to you, so look at them tonight and say, thank you, Jesus. Right? And when you get discouraged and overwhelmed, come back here to these promises and say, Look, are these promises? Then go to God and say, God, you promised this to me. Look, Pastor told me to write my name in there. God said to write your name in there because it's second plural singular. It's to his people. And so what a joy as we look at these tonight. These aren't happenstance. Oh, they might happen. If if if God is favorable to me today, these might happen. No. These will happen because of the character of God, who has purposed to have a relationship with you. And so even as we set up all these, you know, they're not the kind of promise I'd make. If I make a promise to you, I'd hope I'd do it. I would try to do it. Most times I try to do it. I don't usually just say something to people to make them feel good. Sometimes I do, and I have But God doesn't make promises like that. He backs up every one of them. So as you look at these tonight, revel in them. Mark them, look at them, and then don't be afraid to go back and claim them. Because I'm one of your people. I'm an Israelite of the new covenant. These are for me. And I pray that God would encourage some of you tonight with just that special promise that you need. And one of these blessings especially would stick out for you. I'm going to go over them pretty quickly because I spent most of my time just making sure that you know that they'd come. So I just want to So you don't have to worry too much. You can go back and study these even more, but I'm going to be going over them pretty quickly So as we come to the uh first one The first one is in Numbers 624A. May the Lord bless you, your transcendent and imminent Lord. purpose is to bless you. Now my granddaughter's already picked up, I think from her family they say it. We don't probably say as much, but every time she sneezes or cough, especially my son-in-law says, God bless you Right? God isn't just saying, God bless you here. It's those who by faith know that they are the children of God are talking about God's care of them. And in particular, I'm trying to see in my notes, I'm looking for one thing in particular. It's the sense of Romans 8, 28, and 29. It's the sense of that God is working all things together for good for those who love Him. So that you can know even the difficulties of life are meant to bless you. And so it's not just that everything will go okay, but God is working all things together for good in your life to make you like his son Jesus That was part of the joy when I read a little bit of Johnny's note, is because she says, God show us in the midst of this blessing with this fire around us, you know, what you're up to. That you don't hate us, but you're going to use this for your glory and our good. And so for us to even believe believing that. is a great thing. The Lord bless you. In particular, John Calvin said it this way. John Calvin, and I and I think it it's this is just helpful, he says, blessing is the act of God's genuine generosity because of the abundance of all good things that come to us from his favor as their only source And so when God blesses us, he's talking about everything that you have is from my hand. And we're not to forget that. I will bless you. It's not your the guy who gives you your paycheck who blesses you. God blesses you through that guy who gives you the paycheck. But we tend to think the other person or the other thing is blessing us rather than Almighty God. He goes on, the next promise is that your transcendent and imminent God keeps you. You are blessed by your Lord and is concern to keep you in covenant relationship. with himself so you won't be lost. If we try to keep ourselves in the faith, we're in trouble. I have fallen away from the faith at times, not in the sense that given up all my faith, but I haven't followed after Christ. There's been days in my life I've just said, Lord, I'm going to do what I want to do. I know you say that, but I know best. Or I think I do, and of course it always blows up. But God keeps me in spite of my foolishness. because of his covenant love, he will keep me. He doesn't lose any that are his. Psalm twenty-three, you are shepherded by the Lord, even when you walk through the valley of the shadow of death. You don't have to fear evil, for the Lord is with you. Surely goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your life, and you will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Not because you've been so good. But because he is going to keep you I'm not sure how many of you remember verses of hymns. I remember some. My memory was never very good to begin with, and it is fading. But in now we thank we all our God. Before I read verse 2, I want to tell you who wrote that hymn. His name was Martin Rinkert. He was a Lutheran pastor. During the 30 Years War in the region of Germany and Bavaria and the rest. And during that war, not only it kept on, but there was a plague in the whole area so that millions died. And it became that in his town Ellenburg, he was the only pastor left alive or who didn't flee. And one year he performed more than four thousand funerals. Fifty in one day. And one of the funerals that he performed was for his own wife. And this is what he wrote that talks. about you and me and knowing that in the midst of all things the Lord keeps us. Verse 2 Oh, may this bounteous God through all our life be near us. With ever-joyful hearts and blessed peace to cheer us and keep us in his grace and guide us when perplexed. You think he was perplexed? And free us from all ills in this world and the next. He couldn't free himself from the world Ills and if it was going to change it was dependent upon God. So beloved, I don't know what you and I will face in our own lives, how long we'll live, what'll happen with our jobs, the economy, or even this nation. But I know if you're a child of God, He's going to keep you, and you will not be lost. Because the one who is transcended and doesn't change. Knows you because he's drawn near to you. He's imminent. And his promises are kept. The third promises follows there in Numbers chapter 6 and 25. May the your transcendent and imminent Lord make his face to shine on you This picture is the pleasure that God takes in his people not only to save you, he's chosen to put his love on you and save you, but also to have a relationship with you. There's a special thing that happens when you have a relationship with someone, and when you find joy in them And this is the amazing thing that even though we fail and are still sinners, God looks on us with a pleasant joy because we are his children. Last week I posted on Facebook, and I don't do this all that often, but I went out one afternoon with my granddaughter. And I said, Do you want to work with me? And she says, Yeah, Gramps. It used to be Grampy, and she's only two and a half, and somehow it's already Gramps. I don't know how that goes. Yeah, Grants. And so we went out and we uh put wood and in a in a big wagon together and she pushed it and pulled it with me and stacked it. And uh she worked at that, you know, she's two and a half, and she worked at that probably 30 or 40 minutes. And then after that, we got to play. I pulled her in the wagon and pushed her down the hill with it, and we got in the swing and swang her back and forth, and her face is just like, wow Ha ha, this is great. And uh but her face was that way in the work and play, and and I had taken some pictures and I couldn't wait to post them because I think she's so neat. You know, my countenance was just like, wow, what a kid this is. I am so blessed. And how amazing that God would look upon us In that way and find joy in us who still sin, who still backslide, who still fall away. What an amazing thing that God would say, and his face is going to be lifted up upon us because he loves us in Christ. Psalm 80 and 1, restore, O Lord, to us of hosts, that your face may shine on us that we might be saved. The next one is your transcendent and imminent Lord is gracious to you. In both the Old and New Testaments, God's fundamental to our salvation is God's grace, or his unmerited favor Remember where Israel is now, the route right at Mount Sinai, ready to take off to go to the Promised Land. And God is saying as you go. I am with you to give you all these blessings. I'm the transcendent on changing God who has a relationship with you. And now as you leave Mount Sinai and go to the promised land, I am going to be gracious with you through this whole trip. What just happened before this at Mount Sinai that these people is going to be gracious? Anybody remember? What they make A golden calf, and they hoard after the gods of the nations around them, and God had to discipline them on all the rest. And he could have just said, away with you, nothing else, but what kept the relationship? His amazing grace. How wondrous this is. He doesn't just send them off. He says, I'm going to do everything I can to trip you on the way because of that golden calf. Don't forget about it. He says, No. I'm going to be gracious to you. Beloved, in your journey, in my journey to the promised land, going to heaven, we've had plenty of golden calves. We've had plenty of times we've turned aside to go after our own desires and our own lusts. And we've whored after the things of this world. And yet God may discipline us, God might bring hard things into our lives, but he says, go on that journey that I might be gracious to you. to you. What a wondrous blessing, isn't it? He never gives us what we deserve, but keeps encouraging us along the way. Deuteronomy 7, verses 6-8, that says, says this, talking about God's character for us For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. We like that, right? I'm a treasured possession. I can see why he'd treasure me. Not sure about you, but I know why he treasures me. I'm really quite a guy. But then God puts us in their place. Verse 7. It was not because you were more in number than any of the other people that the Lord had set his love on you and chose you. Well, you were the fewest of all peoples, but it was because the Lord loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your father. God keeps his promises and will continue to show us his grace. The next promise is another one that's joyful. It seems a little bit like the one to have his face shine upon you, but it's number 626. The Lord will lift up his countenance upon you. Another way to say this, I think, in the translation from what I could tell is that the Lord will turn his face toward you and pay attention. There's a lot of fathers in this world that don't pay attention to their children. And we see the results of that all the time. Especially, I believe, in this culture when when so many families are growing up without fathers. They wish they had a father to show them attention. They wish they had that one that God had planned for them in the family to help raise them and teach them and show them. And here it is, it says, your Father, your heavenly father, will turn his face toward you. He cares about you. And you know there are these times when we see in the Psalms what the saints struggle with, right? How long, O Lord! How long, O Lord, until you pay attention? How long, O Lord, until you intervene? This difficulty, this trial, this heartache, this discipline seems to go on forever. Lord, you are ignoring me. Lord, you don't care. Lord, you're not looking at me. But here the promise is that God has his purposes, the transcendent God who knows everything. He hasn't stopped looking at you. He knows about the situation. He will intervene at the right way in the right time. It doesn't seem like that, but here's the promise. The Lord always has his face turned towards you. He'll never stop looking and caring for you who are his children. This promises second person. singular. It is to you. Your father's eyes are toward you. You might mark this verse if you struggle, if God still cares, if he's still looking at me. But in Isaiah 49, let me read verses 14 to 16. Where it's another place where God is telling you that same thing. But Zion, and Zion is Israel, God's children, and you're the new children, uh new Israel. But Zion, the Lord, says, the Lord has forsaken me. I've said that sometimes, have you? Lord, do you care? Are you paying any attention? Why is this going on so long? And usually at that time we compare ourselves to someone else, right? Well, Lord, you came to their aid. Why didn't you come to my aid? Lord, you've been quick with them. Why are you taking so long with me? But Zion Said, the Lord has forsaken me, my Lord has forgotten me. And then the response is, can a woman forget her nursing child? that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb. And it's a picture for us. Mothers usually don't forget their mother their children, do they But it says here, because it's real, it says, even bees may forget. There are hardened and sinful mothers who don't take care of their children. But verse 16 says, Behold, God says to you, I have engraved you. On the palm of my hands. Now we know that God is a spirit and doesn't have palms, right? But he talks this way for us. Because he says, I can't do anything and speak without looking, without looking at my hands, and you're there. I'll never forget you. I'm always knowing the right time and the right thing for you. And one of the blessings is you'll never get out of my sight. You can't ever like Back to my granddaughter, you know. She has a door between the two houses, and usually we knock and she does all that, but sometimes she just comes over and her mother doesn't know where she is. Right? Or we have her over there and she goes back on the other side. Right? We're going, where is she? Whose house? Where is she? You know, we're doing that. God never does that for us. He knows where you are. He knows your situation tonight. He knows when to come to your aid. He knows when you need to wait and trust him. What a blessing this is. God's face never turns away from you. And then the last is your transcendent and imminent Lord gives you peace Now, the armistice that we talked about that happened in 1918 for World War I was the end of a war, the end of conflict. God's peace doesn't mean the end of conflicts. The only end of conflict is the conflict we have with Him. is because he sent his son to die to take the wrath we deserve so we don't have conflict with God. We're no longer children of Satan, his enemy. We're his children. But there are conflicts in his life, but he gives us his peace in the midst of the conflicts. In the midst of a sinful and broken world, you can know that your God looks at you and is blessing you and all the other promises. that we've looked at tonight the five before this, that you can have peace in the middle of them. You could have a heart that is set upon him and be blessed and in the midst and have well-being in the midst of trials and tribulations. That's the peace that God promises. It's the peace that Joseph had. You remember Joseph at the end of his life? He's prime minister, he's been prime minister in Egypt, and his dad is now gone, and his brothers who were murderous liars. Are now in Egypt and they're exposed and they come to him and said, Joseph, now that dad's gone, don't kill us. That's what they deserved. But he says this because he knew the blessedness of God's peace, even working in his brothers who sold him To the caravan where he became a slave in Egypt. He says, as for you, you meant it for evil against me, but God meant it for good. To bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. So do not fear, I will provide for you and your little ones. Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Beloved, we're not going to love this world in the midst of our own difficulties and trials unless we have that peace. That's what I pray for the Christians in California that are praying. Go in the fires next to their neighbors. That's what I pray for the people in the hurricane situations, you know, as their houses are destroyed next to their neighbors. That they would have that peace of Christ and be able to know that God doesn't hate them, God's at work, God will provide for them, and that they can love their neighbors. Because you know what I want to do? Because if I'm in that situation, I know right away what I'd do. Get in the car, make sure I have gas. Go fill up that tank. Get first in line so I have gas and then go where they got water and give a couple elbows in there so my family has water. Oh, you guys would never do that, I do. But those would be my thoughts, right? I've got to get in there. I've got to do it. Rather than knowing that God has called me to still love and serve my neighbors even when I I have nothing. You know, yeah, I can get in line, but I'm called to love them even as my own family. And you can't do that without the peace of God that He provides. You. Put your name in there. You, from the transcendent and yet imminent God, have been given this blessing. These are yours. When you struggle and overwhelm, come back to this. Don't just say, hey, it was great. I heard it Sunday. You're going to hear it again as we close. But hear it when you need it. Mark it and go back to it. And then say to God, God, you're transcended. I lie. You don't. And you've promised me this in the midst of the situation. So that I might have your peace. The last thing he says: your transcendent and imminent Lord places his name upon you. This Lord, you are his. He took Jacob, who was a deceiver and a war worm, and called him Israel, one who strives with or one who holds on to God. And this promise is yours because Christ has taken his name and he's placed it on you. And you can say this to him. I'm your child, Jesus. I have your name on me. I am a Christian. And all these promises for God's people, you have promised them to me. And I call upon you now that they would be mine, that I would know you, the transcendent God, as my Father. And Christ as my brother, and the Holy Spirit as my comforter. Some people say that the three names here, uh mentioning God's three names, was a picture of the Trinity in the Old Testament. I don't know if that's true, but it Seems like it could be. But remember the name that you and I have upon us now in Christ. It's the great name Therefore, God has highly exalted him, Jesus, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus, every knee, should bow in heaven and earth and under the earth And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Beloved, these promises are not only sealed to you By the Almighty God who is transcendent, but the one who has also made him especially imminent through the coming of his son And these promises are sealed to you and bought for you by the blood of Christ, the one whose name Go this week and rejoice in the blessings you have through Jesus Christ. Let us pray Father and God, how I thank you for your word and for the one that gives it. I know my word, I would try most times to be truthful. And to follow up, but I even when I'd want to, I can't because sometimes a physical difficulty or financial difficulties or my own weakness and frailness. But you, O God, will always fulfill your promises. And as we have taken Christ's name upon us, they are promises that are bought and paid for by his blood. All of the promises that you give us are yes and amen in Jesus. And I pray that these particular six blessings would encourage your saints this evening, that under trials and difficulties we would go back and remember what you have said to us and for us. As the Almighty God, who has relationship through us even by giving your only beloved and perfect Son, our Savior Jesus. Amen.