Just as a review, let's back up a a moment to where we've been in order to outline the trajectory of where we're going today. In chapter 4 of 1 Peter, he told us that we should not be surprised by suffering. That comes from being a believer and follower of Christ. But instead we should rejoice insofar as we share in Christ's sufferings, So that we may rejoice at his revealing all the more when he returns at the final judgment. But until that final time of purification and renewal of all things. God is beginning the process from the house of God, the temple, and with the finished crosswork of Christ, the physical temple of God has found its antithe in the church. The body of believers are the living stones that are used in the construction of this temple, where we are royal priesthood who make offerings up to God. This judgment of God begins with the elders, those to whom the responsibility of ruling and shepherding has been given. That is where we ended up things last week. This week, we shall look at the conclusion of that thought and return to a more broader theme that Peter has been speaking about since the second chapter how we, as sojourners, are to live in a world that is not our own, specifically as it relates to different types of relationships within different institutions in society. To that, let us now turn our attention to. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Which is from the book of 1 Peter, chapter 5, verses 5 through 11. Hear now the word of God. Likewise, who, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility towards one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Be sober-minded. Be watchful Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him. Firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little, little while. The God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination by the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, your word is a lamp unto our feet. It sheds light where there is darkness and shows us the way we should go. Be with us now, and help us now to see the truth and beauty of the Word of God, so we may know how to serve and love our great God and our neighbor. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter begins his next thought in verse 5 by expanding outward. A little bit. He now shifts from the elders to within the church to the laity. However, the shift is not an entirely new idea. The topic of discussion is God's judgment or cleansing, beginning with the church first and then later into the world. Having begun with the elders, he's now shifting to the laity. Peter begins, younger men. Now this word can also have the meaning of younger people. Perhaps there's a play on words here where he refers to the officers as elders and the laity as younger people. That's really nothing but a guess on my part. But what I think that what is clear is that he is not specifically speaking to younger members of the church, but he's speaking to the broader lay community. Then he says, likewise, in similar fashion. Now within this context, likewise does not mean Act in a similar way. Peter is continuing the same topic. So he does not have in mind, likewise, be like the elders. What he means is that in similar fashion. We've seen Peter use this idiom once before. If you recall, he used it in chapter 3, where he said, likewise, husbands are to live in an understanding way with their wives. He was then not saying that just as wives are to submit to their husbands, likewise husbands are to submit to their wives. What he meant there was that on this particular topic of the institution of marriage This is how God expects husbands to treat his wives, their wives. In chapter 3, likewise, was used for the institution of marriage. Here it is used for the institution of the church. So, as elders have been given instruction as to how they are to behave, likewise, while on this topic, here is how God expects the laity to respond. The word used here is submission and has the meaning to literally to submit. It means to one that has authority over you not merely to give deference and respect to someone who is simply just older than you. After stating that we are to be subject or obedient to the presbyters of the community, in the second part of the There's some discussion regarding whether the next thought should be a new sentence or perhaps even a new paragraph, or this is a continuation of what was started in verse 5a. I think it's entirely possible that Peter could have ended his thought with, be subject to your elders and moved on from there, began a new thought that brought previous thoughts together. And he does this by taking up the virtue of humility. Humility towards one another. Humility towards God. This putting off and taking off is familiar language from the writings of Scripture. We've seen this in other places. The Apostle Paul is quite fond of using this type of language And he uses it quite often. Here Peter is telling us to put humility on, like we would put on a garment. Clothe yourselves with humility, we are told. Now, I don't know about you, but when I reflect on the statement, I think of myself, if it was only that easy. Or if this were the case, then we can go shopping to the humility outfitters, or maybe go to Macy's and look for the humility department. I can't help but wonder if that were so, you know, like a humility department, if you were to go there, what would you see? Would it be empty? Picked over. Nothing really left. Store just can't keep things in stock in that department. Is this where people would go to to get clothes for an event where they are going to be honored? Or would you find it fully stocked? With most of the clothes on the sale bin or the clearance bin. If it were that simple, would you go to the humility department? This way, you know, you can give credit when someone says to you, brother, sister, that was very humble of you. You could say, well, I got my humility on. All of us have responsibilities in life and they all vie for our attention. We tend to those that need the most attention first, don't we? approach humility. We are to consider the needs of and concerns of others as rising to that level of importance. Certainly we can look at Philippians chapter 2, verses 3 and 4, to realize how we are to approach humility, where there it states the following. Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, rather in humility Value others above yourselves, not looking to your own interests, but each of you to the interests of others. The reason we're given as to why we should put on humility is because God opposes the proud. The Bible teaches us that God will not share his glory with anyone. It is the humble who recognize God's providential hand in all things. and gladly submit to his will and give him glory. It is the proud that seek glory for themselves and don't recognize and acknowledge God's handiwork in their lives. God is continually opposing the proud and rewarding the humble. God's grace is what we needed in order to be saved. And a continual supply of God's grace is what we need to enable us to live the Christian life to the end. Just knowing that alone should move us to humility and act, and that act as a bulwark against pride in the life of a believer. Although Peter has already quoted Proverbs 3. 34 in order to provide reasons for humility, in verse 6 he alludes to it without qualification. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you at the proper time. If God opposes the proud or prideful people, then it's just cheerfulness to be prideful before God. What does it mean to be prideful in this context? Well, it means first that the prideful are those that think they can enter into heaven. on their own good works. This is why we are told to look to the grace of God. Second, those that are proud would not return good for evil. Because their pride would inform them that they are just showing weakness and don't want to be taken advantage of. Thirdly, the proud believe that they know the better or the best way given certain circumstances in life, and that they're not going to submit to the any idea that is inferior to theirs. Fourthly, the proud would not suffer humiliation or beatings in hopes that God would use that to perhaps save that person. That would be beneath their dignity. And finally, the proud are not interested in serving others or interests or their interests. They are not looking to consider the needs of others. As if it is more important than his or hers. Humility requires that we bow ourselves to God's wisdom. God is not in the practice of sharing his plans for our lives, as a general practice And this means that there are going to be times when we experience things that are uncomfortable with, that we experience, and perhaps they may be painful at times. It is especially in those times when we must trust in His wisdom and His plans for us. This requires humility. There are simply going to be times in life when we will suffer loss. But it is always wise for us to follow God's ways and not to lean on our own understanding. So that at the proper time he will exalt us. After he tells us that we must be humble ourselves, He then reminds us of God's mighty hand. The mighty hand of God refers to a rich biblical imagery of God and his people. It was out of God's mighty hand that his people were delivered. Exodus chapter 3 and 6. It was God's mighty hand that was behind the scenes in in the New Testament. We see that in Luke 1. including the death of Jesus, Acts 4. And this is the exemplar case for Peter. It was God's plan for Jesus to suffer for his glory. But just as Jesus is glorified and one day will be acknowledged by every knee, So all those who follow Jesus will be vindicated on that day as well. It is in this vein that we As followers of Christ are to view suffering. One day, justice will be obtained against those that persecuted God's children and did not repent. As Jesus was glorified for his suffering, so shall you. Those that are under any sort of persecution for their faith are prone to being exposed to some sort of anxiety, aren't they? Even for those who haven't experienced persecution directly for their faith, just witnessing others suffer can induce anxiety, can it not? Anxiety can be such a bad thing for our service to God. It falls right in line with fear of failure or fear of embarrassment. What they all have in common is that they can debilitate, they can paralyze our service to God. The fact that something can happen, a possibility that something can happen, can have the same effect as it actually happening in a person's life And this can cause us to sit on the sidelines. The common definition of anxiety is a feeling of worry, a nervousness, or unease, typically about an imminent event or something with an uncertain outcome. In this statement, Peter is asking and answering the question. How is it that I can humble myself so that I can submit? Humility is achieved by us casting our anxieties upon God because He cares for you. This all seems to fit together. Now let me just say that it is not only about love. Or in this case, described as carrion. It includes a broader understanding about who and what God is. Let me elaborate. We are much more able to submit to someone whom we believe cares about us, right? However, there is a difference between submitting to someone who cares about us and someone who has the wisdom and the power and the resources to protect and provide for us. Peter's already addressed the issue of power in verse 6. He stated, the mighty hand of God. So we know that with God we can entrust ourselves. You know that the opposite is problematic as well, don't you? What I mean is that anxiety can be produced under the situation where an authority is powerful. But you don't know if he's going to use that power to care or harm you. This can be really difficult if that person has demonstrated a history of selfishness or being untrustworthy. However, if that person has power and cares for you, this is a powerful combination that allows you to submit without anxiety. Here's an important thing for us Christians. We who are sojourners in this land. Beneath or in between ourselves and God, there can be many layers of authorities that we have to submit to. And this can complicate things, right? And even within the many layers, there could be good authorities as well as bad authorities. So this doesn't mean that they'll all be good, and this may cause anxiety or difficulty in our being obedient to God. What I've just described can prevent or present a problem because we don't know if we would be protected, vindicated by the authorities that are over us. But in the end, whether it is in this life or the life to come, God promises to vindicate us and reward us for our obedience. This is finally and ultimately the stuff of faith If you believe in God and in his word, then you can do what Peter is telling us to do. First, cast your anxieties, whatever they may be, upon God. Second, know that you can do this because God cares about you. Third Know that God is mighty to deliver upon his promises. Fourth, this will allow you to be humble and not prideful, not taking things into your own hands, thinking that you know a better way. Fifth and finally last, to submit to the authorities that God has placed you under. Whether those authorities are within the church, the family unit, workplace, or within secular society. Not only does this allow you to be obedient to God, but it also frees you up to care for others. Care for others' needs. In verse 8 and following, Peter reminds us that God's radar is not the only one that we're under. The devil does indeed have an interest in you. The devil is depicted as an opponent, as well as a lion, who is looking to devour those that are not his children. To devour means to swallow up, similar to what the whale did to Jonah, to be gulped down whole. Peter tells us to be alert, to be watchful. This word reminds us of the Lord when he was in the garden. The disciples had fallen asleep as Jesus was battling in prayer. One can't help but think if this incident was upon Peter's mind. Exhorting us and his readers, just as Jesus had warned him to stay alert, keep watch. Peter was not alert. He fell asleep. And only a couple of hours later, he denied the Lord three times. Fearful of being persecuted for following this Jesus of Nazareth. Combined with that incident. was another time when the Lord told Peter that the devil wanted to devour Peter, sift him like wheat. Luke 26, 31. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat. As a warning, we are told to be clear-minded. We must not be intoxicated with the lures of the world. For the devil knows how to dangle them in front of us, doesn't he? He knows how to dangle intoxicating, tempting things before our eyes. We must be watchful. We should not fall into a spiritual drowsiness that looks at sin and temptation indifferently. That's similar to being lulled into a sense of normalcy, when it is dangerous to our souls and harmful to our relationship with the Lord. The devil is portrayed graphically as wanting to annihilate you. Peter encourages believers to not give in to this persecution. I'm not saying that if you resist the devil and his wiles, that you will not be persecuted. It is when you are being persecuted that you are not to give in to the temptation of sin. Whether it is by returning slander for slander, returning evil for evil, to resist doing good when someone has done harm to you. Please note, he's not saying that you won't experience suffering. He is saying that you are not alone in suffering. Peter reminds us that there are others across the world who are, who have, and will experience persecution for their faith in Christ. Well, on the one hand, we should be careful to not underestimate the power of the devil and his minions. We should also be careful to not overestimate his power as well. He does not have the ability to do anything to you without God's permission. And we know that from the book of Job. But what he can do is to tempt the saints to commit sin. That is where the battle is. And that is where we must resist him. Being firm in your faith is a confidence that soldiers have when they are standing firm, knowing that the victory is possible if they stand strong. When we stand firm, we should have confidence that God will come to our rescue and be victorious. Now let's be clear about what we mean about victory. We're not talking about not experiencing some physical loss, or in this case, persecution for our faith. When we say victory, we're talking about not succumbing to temptation, not giving into our doubts about our faith in God. It is being used by God to glorify his name. Listen, as Peter points out, the entirety of the Christian army, the church militant, is engaged in battle with the devil. Our morale to fight on should be boosted, knowing that we are not alone. A Christian may suffer, but in verse 10, as it teaches, it's only for a short little while. True, this suffering while undergoing it may seem at that time like an eternity However, the placing it within the context of true eternity and the reward that is to come will provide the strength to sustain the Christian undergoing persecution. We must understand so that the restoration that we are to receive may happen, it may happen in this lifetime. And again, we saw that in Job's life. Or we may have to wait until Judgment Day. But we should gain comfort in knowing that the suffering is only for a little while. Not because the enemy is going to retire or retreat permanently, but because, as Peter said in 4. 7. The end is near, brothers and sisters. The end is near. We need to be watchful. And at that time, he will be defeated. Peter closes his letter, at least the body of the letter, with a doxology. A praise to God. His doxology is focused on part of the mandate. That man was given to the the mandate that was given to man in the garden, the Garden of Eden. I don't know if you caught that. Dominion. It's intriguing that Peter begins to end his epistle with a reference or hearkening back to the beginning, Genesis. where God gave the first man a task of exercising dominion. The last Adam, Jesus, was also given a task to do so. But he does so. He accomplishes it through suffering. It is through his personal suffering that he will bring order and exercise authority, both in this world and the one to come when his dominion will be seen visibly to all and by all. Indeed, let us end our time in the Word today with how Peter has. To him be dominion forever and ever. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your Son, the Lord Jesus, our great King, our great high priest, and our great prophet. who continues to speak to us through his word. We pray, Father, that you would indeed grant us the grace that we need. In order to resist the devil, in order to continue to trust you with humility so that we may submit to your will. As you have revealed it to us in your word. Strengthen us Especially when we are under times of suffering for our faith. Help us to see Christ. Help us to relate and understand what He went through. to earn us so that you would be pleased to use in whatever form or fashion our suffering For the benefit of someone else and for your glory. And we ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders who will be assisting with the distribution of the elements to please come forward now.