So I have a question for you. I think I I know what the answer to most of you is, but uh how many here know what a soap opera is? Just raise your hand if you would. You all know what a soap opera is. Soap opera is. Yeah. So um do you all know that uh soap operas have been around for quite some time? Uh they actually started uh back in the nineteen thirties, but they were not on TV. They were on radio. They were radio broadcasts from the nineteen thirties. And um it was not until about the 1950s or 60s that they transitioned from the radio shows to being on the TV. Now, um you might find it interesting that the reason why they're called soap operas is because they were uh sponsored. The advertising sponsors of these shows were companies that sold soap. And so they were called soap operas. Of course, you know, soap operas are um filled with a great deal of uh drama and And what what not, I now I will tell you that I am not a soap opera junkie. However, when I was I think perhaps sometime in high school It was back in 1979 that I was introduced to the soap opera world, and that was around the time of The summer of Luke and Laura in General Hospital. Yes, that's right. So that was uh from nineteen seventy-nine till nineteen seventy one when they actually got married. And I think at that point I got tired of it and and moved on. Uh however, there's uh there's uh there's a ton of soap operas that have come and have gone. But I think that the the longest lasting soap opera Today is the bold and the beautiful. I think that uh they have been around for close to 25, 27 years. Or perhaps if not even more, uh, where in which I believe it's the Forrester family. Now in the soap operas you can find, you know, a lot of drama in there. There's a lot of complexity, a lot of misunderstanding that that creates a lot of uh bad drama, if you will, or actually good drama uh that plays well Now, um uh it's called the bold and the beautiful, and and you know there's a a little bit of a connection here, and that if you look on the bulletin, you'll see that the title of my my sermon is uh is not the bold and the beautiful. It's the bold and the arrogant. And it seems as if there seems uh there's a little bit of uh soap opera stuff that uh that's been going on in the life of the churches that Peter has been writing to. And so that's exactly where I'm getting my my notion here of a title this morning. And so I would like to take a moment though, before we begin our passage and our sermon for this morning. I need to preface a couple of things before we begin. First that you'll notice that in the bulletin I I have verses 10b th through 16 listed as the text for the bulletin. this morning. However, as the week has gone on and I've done background work and in preparation for the sermon, I've discovered that this text is a lot more complex. than I originally thought. It's actually a pretty difficult text that requires a lot of explanation and time to go through. So I very quickly realized Maybe not so quickly. I realized that I bit off more than I can chew. And so today, instead of covering um The second half of verse 10 through 16, we're going to be doing from the second half of verse 10 through verse 12 instead. Dr. Kelly, in his uh introduction to this passage in his commentary, says of uh 2 Peter, he declares. It is the most violent and colorfully expressed tirade in all of the New Testament. Perhaps he was a bit colorful in his own expression, but yet it is noteworthy that as we go into this passage this morning, But both this week and next week, we will discover that Peter is not holding back. He sees the false teachers abusing the sheep. If you recall, he used a word meaning merchandising. of the sheep. His righteous anger and concern for the sheep leads him to be, let's just say, less restrained. So let us turn now to our attention to the text this morning, where our focus will be from 2 Peter 2, verses 10B through Twelve. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of 2 Peter? Hear now the Word of God. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones. Whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. But these, like irrational animals, creatures of instinct born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you and I especially asking that your Holy Spirit would be with us. Father, I um I am concerned that I'll be able to explain this complex passage well. So I ask that your Spirit would be with me and that He would be with all of us to understand your revealed will this day. And I pray, Father, that you would help us to reflect upon what we learned this day and help us to Turn to you where you convict us of sin and grant us the grace that we need so that we may Turn away and reflect righteousness more and more in our lives. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Okay, so what makes this passage so complex and hard to determine? Well, the first one is that the the Greek words that are used here. and the choices that we make regarding their meaning, regarding their interpretation, or tr I should say, translation as well. The actual usage of the words makes it very difficult and complex. And the fact that we don't have a shared knowledge, Of what is going on in the places to where Peter is writing this letter to, what he and they, the recipients, have a combined knowledge of And so we find ourselves asking a lot of questions. This means that Peter can refer to something that his recipients will fully understand. And yet, because we We are so removed from them, I mean specifically in time, that we don't have the same shared knowledge, same shared experiences. So we find ourselves Speculating. We find ourselves speculating about what Peter is referring to and why it is that these false teachers are doing what they are doing. So today I will attempt, with hopefully very little confusion, to offer um The difficulties, an explanation for the difficulties that this text presents, the different interpretations Of how the church has seen and understood this text in a variety of different ways. And despite the complexities Attempt to focus on what Peter is teaching the church and what we should take away from that teaching. And I will try to do this without confusing you so much. So let me ask you to get your shovels and your rubber boots. For times when you expect to be in mud as we dig in. In these verses, which begins with the second half of verse 10, The false teachers are charged with being bold, and I think a proper translation of that is arrogant. They are being, Peter's calling them, that they're arrogant, and there is a boldness in their arrogance. Peter says bold, because they are bold in disregarding God's commandments. It should not be any surprise that in disregarding God's commands That they would do the same to heavenly beings that have less authority than God, but yet at the same time are more powerful creatures. Like angels and earthly authorities, like civil magistrates or authorities within the church For example, pastors, elders, or in Peter's time, the apostles' authority. Now the first term that is used for people who claim rank, authority, or ability that they do not possess. The second term refers to unfounded arrogance. No, I don't know what founded arrogance is, but it's unfounded arrogance These are people that don't have a healthy respect for boundaries. We may know people like that. We may have been impacted by people like that, whether it's within the workplace or perhaps even within our homes. They are not satisfied with the position that God has placed them in. And they think they have or should have more authority or power than they possess. Since they don't have a healthy respect for boundaries, they don't have issues with not showing a proper respect for those in higher authority than themselves. They don't have a problem with challenging the authority or disrespecting those with greater positions than their own. not only challenging, but they don't have a problem assuming the power and authority over them. They don't have a fear, the passage tells us. To have fear is an indication of respect. To not fear is to disrespect. In this context, especially. And here it is an unhealthy, arrogant disrespect. This is what Peter is bringing out. And what comes next, however complex or confusing it is about to become. Let's not lose sight of what he is charging them of and what that could mean within the context of the church. So, the first thing we need to consider in verse 10 is the meaning of blaspheme, and then we have to take up glorious ones. There are so many different translations if you have, perhaps even this week if you are preparing, you if you looked up different translations that you might have or versions. You will see that there's a variety of different ways in which they have been these words have been offered to us. However, in the first century, this word for blaspheme, is a type of slander. The point, I think, is that they were speaking against authorities or powers. Now I'm making reference to the false teachers. In a manner that demonstrated an at least bold and arrogant manner, something that was condemning and untruthful Then it is at this point in the passage that we run into even greater difficulties. What comes next is to whom they are arrogantly unafraid of slandering. Now, there's a variety of different ways this has been interpreted. So let's get into it One way the word in the Greek can be translated is celestial beings. In our ESV, it is glorious ones. Some days, some take this to mean angels. And let me point out that when angels are referred to, they They're understood as both holy, they can be understood as both holy and unholy angels, which we call demons. or the fallen ones. And there's another interpretation, a major line of interpretation, that the meaning of this word is referring to church leaders. Thus, they are arrogantly slandering against church leaders. Now, if it is angels, The false teachers may be making reference to the sons of God. If you recall, we looked at that last time, back at Genesis chapter 6. They holding to the interpretation that they were angels who mated with the daughters of God. Now, if this is not the proper interpretation of the text, And it meant unbelievers were marrying with believers, they would be slandering the angels. But one would ask, why would they be even bringing this up? Well, we know that they were taking advantage carnally. of the sheep. And perhaps they taught this as a justification for their behavior. This is a plausible explanation, but we have to keep in mind that just because we have a plausible explanation, it doesn't necessarily make that the proper explanation. However, if this was the case, indeed, they would be insulting and even slandering the angels for doing something that they did not do. Now, if we are to understand that this is to be translated as church leaders, we can see that when church leaders point out these false teachers as such, And their teaching should not be followed. It makes good sense that what Peter is reporting is that they, the false teachers, are attacking them with insults. And they are arrogant in their response, not lacking any boldness. It should not be a surprise, I think, to us that even today, when false teachers are called out by ministers, These false teachers will and do fight back. They will deny wrongdoing. They will deny their errors and charge back those that expose them with lies. They will charge those pastors who expose them with things like jealousy as the motivation. They are saying these things because their ministry is so prosperous and that they wish that their ministry was prosperous as well, they would say. They would point to their success as proof of God's blessing them Now there are many interpreters that disagree with a human interpretation and go, frankly, the majority with an angelic meaning. But I thought it was important enough for us to at least bring that up that it could be translated in this manner Now, the reason why most people do disagree with a human interpretation, and she's to go with an angelic understanding of the text, is that the upcoming contrast In the next verses, is with the behavior of the angels. Additionally, if you read the book of Jude, which tracks very closely with 2 Peter, The parallel of Jude verses 8 and 9 has to do with Michael's behavior towards an angelic being, even if a fallen one. So if this is so, who are these angelic beings that Peter is referring to? In this case, some say it would mean that the false teachers speak disrespectfully of Satan. And similarly, his fallen angels. Perhaps this is where speculation comes in. The thing I mentioned earlier. Believing that they will never fall, the false teachers now, believing that they will never fall under the sway or share the same fate. As the fallen angels, speaking arrogantly about them, speaking boldly about them. Obviously, you can see this falls under the arrogance part that Peter's pointing out. Now, it's also possible that what is being referred to here is holy angels, righteous angels. Their arrogance is that these false teachers do what the holy angels Do not, even though they, the holy angels, are even more powerful than the fallen angels Referred here as celestial beings, and that is that they don't judge them. These righteous angels don't condemn or judge them. But yet these false teachers are. So we must be careful, I think, to not assume that because they are evil That the word glorious cannot be ascribed to them, because that's what the word's root looks like Glorious to see is not a term that is used exclusively to good or moral upright. beings, although we I think we normally have a tendency to use it in that manner. So they are glorious, these evil beings, the fallen angels, because they are powerful. Now, there are those that take verse 11 to mean fallen angels, and that they, as more powerful beings who merit condemnation. And that, mind you, not from humanity. So this means that meanwhile they are celestial beings, they are guilty ones. But that judgment is God's and God's alone, not mere human beings. I know I'm going to butcher his name, but there's a German theologian, Dr. Schickl. offers the following notation. As Gnostics, referring to the false teachers Did they consider themselves sufficiently familiar with the realm of spirits to be entitled to speak contemptuously of its disgraced inhabitants. Were they that arrogant that they thought they knew so much that they could speak so poorly of and condemn the false angels or the fallen angels? Something that even the righteous angels never did. And why is that? Because that was a prerogative of God's. And here they are talking in such a manner. So back to the arrogance. So in this case, what is more presumptuous Is that, again, even the good angels being more powerful than the fallen angels, well, they don't advance a condemning judgment against them Before the Lord. Well, these false teachers unbelievably do If this is so, they are indeed bold and arrogant, doing what the good holy angels don't dare to do. Pass judgment. But they humbly submit to God's authority and prerogative. To understand this better, we have to refer to the writings of a non-biblical book, which was popular and well known at the time. So let's keep in mind that even when I or or any preacher makes a reference to a non-canonical book, meaning non-biblical book. For illustrative purposes, we are not saying that the book itself should be in the Bible, but we are trying to explain through illustration or referring to it to support an argument for a position. That being said, the book that I'm making reference to is that of 1 Enoch. Which of course is a non-canonical book. In 1 Enoch, verse 9 and following, again, from which the recipients of this letter. Would have been very familiar with. Just like I made a reference to the soap operas, you all were familiar with that. At least most of you were familiar with that. Peter's also looking to what they all had in common and would understand what is meant by this. So them they being familiar with First Dunic In it, we have a vivid account of men bringing complaints to the angels over how demons, evil angels, have wronged them And when these good angels bring these complaints before God, they don't do so with judgment. They leave that for God to decide. They do not go beyond their scope of duty They are not brazen. They do not take the prerogative of gods. But it seems that if this is the case, then these false teachers. are judging, they're condemning, they're arrogantly taking the place In their teachings of God Himself. Peter has a problem with this. We should have a problem with this. But if we take the time to be honest about it, don't we struggle with this when we judge? When we condemn, I'm sure we've heard often enough, you know, that person should be shot That person should go to prison and the key should be thrown away. Oh, that person needs to be flogged, right? We we condemn Sometimes we we don't let it out. Sometimes we do that inside our hearts, right? We do that inside our minds. We really must be careful not to take on a prerogative of God's. But yet it seems that if this is the case, then the false teachers are judging, indeed condemning, taking the place of God. So goes a familiar and popular interpretation of this text so far. Now, another approach to understanding this passage is that the glorious ones are holy angels. And the angels in verse 11, don't bring slanderous accusations against the false teachers that Peter is condemning. Related to this is the problem of, if this was not enough, there's more. The word in or in the presence of the Lord as opposed to an equally translatable From the presence of the Lord. We have to take these into account as well. If from the presence of the Lord is preferred, the meaning is that the Lord has pronounced his judgment. Against them. Condemnation. Only awaiting the time of execution. The angels, the holy angels, who are much more powerful who have much more right to accuse the false teachers of slander and pronounce judgment on them, do not do so. For them to do so would again overstep their authority, that would be God's privilege. So if the proper reading is before the Lord, the angels do not accuse the false teachers before the Lord. They leave all judgment up to God. Again, this would be a warning, I think, wouldn't it? For us not to take the place of God when we are judging. As he sums things up, Dr. Davids, in his commentary, states that on this set of passages here. This is one of those issues in biblical interpretation about which one simply cannot be sure. Have I confused you all thoroughly just yet? If you give me a little more time, I can come up with more interpretations that we have of this text. What Peter seems to be saying is that human beings, you and I, we don't have the grounds for speaking disrespectfully. Speaking disrespectfully of angels, whether it is fallen or holy. Even holy angels don't speak disrespectfully of the fallen angels. This would seem certainly on the surface Arrogant and bold, wouldn't it? What intriguing interpretation I'm going to finish with this section Is if it is against the angels that the false teachers were railing against, and not humans. One other possible underline that word possible explanation is that they, the false teachers, what we know is that they were antinomian. They were against the law. The law that the law had that they would teach that the law had less impact Right? That the law was not as important now that we're living post-the-cross for believers. Now this was an attack The thing that the angels, against the angels, that the angels mediated, that the law of God had no effect on them now. Alright, so it in the process they're attacking the angels. Because it was believed that the angels were those that mediated the law of God That they were instrumental in bringing the law of God to Moses, so Moses gives it to the people of God. We can see this in Galatians 3. 19, which I'll read to you. Why then the law it was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made? And it was put in place through angels by an intermediary, referencing Moses. So the point is it was the angels who were responsible for the law, and so he's attacking the law because he says, but they're they're antinomian, right? That the false teachers are antinomian against the law. Now, I think we know that the law contains the seventh commandment. Y'all know what the seventh commandment is? It is about thou shalt not commit adultery, right? It condemns all forms of sexual sin. And some have speculated, there's that word again, that perhaps the reason for their insulting of the angels was for that reason. You see, in the first century, religious prostitution was commonplace and looked at positively by the pagans. Cities like Ephesus and Athens were well known for this all across the empire. They saw it as having False teachers. They saw it as having a positive spiritual value. This is the perversion of the biblical truth, but to unsuspecting, immature, newly converted members of the church who grew up in a cultural environment that practiced this and looked at it positively may have seen it as normal behavior when enticed by these false teachers I thought it was an intriguing theory that I wanted to at least present before you. Dr. David's again points out that this is a warning. In either case, that should give us pause. Who accuse and even pronounce judgment on other human beings? An activity that is quite common in the church. Even among church leaders. End quote. Now we have to be careful, even here, in understanding this, pronouncing judgment, that is. When we say this, we're not saying that we we do not argue against, point out error. For the teachers of the church, the leaders of the church, the elders, have a responsibility to protect the sheep from wolves. Who would teach error to stop wolves from taking advantage of them physically, emotionally, financially, and spiritually? It is not that we are being craps or mean when we are pointing out error or heresy. The problem is that we have to avoid their end. That is, what God will do to them or what God should do to them, that is up to God to decide what he will do. So when you hear a Bible-believing minister call out error or heresy, it's not wrong. In fact, it's his. It's my job to do so. But we must be careful to not cross lines, which it is only God's privilege and authority to do so. We must, however, in carrying out our tasks, not be arrogant. One of the trademarks that Peter is pointing out here Of the false teachers. Arrogance. As we come to verse 12, we see a contrast to the angels' behavior who demonstrate restraint. The false teachers do not know what that means. Whatever the proper interpretation may finally be for verse 11. What is clear here in verse 12 is that these false teachers are overreaching in their status as they are slandering They slander because they don't have a proper understanding in the things of which they are speaking about So instead of having wisdom and quote-unquote special insight, which the Gnostics taught. Like they claim they have. They are acting instead, Peter says, like wild animals. Brutes, beasts in the wild. That's where you would find them. That's how they're acting. They're driven by their natural drives. behaving in a subhuman manner like animals. What Peter is referring to is that they are entrapped by their own desires. They're following the lusts of their heart. They are giving into their impulses. They're grabbing on to all that they can grab a hold of. And they say that this is all it's gone in God's plan for us. As for when Peter says, born to be caught and slaughtered, he's referring to the understanding, or time, which for the animals that were prepared for various purposes. Whether it was for religious purposes, offerings for consumption, or for even hunting. The point, though, is that these teachers were going by instinct, and that the judgment would be by God, with the assumption of it being on the coming judgment of God. He finishes the verse, they, like beasts, will be destroyed. Now some of the interpretations, now we've got a whole host of interpretations on what that means. But I'm going to spit on going through all the different interpretations. I think what he's really talking about here is that they will be destroyed in the same destruction with the animals. They will be destroyed on the final judgment, as in God will destroy animals as well as the false teachers. Now I think that there are some takeaways here for us And I'll try to go through this quickly. I think one of the things that passages like this teach us is that you need to get a good night's sleep before you come to church for the sermon. But more seriously, perhaps not. What they teach us is that sometimes the texts that we have are not clear. Or our translations into the local vernacular can be difficult to ascertain. It can also mean that we are not certain sometimes as to which interpretation of the text we are to take away. Sometimes we fall into that situation. I think this also teaches us to be humble, to be humble especially. in our understanding of secondary doctrines. Now on Wednesday nights we have started our study of eschatology One of the things that we've pointed out is that eschatology, the study of last things, is not a primary doctrine. The most important doctrine is that of salvation. But eschatology, the study of last things, the return of Christ, is one of those teachings that is secondary or periphery. And that we can disagree with like-minded or actually Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ, on a variety of different teachings But yet know that we are still brothers and sisters in Christ. And so we must be humble in understanding secondary doctrines as such. That is to say, that if we hold the gospel together, if we share the gospel and the understanding of the gospel, that we have to be careful not to call them non-believers because they don't they don't share their understanding of how when Jesus is going to return. Right? There's a variety of different doctrines that are out there that we need to be aware of and not to be so um Determinative of what a Christian is and what a Christian doesn't or isn't in their belief system. Okay. This also teaches us that we have to be tolerant Biblically tolerant of brothers and sisters in Christ. Again, who hold different views on secondary issues. I think all the more so when it is less clear, perhaps even as we look at this passage today, than other passages in other areas. Now, one of the things I think we're discovering here is that what these false teachers have in common is that they're arrogant. And they're bold in their arrogance, that they don't have boundaries in what they do. And they will find clever ways to interpret things To get what they want and to feast upon even the sheep themselves. What we see is that they're prideful That they lack humility in their understanding. And I think that this makes them particularly dangerous Because they sound very sure of themselves. And this may cause some people to follow them because they sound like they know what they believe and that it's the truth. What we need to do is be very careful. And the way that we are careful is by learning the word. Know your scriptures. Know what the Bible teaches. So that when a false teaching or a false teacher comes your way, you know how to distinguish between the real and the fake. That means that you've got to invest You've got to invest in your walk with Christ. And one of the ways that you make an investment that will reap such wonderful benefits in your life is by studying the Word of God. You've got to do that more and more. You will protect yourself and you will protect your loved ones Against false teachers that we've already established, that Peter has told us that have come, have been coming, and will come, and actually are burst almost, if you will, from within the church They're clever, they're charismatic, and they're all over the place. This is very important for us to consider. But I want to finish up. Especially for those of you who've been taken advantage of. I've been ministering long enough and I've been counseling long enough that I've had Christians over the years who have come to me and have shared with me how they have been merchandised. By false prophets, false teachers, how they've been taken advantage of. Well, all the things that I've mentioned here, financially, carnally. Spiritually, emotionally, and when they were all used up, they were dumped to the side. For those of you who've experienced any manner of that, Take comfort in what Peter has said. Their death, their destruction is assured. And you will have justice on that day, whether it's in this life or on that day, judgment day, that God is seeing things and God will make things right. Take comfort. Don't lose hope in Christ. Don't lose hope in God. They're they're around. I know they're around. I've seen the side effects of them being around Take comfort from what Peter says. Judgment will come. God will make it right. And he will heal you. Whether it's now in this life or in eternity, God will take away the tears. God will take away the pain. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for loving us. We thank you for warning us. We pray, Father, that indeed you would bring healing into the lives, into the hearts, into the souls of those who have been taken advantage of even modern-day false teachers. Who have been abusive. We pray for justice. We pray for them to be exposed for what they are and who they are. And we thank you, Father, that if it is not your will to do that in this life, that one day we will We will have justice. And they will be exposed for all to see. In their arrogance, thinking that they can get away with anything that they want. Help us instead to love you. Help us instead to properly love our neighbor. And most importantly, to glorify you. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.