And I heard a voice say to me, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. And when they heard these things, they fell silent. And he's candid about that as he discovers a very large gathering in Cornelius' house. And it really wasn't until God moved me and Nancy to rural South Carolina that God showed me what was going on in my heart and began to work on me. But it drifted far from its biblical moorings and its mission to do that, and churches do too. He says, you know, we sing red, brown, yellow, black, and white. And maybe, well, you need to rethink what you do on Sunday morning, what's appropriate for those children and that family. And he stared at him in terror and said, What is it, Lord? And he saw the heavens opened and something like a great sheet descending, being let down by its four corners upon the earth It means Behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, stood at the gate, and they called out to ask whether Simon, who was called Peter, was lodging there. And they said, Cornelius, a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man, who was well spoken of by the whole Jewish nation and had called together his relatives and close friends. worship then. is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcision party criticized him, saying, You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them? And the Spirit told me to go with them, making no distinction. And he told us how he had seen the angels standing in his house and say, send to Joppa and bring Simon, who is called Peter. to be the administrative capital for Rome, for what we think of as Palestine. And for those of you who have been studying the book of Jonah, that's where another servant of God goes to run away from God's call to minister to one of the nations outside of Israel. As the men get close to Japan, it's lunchtime. What God has made clean, don't call common. For I had sent that. A kosher Jew would rather die than eat pig. And then a shove, you gotta go, now starts to become something clear in his mind. To be unclean, you see, for Jews, not just a label, like you might find on a box in the grocery store. The law labels pigs and shrimp unclean, and to touch them made a Jew ceremonially unclean, which means that they couldn't participate in worship without undergoing a ritual. And John tells us it's because they do not want to be made unclean and not be able to eat the Passover. And partly because they lived under the oppression of other nations, became very, very hostile. And you'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. And eventually I ended up going to seminary for four years, and I had very little contact with anybody who wasn't at the seminary because I was Well, I was putting in twelve or more hours every day uh studying, more like sixteen most days. And so I had a period of about ten years when I really had very little contact with anybody outside of the church. uh something about the gospel or if they seemed a little bit more open, I might ask if they'd be interested in in perhaps doing a Bible study together But it doesn't make it easy for people of different ethnicities or cultures to live together in the church. in a multicultural or multiracial situation. You see, Jesus, who was an insider, how could you be more an insider than to be the Jewish Messiah? Yes. Gave alms generously to the people, and he prayed continually to God. In it were all kinds of animals and reptiles and birds of the air. to associate with or to visit anyone of another nation. That you have been commanded by the Lord. For they were hearing him speaking in tongues and extolling God. But Peter began and explained it to them in order. But the voice answered a second time from heaven, what God has made clean, do not call common. He will declare to you a message by which you will be saved and you and all your household. just as on us at the beginning. But it is actually how it is being communicated that this is an exceedingly important story. You can see this in a number of ways. that he was highly decorated, that he had done exceptional service in the military, and so it's a chest full of medals It's not the sky opens up. It is Pentecost all over again. and extolling God just as the 120 disciples did on the feast day, as it's recorded in Acts 2. for God. And it wasn't just a challenge for the early church at its beginning, it's still a challenge in every generation. Story of Jesus' trial in John 18. Well, what Peter's doing here is he's reluctantly crossing a boundary. or physical hygiene. For I am the Lord your God, consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I'm holy. and separation to God as his people. For I am the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. To those who weren't Jewish. of a Jew who hates uh the n people in the nations around him. Now the point's this. in the church. He moved not just Peter, but the church in Jerusalem out of their ruts, out of what was familiar, out of their prejudices. out of their comfortable patterns, patterns that they had had for centuries, which they saw as rooted in Scripture Truly, I understand that God shows no partiality. He acts as if he's keeping kosher again. Do we need to catch up with what God is doing? Or do you show partiality in who you're willing to associate with, who you'd share the gospel with? changed in my uh life and I was astounded at what had happened uh to me. uh for them to forgive me. To figure out what I was going to do with my life, and I became increasingly absorbed in my studies. And I began to wonder how was I going to do that? And I would introduce myself as the pastor of such and such church because pastors sometimes still had some respect And I knocked on, well, probably 30, 50 doors over the course of a year or so. One of them I did a Bible study with, and one, that one came ultimately to church. Was it just duty? It's all Jewish. Or perhaps somehow someone who is new to Christ stumbles into their midst and you hear their story. uh on the West Coast. And we thank you for this table this morning that shows us at what cost we were welcomed and all that you did to make that possible. It's in Christ's name we pray. that announce multiple language services are held there. Spanish, you name it, English and Mandarin, whatever whatever, you know, all sorts of things. Sort of a picture of the church, that the church is a big tent gathering all the nations. And we have to work at it. But maybe for the single mom who didn't grow up in church, expecting that might be a lot to ask. And if you feel like an outsider, we want you to know Jesus regards you as an insider. at a meal in just a few minutes. And you've been included because of what Jesus did. Together. At Cycarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian cohort, a devout man who feared God with all his household. When the angel who spoke to him had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who attended him. And he became hungry, and he wanted something to eat. And this happened three times, and the thing was taken up at once to heaven. And as he talked with them, he went in and he found many persons gathered, and he said to them, You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew. Your prayer has been heard, and your alms have been remembered before God. So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. But in every nation, anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. You yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed. How God appointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil. They put him to death by hanging him on a tree, but God raised him on the third day and made him to appear, not to all the people, but to us who had been chosen by God as witnesses. And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, and they asked him to remain for some days. This happened three times, and all was drawn up again into heaven. If then God gave the same gift to them as he gave to us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could stand in God's way? May God add his blessing to his uh word. but to tell them in such a way as to emphasize their importance. And it is from this city that the church will send forth Paul and Barnabas and begin global missions. A prominent Roman army officer named Cornelius is living in Caesarea. means ethnic. the Gentiles or the nations. He hasn't fully converted. and knew uh that it would bring public ridicule if that was known. He was unclean. But the Spirit says to Peter, three men are looking for you, rise and go down and without hesitation. You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or visit anyone of another nation. So when I was sent for, I came without objection. of being purified. into his church. Well, it's like a sign on the highway. Word travels fast. He was sitting on the wall, and now he jumps across to the other side. And Lord of all. And over time, because of the relations between Jews and Gentiles, the Jews, partly because they were God's called people, He's entered into full communal life with the Gentiles. For from within, out of the heart of man, comes evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, evil, slander, pride, and foolishness. Only he can cleanse our hearts of the wicked thoughts and desires that we have and the actions that flow out of them And the activity of the Holy Spirit. Admittedly, it was a one-sided reading of Scripture, but they saw these things as rooted in Scripture. This, though, is the missionary activity Jesus told them before he ascended to heaven they would be involved in. It's not what they imagined. God planned it. that the church is uh confronted with the reality of God's actions. Well, they wouldn't be as accepting as God. how it it is that he wants me to be involved in what he's doing. And I was an outsider. in South Carolina. Actually, I was a blank Yankee. And eventually with some advice, I prayed, and then I started going door to door in in in that community and I would ask, was there anything I could pray for? And I remember really distinctly that I went to the home of a very poor black family. My passion diminished, didn't diminish, excuse me, it grew as I uh did what was uncomfortable. And if you're obedient to the life that Christ gives you, you will experience the same thing. the inertia of the entire Jewish church. and to lose its outward mission focus. And it's a bit like if a farmer never plants a seed, there is, as a natural consequence, there's no harvest. And so a church that's lost its mission, it's drifted from its mission, lacks conversions. Dennis Johnson is a New Testament professor and the academic dean at Westminster Seminary And Jesus invites us to follow him in welcoming them. at that marriage supper, which you have set as the Lamb who was slain for the sins of the world. for misunderstandings uh to develop, for friction to take place. comfortable routines and long-held assumptions will be disturbed. And some of the things that you always did a certain way as a church might need to be revisited. But here you and I find ourselves. And really the question for us is, you know, can we embrace what God's doing? Will we be open? To be the kind of church that Christ wants. He says, we have an altar from which those who serve in the tabernacle or the temple have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood was brought into the holy place by the high priest as a sacrifice for sin were burned outside the camp. If you're here and you're an outsider to Christianity, you honor us by being here. In fact, all of you were once outsiders too. And he's still leading his church all around the globe because the globe, well, the globe today is just, it's a milkshake. Don't live near each other. And now send men to Joppa and bring one Simon, who is called Peter. And while Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, three men are looking for you. Who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. By Luke. But last of all, these stories introduce us to what comes next, the Church of Antioch. Peter, uh, in retrospect, really comes to understand what this vision is saying. And God acts through a reluctant church only after Peter gives an account of all that happened, the visions. Now please note what's going on here. It was cold. And so as we draw near to this table, to your table, Lord Jesus, the table which you set not just for us, but for the nations. In Los Angeles, which isn't that far from the seminary he served in, it's common. And the voice came to him again a second time. And Peter went down to the men and said, I am the one you are looking for. Was directed by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house and to hear what you have to say. common or unclean. And we are all witnesses of all that he did, both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. Living in a significant Gentile city, and he is a prominent and privileged member of Roman society. Clean and unclean, kosher and non-kosher, permitted and forbidden for a Jew. Rise, Peter, kill and eat. Peter's trip to Cornelius in Caesarea is like a Palestinian Muslim from the Gaza Strip going to visit an Israeli army captain in Tel Aviv. Jesus is Lord of all. God has embraced not just the Jews, but the nations, the Gentiles. the same way as humans. That the whole world, we know, is blessed through Abraham's greater son. given in divine visions and voice. But he intentionally slows down story time, including all these details. Now the account in chapter 10 ends with Peter and the men who are with him staying some time in Cornelius' house. from outside can't defile him, since it enters not his heart, but his stomach, and is expelled. Subsequent events will show that many conservative Orthodox Jews who in the Old Testament are called Pharisees It's our responsibility to crawl over the rubble to the other side, to those people who have yet to hear the gospel. And I needed to go back and ask their forgiveness. Probably this house had been constructed by the company that owned that town some time before. Now, God, here, this is how we live this story, but God acts to overcome the There is an absence of the profound joy that Jesus describes in the parable of the prodigal son. if grace. We pray, Father, that through the grace of the gospel, through the promises of it, that we might come and eat and drink with gladness of heart. It's not easy to do that. embraces them in a way that they know that they're no longer outsiders. And so Jesus suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify people through his blood. being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to me. First by the narrator, then Cornelius' servants, then by Cornelius when Peter arrives, and then Peter relates it to the church in chapter 11. It would be colloquially called Caesar Down. And most importantly, he's a gentile. All these evil things come from within and they defile a person. You see, um we moved to uh a mill town, a place where cotton was milled into fabric. All revealed that. Look at the calendar and how members use their time, what ministry priorities and planning takes place, and what the membership is zealous for, excited about. And when things go on long enough like this over time, the church experiences numerical decline. That we might be changed just a bit more to be like Christ. Because people who are not our people, your people, are going to have different needs Kill and eat. Now I want to invite you to listen to the story. Caesar's town is no place for a kosher Jew. He's writing in all caps. Because it would lead to their downfall. who testify that these things happened. to extend the kingdom to the people you live and work and play with. My heart grew in passion for people who hadn't heard the gospel. Lord, be pleased to grant that this table would be sweet, for one day we will sit at this table where all the nations will be gathered, and you will serve us. And the nations have come here. so that we who are outsiders could become insiders. Tell us that God initiates the mission to the Gentiles. But it was a different matter for a Jew to receive hospitality from a Gentile. The next day he rose and he went away with them, and some of the brothers from Joffa accompanied him. While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word, and the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed. God's giving a hint to Peter, and one of the more obvious hints was that the tarp is being let down by the four corners, which suggests the four corners of the earth. It's a matter of what's on the inside. But churches have inertia. Well, it's just like Apollo 13 recognizes it as a problem. That we lose sight of this because, well, we like our kind of people. There's probably almost no place in the world where people from different nations and cultures and ethnicities The next day, as they were on their journey and approaching the city, Peter went up on the housetop at about the sixth hour to pray. And Cornelius said, Four days ago, at about this hour, I was praying to my house at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing and said, Cornelius, For Peter, the light goes on, but he won't be consistent. And see, the question is, do we realize the implications of what God has done? Now I want to tell you a little bit about my own personal journey with this. And you need a little more background to fully understand why. But Peter lifted him up, saying, Stand up. Because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even, even on the Gentiles. All the way back to Abraham when he was told that you will be a blessing to the nations. Peter is staying in Joppa and Courtney sends two of his servants and a devout soldier with him to report his vision. And this could only be possible because Jesus is Lord. There were many priests in Jerusalem who had come to embrace Jesus Christ and they were very keen about keeping kosher. Was I being motivated by guilt? The church is a big tent. We talked for a few minutes. And then Peter repeats the story. But I was a pastor, and as I studied the Bible, I became deeply moved by Paul's instructions to Timothy to do the work of an evangelist. Nothing but the oil of the Spirit would ever make that possible. Something like this wasn't something that kept quiet. So Peter meets them. The sheep with the animals comes down from heaven and it goes back from heaven, which is saying to Peter, and he gets this, heaven doesn't distinguish and differentiate. It has nothing to do with that. He's written a commentary on the message of the Book of Acts and reflecting on this theme in the book of Acts In spite of the fact that they had been told that God's plan was always to include them, they just forgot that. God initiated it. And um it was the rural South. God is pleased to welcome those who are excluded. He's in a trance. It's not what they planned. And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Well, Dr. And the woman opened the door, and I could see on her face that she did not trust me. So hear the word of the Lord, Acts chapter ten. Usually the church doesn't recognize its lack of joy unless someone happens to tell maybe their story of how God reached into their lives. He receives a vision from God to summon Peter, who by the way is in Joppa. And um I was like that for a long time. Will we be willing? Many, many people who were attracted to Judaism viewed circumcision as a mutilation of the body. Amen. So when I was sent for, I came without objection, I asked then why you sent for me. Probably most of you who work work with people who really aren't your kind of people And the Jews thought of themselves as the important chosen people and they thought of the rest of the world as, well, others. One of them is the number of times the visions are recounted. And it's God speaking. And you shouldn't expect, we shouldn't expect, that God's going to repeat this. This happens three times. And God's reason for kosher food, in spite of what you may have heard, is not food safety. Now God commanded Israel when it came to the Promised Land not to intermarry with the inhabitants. They would spiritually adopt the gods of the people whose land they lived in. God is the one who took this initiative and he's challenging the status quo in the church. The Holy Spirit falls. Well let me tell you. You know, when people who aren't your kind of people and you are together and you're trying to do something, well, it's natural. We are in a cosmopolitan city. But we want you to know Jesus died so that outsiders could be insiders And they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also, God has granted repentance that leads unto life. It's just so much to take in. Peter invites them in to Simon's home to be guests. It was his idea all along. Jesus and Paul both use this of those who don't follow Jesus Christ in a few places. When Jesus is in Pilate's headquarters, the priests will not go in. And social pressure, we're all subject to it. And people let me know that they would just as soon I move back to where I came from But Peter said, By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. Luke was directed by the Holy Spirit not only to tell these stories. And verse 18 in chapter 11 tells us the critics fall silent. Of those, whatever number it was, homes that I'm the door, there were two people that invited me in. The church I was serving was in a rural village that covered about 25 square miles of land that mostly wasn't being farmed And Peter is praying. So here's a diagnostic question you can ask yourself. I don't know what it'll look like, that really, really welcomes people of other ethnicities. I was in the city of Joppa praying. I ask you then why you've called for me. It's large haunt. And so they accepted what happened. He is viewing another dimension, a spiritual dimension. And the story shouts this: that God is the one who has acted to include the Gentiles Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the Word of God. And all of us are spiritually unclean. You may take your seats. And Peter objects, I've always kept kosher. That just shows you how 21st century is trying to be read into the Bible. Any more than when Jesus came, the Christ, was what they were anticipating. And God is doing something among the nations here. What God has made clean, do not call common. Now, for you boys and girls, when the Bible speaks of a person being a Gentile, it's using a word that in Greek God's the one who sets up the chessboard to bring this about in such a way. When Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and he fell down at his feet and Why am I been summoned? God is including the Gentiles. To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. As we saw when we're studying Galatians, he retreats from this understanding under social pressure. Sometimes it's two churches that speak different languages, English and Korean, English and Chinese, English and And Cornelius, because he's a centurion, we know he served for at least 12 years. In other words, God's fingerprints all over this. And people were not too subtle about it. Well, if you're our guest, let me just tell you a little bit about how we do this. And Peter is puzzled. Now in the middle of his sermon, the Holy Spirit rudely interrupts You shall therefore be holy as I am holy. Then Peter declared: Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? It got to Jerusalem before Peter and his companions did, and when he arrives, he is immediately greeted with criticism. Or as the NIV puts, uh now I realize. I knew that I should do this, but even though there were very little fruit from doing it, at least that I could see And this is Jesus leading his church in the book of Acts. These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered the man's house. And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter. And he said to him, Your prayers and your alms have ascended as a memorial before God But God has shown me that I should not call any person But I said, By no means, Lord, for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth And behold, at that very moment three men arrived at the house in which we were and sent to me from Caesarea. Peter is out of his comfort zone Let's pray. Will the leaders demonstrate the kind of wisdom and love that only the Spirit can give a church But while they were preparing it, he fell into a trance. So Peter opened his mouth and he said, Truly, I understand that God shows no partiality. They would bump elbows at the table as they ate and drank together. You have to remember that basically at this point in the story of the book of Acts, the church is just Jewish When Peter invites Cornelius' servants and soldier into Simon's home, this isn't a violation of purity laws. This is in keeping with his plan. Send therefore to Joppah and ask for Simon, who was called Peter. It's sometimes called mission drift. It's hard to get your hearts and minds around it. But the Spirit of God fashioned unity in the body of Christ I too am a man. It's a strong word. He he understands it even as he's standing there in Cornelius' house. Now, how do we live this out? Or to use the image from last week's sermon. Looking at it closely, I observed animals and beasts of prey, and reptiles and birds of the air Now, probably you find it a bit tedious Well, Cornelius recounts his vision, and Peter begins to realize what had been a hint? And I also was just excited to be able to tell them about the change that happened to me as I asked. My speech, my clothes, the way I fought and s and my values. About the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God come in and say to him, Cornelius. You see, being spiritually unclean is not a matter of what you eat or touch. Anybody who was sick? And we lived in a small town. And so he wasn't circumcised. He's up on a roof waiting while the meal is prepared. Now, when the congregation begins to reach out and draw in people from a different culture or social group, Now, therefore, we are all here in the presence of God to hear all The visions and the falling of the Spirit and the repetition of Pentecost. And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them. But Peter's finally grasping what he heard Jesus say. You know, the author of Hebrews says this If you're here today and you're our guest, you honor us He is lodging with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea. And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he It's bold. Gracious Lord, we do thank you for your welcoming us. It's the natural tendency of a church to become focused inwardly. Johnson says it's not might be disturbed. Maybe you always thought that everybody's children should do what your children did in church. Once you had no hope and knew no God That wall that divides Jew and Gentile that Paul describes as the wall of hostility But you see, it doesn't look like what they expected. Now, I've mentioned before, I came to Christ as a young adult. They are all precious in the sight. And you see, this is so appropriate. In fact, most churches have signs And if you are able, would you please stand as we continue the reading in Chapter 11? And there's nothing automatic about expressing Christ's love. What is the reason for your coming? Thus he declared all foods clean. That we might more and more share your passion for those who are outsiders. In a trance I saw a vision, something like a great sheep descending. You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. To go to people who are different than you. And um uh then uh when I graduated I was involved intensely with the development of my career. And the summons of Peter and Peter's being told by God to go are This is one of the world's great cities It was named for and dedicated to Caesar Augustus. He doesn't know what to make of this vision. God has been working in me to see Houston, we have a problem. We're glad for you to be here. That God wanted Peter to proclaim the gospel, and so he does. That's what Peter gets. Now, while Peter was inwardly perplexed as to what the vision that he had seen might be Corinius' vision is recounted four times. It was always plan A. And But as subsequent uh Is there anything we could do for them as a church? The repetition of the narrative of these events is first told in chapter 10 And on the following day they entered Caesarea. Now, it's a city that was designed and built by Herod the Great. Only Jesus can cleanse the human heart. See, Peter's doing what would have been inconceivable. This is a unique, unrepeatable event in the history and story of God's work in the world. If you're familiar with Harvard University, it was founded to train pastors and missionaries. It takes great, great wisdom to navigate these issues As for the word that he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all. No, it's also a reality After all, what can they say? But the implications of God's actions would create a sharp conflict. Rise and go down and accompany them without hesitation, for I have sent them. And the Gentiles are speaking in tongues And uh Do you share God's passion to see the gospel reach people? I was a Yankee. You can see it in the You shall not defile yourselves with swarming things that crawl on the ground. This was a constant temptation, and a lot of them there, a lot of their history, they fell into this. So keeping Kosher was a visible sign of Israel's holiness How do we live out this story? God knocked down this wall. And the hole in the wall that led to the outside was as big as a window in my house. But the voice from heaven says, But as the years went on in college, I began to want to find a wife. He didn't take on the full yoke of the law. He says this in verse 28 and 29. You see And Luke could have summarized this whole thing in far fewer words. I had hurt a whole bunch of people Your heart and life will become more like his. He's reaching the nations. That's why you didn't come in your pajamas this morning in case you didn't think that through. That's a lot different than the suburbs of Richmond or Baltimore where I grew up. It's like It's not for those who haven't responded to the gospel to crawl over the rubble to us. So he invited them in to be his guests. Peter's beginning to work out the implications of what God has revealed. And I want to help you see a little bit more. And then the next day he goes with these men off to Caesar town. And you can tell when a church has. The children sing that in Sunday school, or at least they used to. And we want to welcome you this morning. And I was very, very excited about what I was learning about God and Scripture and so on. And having related everything to them, he sent them to Joffa. Jesus is Lord. We strongly prefer our kind of people But God has shown me that I should not call any person common or unclean. But And Jonah's just, you know, exhibit A. This is It is the third largest city in the Roman Empire. Well, one of the clues is in what Peter says. No, they will be disturbed. But he became an outsider. We hope you'll join us. You know, it's not just Peter, don't take Peter's word for it. And sometimes if it seemed appropriate I would leave them. Now God explains it in Leviticus 11. Tried to get my church to do that with me, but really nobody was interested. The joy of the angels of heaven. But he's also attracted to Judaism And he said, What comes out of a person is what defiles him. And in it, a tarp is lowered down. And he too receives a vision from God. These are people who don't keep kosher, to say nothing of what might have been on the menu. He says, I've been treating food and people the same way. Of course, And perhaps the core problem is this. Cornelius was expecting them. Just how does the church overcome its inertia? It's a two-day walk. In Mark 7, Jesus says, Don't you see that whatever goes into a person He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner by the sea. He was a radical uh It's a smoothie. And so it's most important to appreciate that Cornelius is Gentile. He was respected by the Jewish community, but he didn't keep kosher. It would be like attending a pig roast. Now the vision is suggestive. All you have to do is examine the budget. And he does that by shedding his blood on the cross. So listen to the story. And we know it's true. And he announces the gospel in these terms. For God was with him. It's just totally mixed. He says this. Now I want you to take this in. There's six other men. Here's the background. The heavens open up. It's a matter of the heart. It's full of animals.