Or if he has oppressed his neighbor, so if you're going to rob your neighbor, you do it on purpose. It's not just that, oh, uh, you know, uh, his wallet ended up on my kitchen table. And then with Assyria, it was happened earlier. And he says, well, why do you he says, I've obeyed all that God asked me, and he hears the bleeding of the sheep in the background. So turn open your hymnals, page eight seventy-five. There's nothing wrong with being prepared for some kind of emergencies for a couple days. No, no, it's more often than not we didn't care. according to the shekel of the sanctuary for a guilt offering. You're thinking about it. And it's the breach of faith that we've already seen, but it's that breach of faith of a the whole group of people because they didn't, and Lord willing, next week And 1 Chronicles 9. This breach of faith with Judah happens in Wood of Babylon when they're carried away there. whom they had destroyed before them. There's consequences when we rebel against him. It happens with nations as we leave God, but it happens most particularly. They no longer listened to their princes and they were all corrupt. You know what he was asking for? from everybody, but what do you say? In John 17, 15, he prayed that we would be kept holy. If you've had a part of the Adult Sunday School, you know we've been talking about electronic media. It's breached. Many of you don't even have a clue what that is. what it is for this breach of faith. So God help us tonight to think about your word very personally, about our own, because that's exactly what faith is. It's not just talking about a sin against a brother or sister in Christ, although it can be, it's talking about our relationship with God. We say we love him. before we look at these two examples. um be so busy that we can't get it all done. to sin and be unfaithful, but times we are. If anyone sits and commits a breach of faith against the Lord by deceiving his neighbor in a matter of deposit or security or through robbery, Someone else sins. When they've sinned or we think they've sinned, how do we help? And I think it tells you what was going on with this group of people. Why did they why would they lose their nation? That's the same thing as having a breach of faith. God hadn't treated them the way they wanted. worship Molech and give my first child or go over Kamresh or whatever other gods of the nations were, maybe he will give me what I want. But the scripture always talks about something else. someone else's health. 1 Chronicles chapter 10 and verse 13. And Samuel the prophet comes back to him and he says, well, why didn't you kill the king? So they wouldn't have to be carried away. for their breach of faith in the golden calf. Oh my. who is at the right hand of God and is interceding for us. You may know a friend or maybe yourself who's gone through this nightmare at some time. But I thought about a time where as my daughter was getting older, my wife and I were wondering, would she ever get married? So let us stand together and look at God's Word. Because when we're talking about a breach of faith, it's something that's very serious. And Judah was taken into exile in Babylon because of their breach of faith. And it means to sin, to transgress, to commit a trespass. Not loyal to him, not following after him, claiming his name as a believer, but living like a person of the world. Do I walk with God? Talking about this first kind of breach of faith with God, we would know it and we would talk about it normally as a sin of omission. But if we go on here, we'll notice what we call that intentional breach, or theologically what you've heard and remember it's called a sin of commission. So that's a sin of commission. We'll spend time talking about this or soon another time. It's happened with a lot of women in marriages who may have been Christians and they said, I just gotta be connected to someone. I don't have that Xbox, I don't have that phone. He didn't follow God. My parents say this. For a man among them who should build up a wall and stand in the breach before me in the land. For their breach of faith, Moses did this. Sums it up this way. Therefore, he God said he would destroy Israel had not Moses chose his chosen one stood in the breach before him to turn away from their destroying them. John 17, 25, that you would be glorified perfected in holiness. And being children who turn our backs from you at times and think we know a better way. And we thank you that the way is to come back to your throne, that we might come before you and you would plead as you always do. Talking about our high priest Jesus, consequently, he Jesus is able to save to the uttermost We break the faith. And I keep making more breaches, and he doesn't stop praying or saying, get out of here. When we stand and see Jesus face to face, where there'll be no more breaches of faith or breaking of our faith. Might be a breach of faith, but I know that I've had big times, periods of times where in my Christian life where I might say, my faith has been broken. And sins unintentionally. Doctor. The golden calf, right? your shed blood for the saints, that we might go from having filthy robes to robes of righteousness. If you have your identity stolen because your information has been breached As you open your word and you come before us, even as we pray in Jesus our Savior's name, Amen. And when you're acting treacherously, that means you're not faithful with someone or you're against them. So as we come to look at this, we need to think about our own life with God, our own relationship with Him, our own faith that we proclaim. Because we're imperfect, because we're made of this flesh, there are times when we truly do forget, pass over what we should do, not be remembered. 1 Chronicles chapter 5 and verse 21. You're just not happy. That's a break of faith. and also consulted the mediums seeking his guidance. It's not. Praying for the people that God wouldn't destroy them. who always stands in the gap and fills the breach as he plagues his righteousness for us. And just confess them, oh God, I I have a rough time believing you here. Since he always lives to make intercession for us. through the work and the prayers of our Savior, even Jesus Christ our Lord. Who is to condemn? Having their faith breached and the serious consequences of that. I think about it with myself, and I began to think about times that that may have happened, not just in everyday sins. Now thankfully even with all the over preparations there were lots of missionaries that were glad to receive those supplies and all the rest. And there's even been times when I've gone to surgery. And turn the kingdom over to David, the son of Jesse. And Father, if it was only long ago, far away, we would not have to worry. Now what is this breach of faith? As you look at question 81, what is forbidden in the tenth commandment? When something you wish or want makes you sin to get it. Saul didn't follow the commands of the Lord. The prophet to Judah during this time when they were taken into captivity was Ezekiel. And they would have all been destroyed except Moses stood in the gap As one who have faith, but we need to say with the saints before us, O God, increase our faith. And uh some of the difficulties that can happen with that in today's world of electronic data, you know the seriousness that's there in many things, but especially Is because I was reading in my own devotionals through 1 Chronicles. having his faith breached and the seriousness of it. But as I read that, I was thinking about myself. Sadly, I can't believe it's 17 years ago now, but when the year 2000 turned over from 1999, it was called Y2K. And also consulted a medium seeking guidance. that we would be warned of a breach of faith and need to see if there is a remedy. So all Israel was recorded in genealogies, and these are written in the book of the kings of Israel. Well, what is a breach of faith? Now, the first breach of faith that we're going to look at this evening is the one found, we'll look just as we keep going through Chronicles in 1 Chronicles chapter 9 and verse 1. That means you're not happy. You aren't getting what you want. I'm not happy that my family's not like other families. But it happens a lot of other circumstances of life. For his breach of faith. It's not trusting that your Heavenly Father knows what you need and knows what's best for you. My friends say this, I want to do this. He was looking for someone because the people were weak to stand with them in the land. Well, I get pretty discouraged because I don't know Moses. Show me my breach of faith. Because if you have that list like I do tonight, and you know that you should be thrown into slavery or killed because of your breach of faith. Run to him this evening. Our faith in Jesus is what makes us strong. We find ourselves envious of our neighbors and not satisfied with our estate, complaining. But we have a wonderful Savior, even Jesus our Lord. And so I didn't come at this like I'd normally do working through a book, but I started looking at other scriptures because I wanted to know, because every day in some way there's Children, is it with your parents? Tonight we're going to talk about breaching, but not your information. But uh I went way past that, thinking that I could, if God would do something, I could overrule his providence. Chronicles ten thirteen, excuse me. Talk about difficulty of a saint here and the whole group of your people, Southern Kingdom of Israel, having a breach of faith. What was the big one with the after the Ten Commandments? For his breach of faith. Not desirous of pleasing him? to get your name and financial records back and straighten out if you do have your information breached. What happens when your faith is breached? You may be going through circumstances in your own life right now where you wonder, what about my faith? The happiness that you think they're going to give you will enslave you. Wives, are you Do you remember what Moses did? Those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them Amen. That's true today, isn't it? Let me pray. Well, I don't have that car. What commands are you rebelling against? But thank God I'm not your Savior. I don't think if I visited any of your houses or went to your bedroom, I'd find this little idol. It's serious stuff that people were captive and carried away. And we go whoring after the gods of this world. I don't know any Moses. Oh my, is that good news? You purpose to do it. Tonight we're talking about our own breach of faith, right? And Ezekiel cried out, let me let me listen let me tell you what Ezekiel said God was doing to stop There is not only hope, but a sure hope if you know and trust Christ. We'll be defining it. But when they were operating on me the night before, I had to really look at what is it? A few words. Where is it tonight that you're saying this very same thing? And if they found out about this, I'd be in trouble. Used to be Dr. How do I know you should have a list? It says, therefore he, God said he would destroy them. We wondered if we would ever have grandchildren. You start going whoring after the idols of this world to be happy. Right? Excuse me, I'm not gonna start there. 1. God came to him. Do you walk with God? So it's a good topic for all of us. You have to have something else. If you look at Leviticus chapter 5 and verse 15, let's look there together because it's Have you ever had someone that tells you they pray for you every day? So all Israel recorded in their g was recorded in their genealogies. He was asking for someone like Moses. Well we don't have Moses, we have a better prophet and Jesus, our Messiah, Lord and Savior. The reason that we're looking at this tonight, and I've chosen to preach on this whole topic Think right now about your own heart and your own life The first is in 1 Chronicles chapter 5 and verse 25. God said this in Ezekiel 22, verses 30 and 31. Brothers and sisters, if I get the prayer list out two or three times a week, that is quite a week. I would like to tell you it's a white thing. It's a synonym. Spock. Have you started a list? God is serious about our faith and thus living out our faith We have breaches of faith. And so I thought, if that happens to me, maybe at times you find that happening with yourself. We might say we're a Christian, but the reality of the way we live, we're living in a breach of faith. You choose to do it. What did they do? He says, I threw the golden fire and out came a calf. We'll be seeing those two examples. Are you being sneaky with them? You think, oh, it doesn't matter. A nation taken to slavery. And God says that we can breach faith intentionally and have unintentional breaches of faith. He hadn't fulfilled all of their wants and desires. You're not happy what he's doing with your children. He was called in the Qoram to kill all the Amorites and all of their cattle. Let me ask you, where are you breaking faith tonight? That's not standing in a breach of faith. First Chronicles ten thirteen. Show me my breaking of my faith. It's just in the weakness of being of flesh, sins of omission. If any of the holy things of the Lord, he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation a ram without blemish out of the flock, valued in silver shekels. Boys will be boys and girls will be girls. Why were they carried off as slaves into captivity? It talks about the idols of our hearts. Dr. No, not Star Trek. You gotta love Moses' brother Aaron, right? They did a lot more than that. Our Father and God, we come to you Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised. You're not happy and no one's going to be happy. You're not going to be content. Now sometimes we just use I forgot as a great excuse. 106. They took away Israel already in 721 B. And when I look at Israel or Saul, I see myself. You might mark this and go there this evening with your own breaches of faith if God has put a list there for you But here's the sin of omission in Leviticus 5 and 15. Because we are a community of faith. But they, talking about the northern kingdom, Israel, broke faith In verse 1, we'll see the serious results to the southern kingdom of Israel, Judah. Rejoice that he pleads his righteousness and fills the gap that we leave. They broke faith with God of their fathers and whored after other gods of the peoples of the land. Uh I'm going to look at um first We don't have that kind of house. Phil says this. Well, the first that we come to and we'll look at types of breach of faith He broke faith with the Lord, and that he did not keep the command of the Lord Where do you settle for the wisdom of the world? Not when he's a tyrant. Oh my. The word in Hebrew, I wouldn't expect you to know it, but it's ma'al. And God listen. Well, actually, it's the same kind of breach of faith. You're not happy with your parents. That's a breach of faith. So even if we don't purpose this in unintentionally, we're still guilty, but God has provided a sacrifice for that. It was with little kids when you were growing up. They weren't happy because God hadn't provided what they wanted. I'm not happy that my school isn't like this school. And look at the seriousness of it here. I'll just come back and confess next week I could read in Exodus or Deuteronomy what Moses did, but Psalm 106. That was just the overall big thing they did, but they did much more. The next chapter, Leviticus, Leviticus chapter 6 and verse 2. But I did, and I thought something was going to happen. It's a good topic so that we can come by and encourage others when their faith is breached and struggling. It's just mind-boggling to me. He's filling the gap with his righteousness and his prayers for us. And I'm glad to pray for all of you when you go into surgery. And we see here that it indeed happens to God's saints. He broke faith with the Lord, in that he did not keep the command of the Lord. So we can see that it happens with individuals, and if you look to chapter 9, But there are times when others breach their faith. What a bummer. We'll be seeing what it's like Are you faithful to Him? John 17, 17, that you would be sanctified, grow in holiness. What was their sin together? I've had some people that actually told me they pray for me every day. You're not going to be content with your good Father who has saved you through Jesus Christ and what he has given you right now. And when we choose to do what we want, we go whoring after the gods of the world and have a breach of faith. You'd all be gone a long time ago. Does my faith ever get breached? God was looking for someone to stand in that breach when the people were weak and broken. Anybody remember? In John 17, his great high priestly prayer, he at least prayed these things. What do you do when someone commits a breach of faith? I think it is I'm only going to be reading a few verses, and then we'll follow Scripture, which is its own best interpreter, to find out. And this is from an individual, and it's King Saul. He fell flat on his face for 40 days and 40 nights and prayed for them. But tonight we're talking specifically about ourselves. That's not making up the need. Let us run to Him even this evening and rejoice in our perfect Savior. Would we have an extended family? The tenth commandment forbiddeth all discontentment with our own estate. The synonym here is a breach of faith, breaking faith Or whoever it is, Dr. He's just like us, right? You know that something is breaking your faith when you sin to get it, or if you don't have it, you sin. Right? Do you remember what happened with Moses? Serious, he was killed. Now look at the consequences when we look at these things. And so they said, well maybe if I A king killed. And maybe it will be that if you're not willing to bring these things to God, he'll carry you away a captive to them. Boys will be girls and God was ready to destroy Israel. Our Father and God, such few words You choose to commit it. I have a list. I threw away. Ah, what's it matter? We'll be looking at that in a moment Well, I was holding him back because he was the king. He's filling the gap. You want what they have. Well, I know the Bible says this, but my friends say this. I think it's 501. You're not happy what he's doing with you, put the blank in it. We don't have emergency savings. You know what they would want you to do, but you have little plans. But beloved, thanks be to God, you and I have someone so much better than Moses. I'm a Boy Scout and it I promise to be prepared It didn't have legs. And then read Hebrews 7. You're not happy with your children. When you say, I don't care what you say, God, you might not want this, but I'm going to do it. Or husbands, do you have a stash of something away somewhere God says, I sought. He made the golden calf. Oh God, I act like I'm my own God here. He did not seek guidance from the Lord. There was written in the book of the kings of Israel, and Judah was taken into exile because of their breach of faith. Never had anybody they might pray for me every day, but not forty days and forty nights and don't eat. Let's go back to the smaller catechism tonight, the question we asked, right? The 10th commandment forbiddeth all discontent with our own estate. He says, you didn't kill the sheep. Romans 8, 34 says this. And then the southern kingdom of Israel, Judah. It means acting treacherously Not trusting that your heavenly Father knows what you need and is best for you right now. They no longer listened to their priests, they no longer listened to the prophets. It just happened later to them. C. Oz of the latest Moses was on his face forty days and forty nights and didn't eat. If anyone commits a breach of faith, Has God shown you some of your breaches of faith this evening, some of your breaks? Yeah, what was the idolatry? How do you know if something is an idol of your heart? Well, let's go on not just from the nation's breach of faith, but in individuals, King Saul. God's just some Santa Claus up there. So maybe like me, you pay for a service that helps protect that information But you have recorded these examples of the saints in here for us. And almost all the times in the scripture when it's talking about a breach of faith, So Saul dies Where are the commands that you're choosing not to follow? Oh, some doctor is always going to tell you something. We're not purposing God killed Saul because of the breach of faith. Amen. I don't understand that. He formed it. Or is it just I'm not happy that my health isn't like There will be a day. But what is this breach of faith? You're not happy with your marriage. Do you remember that what was Israel's great breach? Well it's not great with God, but it's great with us. It can't walk over there. He took the gold. Right? But until then And as I was reading there, it talked about King Saul. What do we do? But this look what happens with this breach of faith. And now you have to say, could this be me? Oh 25 And if she didn't, who would take care of her? And we think, oh, that's as Old Testament. I am just totally blown out over the years when those two or three people have told me that. What happens when your faith is broken? What do I believe? We are our brothers' keepers. If I go through half of it, it's like, woo-hoo! Because our family is very small. You said, I'm I don't care. I would say it to you. And I prepared. He says, well, the people wanted them. He he did it, right? I have great faith for you. You're not happy not being married. I don't care if he's a non-Christian. Hallelujah, what a savior! But the truth is when I went back and thought about it Therefore, the Lord put him to death. Or If it's over there, it's because you took it But does that faith have reality to it? You're not happy with your job. Well, no, I'm not really rebellious, but I have this hidden away. So Saul died. Turn to 1 Chronicles chapter 5 and verse 25. I do what I want. The scriptures certainly talk about it. But the word of God says this. He just says, eh, it's okay. You commit it I don't have this. It's an individual thing. Breaking faith. Amen. He's making excuses just like we do. Well they had a lot, didn't they? Oh, I just forgot. It's all about me. Hebrews 7, turn there with me. Oh God, break my heart. What do you do when You may be seated. Now Is my faith strong? Could she do it herself? I over-prepared. You're not happy with your church. Is this something that I might do? He broke faith. Would you help us think of our own faith? I really prayed. It's not steady. Was God enough? I'm just like