There are also the normal things of life that wear us out, we might say. And then in verses eleven through thirteen, he elaborates that thought. So the word source maybe is not the best translation here in the ESV because it makes the thought sound impersonal. So what's the writer saying? As Jesus speaks about the Father, he said the Father loves the Son and has granted all things into his hand. The Apostle Paul speaks that way when he writes about the church in Ephesians chapter 1. Now, you see, this is the even a higher privilege than having our sins forgiven. Not Jatha Course is is the final uh tr uh the final enemy, it's uh it's the final attacker, we might say. And of course, this is the deepest and clearest idea of heaven that the Bible gives us. So the Father perfected Christ as founder of salvation. And the word he uses that's translated here, founder, means someone who is first. But the two natures are united in the one person of the Son, and that person is the divine Son in human flesh. Even though we've seen a little bit of an uptick, you know, what will be the future? It's especially nice to be able to stand before you and speak with my shoes on. So I've gotten used to it, but um it's really nice to be normally shod uh today. Uh listen. Now it is not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. And then in chapter 8, verses 1 and 2, I won't take the time to quote them, I'm just paraphrasing, but right at the middle of the letter, the writer says this. who has sat down at the right hand of God. Even if we're in Christ, we still are are sinners, and so we have the temptation to turn away. So our Lord Jesus Christ, in all that He's done for us, in offering Himself as a sacrifice for our sins, once for all, something that can never be repeated, in all of that And that may have well been the situation of the believers that our author wrote to. And the good news is that God has made us his sons in Jesus Christ, and he will finally bring us to glory by the ministry of his own son. So I want us to look at three things in our passage. That's about Christ, the one who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified all have one source. And so in the second half of Psalm 22, this is verse 22 that the writer quotes, the thought is that after his suffering, after his resurrection, the Son, Jesus Christ, sings. The voice said as Jesus entered the baptismal waters of the Jordan. We're not only forgiven for our sins, we are that, we are even more embraced along with God's Son as God's sons. And we're so grateful when we believe the Word of God that speaks of our justification, we think, that's the apex, but you know it isn't the apex, wondrous as it is. It's even a higher privilege for the Lord our God to call us his children. And when brothers take pride in one another, it's one of the most beautiful scenes on earth. The Father loves us as his sons, and he purposed to bring us to glory as members of one family. and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. And then he develops the thought a bit further in verses 14 through 16. No longer, says Paul, a spirit of fear, but we have the spirit of adoption by which we cry out, Abba, Father. Uh and and as we face that, you know, we might be afraid of death. uh sword over our heads uh you know uh uh uh because of our guilt. Jesus prayed in John 17, verse 24, Father, I desire they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to behold my glory. Whom the Father has exalted to His right hand. and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkle blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. And we come back here to verse 10. And he's not only tethered to the others, he goes up first, but not just in order. And here we come to one of the deepest mysteries of our faith. And he has a complete human nature. That's just what it means to be a human being in this fallen world. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. He is able to help those who are presently being tempted. So today we have the wonderful privilege of having the Word of God preached to us by a very gifted preacher, Dr. Presbyterian Church in uh Richmond, Virginia. Yes, all right. And as I taught there, I didn't realize this, but you have to speak every time you speak in your stocking feet. under his feet. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor. All things exist in bringing many sons to glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. I will put my trust in him, and again, behold, I and the children God has given me. that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. uh righteous judgment that would have been poured out on us for our sins. What he does for us now is helps us, the writer says. And as we've said, the readers of this letter were living under pressure to give up their faith. We might be tempted, as we begin to understand more about that suffering, to believe that the gospel is too simple to meet our need, possibly too simple to help us. against sin. And some of us may be facing doubts like that because of a death or illness or financial strain or possibly a a broken marriage or difficulty in marriage. Second, that God brings his sons to glory by the perfecting of Christ as high priest. So first of all, as believers, we have the highest privilege, the highest privilege possible because we are the sons of God. We have the same Father. Christ is not ashamed of his brothers. In the midst of the congregation. Now this passage, these two passages, are from Isaiah chapter 8. Well, of course, Jesus Christ, according to the first chapter of this letter, is God's eternal Son. To chapter 1, and let's look at verses 3 and 4. And the exact imprint of his nature. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels. of suffering and death. He's brought us into his family, into amazingly, into the eternal fellowship which Father, Son, and Spirit have had since before the foundation of the world. testifies in our hearts that we are his children. And so, by the Spirit, we cry out, Father. Is anytime I hear a young person or hear someone pray to God as Father, because I know the Spirit is testifying and causing faith in God. as father. on adoption is our church's Westminster Confession of Faith. by which they are taken into the number, and enjoy the liberties and privileges of the children of God, have his name put upon them, and receive the spirit of adoption. have access to the throne of grace with boldness, and are enabled to cry, Abba, Father, are pitied, protected, provided for, and chastened by Him as by a Father. yet never cast off, but sealed to the day of redemption, and inherit the promises as heirs of everlasting salvation. just just the wording of that passage, how close that is to this passage. But now this further from our text. And the end of God's eternal plan and it's telescoped together. Speaks about the church. So God has planned this, of course. So the writer calls believers sons, children, brothers. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. and reconcile the children. Christ laughed and cried and felt and he prayed and he was tempted, we're told, in all things like we are, except he didn't sin. He's true man. We need no longer fear death. that they fear death. Jesus Christ has reconciled us to God, and we need no longer fear death. And the book of Revelation says they will see his faith. But one day it won't just be by faith that we do this. The bright glory of the family gathering, the center of it all, will be Jesus Christ Himself. And so the writer says, you have come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in of salvation. As he goes into glory, he brings us up after him. The Father had to perfect his son. uh be cleansed in him, of course, not at all. But what were the conditions of his life on earth? Sinners opposed him, Jews plotted to kill him. He learned, we could say, what it takes, what it costs to remain obedient to the task that the Father gave him. And as he suffered, he was tempted. See, it would be so easy, it would be so desirable in a human sense to get away from the call to suffering. And of course that pressure reached its climax when he prayed, Father, let this cup pass from me, but not as I will. And how much more did it cost our Father to bring his son through temptations? See, this is really good news. And he did enter it. And that is who he is now. But see, it's just here that he shows the character of his mercy. And what is his response? But he does bring to bear the power of the once-for-all sacrifice for sins. some of this. without whose seasoning whatever is set before us is insipid. and medicine for us. Now, you know, I I I I wouldn't dream of standing here in public worship and telling you. They're real. We bring our sin to God, and God forgives our sin. Praise be and thanks be to God. You made him for a little while lower than the angels. because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for every one. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. This is the word of the living God. a hortatory way. So the letter is all about exhortation. We have a high priest in heaven at the right hand of God. He hasn't finished yet taking care of us in order to bring us finally to glory. What will happen to us? as children of God. Should make the foundation of the or the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. Now, do you know where that's from? And in the second half of Psalm 22 describes the glory of Jesus Christ after his resurrection. Then in verse thirteen he says, And again I will put my trust in him, and again, behold, I am the children God has given me Israel has turned away from the Lord, but the prophet in Isaiah 8, the prophet Isaiah, he speaks of himself and his disciples as remaining faithful. Christ and believers. He calls us brothers, sons, little children. Jesus Christ has taken us in hand to protect us and to care for us. as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. And we believers are sons together in the Father's family. But to suffer for whom? The beloved Jesus Christ. See, who can express the glory of God's love when he makes sinners his sons? Believe this about yourself in Jesus Christ. It is true. All those that are justified, God vouchsafeth in and for his only Son, Jesus Christ, to make partakers of the grace of adoption. This love was in the Father's heart eternally, as verse ten describes his purpose in creation, and then finally in glory. and by whom all things are, in bringing many sons to glory. Christ does his work for the sons. one day will be to be a family gathered in glory. And Jesus spoke about it in the Sermon on the Mount. When we come together to worship, we worship with all the saints and all the earth. festival gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous men made perfect But then second, we see that God brings us as children to glory by perfecting Jesus Christ as high priest. the author of their salvation. Christ is the lead climber, and he's tethered to the other climbers. He was perfected for his priestly function by the series of sufferings in his earthly life. So everything that our Lord Jesus endured in this life came to him and a kind of school. He was born like us. He rejoiced in his heart when he saw the ministry of his disciples. But things press on us. And as he felt that, what was he tempted? but what you will. When he takes his own son through these things to perfect him as our Savior. See, what does it cost uh a parent to see his child in combat And then we see last that Jesus serves us today as our high priest in heaven. So that he can experience and sympathize with us. He knows. Doesn't bring him down from his exalted glory. But he got there through the course of sufferings. And Jesus is full of sympathy for us when we're tempted to sin and when we do sin. uh uh of the s the the sins that I've committed. That we have mercy, just this mercy that we so need. has suffered and was tempted. He is the forgiving Christ, we could say. enable him to know what force suffering exerts to make us fall. as the author of salvation. When you sin, don't flee from Christ. He serves God today in heaven as high priest, as your elder brother, and as mine. We think we're better. And we may have known people who were so shocked by some difficulty in their life that they began to drift. of living this life. By redemption, Jesus Christ has made us children. How powerful that is. takes us as his own, and the Son is not ashamed to call us brothers. Beloved, let's remind ourselves of these wonderful things that are true of us that the Word of God tells us what privileges we have as God's beloved children. to save us because of the things that he suffered. uh aloof judge in heaven. Dr. Thanks, Tom. And the author exhorts them, don't give up your faith. You are my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Because he was receiving John's baptism. Chapter 5 spells this out more specifically, verse 8. In a kind of instruction, a kind of experience that in him developed the quality of sympathy in him. We're under pressure, we're under stress, we're weak, we don't have all the power that we would like to have. for us when we come to him. comes to help you in time of need. Our Lord Jesus Christ, our great propitiation, our great high priest, who ministers to us So I did that on Sunday two weeks ago. Verse 12 says, saying, I will tell your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. He brings to bear the forgiveness that God brought about through his sufferings. He helps the children of Abraham. Be certain that God forgives because you have a high priest who has once for all satisfied the righteous judgment of God and who now in mercy That Scripture would tell us he does not feel shame to call us brothers. People who were living under pressure, the pressure to give up their faith in Christ. He loved us in his son from all eternity. Verse 10, going back there, tells us that God is bringing many sons to glory. And so we're gathered together with the saints here in Laurel. He knows what it is to suffer, and he knows what it is to be tempted by suffering. This is a very sensitive area for us. He sprinkles his blood, we might say. We're full of pride, you and I. He sort of speaks with a with a nice soft thing right at the end. is seconded, as it were, by the devil who wants to tempt us. John Calvin said about this, he said, Whenever therefore all kinds of evils press upon us, let this be our immediate consolation. Griffith is a professor at Reformed Theological Seminary in Washington, D. When a climber goes up the face of the side of a cliff, you know, he's he the lead climber goes up and he's tethered to the others. The name of Jesus is not only light but food. I see that blue light flashing over there. Now, what we're saying, or the main point of what we're saying, is this, that we have such a high priest. Isaiah refers to his disciples as his children. Um as I read, I'm going to read from Hebrews chapter two and read verses five through eighteen. They were in danger of falling away, falling away from their profession of Jesus Christ. We don't have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with us, but we have one who suffered and was tempted in all things like we are. So this is the privilege that we have. He's gone through the struggle and the suffering that the Father gave him. You're welcome. He obeyed and he suffered and died for us as our brother. Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. In Ephesians 1. God loves you. People act like they don't, you know, but they we really do because it's a terrible thing we have to face. It's an exhorting letter. For it was fitting that he should make the founder of their salvation perfect through sufferings. And we need mercy. What's the future going to bring? And because we have the same Father, then we read going on, that is why Christ is not ashamed to call them brothers. And his experience of suffering enabled him to become a merciful and faithful high priest. Well what he's saying is, he's saying it as strongly as he can, that God has made us his sons. Well here, in that passage, the writer is quoting from Psalm 22. He really truly knows. And every discourse in which his name is not spoken is without savor. God forgive us. And when they press on us and we feel the pressure, what do we do? So Christ and believers are seen as the children of God. And this is what we call the incarnation. Oh. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. To suffer for you, to suffer for me, to suffer for the church of Jesus Christ. Christ is the author. When we feel the pressure of temptation, then here we need to listen to the good news of our text. In verse ten he describes the God as the Father. Let me finish with a a statement from John Calvin, which I think so perhaps beautifully captures And family solidarity, you know, is is almost unbreakable. And these two natures are distinct. That was the perfect of the Son that was necessary to bring us to glory. He is able to help those who are being tempted. So the Father speaks and he says he's delighted in him because the Father sent him to suffer. The Father's love for us, for the church, for his family is eternal. 5, he says, He predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. Satan no longer has a legal ground on which to accuse us before the throne of God. The idea is that the Father gave Christ the task. His response, the writer says to us, in the service of God, is to make propitiation for the sins of the people. We are accepted in him. He lived in a poor family. That is the character of his ministry to us as high priest. He loves you as his own precious child. And when we pray, we cry, Father, Father. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. He had to enter into the fellowship of suffering with us, his brothers And I always think when I hear someone pray, don't get me wrong, I don't criticize people's prayers. He applies the power of his death, his propitiation. Don't fear that Christ looks down on you in your weakness. And then verses 12 and 13 bring in Old Testament material to support this idea. And the idea here is not that Christ was stained by sin, of course, or that um that he needed uh something Now you might say, how was he tempted? We think God owes us something. God has planned the salvation of each one of his people, and God has planned the adoption of each one of his people. He is the obedient Son who gave Himself for our sins. So the main point of this letter exhorting us to hang on, not to give up, is that we have a high priest. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. I wouldn't dream of doing that. Uh while I get my my notes together here, um I just will say that um Thanks be to God. We have a priest who comes near us when we need him, and he comes near us when we need him in the very worst place. That's the first time I've ever preached in my socks. Since the children partake of flesh and blood, so the eternal son partook of flesh and blood, so he could endure death. Because we read in verse 18, because he himself was suffered. And you remember from reading Ephesians, this is how the Apostle Paul And the sufferings which he has behind him and carries with him as a past experience We can see that right at the end of the letter in chapter 13, verse 22, the writer says, I've exhorted you briefly. First of all, that as believers we have the highest possible privilege because we are sons of God. And in receiving John's baptism, Jesus accepted the task. Verse 16 and verse 18 have verbs that are in the present tense. Jesus had the same experience of sufferings that we have. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection. It's a it's a sermon, really. He says, I haven't talked too long, but that indicates all that he's written ahead of time, before that in chapter 13, was exhortation. Go to Christ. Believe this about yourself when you cry out in prayer, Father. So the writer is telling us that Christ is the author. You know? We're brothers. We'll actually do it by sight, because we'll see Jesus Christ when He returns and gathers us all to be with Him. He actually, as it were, brings them up after him. And verse 17 recaps this and spells it out further, his identification with us as brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise. Let us not doubt that he is with us as if he were distressed along with us. This is the help that God has provided for us. Look at verse eleven. The name of Jesus is honey in the mouth. Like that? Sometimes I think we would like to keep him away from the areas of our lives that no one else should see. We look down on one another sometimes. All right. It's hard for us to see that because we're so conscious of the guilt of our sins. It's brought together in one short sentence. And the sufferings that we face, the temptation that we face. It wouldn't do you any good. He helps us in our need. So uh Dr. And it can never be repeated. They're not mixed. And we ask these questions and we feel a certain pressure on us. This is how the writer describes the sun. Christ took our flesh. And Paul tells us we will always be with the Lord. It doesn't diminish him in power because he's there in glory. See, in all these things he suffered. Well he was tempted to do, what he was tempted to do was to turn away from it. They were drifting away, we read, as they they faced suffering, as they faced the weariness of striving. And everybody's all around us is constantly talking about the economy and God is bringing many sons to glory. And here the author sees Isaiah the prophet as a type of Christ. And then together, see, there are a picture that the writer of the Hebrews sees of No. He was angered by the hardness of the Pharisees. Oh, the love of our God, the faithfulness of our God, the wonder. We might be afraid because of the judgment of God. It is oil without which all food of the soul is dry. We need mercy from God. Don't give up your faith, because Christ, the great high priest, has been exalted to God's right hand to bring you to glory. And the the writer tells us that as the founder of salvation And here we come to this idea of Christ as the one who brings us the glory. You know, when you go up the the I don't do this ever, but I I I see it, you know. Jesus has a complete divine nature. Traffic, uh keeping up the pace of life, sickness. So you see, we're not only citizens of the kingdom, we're that. He tells us that Christ the Son came to the aid of the other sons. And is seconded by our own weakness And a number of the the the words in the Westminster Confession are are simply taken directly from the book of Hebrews. Why? Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. C. He intercedes for us, as we've just sung. Jesus Christ is our elder brother Well, Jesus Christ felt the same sort of pressure, the same sort of weight upon him. For because he himself has suffered and was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. But why was the Father well pleased with Jesus? The great host of the redeemed will meet together face to face in fellowship with their Father God and Jesus their brother. He was hungry and thirsty. So silly. Am I am I audible? The Westminster Confession, chapter 12, is very beautiful and it says this. And the Father said to Jesus, you remember this from your gospel reading, the Father said to Jesus as he entered the Jordan River, But he has uh delivered us from the devil and from the fear of death We're gathered together with the saints in glory. Go to Christ in the time of need for help. He says, you are accepted, in the beloved. Now think of the love of brothers in the family. Because the focus of our worship is where Jesus Christ is in the heavenly Jerusalem at the right hand of God. Well, he was tempted to turn away from the work that God gave him, to give himself as a sacrifice for sins. It would wouldn't be edifying in any way. And for many years he was pastor of All Saints. Griffith, thank you very much, and uh we're looking forward to your sermon. They're not turned into one another. Jesus Christ, God's eternal Son, the very eternal radiance of his person So we have the help we need to get to glory. It was fitting that he for whom and by whom all things exist in bringing many sons to glory. Both he who sanctifies. For the Father loved the Son. Well, we're our natural inclination is to turn away from it, is to get rest, to get relief. We have it in Jesus Christ. Yeah, good. It has been testified somewhere. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. He never has to suffer again. And that's why the Holy Spirit, For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. And his death defeated the devil. And of course, there's no plumbing the depth of the challenges that we experience as believers. It's where we're tempted to sin. And as he goes, he is the author of salvation. And he was perfected in order that he can feel with us the need that we have. And it's also written. Now, who is Jesus Christ? But what when the Father We need no longer fear the devil, the one who held this But it's not just first in order, it's the first in the sense of being the source. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest. And third, that Jesus today serves as our high priest in heaven, so that we have the needed help to get to glory. He gave him the task of saving the sons, and he also equipped him to carry out that task. But when we feel the pressure Well, that's the idea, that Christ is the author. It is melody in the ear. Now, perhaps uh uh uh you you may be aware of this, but the the only Reformation Creed that has a chapter Christ is a true human being. Many scriptures point to it. And this is the only place in the New Testament where believers are called Christ's children. And that's why, if it ever is broken, the pain is so deep. In other words, we are in the family. Thanks be to God that he's given us such a high priest, our Lord Jesus Christ. And that was a sort of a challenge. We don't have anything to bring to God, but broken hearts and contrite spirits. He's the second person of the Holy Trinity. And that tells us about our goal, our high privilege as a family. Well literally, the verse reads, Are all of one. Who cried, Father? So we hear, we have the beginning That offering is definitive, it's final, it can never be offered again. And Psalm 22, in the first half, describes the sufferings of Christ. See, we don't have a cold Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, himself likewise partook of the same things. In verses 10 through 13, the writer tells us of our family position. And the midst of the congregation is the congregation of brothers And the Apostle John says, We shall see him as he is. That's what we all do, you and I. He's qualified. And you see, it's just in the time of greatest need that now, today, he shows himself. It wouldn't be edifying for any one of us to do that. Thanks. At present we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. So he knows what it's like. In verse 18, For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom Now, uh this is a letter that uh letter of Hebrews that that speaks in an uh But that doesn't mean his work is over. God forgive us. The thought staggers our minds He loved the Son eternally. And we could compare this to a kind of lead climber. God equipped him as the founder and high priest through sufferings. He loves us. He is the one. And here the writer tells us. Let me read uh the word of God and ask you to to So it's kind of a written sermon. Over the last uh several weeks I was in Japan teaching a seminary course. And of course that's true for uh unbelievers. Well the writer is telling us here that that through the cross He needed sleep. We can't overcome everything. But this is the greatness of God's love for us. It's where we actually do sin that his mercy rests. And again What is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him? They were po possibly drifting from the church and forgetting Christ And as he suffered, the writer tells us, even though he was a son, he learned obedience. He has been made merciful and faithful, high priest Howard Griffith. He is the radiance of the glory of God. All right, let's listen to the word of God. He was the divine son. He was frustrated by the dullness of his disciples. But the point is that Christ and believers belong to the same family. You are my beloved Son. Well the Lord Jesus cried. It is rejoicing in the heart. See, you may think that I'm implying that, but that's not true. And so as believers, you see, we are in the Son, and we are well beloved in the Son. See, he will never again suffer for sins. Been over two weeks I had to do it teaching a seminary class. He doesn't despise his brothers. And that pressure that we feel So when you sin, He honors us as his own flesh and blood. Nothing befalls us, which the Son of God has not experienced himself. We read in the Gospel of John. Now we have He needed human companionship. He's been here before, and we're very glad to have him back again. And it's written to He says So turn back a chapter, if you will. When brothers love each other, how sweet that is. But but these things are real, you know Now you can see from that And be certain that He helps. And the actually the word is in the plural there in the original. Father. It's uh sometimes also true for believers. Thank you. So the King James says author. Of one what? It was fitting that he for whom I never do that. Do you see the Father's love for us? This is what the writer is telling us. It satisfied the Father's But And on that day. Of one Father. But what I I'm so grateful for