It's a great pleasure uh again to be with you here this evening. And um uh as we turn to God's Word and our service tonight, let's turn to Psalm 119 in the scriptures. Psalm 119. Uh children, if you're Learning your ABCs or have them down pat if you know the ABC song. Psalm 119 has something in common with that song, that it's arranged according to the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And the Psalm itself goes through all the letters of the Hebrew alphabet and spends eight verses on each letter talking about uh one thing. And it's something that's very fundamental to the Christian life, as fundamental as the ABCs are to learning to read and spell. The central theme of Psalm 119 is God's word and how wonderful it is, how valuable it is. And how much it helps us in our walk with God. And so I want to look at that first section, the A section, so to speak. And look at the first eight verses as we read about how wonderful God's word is to us. Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways. You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently, oh, that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes. Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments. I will praise you with an upright heart when I learn your righteous rules. I will keep your statutes. Do not utterly forsake me. Thus ends the reading of God's word. Let's go to him one more time in prayer, asking for his spirit to teach his word to our hearts. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, even as you've revealed your truth and preserved it throughout the ages, even as you've called us to this place tonight to study these things. So, Lord, grant us your grace and the presence of your Holy Spirit in our hearts, that we might understand the things that we read and study and apply them to our lives. That in the preaching of your word Lord, you would draw us nearer to yourself, that Christ might be exalted, and that you might be glorified, and that we might be blessed. And we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The Call of the Wild. That's the title of the sermon this evening. It's actually a book by uh Jack London as well, and it's about a dog who was stolen from a his life on the ranch and then had a harsh life as a sled dog up up in the the Yukon in the 1890s. And then he finally gains his freedom. And out in the wild, he learns how to behave like a dog is supposed to behave. And you know, as uh we look to God's word and as we look to God's instructions to us. He speaks to us of how he created us to be as we walk with him. You know, when God made uh man, male and female, and he put him in the Garden of Eden, He made us to know Him. to know his law and to walk in his ways, that we might have fellowship with him, that we might have fellowship with one another And that there might be blessing in walking according to the pattern and design of our God. And yet, we live in a fallen world now, don't we? We live in a world where we often get caught up in our weekly schedules and the life of the things seen, forgetting the things that are unseen that we were made to enjoy. It's Sunday night, and uh when my wife and I were uh uh teaching we always used to talk about the Sunday night blues. And you know, maybe it comes across as a knot in the pit of your stomach when you start to think about all that's coming in the week ahead. But we want to stay those for a little bit and focus on God's word that we might receive grace and strength. and arm ourselves for the week ahead and how God has created us to live as unto Him in Christ Jesus. Because in these opening verses of Psalm 119, God calls you to leave the way of the world behind, and to be freed unto spiritual living, according to the good and perfect way that He set before you. And first of all, he wants to see that God calls you away from the corruption of the world through his word. You know, we read, blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord. Some translations say, blessed are the undefiled in the way. And that's a challenging statement in some way. Because it says, blessed are those who's blameless. Who can say, oh that's me? Yeah, that's me, I'm blameless. We'd like to say that. But oftentimes uh we recognize in our hearts and in our actions and our words that we are defiled in our lives That we have fallen short of God's glorious standard. And living in the midst of a fallen and sinful world, we are not unaffected by sin. I remember in college my roommate was playing a video game. And it was one of these shoot-em-up games where, you know, if if uh whoever came before you, you would blast them and they would explode in a million pieces. And uh just to see a clip of a game like that, you know, you think, oh that's that's grotesque. But if you you play it a couple times, then you you don't even think about those things. You know, we become desensitized uh to to the ways of the world. But it's not just video games. Living in a fallen world, we're affected by this world. And it affects the choices that we make. We see this as parents. I'll never forget being uh at the church that I am now, and it was around Christmas time, and um One of the older ladies in the church asked one of my young girls, what's your favorite Christmas carol? And my little girl without hesitation started to belt out Santa Baby. And um much to my dismay, I realized that, yes, uh she was paying attention to the music that was playing in the background out of our house, and yes, she did know the words. All four verses. We're affected by these things. And it's not just kids. We are products of our culture And we have to ask ourselves, recognizing that these things affect us, what are the TV shows that we're watching? And the songs that we're hearing, how are those, what are those things teaching us? How are they affecting the way that we look at ourselves? The way that we look at the world, the way that we look at God. Sometimes they teach us that self-centeredness is kind of winsome and to be desired. That money is the ultimate reward. That sex is the ultimate pleasure. That immorality is guilt and consequence free. They whisper lies to us, and yet they affect us. But God says in his word, blessed are they whose way is blameless or undefiled. He's calling you to his word that you might be cleansed. And that you might be blameless as you walk as unto him. You know, whenever we go to a public place, especially in the winter time. And then we get back in the car. My wife Cindy has kind of a routine. She goes, okay, hand sanitizer time. Because the the kids have been out and they've been touching all sorts of things and especially in the wintertime there's germs. And if uh they touch something that has germs on it, invariably what do we do with our hands? We we eat food. We touch our eyes and rub 'em. And we get sick, don't we? Because the things that are in the world affect us. But God's word cleanses our hearts and minds. God's word is pure, like nothing else in this world. God's word Teaches our minds the things that the things that are right, the things that are lovely, the things that are well spoken of. Beloved in the Lord, you need to purify your hearts and your minds regularly in God's word so that you will not be defiled by the false teaching and lies of this world. You know, oftentimes that means repenting of false ideas and recognizing things that we're hearing and things that we're believing that are not in accordance with God's word. You know, uh one pastor said, we enter the Christian life repenting of sin, and we continue in the Christian life repenting of sin. That we might be cleansed. And we want to confess God's truth. That word to confess literally means to say the same thing. We want to say the same thing of what God says. And acknowledge that he is right. And regardless of what any other person says, even what our own thoughts might be or have been, that God's word is truth. And he's calling you to avoid the corruption of this world by following his ways, just like a map through a minefield causes you to avoid those mines that bring death and destruction. God's word guides us and directs us away from the destructive influences of the world that we might walk in his way. And secondly, God calls you to purity and blessing in his word. Verse 2 says, Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways. Is this you? Are you seeking God in this way? Now not so fast. Don't just check the box. Obviously, you're here at an evening service, even, to hear God's word, and I commend you for that. But notice what the Psalm says. Who seek him with their whole heart. You know, many only seek God casually. He's one among many activities that they undertake, and sometimes he's not at the top. You know, this is Sunday, and many slip into Christian God mode today only to slip into secular self-pragmatic work mode tomorrow. But God calls you to seek in each and every day with your whole heart. Many seek God carelessly. You know, I might ask you the question, what is your plan to live for God, to seek him in his word this week? There's an old saying, if you aim at nothing, you hit it every time. And if we don't have a plan or a habit to seek God in his word, Things that it's going to get away from us. There's hundreds and thousands of things to keep us busy, to distract us. And pretty soon a week has gone by and we haven't sought God at all. Many seek God carelessly, but God wants you to seek Him with all of your heart. And many seek God for a time. You know, it's sad words that I uh sometimes hear as a pastor. I tried seeking God, but it didn't work. People become discouraged and they give up. But God calls you to seek him with your whole heart. Blessed are those who seek him, not casually, not carelessly, not just for a time. But with their whole hearts. And God gives us a wonderful promise in the book of Proverbs that he who seeks me with all of his heart shall always find me. Have you sought God in this way? For forgiveness and salvation? Such that you're resting in Christ for your eternal soul and salvation. Have you sought in this way for the issues and problems that are looming in your heart and mind in the week ahead? Are you looking to him for the grace and strength to stand? Or are you floundering in each and every conflict that arises, being tossed about by change and disappointment? Are you looking to God and seeking Him in His Word for courage and wisdom for life? Or are you ruled by fear and stressed out and paralyzed by all the situations and decisions that you're called on to make on a daily basis? God is calling you to his word, to his truth, and the courage and strength in these things, that you might be blessed in looking to his word. One of the greatest things about John Calvin was his personal motto. And I know that Christ Reform sometimes has that on the cover of the bulletin and the two hands holding out a heart to God promptly and sincerely. That's what God wants from each one of you. He wants a real relationship, not just an interaction on the schedule. God wants you to seek him with his whole heart, with a real, deep, intimate, personal relationship. And husbands and wives, you know what I'm talking about. How easy it is in our marriages to be about the schedule of the household and of life together, but neglect the intimate interaction of emotional and intellectual and physical and relational intimacy. You know, Cindy and I have faced this many times in our marriage. That we have to fight to maintain a close personal intimate relationship and not give way to just doing chores together or living separate lives because of busyness or selfishness or conflict. In the same way, the Bible says that God's people are the bride of Christ. And he wants a deep, intimate, personal relationship with you. He wants your heart Where is your heart? Do you need spiritual marriage counseling? God's word gives it to us. Do not settle for formality and church attendance. Give God your heart. your desires, your hopes, and your dreams. Open yourself up to him that you might have the joy of a rich deep personal, intimate, transformational relationship with God in Christ Jesus Thirdly, walking with God means practicing and applying his truth in your life. Verse 3 says, They also do no wrong, but walk in his ways. Now you might have done a double take there or thought, uh-oh, I'm in trouble. That is a strong statement. And if we take it literally, unless it's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ, it's not realistic because we all do wrong. We all sin in many ways. But this is a construct of Scripture used elsewhere, and it does not mean the believers never sin. But what it means is that believers practice, that is, we focus on and will to do God's law, and that becomes the direction and purpose of our lives, not ourselves or not the world's way. And so when we look at 1 John, if you want to turn with me there for a moment, in 1 John he speaks in this same type of language, and John's very clear, he's fighting false ideas, and so he states things both positively and negatively. And in 1 John 1, verses 6 and 7, John says this. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in the darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Now he's describing a Christian versus a non-Christian, one who is focused on God and seeking to walk with God. Now, does this mean that the believer never sins? Let's look at the very next verse. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Again he says in verse 10, if we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Psalm 119 urges us to focus on God and His truth. And it is very realistic because it also acknowledges our failure to do so. Even as verse 3 is startling, verses 4 and 5 says, You've commanded your precepts to be kept diligently, oh, that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes. Why does he say that? Because they haven't been steadfast. Because he's been unsteady, unfaithful. And he's acknowledging and confessing that there in verses four and five. You know, in England, uh there's signs in the in the um uh the the subway in London that say mine the gap. And they have that there because uh on a lot of the platforms um uh between the platform and the train, there's quite a distance, especially the older stations that are some of uh the the shelters from World War Two, that as you're stepping onto the the train, there's a gap there between the platform where you stand and the train that you're supposed to step onto And they put these signs up because so many people have either tripped or fallen in the gap and injured themselves in one way or another. And here in Psalm 119, it's almost as if God is telling us to mine the gap. Because there's often a gap between how God purposes for us to live and how he describes the life of the believer. the presence of his spirit within our hearts and and living as unto him, having fellowship with him, and how things really go in our week day by day. And part of seeking to live with God, part of what it means to practice and apply his truth in your life, is to mine that gap, to notice it. And to try and shrink it or step over it, to try and to avoid falling into that trap and that difference. God's calling you to that for blessing. We're not to ignore sin or rename it nor think ourselves above it, no, we're to confess it and and uh and to walk aware of our need for the cleansing blood of Christ at all times, even as we seek it to practice his law. And things in life take practice. I remember playing golf for the first time or the first couple of times. It's a very challenging game. It takes lots of practice. And back when I got bit by the golf bug, I got to a point where I realized I needed to either invest and and um better equipment and uh give a lot of time and and money to get better or become a caddy. And I discovered that caddying pays pretty well. Because I didn't take that time to do that. Now, we also know that uh when we practice a sport and we do get over that hump to the point where we become more and more skillful When we reach that point, it brings great enjoyment. And God would have us to continue in his ways and practice them until they're second nature to us. Until in a consistent following of God and his words, the blessings of God, of knowing him and walking in his ways, of avoiding sin and being blessed. And looking to Him gives us joy with God's word as we practice it more and more. He works in our hearts such that we die more and more to sin and live unto righteousness as God works to teach us and change us. He gives us joy. in obedience. That's our fourth and last point. God calls you to rejoice in seeking him in his word. Do you rejoice in seeking God in his word? If you're like me, the answer is probably sometimes. I get it, it's not always easy. It's frequently dry and cold to try and read the Bible and to understand it and to apply it to our hearts and minds. As a pastor, it's my job to study the word. And so sometimes my job, just like any other job, becomes monotonous. And sometimes my Sunday morning is like Monday morning. And sometimes my Monday is like Sunday, where it's, oh, okay, it's uh the Sunday's over. But that's the coldness of my own heart. And the reality of fallenness in this world. Because God wants you to have joy when he comes to his word in his truth. God desires and designs to bless his people with joy in the study of his word. You know, verses seven and eight say I will praise you with an upright heart when I learn your righteous rules. I will keep your statutes. Do not utterly forsake me. God wants us to have a right response to his word, not as a drudgery of work. Not as the word or wisdom of men, but with an upright heart focused on loving and pleasing him, not just obedience. But rejoicing. Part of obedience is a matter of the heart. You know, sometimes we put the cart before the horse and we say, Well, I don't feel a lot of joy. And so I don't feel like being obedient. But if you taste of obedience, you will taste of joy. God calls us to come before him with praise, to give thanks for his word and how wonderful it is. That's the theme of Psalm 119 throughout. I wish we had time to read it in its entirety and to study the whole book. In verse 89, we read, forever in the heavens your word is established. God's word doesn't change like so many things in this world. Verse 97 says, Oh, how I love your law. God's word is praiseworthy and trustworthy. We're to come before him with praise and repentance. And this section ends on perhaps a slight down note. Do not utterly forsake me. Now, why do you think the psalmist would say that? Because he failed repeatedly to look to God's word. And yet, in Christ Jesus, failure is not an option. You know, failure is going to happen, but giving up is not an option. You know, uh Peter When in John chapter 6, the passage we read today, when people got frustrated with Jesus and didn't understand the I am statement of I am the bread of life, a lot of his regular followers deserted him. You remember in that s situation and circumstances, Jesus turned to his disciples, the twelve, and said, do you want to go too? And what did Peter say? Where do we go? You alone have the words of eternal life. God has given us his word. And it's only in the Bible that we can find the words of eternal life that lead us to the Savior, that lead us to the cross. That cleanse our hearts and transform our lives. Don't give up. Though you fail, even repeatedly, God's word alone has the words of life everlasting. And he's given it to you, that he might know you as his child, that you might walk in his ways and be blessed with joy. God's word is a representation of his presence in this world. If his word is in you, then he is in you. If you read or hear his word, you are hearing God speak to you. Give yourself to God's word that you might know his presence and his thoughts and that you might give your heart to God Such closeness with God unites our spirits with Him. And His spirit is strengthened in our hearts You know, in John 15, 7, Jesus said this about God's word. If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given to you. May God put his word in our hearts always, that we might be closer and closer to him. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you and praise you for your word and your truth. And I pray, Lord, that you would turn our hearts to you each and every day. That you would prompt us to pray by your spirit, and that you would prompt us to look to your word and purpose, Lord, to walk in your ways. And Lord, when we fail, when we forget, Lord, bring us to repentance by your grace. And we pray, even as the psalmist writes elsewhere, that you would create in us a clean heart. And renew a right spirit within us, according to the truth of your word. And it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen