It's a topical study tonight. I know we're a church that's generally committed to expositional preaching, but I thought I'd continue in a topical study. The reference is Colossians 3, 23, and 24. Let me read that and then we'll pray. Whatever you do, do your work heartily as for the Lord rather than for men. knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. It is the Lord Christ whom you serve Let's pray. Father, I pray that the words of my mouth and the meditations of our heart would be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, our rock and our redeemer. Amen. I decided tonight to continue the theme of work, vocation, and calling, which I exhorted on in February. I know it's a little Interesting to call this part two when the last time I spoke was uh four and a half months ago. Uh nevertheless, I will review some material and then plow ahead. As usual, after bringing a message, I often think of other things I wanted to add and and fill it out with. And this topic is so broad and vast and to me very helpful. I thought it would be for you as well. So let me do that tonight. Interestingly, Marco Pika addressed the theme of work a few Sunday nights ago. And actually, it was reflected, some of these elements were reflected in several applications of the sermon this morning as well. Let me begin with this comment. It's been said that modern people are as if they swallowed Gallup poles, and Reformation Christians were as if they had swallowed gyroscopes. Modern people as if they had swallowed Gallup poles and Reformation Christians as if they had swallowed gyroscopes. And in other words, they had their inner bearings in them. They sort of knew true north. And they didn't just take the tendency of the cultural drift to go this way or that way or follow popular cultural trends. So what keeps us from doing the same? Well, one of the things the Reformation recovered, well, it recovered many things. I think we're all familiar with the souls, grace alone, Christ alone, faith alone. But another thing that we covered was, of course, the priesthood of all believers. And another, which is our topic tonight, is a biblical view of calling or vocation. a biblical view of calling or vocation. I'm using those words a little interchangeably. And work is really a subset of those. When we think of calling, I think we should think, if I can use my Marco Peak imitation here, we should think broadly, whereas um as we wrestle with these issues Uh work is sort of a subset of of of what we are, obviously. So uh Luther argued that it was not just The priests and the clergy of the Roman Church, or of any church for that matter, whose work was pleasing to God, but that the humblest cobbler Doing his work diligently, faithfully, serving others in it, but doing it ultimately unto the Lord was just as pleasing to God as the pastor preaching the sermon. And I believe that was pretty revolutionary thought for the day. The baptism this morning included the admission that we learn, quote, the principles and doctrines of our faith. And I would argue tonight that learning the full and rich meaning and implications of biblical calling and vocation are important for our mature growth. in our biblical faith. So let me outline it and define it briefly here. This is some uh retreading of what I did in February, so I'll try to move quickly. But consider the simple act of calling someone when you call someone. Ralph And you're you're diverting their attention from what they're doing and you're drawing their attention to yourself, particularly when you like if you call your child. So you're directing them away from one thing and generally to another task or assignment or discipline. And this is similar to what God does to us. Although of course he requires more than just our attention, he requires our entire lives. Um And there are several facets of calling that I'd like to reflect on tonight as we review the definition. The two I'd like to mention now are what the Puritans call primary calling and secondary calling. Primary calling is our calling to faith in Christ, to salvation. Mark 2. 14, the simple command of Jesus, follow me. Simple and straightforward command. So fundamentally and foremost, the first element of calling is that which is coming to faith in Christ What we typically call our redemption, our salvation, our coming, if you will, to the vocation of repentance and faith, of following God, his commands, following the Lord Jesus. So in this sense, God calls us out of darkness, sin, and into obedience and joy Being called from one life, one lifestyle, one practice, one vocation, to a completely different one, one that leads on the path to eternal life. But there's another facet here, this secondary calling. God calls, and the secondary calling is the response, our response of faith and obedience to God. He calls us, in our response, we respond to Him in faithfulness, in obedience, in doing particular things, living a particular way, as part of our discipleship. And this expresses itself in what one might call particular roles in life where certain gifts are exercised and used. All aspects of being a disciple of Christ, a follower of God, a saint, someone set apart from the world to do particular works. or what we would simply call today a Christian. So these might be categories like student, husband, wife, father, mother, pastor, and so forth. But Don't just box it into those. And note, vocation is in many ways the reverse side of election. In election, God knows us and he calls us to himself in faith. Then our knowledge of God is such that we respond in thanks and obedience and follow Him in particular ways and in particular avenues of service, our callings. So, election in one element, calling in another. Note also that calling turns fundamentally and finally upon faith. Everyone who has faith and is faithful in their duties, faithful in their work, faithful children in your chores. Faithful in your calling and vocation, and does it as unto the Lord is pleasing before the Lord. Our verse, our theme verse tells us tonight. So in this sense, classifications are irrelevant. There are no hierarchies or higher or lower forms of faithfulness or work, such as pastors and missionaries being like super saints. and the rest of us ordinary Christians with ordinary jobs just being kind of average saints. That's again what Luther tried to eradicate. So, whether you sweep floors, study history, change diapers, wash dishes, design rockets, send satellites into space, manage an office, or preach a sermon or serve as a missionary. As long as what you are doing, you are doing in faith as unto the Lord, then it is just as pleasing to God as any other work. And I came across this quote from Tyndale. I haven't really read much of him, but I think it's so wonderful. Tyndale said this Between the washing of dishes and the preaching of the word, there is a difference, but concerning pleasing God, there is no difference at all. So some jobs are more important. You know, the federal worker by the name of George W. Bush, his job is more important than the federal worker by the name of Cliff Hall. So but the argument here is that if you do what you're doing in faithfulness to God with all your heart as unto him, it's just as pleasing to God. and honoring to him. And again, Luther argued, the humble cobbler who does his duty to the glory of God and in faith, just as pleasing to God as the pastor. So let me define calling. I've cobbled together this definition here. It's a little uh elongated, but if you would bear with me. So what it seems to me that Scripture teaches in terms of what calling and vocation are is the following. It's the principle or truth that God created you and me in a particular way, with particular gifts, abilities, characteristics, personality. And as he calls us to himself, so decisively, so personally, that the exercise of who we are, those gifts, both natural and spiritual, are given a particular dynamic in life, a particular expression, and a particular meaning. And They are done, they are exercised, they are used, they are expended, not simply for our own glory, for our next performance review, next not simply for our own good or benefit or pay raise Not even just for the service of others, our family, our children, our church, our community, our corporation, our government, or our country, but ultimately and supremely. for the Lord as unto him, serving and loving him. So there it is. The principle of truth that God created us in a certain way, particular gifts, those gifts are given an expression and identity as we live in life. And done unto the Lord, they're pleasing to him. And we ought to be thankful for that. So here's some more facets. There's what the um I think the Puritans called the general calling of all believers. and the particular calling of each individual believer. The general calling of all believers is reflected in what you might call sort of the general commands and scriptures. that we all are accountable to. That is to be holy, to be just, to be peacemakers, to be humble, to be following Christ, what we would generally call sanctification. The particular callings of each individual believer, however, is a little bit different. It's more expressive, again, of the way God has made us It's generally the topic of which people in their teens and twenties struggle with as they seek the Lord and seek what major in college and so forth. But uh those are distinctions that we ought to be aware of. Now, not only before the Reformation, but after the Reformation, calling and vocation and a proper review of work can suffer distortions. And we must guard against those and seek to maintain and teach them accurately, especially as we think about our children and as they grow up and get ready to launch into the world. into the workplace, the marketplace. Examples of distortion include such things as the First Industrial Revolution, where Bosses told their people that vocation was their vocation was to work harder just for the profit of the company. We're making more things, we've got mechanization, we got this and that. So Um that's what you've got to do. You know, Charlie Chapman's movie uh Modern Times depicts this in a rather interesting way, the dehumanization of people and the assembly line mode and so forth. So work tended to be absolutized and made even worshipful. The sign over the entrance to Auschwitz, work makes free, a terrible distortion of work and calling. So in the mid-20th century there was a milder distortion in that groups such as nurses and missionaries were often described as people who had vocations. And this was rather patronizing because it implied that the rest of us just had jobs or careers. But those who were more heroic or less paid had the calling to nursing or the calling to be a missionary. And again, this is a distortion I think we need to guard against. One that I recall as a young Christian growing up in the 70s was the implication that, you know, if you really wanted to follow God, then you had to be a pastor or missionary. You know, those were like the first rate Christians. And anything less was sort of you weren't really following God as well. But that, again, that is not the proper view from Scripture. of what it means in terms of our calling and vocation. A biblical view of work understands that work is intrinsically valuable. Valuable for what it is. But today there's often a tendency to see work as only instrumentally valuable, valuable for what it does. It gives you the money to do other things like vacations, hobbies, or leisure, so forth. So anyway, that's uh a little bit of the outline and definition. Let me move on to applications. Last time I sort of outlined applications in terms of groups of people like children and teenagers. And by the way, children, your outline there. Now's your time to listen up, boys and girls. Recall that uh God wants you at this time in your life Here's the fill-in-the-blank stuff. God has called you to three main tasks. The first is that you're to be a student. a learner. You learn about the world that God has made, geography and history and science and um English and literature and so forth You're at the stage in life where you need to learn about the way that God has made the world so that when you launch into it eventually, you'll understand it better and be able to deal with it. Secondly, God wants you to be a helper or what the Bible often calls a servant, helping others, serving with chores around the house, helping your brothers and sisters, and helping your mom and dad. And thirdly, it seems to me God wants you to be growing in obedience. That is, God wants you to be learning how to obey your mom and dad better and better. to do it more quickly, to do it more cheerfully as time goes on. Because you know what, boys and girls, those three things Or what you're going to do the rest of your life. That's what I'm trying to do. Because when you get out in the marketplace in the world, you're going to be doing the same things. You're going to be learning about the field that you're in. You're going to be serving someone, a company, a corporation, your family, your spouse, your children. And you're going to be learning how to obey God better and better. And that's what life is all about. So I would encourage you to make note of those three things and to work on those diligently as children in your home. And God will bless that. God will bless that. Teenagers, I alluded again to the fact that this is a time in your life when you're discovering your gifts and abilities. Your parents are there to help you key in on where to focus and possibilities for college major and so forth. Young adults, you're at the time where you're starting to practice some of those, testing them out. Men, particularly more mature men in the marketplace. You're you're at a time where you're seeking excellence in your calling in the marketplace, both morally and professionally. Boy, what would that do for us at Wall Street and some of these other places? If moral excellence were really pursued. some of these m major mess ups that are costing people their retirement and the market fluctuations, what a blessing it would be. I'm getting really tired of these arguments that Christianity has nothing to do with the real life. You know, it really doesn't make a difference. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to respond. Look, if we just follow some simple moral things like maybe five or ten of them that are listed in the Old Testament, we could go a long way toward improving a lot of things in life. I diverge. Anyway. Husbands, wives, fathers, mothers. Again, your calling is very multifaceted. I'll touch on it again in a minute, but Your goal is to seek to build strong biblical families that can withstand the onslaught and the undercurrents of the moral and cultural trends that we often have to work against. So now I'd like to look at callings in terms of how it helps us in our discipleship generally, and these you have. These are what I would call benefits of reviving a biblical view of vocation. And first, calling reminds us of our Audience. The audience of one. It is God who is our audience. He's the one who's called us to our life and work. He's the one we're performing for. He's the one that we're seeking to exceed expectations for, whatever you do in your performance review, to please him, not just our bosses or our friends or our pastor. And again, I get back to our theme verse, Colossians 3, 23 and 24. The last um part there, it is the Lord Christ whom you serve, not just your boss or your corporation or the government or whatever. So remember, it's and and again it's not just for your spouse or your children or your employer or your church or your country that you're doing this. It's ultimately For the Lord as unto him. So whether people are watching you or not, remember our call is to excellence. Boys and girls, when you're told to do something, your mom and dad aren't looking. Should you do it anyway? Of course you should, because who's looking? You know God is looking. I love that little catechism verse. Can you see God? Hope my class remembers this No, I cannot see God, but he always sees me. If he always sees you, then that's a motivation. To be performing your calling and your duties with excellence. Secondly, calling gives us a profound personal sense of focus or single-mindedness. Focus or single-mindedness. There's many good things in life. I mean, especially in our country, there's so many different ways you can go with your career, your majors, and so forth. We have so many freedoms that Uh actually it can can confuse a lot of uh well uh meaning Christians who are seeking. So how do you know what to pursue? How do you choose between the excellent and the other urgent or interesting things in life. To me it seems it's a good, solid biblical sense of calling and vocation. The better we understand our calling, and our vocation and the work we are to do, the wiser we will be in discerning what things are not for us to pursue. Not for us to waste our time with, or just not for us right now. And we can focus on the task that the Lord has given us, the direction and calling He has for us in life. So we've come to the end of the day when we're tired. And we know that there are things that maybe we would have liked to do we did not get to do, but we can rest knowing that we were faithful to our calling if we did what he's called us to do, and we made sure those were the priorities. At the end of every day, I'm sure Jesus, there were plenty of other people Jesus could have healed. Or a minister or two, but at the end of the day, that was it. He had done the work for that day, and he could rest knowing he was faithful to God. Thirdly, calling encourages gratitude and thankfulness. Calling is a reminder that for followers of Christ, nothing in life should be taken for granted, and everything in life must be received with gratitude. Colossians 3. 17. Whatever you do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Giving thanks through him to God the Father. There's our directive. To give thanks in all things as we exercise our vocation and calling. With so much grace given to us, we should be givers of grace to others. And we can do so by serving others directly and indirectly through our vocations. Also, gratitude must be our first and constant response to God. Every Thanksgiving I almost cringe and think, you know, it's just not this week or this day, I need to be thankful. Have I? really been thankful throughout the year and not just waiting for a national holiday to come around to think, oh yeah, let's be thankful about a few things. We need to have that as a as a part of our life as we exercise our vocations and it's I'm preaching to myself. So, fourthly, calling, although actually I think yours aren't numbers, yours are letters, are they? I'm sorry. Uh whatever's next. Calling gives a strong sense of continuity. A strong sense of continuity. In our modern world, I mean you can live Not only in several places, thousands of miles from one end of the uh country to the other, east coast, west coast, north, south, but you can live around the world in different countries. And this can tend to fragment our view of life. So what is there to give us a sense of continuity? And again, I think my argument is w is it not a a s a firm sense of calling and vocation? Abraham was a nomad. He lived in a tent, he moved so much. But his calling helped him have a sense of continuity, and his faith helped him trust the faithful, unchanging God. Joseph was yanked from one civilization to another. Moses displaced from riches in Egypt to poverty in the desert. And Daniel also ripped from one place and thrown into a foreign culture and civilization. And yet all these men, it seems to me, should should have had some sense of continuity in their calling and in their faith. So not only in terms of geography, but also in just terms of success or failure, riches or poverty, we can have a sense of continuity in life knowing uh that we have a sense of calling. I'm reminded of our wedding vows, you know, in richer, poor, uh, you know, sickness and in health. I mean, what what's that setting the framework for? that no matter what happens, I'm gonna I'm gonna stay this path. And uh again, to me that's a picture, it seems, of of calling in in the scriptures. And then next, calling gives defense of integrity in adverse circumstances. Integrity in adverse circumstances. How do we resist temptation in difficult times? You know, John Dean, President Nixon's um Watergate figure confessed that the Washington maxim that got him was this to get along you have to go along To get along, you have to go along. Well, what are the maxims that you're going to face that are going to tempt you to compromise? And how do we deal with them? Similar temptations. Well studies have shown, and I know, I know, we need to be careful about studies, but let me just say, studies have shown uh that the people who resist cultural forces the best, who are the people who resist the tendency of the culture to do one thing or another. And they've shown that there are three elements that are common. The people tend to have a counter-community, countervalues, and a counter-rationale. Counter-community, countervalues, and a counter rationale. Now think of that in biblical terms. A counter-community, counter. The church, the people of God, the fellowship of other believers, a counter values, the word of God, the scriptures, our instructions on how to live, and a counter-rationale our calling, our vocation. This is the way you're to go. Walk in it. Stay with it. Be faithful. Consider Joseph. Again, uh ripped from from home into a foreign situation. Um, you know, he was always sinking to the bottom, but He was always faithful. He knew the audience of one. And he resisted when Pharaoh's wife tempted him. Next calling reminds us that drudgery is part of the cost of discipleship. Sorry to have to cover this point, but uh you know uh we have the fall and Adam and Eve to thank for this one. Uh but calling does remind us that drudgery is the cost of discipleship. Boys and girls. Aren't chores fun? No. They're not always fun, are they? Isn't homework great? No. But We gotta do it. And if you're doing it and you do it well, God will bless you. Oswald Chambers said, drudgery is the touchstone of character. You know, we tend to look for the big things to do, at least sometimes, I think. We tend to look for the big things to do. But Jesus, Jesus took a towel and washed the disciples' feet. A simple act of service. We like to speak and act out of the rare moments of inspiration. But Jesus requires our obedience and the routine. The unseen, the ordinary, and the thankless. Changing diapers, commuting to DC Making meals, working through the government procurement process, doing your chores, mowing the lawn, cleaning the bathroom. All are rather mundane, but they're part of what we need to do to live, and, I would argue, to be faithful to God and to please Him. But this helps us also, and that calling is a wonderful antidote to the sin of sloth and laziness We're to be faithful to our callings, which generally means we're to be busy. Yes, there's time for relaxation and vacation and rest. You need that for renewal. There's even even time for sabbaticals. I would argue argue strongly for all those things. Um we need to be careful about laziness And remember, drudgery done for ourselves and others can be difficult, but done faithfully as unto God for Him is honorable and good. Next, calling reminds us, and finally I should say, calling reminds us that one day we will be finally called home to be with our caller. Then there will be no more drudgery. There will be no more tears, no more mundane tasks, no more hard days at work or difficult days at home with the kids. No more weeds, no more second law of thermodynamics, no more health problems, no more worries. Our blessed Savior will finalize the call. The call will be finalized, and we will be brought home. He will grant us new bodies and we'll worship him for the salvation and for the callings. that he has given us. Mr. Lyle Wirth was called home recently. I didn't get to know him really well, but um A blessed man, faithful to the Lord, a servant. He's home now. The final call has been made for Mr. Worth, and he's in heaven with God now, and what a blessing. So that's something that we can look forward to when there are no more chores. Again, I would remind you of the Tyndale quote. All callings are honorable and blessed no matter how high or low, whether you sweep the floors or design Boeing jets. If you do it faithfully and unto the Lord. Again, Tyndale. Between the washing of dishes and the preaching of the word, there is a difference. But concerning pleasing God, there's no difference at all. Luther, the humblest cobbler who does his duty to the glory of God and in faith, is just as pleasing to God as the pastor preaching the sermon. Colossians Whatever you do, do your work heartily as for the Lord rather than for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. It is the Lord Christ whom you serve. Again I say, it is the Lord Christ whom you serve. There's plenty of uh good reading on this, but again I would acknowledge uh what's been helpful for me, The Call by Oskinnis, excellent book several of the points I took from him, as well as a lecture he gave through the Le Bree Ministry back in the 1980s. Amen