Heard's uh prayer, it is a model for us. And I just love the way that you all were praying just now. You're taking these little little tidbits of prayers that I wrote up and expanding on them, and that's exactly what we should do with the Lord's Prayer. And one of the things about this prayer, it's so comprehensive that um uh that it's worth reflecting on how this prayer brings about a a shift. If you just look at it in its entirety, you start to see that our deepest needs are really inside and not so much outside. They're more a matter of the way we look at things, our perspective, than our circumstances And a lot of why we get anxious, a lot of why we're upset is because of the way we look at life, how we're experiencing life. Now, when we lived in Atlanta, we had a washing machine that was aging and it would frequently get out of balance. And as the machine went into its spin dry cycle, all the wet clothes would end up on one side and it would begin to vibrate. And then it would begin to rock and hammer. And in the space of about 10 minutes, it might move out from the wall six to twelve inches. And you just couldn't ignore it. You just had to do something when it was happening in the house because it sounded like somebody was hammering against the side of that washing machine. And as it was moving out, it was just destroying the bearings in the motor, and eventually the motor failed. But to get it to stop, you had to interrupt the cycle and you had to reach in and recenter the laundry. And that's what this prayer is intended to do. training us to recenter our hearts and regain perspective. So we started taking this prayer upside down and backwards. But if you start at the top, you'll see that we pray for God's glory. In his rule and his power before we pray for our needs, for provision, for pardon and protection. And as we pray, we're really addressing root causes. That's one of the amazing things about this prayer. So the root cause of our worry is that we forget that we have a heavenly father who cares for us, who's good, wise, and all-powerful. The root problem of our inability to forgive is that we forget the mercy the Father has extended to us. And you could go through all of this and think about that. And you would see many, many beautiful things. So by putting God first in our prayers, it rebalances and recenters us. And so in a lot of ways this prayer is it's training. It's a form of spiritual exercise for our hearts. And that's true of this petition, the one we're going to look at for a couple of weeks. Give us this day our daily bread. We're being trained, Jesus is training us to every day come to the Father in dependence. The Father desires to spend time with us on a daily basis. And so to foster this, he operates on what has been called the manna principle. So if you have your Bible turn to Exodus chapter 16, we're not going to read this story in its entirety tonight, but we'll read a couple pieces of it. So in Exodus 16, the Israelites have left Egypt and they've been traveling for 45 days into the Promised Land. And as they traveled through the wilderness, it wasn't long before their supplies ran out. And that's what happens here in chapter 16, 45 days in. The entire congregation uh grumbles. Here's how uh it's recorded in verse one of that chapter. They set out from Elam And all the congregation of the people of Israel came to the wilderness of sin, which is between Elam and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after they departed from the land of Egypt. And the whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the people of Israel said to them, Would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. When we sat by the meat pots and ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out of the wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. And then the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I'm about to rain bread from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day that I may test them whether they will walk in my law or not. On the sixth day when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily. And and so it was. And we uh pick up in verse 14 uh of this same chapter Uh well we could go back to verse 1. In the evening the quail came up and covered the camp, and in the morning a dew lay around the camp. 14. And when the dew had gone up, there was on the face of the wilderness a fine flake-like thing, fine as frost on the ground. And when the people of Israel saw it, they said to one another, What is it? But they didn't know what it was. And Moses said to them, It is the bread that the Lord has given you to eat The words what is it are in Hebrew manna. And that's where where we've uh derived that name. Now it was a test. This bread that fell from heaven, it was like dew on the ground, it was a test because they were to gather up what they needed each day. If you couldn't keep it uh overnight, it's spoiled. And then on the sixth day is the only day you could gather enough for two days, and it wouldn't spoil. And part of the test was that people would stay in and not go out on the seventh day. There was nothing to be found. Part of the test was, would you obey the instructions about getting extra on that sixth day? And uh manna was provided daily to teach Israel to look to God daily for what they need. And this story is the background for this part of the Lord's Prayer. God desires to give us what we need each day, and he gives us only what we need each day, which is part of why we worry. uh because we really want God to give us everything we need for as long as we can anticipate um instead of trusting him uh to provide what we need next day. And and uh If I ever end up counseling you in a certain situation, I'll just tell you, you get the grace you need for today and not for what you might project the future will be. You just don't get. future grace. You know, get grace to handle what you don't know is going to happen tomorrow or what you might fear will happen tomorrow. You just get enough grace for today. Of course, Israel wasn't going to remain in the wilderness of forever. And eventually God brought them into the promised land And before they entered the promised land, Moses draws out the lesson of this experience for them. And it's in Deuteronomy chapter 8. And if you'll turn there, Some of this, I think, will probably be familiar to you from the Gospels. But in Deuteronomy 8, beginning in verse 1, we read this. Uh the whole commandment I command you today shall be careful, you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commands or not. And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna which you did not know Lord did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so the Lord your God has disciplined you. And so they need to remember this because they're going from the scarcity of the wilderness into the abundance of the land. And so in verse 11 in the same chapter, Moses suppresses this psalm this way. He says, Take care lest you forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes, which I command you today. Blessed when you have eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply, and your silver and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied. Then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. Who led you through the great and terrifying wilderness with its fiery serpents and scorp scorpions, and thirsty ground where there was no water, who brought you water out of the flinty rock? who fed you in the wilderness with manna that your fathers did not know, that he might humble you and test you to do you good in the end. Beware lest you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth. You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth. that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers as it is this day. So What Moses is saying here is that in the promised land, in the richness and the abundance of that land, don't forget God. Beware of forgetting God. Don't forget that the abundance you're enjoying has come not exclusively, but not primary excuse me that the abundance comes not exclusively or primarily through your work, but from God. Even the ability to work comes from God. Now this lesson is not easily learned and it is easily forgotten. Jesus wants you to embrace the manna principle of looking to God in the daily rhythm of God's daily provision. And that's what this prayer helps us to do, because this prayer is intended to help us to see there's more to life than our material needs. That we need the company of God and we need the Word of God. So let me press this in the few minutes we have left this way This prayer assumes Jesus expects that we'll pray daily. So have you committed yourself to do that? Are you praying daily? Are you blocking out some unhurried? Prime time to draw near to your Heavenly Father. Now, if you're a young mother with lots of children and lots of responsibilities all day, that's going to look very different than it does for those who have empty nests. And it may be that your unhurried moments are few and far between. And I recognize that And so you have the opportunity to moment by moment as you move through your day, perhaps as you take a breath from time to time, to remember your Heavenly Father and your need for him. This drawing near to the Father this way helps us gain perspective. And now we're ready to ask for provision which is expressed this way, give us this day our daily bread. And um bread, of course, is the staple uh in the diets of both ancient and the modern worlds. Almost every culture has its form of bread, from loaves to pita to tortillas to bagels to baguettes, to muffins and challah And bread here stands for all of life's necessities and all the means of supplying. It covers all food, so the prayers for farmers and against famine. It includes clothing, shelter, and physical health. And so we're interceding for those who bring these things, for those who are seamstress, for builders, and for doctors and nurses. It includes money and the power to earn, and so it's a cry also against poverty, unemployment, and national policies that produce or prolong both. And we're being trained to ask for our needs. Our needs are material and physical. But we might ask, well, is it okay to ask for our desires? Well, if we are sincerely praying the first three petitions for God's glory, for his kingdom and his will to be done, then our desires are going to be radically aligned with his. And so Psalm 37 verse 4, which says, delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give the desires of your hearts is certainly True, your desires will reflect the concerns and the passions of the Lord. And God in his generosity welcomes us to express our desires. And often he actually gives them to us. I've seen this again and again, and the fact that we are actually here uh in the place of Nancy's birth that we're with people that we uh have known uh for decades, have the opportunity to uh visit with people we've known. It is really a desire we had, but we just never even would ask. for this. And it's just a wonderful, uh, wonderful thing. And I'm sure that each of you has moments that if you think back on it where God has been pleased. either after you've asked for a desire or even when you haven't asked, he's been pleased to give you something that you recognize with the giving with the desire in your heart. Well, let me pray. We've got it a good stopping point here. Gracious Father, be pleased to grant. That as we take this prayer in, as we grow in praying it, that our hearts would indeed be trained to walk in dependence. to see life differently and to face life confident that as our Heavenly Father, you know our needs before we ask That you care for us more than the birds of the air, that you know even the number of hairs on our heads, and that we are uh dearer to you than the entire uh animal kingdom that you've made. Thank you for these moments together. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.