Muted now. I'm I'm hoping someday just to be Pastor Rick or Rick. It feels so formal to be in and I don't think I need to be introduced anymore. Well, we're going to look at a lot of scripture as we come to the petition. Your will be done tonight. Rick, you got muted. Hurry, what uh Don't know what happened there. Let's start again. Sylvia Gather was traveling down I-95 to visit some uh relatives And the gas teller got stuck on her Volkswagen Jetta. And she accelerated to 110 miles. an hour. She wheezed in and out of traffic for about an hour, and in the course of that time she eventually was able to call the uh police. And eventually she ended up losing control of her car, rammed into a truck, and fortunately uh none of the nine people involved were seriously injured. But for many people, seeking to pray for the will of God feels like climbing into an out-of-control uh car. It's frightening and scary for them to be out of control of their lives. Other people, when they are seeking God's will and prayer, find themselves in really what's one of the naughtyest theological and philosophical questions, which is this. Why pray if God knows what he's going to do already? Now the second problem is a little easier to address than the first Consider that Abraham's servant prayed for a wife for Isaac and Rebekah appeared. Jacob wrestled in prayer, and Esau's mind was turned from twenty years of revenge. Moses prayed and the Amalekites were defeated. Joshua prayed and Achan was discovered Hannah prayed and Samuel was born. Isaiah and Hezekiah prayed and twelve hours later 185 Assyrians were slain. Elijah prayed and there was a drought for three years and then he prayed again and then there was rain. If anything's clear, the scripture testifies to the fact that God hears and answers prayer. And whatever you think about the questions of why pray and how God's sovereignty relates to our prayers. It's best not to let your reasoning or questions eclipse the reality that the scriptures testify that God does indeed answer our prayers. And there's a special promise given to those who seek as they pray God's will. If you have your Bible turned to 1 John 5, we'll look at verses 14 and 15 for a moment. 1 John 5. Fourteen and fifteen I can't hear the rustling of the pages, so it's hard to know how long a pause to give here, but but here goes these verses. And this is the confidence That we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And we know that he hears us in whatever we ask We know that we have the requests that we've asked of him. So we'd be very confident as we pray for God's will, then in fact we will be heard and God will do what we've asked. And this is what Jesus is teaching in this prayer when he says that we should pray, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Now there's a couple of Big things we could collect under underneath all the many things that we're actually asking for when we pray this prayer. And one of them uh is uh as Thomas Watson put it, that I might be diligent to do all that you've commanded, and the other is that I might submit patiently to all you inflict That's an old Puritan pastor. We probably wouldn't say inflict. We probably say all the suffering you permit in our lives. So when we pray that we might do diligently all that God commands, David helps us understand What it is that we're asking for as God's will is done in heaven, when he writes, Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice. of his word. That's Psalm 103, verse 20. And so the angels obeyed fully, gladly, without hesitation. or grumbling. And I've often thought that the mission that Jesus gave to the church should have been given to angels, because they would have been far more reliable in carrying it out than than we are When we ask God why pray for his will to be done, isn't God's will always done? We need to understand that God has two wills. These are two very distinct wills. One of them is his secret will, and another is his revealed will. In Deuteronomy 29, 29, we have that uh distinction made by Moses. I'm turning in my Bible, and maybe you're turning in yours. Moses writes, The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and our children forever that we may do all the words of his law. So God has a secret will and a revealed will, and his secret will is, brace yourselves, it's a secret. You can't know it. It's not available. It's hidden in his counsels that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit had before they engaged in the work of creation. But you can discover it by looking at what's already happened. You can look in the rear view mirror of your life and see what God's done as He's been providentially at work in our lives. You can see it in human history, in God's rule over the nations. We can see it in those who come to faith, for God's secret will includes the Lamb's Book of Life, the names that are written there. We can't read those names. We only get to see who actually comes to faith. And we'll see that most fully, of course, on the day when Christ returns. And this secret will is always done. Psalm 115, verse 3 says, Our God is in the heavens. He does all that pleases him. I just love that verse. Our God is in the heavens, and he does all that pleases him. Or Ephesians 1. 11, which is, I'm sure, familiar to all of you, according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Or a little bit later in that letter, speaking of the church in Ephesians 3. 11, he says, this was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. or Romans 8. 28, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for the good. You know, it's his will that everything that happens to us actually results in good. Just how that happens is a secret. And there are many other verses like this, Psalm 135. 6, Daniel 4. 35, Revelation 4. 11. God's revealed will is contained in the scriptures. And for instance, he commands us to love him with all our heart, mind, soul, and strengthen our neighbors ourselves. And when we ask, what does that mean? Well, Jesus tells us the Ten Commandments. Having no other gods before you, making no graven images, not using God's name in vain. uh observing the Sabbath, honoring parents, not murdering, committing adultery, stealing, bearing false witness, and coveting. The revealed will of God is what he commands. It's what he expects of his people. And frequently, as Paul prays, as we have these prayers in his letters, he prays that the church would have insight. into God's will for their lives in light of all that Jesus has done for them. And God's will, if the turnover to Psalm 119 shares in his attributes. It's characterized by uh who God Himself is. Psalm 19. I may have said 119, but I meant 19. Psalm 19, verses 7 to 11. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure. making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and drippings of a honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them, there's great reward. The revealed will of God is found throughout the scriptures And it's through sustained reading and study and the ministry of the Spirit that we come to understand it with increasing clarity. Now if we were to ask, is God's revealed will always dumb? Well if we were honest, the answer is no Because, well, uh I think and probably all of us tend to think that life is good when we get what we want. And often what we want is our own way, and we have a rebellious streak in us. It's a powerful pull to choose our way, contrary to God's revealed will And we want what we want, and we don't care what God wants. And so when we pray your will to be done, we're asking to join Jesus in following God's will. John 4. 34, Jesus said, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. Matthew tells us that to do God's will is the summary of the disciples' life. In Matthew 12, 50, Jesus says, For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother. my sister and my mother. And so when we pray this, we're saying, may the family resemblance be revealed in us. May we be like Jesus. who gladly did God's will. And if you turn to Matthew 7 Jesus talks about how essential it is as he summons us to obey. It's essential for our salvation. Verse 21 of Matthew 7, Jesus says at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord. will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is heaven is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, Did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. And so here we have Jesus referring to people who call him Lord, who acknowledge him, and yet their lives. aren't lived in submission to him. They are used, experience powerful works of God through their lives. But they themselves are in fact not in a relationship with Jesus Christ. To pray for God's will as it is in heaven is to pray that we would uh do God's will. in a rejoicing and not grudging manner. Now God's commands are more than rules. Rules are simple legal boundaries. You can think of the rules in a game of sports. And the referee is impartially enforcing those rules. But he doesn't have to feel passionate about it. But God's passionate about his will. His commands are not simply rules, they're an expression of his character, they express his uh identity. God's not a dispassionate referee uh who makes sure the game's kept in hand. He's passionate about his laws for them to be kept from the heart And part of God's passion is for justice. I'm going to look at a couple passages because I actually think it's kind of hard for us. For most of us, because of the station we enjoy in life, our socioeconomic station, to really appreciate how much God's concerned about justice. So if you open your Bible and you turn to Isaiah 1, then I want to read from Amos 2 and then from James 5 for just a moment. So as the book of Isaiah opens uh with uh uh the prophet condemning the wickedness of Judah. In verse 18 of chapter 1 is this beautiful summons to repentance. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land. But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. How the faithful city has become a whore, she who is full of justice, righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers Your silver has become dross, your bass wine mixed with water. Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. They do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them Therefore the Lord declares, the Lord of hosts, the mighty one of Israel, Ah, I will get relief from my enemies and avenge myself on my foes. That's the people of God he's talking about. Because of their injustice, their immorality, and their idolatry, they've become God's foes. He says, I will turn my hand against you. And I will smelt away your dross as with lie and remove all your alloy. And I will restore your judges as at first, and your counselors as at the beginning, and afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness, and the faithful city. Zion shall be redeemed by justice, and those in her who repent by righteousness But rebels and sinners shall be broken together, and those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed. For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that you desired and you shall blush for the gardens that you've chosen. Those are both references, the oaks and the gardens to uh idol worship. For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden without water, and the strong shall become tender, and his work a spark. And both of them shall burn together with none to quench them. And so I'm going to turn over to Amos in just a moment, but the lack of justice in the Israelite society, which was to be a reflection, God's justice was to be lived out and exhibited in their society, along with idolatry. And violence are really the three main things that Isaiah speaks to the people about, warns them as the cause of God's coming judgment on them was he sends them into exile. So if you'll turn to Amos, and Amos and Isaiah were contemporaries, and um they ministered during a time of really great prosperity in uh in the nation of Israel, and Amos And Amos 1 and 2, Amos prophesies he begins with God's judgment on the neighbors, and it's kind of like this circle. And it's a bit surprising as he moves through them. He goes from Syria to the Philistines to Edom and the Ammonites and the Moabites. And then Judah, last of all to Israel, they're probably surprised that they they ended up uh at the end because they're the ones that Amos has sent uh to uh proclaim uh this oracle of judgment. And in uh chapter two verse six we read this thus says the Lord For three transgressions of Israel and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they sell the righteous for silver. And the needy for a pair of sandals, those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth, and turn aside the way of the afflicted A man and his father go into the same, girl, sir, that my holy name is profane. They lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in pledge. And in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined. And so here these, again, this note of injustice as Bribes have supplanted justice, as the needs of the poor are disregarded, as people who are afflicted aren't met with compassion. And these themes are found in the book of James, in James's letter. You may remember in James chapter 1. James says, if anyone thinks he's religious and doesn't bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that's pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction. and to keep oneself unstained from the world. And then in chapter 5, verses 1 to 6 Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth-eaten Your gold and your silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You've condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. And so the in verse 4, the wages of the laborers, these are day laborers who ordinarily would be paid every day. They need their daily pay in order to purchase food. And so God's will includes a passion for justice. It includes grief and sorrow for victims of Injustice. To do God's will is more than simply obedience. True obedience includes sharing this passion for justice and his compassion for those who are victims of injustice. God's internally committed to justice because it's one of his attributes. And his laws are supremely just And he appoints authorities in families and societies and the church to maintain justice and stop oppression. Now, cruelty and injustice happen every day in every city. Women and children are molested. Many are physically abused in their own homes, and unfortunately that's been greatly intensified by the pandemic. Innocent parties are left in ruins after vicious divorce battles. The mentally ill are thrown out of hospitals to fend for themselves on the street. And when we're praying this prayer, we're actually praying that we might be able to hear their cries of anguish Will uh uh God care? Uh will he act? Will he rescue them? And when we pray that, we're praying that we'd not only be able to hear those cries. but that God's passion for justice would so shape us we'd be willing to be the answers to those prayers. Our prayer then is only effective when we share God's love for justice and his hatred for oppression and violence. So there's of course many attitudes that we could bring in praying this prayer. But the attitude that we're seeking as we pray this prayer is that we would We would want God's will with perfect uh love and trust because we're certain it's both wise and good. You all know who the Scottish Covenanters were. In fact, on the cover of the bulletin was one of their mottos today. And Richard Cameron was uh one of those Covenanters who was being persecuted uh by the English. Um Cameron was killed. His uh head and his hands were cut off by Mr. Murray and then taken to Edinburgh and presented to Richard's father, who was also in prison. uh for the same uh crime of seeking freedom for worship. And uh his captures presented uh his son's hands and head uh to him and he was asked if he knew them And taking his son's head in his own hands, which were very fair, he kissed them and said, I know him. I know them. They are my sons, my dear sons. It is the Lord who can do no wrong to me or mine. He has made goodness and mercy. Follow me all of our days. Let's pray. But gracious Father, we do pray for your will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, that your will would be done in us, that we would delight in your will, that we would see it as good. But Lord, we would not pick and choose from your will only those things that we find tasteful and agreeable. But Lord, that as we mature in Christ, that we would embrace the totality of your revealed will, that your very character would be evidenced in our lives Lord, we pray especially that your love and passion for justice would shape us as our world so marred with injustice and violence. Make us as passionate for justice as we are for pure worship. For both of these things you are equally passionate about. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen.