I I want to just take a moment and uh review a little bit. And uh here just to get it fresh in our minds is the beginning of the Lord's Prayer. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And these petitions all have to do primarily with God's concerns. And we've been uh looking at um this petition, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. And so what we've seen, what we've what And it might not have seemed completely connected to you, but what we were looking at really in large measure last time was the Bible's theology of God's name And uh that this theology informs prayer in the New Testament. It's behind this petition, and it's part of why we pray in Jesus' name. God's name, and even Jesus' name, stands for his person. It carries with it all his character qualities, his attributes. And when his attributes are known, he's manifesting his glory. That's what we saw in Exodus 32. And when we pray, hallowed, That means that's to keep holy, and it's a passive, and so we're asking God to keep his name holy, which which means that People would honor and recognize God as the unique being that he is, because holiness is not primarily moral, it's about a distinction I told a number of stories to try to make this make this point. And so we're really what we're asking for is And we're asking God to reveal his name, to reveal himself, and that people would really know him as God. All that's not just such a few short uh words. And we uh we there's one more thing about his name that's in the theology of his name that's uh uh especially clear. in this passage in Ezekiel chapter 36. So I hope you're there. It's a wonderful and glorious passage. So let me just give you the context Um uh Ezekiel as a prophet writes during uh the time when The southern kingdom has gone into exile. The northern kingdom already has gone into exile about a hundred years earlier. And now the southern kingdom goes into exile. And he sees that the prophecy begins with God's glory cloud leaving the temple and going to Babylon to be uh with the remnant that that are there. And Ezekiel lives through that time and he has many things to say to the remnant. A lot of it is explaining why it is that they were removed from the land. And this passage we're going to pick up in verse 16 of chapter 36 is a part of what God is about and up to in this season. And it's a word really of hope. Now, verse 16, the word of the Lord came to me, son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their ways and their deeds. Their ways before me were like the uncleanness of a woman in her menstrual impurity. So I poured up my wrath upon them for the blood they'd shed in the land, for the idols with which they'd defiled it. And so Ezekiel's just recapping and just a couple of phrases. um the corruption both religiously and morally that resulted in the in the exile. Verse 19, I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries in accordance with their ways and their deeds I judged them. In other words, they got what was coming to them, they reaped what they sowed. But when they came to the nations, wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, in that people said of them, These are the people of the Lord, and yet they had to go out of that land. And so here's the first use of God's name. It's my holy name in this prophecy. Verse 21, but I had concern for my holy name with which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they had come. And so I hope you can see this the weight of this theology. Profaning God's name is totally disrespecting who God is. And God Himself is concerned for his name, is concerned for his reputation. 22. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I'm about to act but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And so this is an important part of this theology too, is that God acts for the sake of his name. God uh seeks uh if you want to put it this way he promotes his glory. Uh he is zealous to protect his reputation And so he's uh saying to the exiles, I'm about to act, but it's not because of you. It's it's in order to reveal my glory to restore uh my reputation. And then verse 23 says, then I will vindicate my holy the holiness of my great name. Which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them, and the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God. When through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. And here again, you hear those those themes of name and glory, uh, and and God acting um to uh hold up, reveal his glory uh to the nations. Verse 24, and I will take you from the nations. This is God regathering the people into the land, and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. And I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanliness, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. Now I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I give to your forefathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. And I will deliver you from all your uncleanliness. I will summon the grain and make it abundant and lay no famine upon you. I will make the fruit of the trees and increase the field abundant. that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations. And then you will remember your evil ways and your deeds that were not good, and you will loath yourselves for your iniquities and your abominations. It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord. Let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded in your ways, O house of Israel. And this prophecy is one of the central prophecies of the new covenant, this promise of uh of receiving a new heart about taking our heart's stone and giving us a heart that's a fleshy, that's tender, that's responsive, of receiving a new spirit, of being cleansed with water and this central reaffirmation of the covenant statement that you will be my people and I will be my God. This is one of the most glorious promises in the entire Old Testament. And it's spoken in the context of God acting for the sake of his name. And these promises were fulfilled by Jesus. That's probably not surprising. But if you turn over to John 12, you'll see the explicit connection to God's name. John 12 verses 27 and 28. Jesus says this Now is my soul troubled? And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I've come to this hour So that little phrase, this hour in John, always refers to the cross. It's the hour of his death. But it's also, and this is uh this is pretty counterintuitive, verse 28, Father, glorify your name. And then a voice came from heaven, and I have glorified it, and will glorify it again. And so, um uh the hour in the book of John is actually the hour of glory And it is the hour when God has acted for the sake of his name. He reveals the glory of his name in Jesus redeeming us. And so, as you know, Jesus died to cleanse us. He rose to life and imparted the power of his life to us, and he offers amnesty. uh to us who are rebels. And uh I like to sometimes say it this way when I share the gospel with somebody, I say the amnesty is this, it's on the basis of total unconditional surrender. You have to admit you've been ignoring God and grateful to Him and you've refused to obey Him. And you have to surrender your complete claim to be in charge of your life. And when you do that, that sounds pretty scary to relinquish control of your life to him. But this is the very essence of faith. And so while it sounds initially scary, in a little while you start to see that it's really okay. Suppose you've got strep throat and you went to the doctor and the doctor said yes that sore throat really is strep. Here's some antibiotics. Take this in a few days and you will feel better. Well, you may be hesitant about the doctor's instructions, but if you do that in a few days, in fact, you will feel better. Or entering into a serious commitment like marriage is something that may awaken a lot of discomfort in a person that may have a lot of hesitation about that. But as soon as you enter into it, soon after you enter into it, you begin to experience the delights of intimacy. And so faith may seem very uncomfortable initially, but in time you start to see really that it's not as scary as it may sound. And so what we're praying for in the Lord's Prayer, when we pray that your name may be kept holy, is we're actually just praying that the whole world will come to see. uh who God is and that God would actually act to redeem it. And so that in fact will one day happen. One day all the world will recognize that the Lord Jesus has come, either joyfully As those who've experienced grace or in horrors, they recognize that they've resisted him. And so the second thing I want us to see here, and this is we're going to finish up on this fairly quickly here, is how can we tell when our prayers have been answered, when this prayer has been answered? Well, uh, when we become very big fans of God. Now, in uh North Carolina, we had a a man named Bill um who went to the University of Georgia and he became very enthusiastic about Georgia football and he has had for over 40 years season tickets. And until very recently, he never missed a game. He used to joke that if he were in his seat during the game, the people who sat around him would conclude he had died. He had a amazing red card, which is Georgia's team colors. He had two rooms in his house that were dedicated to Georgia Bulldog Paraphonia. He was a big fan. And this prayer is being answered in us when we're big fans of God as well. When we gather with the fan club and attend the pep rallies, which is what worship service is. It's a gathering of God's fan club, taking uh delight in him. It's also uh answered when we become fully trusting uh children. Because to name the name of this holy father as our own, and then to live in fear, as if he's lost control of the world, or in uncertainty about following his teachings as if following Jesus would lead to loss and ruin in your Life is an expression of our failure to honor this great God. John Piper, in his book, The Pleasures of God uh has a letter from Sarah Edwards. You probably know that Jonathan Edwards uh died about five weeks after getting a smallpox vaccine He had gone in the year 1758 to assume the presidency of Princeton College. And his sudden death left Sarah When he was 54 years old, this happened. He left Sarah with 10 children. And Sarah wrote a letter expressing her prof confidence in God to her daughter Esther. And this is how it reads. My very dear child, what shall I say? A holy and good God has covered us with a dark cloud. Oh, that we may kiss the rod and lay our hands on our mouths. The Lord has done it. He has made me adore his goodness. that we had him so long. But my God lives and he has my heart. Oh what a legacy my husband and your father has left us We are all given to God, and therefore I am and love to be your affectionate mother, Sarah Edwards. That letter was written in the midst of great grief, and it's not that having said what I did here somehow means that when we experience earth shattering uh loss or illness that there isn't a time to weep, a time uh to just need to be silent, a time just to be embraced. There is But she expresses the confidence that those who've really experienced the answer to this prayer in their lies have that God is really up to something good even in our worst experiences. The the third mark that this prayer has been answered is this, that we become contented children. He becomes our joy, our delight, our treasured, he's the most treasured relationship as the conf Catechism says, our chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And these are not two different things. They are one thing. God's chief end is his glory. It's the hallowing of his name, and it's purpose in everything that he does, every action that God takes is to display his glory. And so he's made things in such a way that we find our own deepest fulfillment and highest joy in hallowing his name in praise, in submission, and in service. That's Jack Packer, by the way. That's uh said so uh well. And so it's our uh duty to him is the best for us and our delight in him completely coincide. Duty and delight are are one in the same thing. And then to pray this prayer that Jesus has taught us is to touch on the very central purpose of all that God does in creating the world, that ultimately everyone uh might find him uh satisfying. Um all of you know this story that I'm gonna share uh with you because it's taught in uh every school uh classroom in America. On the afternoon of April 18th, 1775, a young boy who worked in a stable in Boston overheard one of the British Army officers say something about there will be hell to pay tomorrow. The stable boy Ram with that news to Boston's North End, to the home of a silversmith by the name of Paul Revere. Revere listened gravely. It wasn't the first rumor of that day. Earlier he had been told of an unusual number of British officers gathered at Boston's Long Wharf, talking in low tones. And a number of British boats were tethered there in the harbor. And several sailors had been seen doing what appeared to be last-minute errands. Revere and his close friend Joseph Warren became more and more convinced that the British were about to make a major move that had long been rumored. that they would march to the town of Lexington, northwest of Boston, arrest uh John Hancock and Samuel Adams, colonial leaders. And then on to the town of Concord, seizing the store of guns and ammunitions there. And what happens next is a part of history At 10 that night, Warren and Revere meet. They decide they had to warn the communities surrounding Boston that the British were on their way. And so the local militia would be roused to meet them Revere sprinted across Boston Harbor to the ferry landing in Charlestown. He jumped on a horse and began his midnight ride to Lexington. In two hours he covered thirteen miles. Apparently that's impressive on a horse. I I I wouldn't know because I've never ridden a horse uh very far. And every town he passed along the way, Charleston, Medford, North Cambridge, uh He knocked on doors, spread the word, telling the local colonial leaders of the oncoming British, church bells rang, uh, drums started beating the news, spread like virus. The word was in Lincoln, Massachusetts by 1 a. m. , Sudbury by 3, and over 40 miles northwest of Boston by 5 a. m. By 9 in the morning, it had reached as far as Ashby near Worcester. And when the British finally began their march into the countryside, to their utter astonishment, they met organized and fierce resistance, and that was what defeated them. And it was the beginning of the American Revolution. Paul Revere created an epidemic of news about the British. And Malcolm Gadwell, who retells this story in his book, The Dipping Point, points out that He had a network. He was what of relationships. He was what Gabwell calls a connector. He was a member of five possibly seven revolutionary war circles, which made it possible for him to share that news and for it to spread very rapidly And we'll know that this prayer, the very first petition of the Lord's prayer, is being answered when we are part of creating an epidemic. Of a word about Jesus Christ. When we become children who boast about what Christ has done for and the gospel, when we deliberately do the things we need to do as individuals. uh in s uh i uh in groups uh as a congregation to spread the word about our God. And that means many things But one of the primary things it I think it means is we have to be very intentional about building relationships. So most people have maybe 10 significant relationships that they maintain regularly. But there's a larger circle of people that you know and are good friends, and then a larger circle out there that are more acquaintances. and so on. And many people fill up all of those 10 slots. And especially Christians, when you get older, you have all those slots are occupied by Christians And I want to suggest to you that what mature Christians should do is they should keep two slots always open for people who don't know Christ. And that they would be intentional about asking God to show them who those people could be that they would intentionally have friendships with Some people find it helpful to have a list of three or five people that whose names they pray over uh regularly. Um probably the best Most effective personal evangelists people I know do this. They have a list of five names and they pray for these people daily. And they're in their minds and they try to try to build a relationship with them and follow up on things they know about them. They're intentional in spending time with them And uh when uh we are as a congregation sharing our faith uh with a couple of people, seeking to build relationships intentionally with people. uh not to make a project out of them, but to genuinely love them in the hopes that God would open their hearts and opportunity would come to share the gospel. Well, we're a part of that. And of course, it's why we do many things in investing in global missions or world missions. to college ministry, to church planning, uh, to seeking to do deed in mercy ministry. And it's why we are connectional, we're intentionally apart. of the larger uh Presbyterian church, and we do some things uh with uh probably with Lars, I think. But each of us has a part to play. God has placed you in a unique network of relationships. And part of the answer to this prayer is that we would gossip the gospel and that we would invite others to taste and see that the Lord is good. Isaiah in the 11th chapter of his prophecy tells us what the final answer to this prayer looks like. And Isaiah 11, 1 begins at sometimes a passage that's read or even preached on at Christmas time There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, a branch from his roots that shall bear fruit. And that's the descendant of King David, Jesse's his father, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight will be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what he sees or decide disputes by what he hears, but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips, he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fatted calf together, and the little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, their young shall be lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play over the whole of the cobra. And the wean child shall put his hand on the adder's den. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain. For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. So when we pray this prayer, we're praying that the A beautiful kingdom. The new heavens and the earth would come when the knowledge of God is known by all who are living. Let's pray. Gracious Father, may you be pleased to bring glory to your name. May you act for your sake in making yourself known in our day, in our time. uh here around the globe and uh uh our nation in the state of Maryland and in particular in the the Greater Laurel area And Father, we pray that we might be given to gossiping your name, that we would be contented children trusting children, children who take great delight in you. May it be, Lord, that all the things that you've accomplished through Christ's death and promised in the new covenant would be so worked in our lives that people would see you and be drawn to the light that we find in Christ Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen.