Briefly and then we'll come back to Matthew's gospel. So we've been looking at uh the the fifth petition it's in verse 12 of Matthew 6 which reads forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors. And then in verse 14, Jesus adds these these words, for if you forgive men when they sin against you, Your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their sins, your father will not forgive your sins. A couple of nights ago, I mentioned that this was what Augustine called the terrible petition because it seems conditional. And it's that conditionality that leaves us, well, a little uneasy praying this. In fact, I'm Probably the disciples were a little uneasy with Jesus saying that they should pray this way. And and to put it in a more pointed way, Do our struggles with forgiving others actually put our forgiveness from God in jeopardy? You see how that might be what you might think when you read this, when you pray this? Am I saying, God, don't forgive me if I can't forgive this other person? Well, I I could certainly understand why you would see it that way. And we do have struggles with forgiveness. If you turn over to Luke 17. Jesus is teaching and these uh there's several things in this passage and I'm only going to read and really look at at one of them but I'll start in uh Luke 17, 1 and read through uh verse 5. Um Jesus said to his disciples, the things that cause people to sin are bound to come. But woe to that person through whom they come. It would be better for him to be thrown into the sea with a millstone tied around his neck than for him to cause one of these little ones to sin. Walk so watch yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. If he sins against you seven times a day and seven times comes back to you and says, I repent, forgive him. And the apostles say to the Lord, increase our faith, which is the way of saying, you're asking an awful lot here, because Because what's happening here is that I don't listen to my wife and I talk and interrupt her at once. And she points this out and I say, okay, you're right. And then I do it again. And she points this out and I say, you're right, I repent. And I do it seven times. Would you say I'm manifesting true repentance? No. No. You'd say, I don't get it. How could you be such a knucklehead about this? You just keep doing the same thing. And that's what Jesus is saying to them. you've got to keep forgiving. And you know, there's another saying where he says you need to give uh forgive seven times seventy, which is almost certainly an illusion. to uh to this to Genesis and where Lamak uh pledges revenge um uh to be exceed that of Cain's And so what Jesus is saying here, he's saying you have to keep forgiving, even if that person doesn't repent Even if that person shows you they haven't repented. That's really what he's driving at, which is why the disciples are just How could this be? Increase our faith. And then Jesus goes on and and talks about the character of faith, but we're not going to go there. I just wanted to bring this to your attention because we struggle to forgive. And one of the key ways that we struggle is we ruminate. We keep going back to that moment, to that uh event or events where people injured us. And um and Nancy uh Lee DeMoss is quoted uh at length in in something I was reading in the last couple weeks, and she wrote wrote this, this is just it in part. The prevailing mindset in our culture today leaves us with permission to be coddled, even empowered in our resentment, our broken relationships, and unresolved conflicts. Sometimes well-meaning friends support us in our determination to exact payment from those who have sinned against us. And the cost is great. Internalized anger, bitterness, and resentment will bring you great harm. physically, emotionally, and spiritually. And she goes on and she uh she uh says here are some diagnostic uh statements to help you see whether you're in a place of bitterness. I often replay in my mind the incident or incidents that hurt me. When I think of a particular person or situation, I still feel angry. I'm not going to ask for a show of hands. Unless you know my hand goes up for both of these. I've experienced this many, many times. I have a subtle secret desire to see this person pay for what he or she did with me. Deep in my heart, I wouldn't mind if something bad happened to the person or the person who hurt me I often find myself telling others how this person has hurt me. A lot of my conversations revolve around this situation. Whenever his or her name comes up, I'm more likely to say something negative than something positive about him or her. Now, I'm I'm sharing that quote because I think it just highlights some of the many ways we struggle with forgiveness. And there's a bunch of questions that are buried in those statements that are legitimate questions to ask about forgiveness. But we want to focus first of all on this question of just what does Jesus mean and what are we really saying when we pray? Forgive us our debts as we have forgiven our debtors. So Does this mean that if we don't forgive, our own salvation is put in jeopardy? Well, it sounds like it And the one-word answer to this question, I could keep you in suspense for 10 minutes, but the one word answer to this question is no. Our salvation's not in jeopardy Forgiving others does not earn us the right of being forgiven by God. That's not what Jesus is saying Our forgiving other people doesn't somehow uh put God in a place where he has to forgive our debts. We don't earn it, we don't buy it by forgiving other people Salvation and our forgiveness are freely given. They are given to sinners. But what Jesus is teaching is taught at length in Matthew 18. And um let's turn over there to Matthew 18. This is probably familiar uh to you. It it uh in verse um 20 One, this is where Jesus tells the parable. Sometimes in my particular version of the Bible, it's labeled the parable of the unmerciful servant. So Matthew 18, 21. Then Peter came to Jesus and asked, Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother when he sins against me? Up to seven times? Please note Peter thinks he's being very generous with the number seven. Seven reflects how spiritually mature he is, how generous his spirit is. He thinks seven is really all that's reasonable. for anyone to forgive. And Jesus answered him, I tell you not seven times, but seventy-seven times, which for you math boss is at least 490, but probably it means something larger than that. But I won't digress there. 490 times is enough I don't know if you can keep track of 490 times forgiving someone for something. That's a lot to keep track of. Have to be an accountant to keep track of all of that Verse 23, therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. As he began the settlement, a man who owed him 10,000 talents was brought to him. Now, just so you understand how much money that is, that's roughly equivalent to the national debt. This is an astronomical sum of money. This isn't the kind of money anybody individually ever has. Well, maybe Bill Gates and, you know, some of those people might have a number that approaches that. But for ordinary people, this might as well be the national debt. This is an impossibly large amount of money. And since he wasn't able to pay, the master ordered that he and his wife and his children and all that he had be sold to repay the debt But The servant fell on his knees before him. Be patient with me, he begged, and I'll pay back everything. The servant's master took pity on him, cancelled the debt, and let him go But when that servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him but a hundred denarii. That's uh a hundred days uh uh uh wages. And he grabbed him and began to choke him. Pay back what you owe me, he demanded. His fellow servant fell to his knees and begged him, Be patient with me, and I will pay you back But he refused. Instead he went off and had the man thrown into prison until he could pay the debt. When the other servants saw what had happened, they were greatly distressed And went and told their master everything that had happened. And then the master called the servant in. You wicked servant, he said, I canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to. Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? In his anger, his master turned him over to the jailers to be tortured until he should pay back all that he owed This is how my heavenly father will treat each of you, unless you forgive your brother from your heart. Okay. Well it in some ways this parable doesn't sound very uh well uh comforting How might be a word to describe this part? It's not very comfortable. It ends on a kind of a strong note. And the point of this parable is this, that if you receive mercy, you should be showing mercy. So if you and I have received mercy from God for sins that are just beyond our counting, we have no idea how many sins. we've cr uh committed in life. We don't even have a clue really as to how many we've committed most days. And of course, we all know we commit the sin of not loving God and not loving our neighbors ourselves every day. You know, we just we we rarely even approximate that in all that all that's implied. And so it ought to put us in a place where we are amazed by the mercy shown to us. And it's out of that amazement, that being gripped by the mercy we receive, that we forgive. Or to put it this way, what Jesus is saying in the Lord's Prayer is, is that the forgiven forgive. The experience of being forgiven by God changes us. The experience of mercy should have changed the man in the parable, even though the the extent of the mercy he received was astronomical in terms of the money he was pardoned. But his heart isn't changed by it. And so God expects that those who've received the gift of forgiveness from him be willing to forgive any and all others. Or to put it a little different way, God expects you to forgive other people. Period. If you're a Christian, you've received forgiveness, and God's calling you to forgive other people. Now, there's a lot of things that need to be said here, and we won't exhaust them all tonight. Because in some ways we're starting to move into the complexity. But I don't want you to lose the simplicity of this. The forgiven, forgive. It's just that simple. Um now our forgiveness isn't perfect, only God's forgiveness is. But one of the best ways that you can know whether in fact you've received The grace of having your sins forgiven is whether you can forgive other people. Now, just what is forgiveness? Well, forgiveness is not. It's not forbearance. Forgiveness is not just tolerating somebody. It's not avoiding somebody. That's not forgiveness There may be reasons why there's some people who are so destructive that they have to be avoided. But that's not forgiveness. Um that's a form of wisdom and and it takes a lot of discernment to figure out when that's a wise action as it might be for uh a a uh a spouse to remove themselves from the company of an abusive spouse or when it's simply self-protection And I don't know if we can always easily figure that out for ourselves. But it's not forbearance. It's not forgetting. A lot of people think that, because there's this phrase that you hear people say, forgive and forget. Well, if you have experienced a serious wound or injury from somebody, you're not going to forget. You can't forget. That's just impossible to forget. And actually, God doesn't forget our sins. He doesn't forget them in the sense that he had this memory of what you did, and now there's just a blank. You know, it's been he's redacting the story of your life with a dark uh pen. And that just that's gone. No, he re he ri he knows what you did, but he mm doesn't remember them to hold them against you. He he remembers them as forgiven sins. And in fact all our sins will be revealed in the last day. but they'll all be revealed for those of us who are in Christ as forgiven, as covered sins. So we don't need to fear that And I won't try to take you to all the places where the Bible insists that all that we ever did in secret's going to be exposed. It is a sobering thought. makes makes one uh pause if you think go through life thinking everything I've ever done and will do in the future will be exposed, but it'll be exposed in a gracious way as something forgiven that will bring glory. uh to the greatness of the grace of Christ. I don't know what that's going to look like. I can't get my head around it. But Jesus said it. So it's Forgiving is forgetting in the same sense that Paul says in 1 Corinthians 13 that love doesn't keep a record of wrongs. So when we forgive, we don't keep this record that we bring out every time we interact with somebody. Can you remember the time you did this? I just I'm here to remind you about that. This took place And let me just remind you before we talk again or before we go do this that this happened. That's not forgiveness. Forgiveness is being able to let that go so that that record isn't being brought up in your interactions with that person all the time. Forgiveness is not being reconciled. Now, full disclosure here. There are a lot of books written about forgiveness, and not all of them agree with the statement I'm about to make. So you'll have to go uh dig around and and make sense of this yourself, but here's the case I'd make for this. of this statement. You see, it's not being reconciled. When you forgive somebody, you're not saying, well, everything that happens okay It's just it's in the past, it's water under the bridge, as if no harm has been done. We are sinners who sin against other people. And we are sinners who suffer as other people sin against us. It's not we're in one group or the other. It's we're in both groups Well, we we sin against other people and we get sinned against. And so forgiveness, the way I like to think about it is this. Forgiveness may lead to reconciliation But they're not the same thing. Or to put it a different way, forgiveness is a gift you give to an enemy in the hopes that you might be reconciled. It's a gift you offer in the hopes that they might in fact actually own part of what, or some of what, or maybe all of what they did that you might be reconciled, that you might start to restore trust. But forgiveness doesn't depend on an apology. We don't withhold forgiveness until we get an apology We give forgiveness freely because we've been forgiven. Now If we were sitting together, we could have a conversation now. It'd be good. It'd probably take the next 10 minutes. But we're not, and so I'm going to press ahead here just a little bit further. So this prayer that Jesus teaches us to pray, the little word as doesn't mean that our forgiveness and God's forgiveness are the same thing. They are not equivalent. It's as. It makes a comparison between God's forgiveness and ours, but they're not identical. God's forgiveness is greater than our forgiveness God forgives debts. He forgives transgressions. He forgives sins. We forgive debtors. We forgive transgressors. We forgive sinners. We forgive people who injure us, but we can't pardon their sins. Only God can do that. And the condition for receiving forgiveness from God is repentance. The gospel is the good news of repentance for the forgiveness of sin, or forgiveness for the repentance of sin. And so God forgives in a way that we can't. We can't for do God's part in forgiving sins, but we forgive sinners. I hope that's clear. Only God can actually clear the charges of justice against sin because he alone is the judge of the universe, and we're not the judge. And so we might be willing to let something go. Love might cover a multitude of sins, but we can't do that for God. It's God Himself who deals in the injustice. uh that that we create or someone else uh commits. Or to put it another way, we don't cancel people's sins. We can't punch that ticket. We can't stamp that. Only God can do that. And He will only do it if they repent. And this is important. This is really such an important distinction because this is part of how it is that we actually can forgive. Because buried within our anger and bitterness is a desire for justice. We want God to settle the score. And we can forgive the greatest injuries because we're leaving justice into God's hands That's what the scripture means when it commands us not to take vengeance, but to recognize that God is the avenger of wrongs. So uh let's stop the recording and let's just talk. Maybe somebody has a question here, because I've I've said a lot and uh And I don't want to press on uh too hard. This is this is this could be very hard, and I know it it might feel like I'm pressing on something that may be very tender And I've already stru I've raised my hand several times here. I know what it is to struggle with uh forgiving someone who's injured me seriously. Um and it can be a process. And I want to next time talk about