When we pray this prayer, your will be done, we're praying that we might submit patiently to all you inflict. The book of Job teaches us that God allows suffering to come into our lives, even when we haven't done anything wrong. And the word appropriate is an active, even aggressive word. A plan that was hidden but sure. And you can think of it as kind of on three axes. And the volitional part, the willing, the deciding, intending, committing, and acting. You can't really take them all apart. And at the end of the book, God approaches him, but Job is given no explanation for what he experiences. And when he finally reveals himself to them, the brothers are terrified, and they have good reason to be after what they've tried to do to Joseph. Uh do so. some deeper loving presence behind the story, some hand greater than Joseph's brothers guilt in their evil deeds. Of course, we have permission to take hold of God's grace. We must appropriate God's grace actively and aggressively. And she tells the story being in the ladies' room once at a women's uh conference. Oh Joni, you always look so together, so happy in a wheelchair. And then at seven o'clock I hear the door open where a friend comes to get me up. For after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord. uh uh that takes place uh when us. The thinking part includes knowing, believing, reasoning, remembering, and interpreting. Now, if the moon were to leave its orbit and move toward uh the earth and crash uh into it, it would be devastating But Joseph, as you may know, was one of twelve brothers of Israel, and he antagonized his brothers by being a tattletale and with his dreams. The brothers said to themselves, we'll give him a dream, and so they plotted against him, attempted to kill him, but eventually settled upon selling him into slavery. Something ate little Joseph. The devil returns to God's presence and says the reason he hasn't caved is he still is healthy. There's another famous story that sheds a little bit more light on this. It's one of the most beautiful stories ever told, and our English Bibles really don't fully do justice to the beauty and the craft in which the story is told. Imagine your kid brother coming to you saying, I had a dream. He has made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Now Joseph's statement to his brothers is really an amazing statement of God's grace and power. Life is what I do and decide, or it's just random. And Peter, in his sermon on the day of Pentecost, brings this same truth to light that we've been looking at here. When he writes, Luke records this in verse 22 and 23 of Acts 2. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know. And so here it is, these human acts of crucifying and killed, and you have God's secret, definite plan. And what pleases God is when we surrender. Paul writes, so to keep me, that's Paul, from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations That it should leave me. For the sake of Christ then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I'm weak, then I'm strong. Yes. uh with it. All vigilance, for from it flows the springs of life You brood of vipers, how can you speak good when you are evil? For Psalm 139, search me, O God, and know my heart. Central to the promise of the new covenant is this, as the writer of Hebrews in chapter 10 puts it. Prayer is the way to get our hearts back into true orbit, to center them on God, to worship, to glorify, and desire what He desires. If the heart leaves its true orbit, centering everything on God, the same thing happens. So in prayer we make God central again. Or just to say that God is central. by rejoicing in him and what he's done and drawing the sweetness out of that. Jesus wrestles as he's in the garden before he's arrested and goes to the cross. And the reason we're not happy is because of what's going on outside of us. And Job will curse you. And in the course of the book, as Job's friends come to him, Job registers his complaints. And Job reveals to us that there are things going on behind the scenes as we suffer that we don't know. There are mysteries around our suffering, things which don't get explained and displayed. His wisdom is recognized by his Egyptian overlords, and Pharaoh places him over all his holdings. But Joseph says something to his brothers that reassures them that's related to your will be done. So Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, please. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years into which there will be neither plowing nor harvest. and to keep alive for you many survivors. The first family in the Old Testament is a very dysfunctional family, which seems just like a story of rivalry and struggle. Where God is realizing his purposes for the world. We're not told how. I love this saying of Luther, God can shoot with the warped bow and ride the lame horse. God can shoot with the warped bow and ride the lame horse. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. In Matthew 26, and if you want, you might turn there, verses 36 to 39, Jesus is in the garden. And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. This Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men Let me be full, let me be empty, let me have all things, let me have nothing. And now, O glorious and blessed God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, you are mine, and I am yours. So be it. And I want to make some observations about it. A thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly of my weakness so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. But we still have to appropriate it. According to verses 9 and 10, where Paul says, Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weakness, so that the power of Christ may rest on me. Now, Johnny Ericsson Cata is probably a name most of you recognize. I have no resources. It's not mine, it's God's. In the face of our suffering, we turn to God and ask him to fill us with his overflowing grace. Put me to doing, put me to suffering, let me be employed for you or laid aside for you, exalted for you or brought low for you Bratty little dreamer. First you make him central in your thinking by recollecting and remembering who he is and what he's done. And so I started that last time mentioning one of two ways that Thomas Watson summarizes this prayer, and this is the second way. So let me go back here. his home and his children. into Egypt. And they don't know that the royal person whom they've come to beg food from is none other than their long-forsaken little brother Joseph. The story that began with resentment and betrayal turns out to be the story of God preserving his people. Remain here and watch with me. insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. So what happens when your friend comes through the bedroom door, one of the women asks. Matthew 12, Jesus speaking to the Pharisees says, either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. Job lived around the time of Abraham. And said, I have spied your servant Job. Dress me, sit me up in a chair, brush my hair and my teeth, and send me out the door. Or from Psalm 19, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and redeemer. And prayer, this connects to prayer in this way. And he devises and executes a master plan for saving Egypt from its hunger. You didn't send me here, Joseph tells his brothers. Then Jesus went with them to the place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit here while I go over there and pray. Jesus surrenders to God's will and sometimes allows God and suffering and sickness in our lives for the same reason to accomplish some greater good. God's grace is enough for Jonah, but Joni, but she had to appropriate it every day. that could not have been accomplished through his strength. In the scripture, the heart is the very center of who we are. Once we accept our situations as God's will, we need to appropriate His grace. How do you do it, they asked? Then I dreamed that the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars bowed down to me. The author was greater than the actors. If you desire God's will to be done in your life, then John Wesley's prayer is a prayer you might want to consider making your own. So if you would pray, I'm no longer my own but thine. They bloodied Joseph's coat with a sheep's blood and they brought it to his father. Genesis 45, and I'm gonna read uh verses uh four to eight And the covenant which I have made on earth, let it be ratified in heaven. I'm not sure where I lost you. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. And there are any number of famous stories that might help us understand this. And Joseph tells his brothers, fear not. In fact, the Bible doesn't explain how in fact this can be. The hero of the story is the one who makes it worth telling, is the author of another plan. And Joni replied, I don't do it. Through a long series of twists and turns, little brother Joseph, even in his slavery, prospers. And God gave him permission to do that. I don't even have a smile to take into the day. But in prayer, what you actually do is make him central. There's nothing passive about Paul's response to the thorn in the flesh, whatever it was. We can think about one at a time, but really we think, feel, and choose all at the same time. He not only endures his weakness, but he boasts in it. Within us, the heart is alive and uh functioning and is in a multifaceted way Our feeling, our thinking, and our choosing our complex heart responses. And going a little further, he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me Rick, you just went you just got muted. He was a righteous man whom God had prospered greatly. Everything but his health and his wife It becomes available to us when we open our lives to Christ When we say that the point in prayer is to return us to our true orbit, we don't mean that prayer is simply a way to affirm that God is central. So when we pray the Lord's Prayer, we're really praying to accept the suffering that comes in. We were binding sheaves of wheat in the field, and your sheaves all bowed down to my sheaf. And so she said, gesturing to her paralyzed legs, whatever joy you see today was hard won. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Prayer is not primarily a way to get God to give you what you want. We must claim his promise, obey his commands, ask for strength, and then seize the opportunities our weakness affords us. And they came near, and he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. It means to take possession of something and make use of something for oneself, even without permission. 2 Corinthians 12, 7 through 10 We can't stop at acceptance. It's luck. One of my favorite passages in the Bible is 2 Corinthians 12. They thought they were in control, but no, there was something, someone Let me tell you how it works. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. We see the same thing take place at the cross. And all of these interact in a dynamic way. And she says, I turn my head toward her and give her a smile that came straight from heaven. What you meant for evil, God meant for good. It's the story of Joseph and his brothers in the book of Genesis Try me and know my thoughts. And systematically the devil takes from him his wealth. I wish I had your joy. For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks Now, this is really contrary to the way we think as Americans, because we think of life as either choice or chance. She was a woman, a young woman who in a diving accident became a quadriplegic. It's our circumstances, the people around us, but in this prayer, Jesus is teaching us something else. And the one who's the hero of this story is not the A well-meaning woman who was putting on her lipstick in front of the mirror said to her, And he he lives uh uh before you with a charmed life. For God sent me before you to preserve life Jesus surrenders to God's will. And this often involves wrestling. Really, said the eleven brothers And that's a terrible way to think. I listen while she makes coffee and I pray, oh Lord, my friend will soon give me a bath The effective heart is desiring, valuing, feeling, and emoting. And that's the hard part of prayer. And God agrees that he can take his health, but he uh can't take his life My power is made perfect in weakness. And so do we in the face of our weaknesses. But you do, Lord. And then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. And if you have your Bible and want to turn to Genesis 45, you might. For when I am weak, then I am strong. It's 6 a. Now we tend to think that the problem in life is And I don't have the strength to face this routine one more time Men of Israel, hear these words. And who should show up in Egypt but Joseph's brothers looking for food? Grace here refers to all of God's resources, his strength, his joy, his peace. And then you make him central in your feelings. But we are told God's plans triumph. Amen. For the sake of Christ, men, I am content with weakness. He knows that God can accomplish things through his weakness. We must appropriate And several women nodded. Put to me what you will, rank me with whom thou will Spiritually, cosmically, we crash and we burn. I will put my laws in their hearts and write them on their minds. It's a comprehensive word that captures the dynamic. He basically demands his day in court with God. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth. During a great famine, Joseph predicted through his skills of dream interpretation. m. I freely and heartily yield all things to your pleasure and disposal. What seems like a totally internal family matter in the morning, my husband Ken leaves And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us. And one day the devil appeared in the courts of God. May I have yours. Don Wesley. Guess what happened today while we're at work, Dad? Thank you. And the Bible says this time and time again. And it's terrible to think that everything is up to you. God's plans will triumph One of them is the story of Job It happened according to his foreknowledge Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this. Really, said Joseph's brothers. And Matthew records this. It actually turns out to be a larger story. God, I need you desperately. And that's the last passage I want to look at with you. I'm going to close So let me test him.