The prayer begins with the words our Father and there's just such a richness here as Jesus opens this prayer. So I hope to begin to to explore some of that with you tonight. As Christians, we often feel guilty about prayer. A lot of times our prayers are driven. by a sense of being powerless. That may be why often many of our prayer requests are about health situations. It's because in those situations we do feel really our own weakness, our own inability in the face of sickness. Paul Miller, I know a couple of you told me you got this book by Paul He observes that America is the hardest place in the world to pray. We're surrounded by noise. um music, entertainment, um we're distracted. And I I suppose for as many positive things there are about cell phone. The cell phone is a source of distraction for most of us. We have to learn to put it in its place. We tend to view our value by what we get done, and prayer seems, well, like a poor use of time. We should really be doing something more productive. And if we were honest, a lot of us are cynical about prayer because we prayed about something really important and didn't seem to us like God came through for us when it really mattered. to us. And for most of us, at at some mobile, prayer's a struggle. Now again, I want to commend you all. You all have for the size of your church, the number of you who are gathering in prayer like this is It's pretty remarkable. It's probably proportionately as many people as I've ever gathered with in a church And so maybe where isn't a struggle for for you all, and maybe it'll just be somebody who will listen to this recording out there on the internet that will identify with that. But prayers of gift And it's given by God to us because God has created you and me to be in a relationship with Himself. And this is really the whole story of the Bible, that God desires a relationship with us. If we ask why did God create us, it wasn't because he was lonely. I want to be very clear about that. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit have always enjoyed. a perfect fellowship with each other. Love, joy, mutual delight, mutual humility, total harmony, no hiding, no competition. None of them tries to outdo the other. None of the members of the Trinity are narcissistic. They are giving to each other. They are other-centered. And one of the primary implications of the Trinity is that God in his essence is relational. While there's one Godhead, there are three persons in the Trinity. Now three people. We're created as people, but God's not created. But He's a community of persons. who has a mind, they have wills, they have emotions. And if God wasn't lonely, then why is it that He created humanity? Well the only fully direct, explicit statement that I've ever found in the Bible is in Isaiah 43 verse 7. And it says this in part. whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made. And glory is the shorthand in the Bible for God's display of his character in making his character visible, which happens mostly through his works, through his divine speech, through what we refer to as the scriptures creation, his ruling in human history, his ordering of our lives, which we call providence and in the work of redemption. And God created human beings. So that we might appreciate his glory, that we might see how glorious and excellent he is in all that he does. And if we listen to the Bible carefully, we'll also see something more, that God created us for friendship. God created us to enjoy a mutual relationship with us. He did it because he's generous. He's self-giving and he wants to give himself to us. God wants to pour himself out toward us. And he's made us in his likeness so that we can uh understand him and communicate with him even though we are much smaller and in so many respects our Being finite means that we can't really comprehend human as infinity. We can't conceive of it. That's what that little word infinite really means. It means it's It's not not finite. And that's what a lot of those uh attributes of uh uh uh the gods um Uh oh w uh oh goodness, my mind has I've just lost my mind. We'll just move on This is revealed in the opening of the Bible in the Garden of Eden in Genesis 3. 8, where It's written, they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And that's said in such a way that suggests that Adam and Eve regularly had this experience of conversing together with God, that they enjoyed each other's company like we might with friends over dinner. But sadly, as you all know, this didn't last. Adam and Eve asserted their independence from God. They rebelled against his command and unleashed a world of hurt. And their relationship with God was shattered. Spiritual death uh entered their lives and they hid from God. And in losing their relationship with God, they lost their the created harmony of Eden. And so like a rock dropped a large rock dropped in a pond, the water ripples out, and so uh it ripples through the uh effects of their disobedience. And so Adam and Eve's relationship becomes one marked by blame and power struggles. They experience shame They no longer relate to themselves in a healthy way. Their whole inner world is shifted. They feel inadequate, so they have proper shame because they've They failed to live up to what it means to be a human being. But they also have a shame that's peculiar to being fallen And so they themselves, they can't accept themselves as who they are. And we experience this in sin and sickness and death. um entered the world, hostility, hatred, and violence uh toward both God and man. And the story of the Bible ends back at in the Garden, the very last two chapters of the book of Genesis. Describe this in beautiful language, drawing on a whole host of rich uh imagery. In chapter 21 of the book of Revelation, we read. In verse 3, I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them. and they will be his people, and God himself will be as their God. And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death also shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning or crying or pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And then in chapter 22, beginning in the first verse, then the angel showed me the river of the water of life. Brightest crystal flowing from the throne of God and the Lamb, through the middle of the street of the city, and also on either side of the river, the tree of life. With its twelve kinds of fruit yielding its fruit each month, the leaves of the tree were for the healings of the nations. And there will no longer be anything accursed but the throne of God and the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. And so uh this uh picture at the end of the Bible is recapturing Eden. Eden is regained. Uh we live in harmony uh with God. The curse is undone. And God's desire and design for us originally will be fully realized. And in between the opening and the closing chapters of the Bible is the story of how God brings this about how he redeems, and the central actor in this story is Jesus Christ. who buys life and death atones for our sin and overcomes the distance between us and God. And of course we enter this through the weakness of repentance, admitting we're rebels that have ignored and resisted God and by turning from ourselves in faith and trusting in what Christ has done for us. Now it's against this background that we need in order to understand the Lord's Prayer. Prayer is God's gift. to those who've experienced redemption in Christ Jesus and are in the process of being redeemed. So redemption is like buying a house that's in disrepair. It's like purchasing a fixer rubber. And there are many rooms in the house and they all need work. Well, that's like our lives. Our lives have many rooms in them, and there's a great deal of work to fix up what's in each of the rooms. It takes a long time. In fact, it takes a lifetime. And Jesus, as he begins this prayer, instructs us on how to approach God with these two words, our Father. And that's more than simply a formula. It's an invitation to an intimate relationship with God, to a friendship with God. So I'm going to read from John 15. John 15, 13 to 15, Jesus says, greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant doesn't know what his master is doing. But I've called you friends, for all that I've heard from my father, I've made known to you. So we are friends, we're not equals, but we're more than servants because We've been let in on what God is actually doing. We get not only to know what he's doing, but we get to participate in what he's doing. And amazingly, Jesus is our older brother. He's uh not uh adopted like we are. Um he's the natural son of the father. And when we pray our Father, we're addressing God who's Jesus Father in a unique way. John 1. 14 says this. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So Jesus is uniquely the Father's Son, both from all eternity and in his messianic office. That's what Psalm 2 is uh is echoing, that Jesus is uh the messianic son, uh the son of David And in John's Gospel, the relationship between the Son and the Father is written very large. It was one of the things that really stood out to me when I first became a Christian and got my first New Testament. I just was just astounded by the intimate language that Jesus used to describe his relationship with the Father. Here's just a little sample. Chapter 3, verse 35, Jesus says, the Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. In chapter 5, verse 19 and 20, so Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord. but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he's doing, and greater works than these he will show him, so that you may marvel. And then again in chapter 5, verse 23. That all that may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever doesn't honor the Son doesn't honor the Father who sent him And in the Gospels all record that the Father says to Jesus, both at his baptism and on the Mount of Transfiguration. You are my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. So Jesus enjoys a unique intimacy with his father. He's being apprenticed by his father as in For much of human history, sons learned their traits from their father. And so Jesus in his earthly life. In his speech and his actions, they're completely oriented around the Father. And it's into this intimacy that Jesus invites us. uh as we pray our father. We're to pray to God as Father, even as Jesus did. Now the New Testament underlines this by telling us that when we put our faith in Jesus, we're adopted into his family. We become the children of God. And this is one of the most precious truths in Scripture. One of the places that this is taught is in John chapter 1 in verses 12 and 13. We read, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but God. And so this uh language here that he gave the right to become the children of God, that means that that's our legal privilege. When we uh come to faith in Christ and we are justified, at that very moment we are adopted, we are given all the legal rights of being the children. of God. And there's actually no higher privilege. God didn't have to give that to us, didn't have to make us a part of his family to have redeemed us. We have something actually more. than uh Adam and Eve would have enjoyed in the garden had they not uh disobeyed. Um we are elevated to this extraordinary place John in his first letter says these words. He writes to us, see what kind of love the Father's given to us. That we should be called children of God and so we are. The reason why the world doesn't know us is that it didn't know Him Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And so we enjoy the legal status of adoption, and this includes our inheritance rights as sons. We will inherit the new heavens and the new earth And it's our prayer life actually should flow out of this relationship. Our adoption brings with it the gift of prayer. Paul touches on this in Romans 8. Verses 15 and 16. He says, For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you've received the spirit of adoption as as sons by whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirits that we are the children of God. And if children then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. provided we suffer with him in order that we may be glorified with him. And so uh one of the evidences of our adoption is that our hearts are naturally oriented toward We uh call upon God naturally as uh father, and Abba fathers this term of endearment or intimacy in the Aramaic. It's probably worthwhile for a moment just reflecting on this with a little story from John Smed. John for many years pastored, he planted a church in Vancouver. Uh and uh when we were on vacation uh once we got to visit uh the church and he's written a book on the Lord's Prayer, he trains around the world and how to use the Lord's Prayer, and he tells this little vignette from his own life. He says several years ago, a friend of mine named Stan and Lori Helm adopted their son Nicholas from Russia. At the time I met him, Nicholas was a beautiful little boy full of life with pearly auburned hair, but it was hard to imagine the life he'd left behind. The unsanitary orphanage had left him in ill health and covered with sores. He'd seldom be held and I uh had been held. And I said to Sam, wow, Nicholas won at the adoption lottery with you and Lori. And without a blink in his eye, Sam replied, No, John, you're wrong. We won the lottery here. No one in the world could be happier than we are. And I got to John thinking about this amazing truth that God has adopted uh us as sons. And he said, could it be that God is just as thrilled as Stan and Lori were? Well, the answer to that is yes, he is. Um he finishes the story this way. Stan and Lori went to Russia the last time to finish the adoption procedure. And as they were finishing the paperwork, Stan stepped into the room and saw Nicholas in his orphan environment. He was covered in scabies, a bright red rash caused by small parasites. He had blisters on the bottom of his feet, the palms of his hands, and all over the inside of his mouth. He reeked. The orphanage didn't have money for diapers, and so he was left in his own excrement. With his voice breaking, Stan tells me. I just wanted to hold him. I wanted to comfort and heal him. But more than anything else, I wanted Nicholas to know just how much Lori and I loved him. And that's a picture of how God actually sees us. Perhaps you've struggled, as I have, for many, many years, especially early in my Christian life, to believe that God loved me. Maybe some of you still struggle with that. I don't know. But the person who's perhaps Well brought the sweetest water to me in this is John Owen, who is an English Puritan who wrote a wonderful book. called Communion with God. It's one of his most practical works. And what John Owen does in this book is he he unpacks 2 Corinthians 13, 14. Which says, the love of God the Father, the grace of God the Son, and the fellowship of God the Holy Spirit be with you all And the title of the book is Communion with God, and the thesis is that we commune with the Father, Son, and the Spirit, each in a unique way And we commune uniquely with the Father in his love. He writes, and I'm going to read just a little bit of this, and maybe I'll read a little bit more next time, because it's so rich And I hope it'll edify you as it has me for almost 30 years now. Having a loving fellowship with the Father is very much neglected by Christians Ignorance of our mercies and our privilege is our sin as well as the cause of our troubles. We don't listen to the voice of the Spirit that we may know the things that are freely given to us by God. This makes Christians sad when they might be rejoicing. It makes them weak when they could be strong. How few Christians are actually acquainted with this great privilege? of having loving fellowship with the Father, how full of fears and doubts they are over his good will and kindness. At best they may think there is no good will of the Father to us except that which was purchased At the high price of the blood of Jesus. It is true that only through Christ can we have any communion with the Father. But in fact, the free source of all desire for communion with us in the Godhead is in the heart of the Father Eternal life was with the Father, and it is manifested to us. And so what Jesus is doing, he's really, that's what the beginning of this prayer is about. It's about us communing with the Father. Prayer is not primarily about us talking about our needs with God. Oh, it's certainly that. But really, prayer is meant to be The primary way that we commune with God and the way we commune with the Father is in his love. He writes this. Owen does. God is love. In 1 John 4. 8, God refers to the Father. It's clear from the following verse where God is seen as distinct from his only begotten Son, whom he sends in the world. Now, says John, the Father's love. He is not only infinitely gracious, tender, compassionate, and loving in his nature. But he is also the one who gives himself supremely and especially to us freely in love. The Father shows his love to you in sending his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. That's 1 John 4. 9. The Father loves us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Verse 10. And what's especially to be noticed is that God's love for us was before all that Christ has purchased for us, Ephesians 1, 4-6. Love is distinctly ascribed to the Father. And the Father Himself loves us. In John 16, 26 and 27, Jesus says, I do not say I shall pray the Father for you. The Father Himself loves you because you've loved me and believe that I've come forth from God. And there's two kinds of love in God in Ephesians 1. There's the love of his good pleasure and determination to redeem us, to elect us, and then there's the love of his friendship. and acceptance. And this love of the Father is the fountain and source of all other acts of God's grace towards us. And so if we're going to have communion with the Father in love, then two things are required of us. We must receive the love of the Father, and we must show gratitude and love to the Father. Communion resides in giving and receiving, and until the love of the Father is received, we have no communion with the Father in His love. And we receive this by faith. And of course, it's through Christ that we have access to the Father's special love. And the growth in our walk with God very much should aim at this, because we have lots of dark and disturbing thoughts that hinder our walks. with God. And what we need is to know that love, which is greater than all of those dark and disturbing thoughts. And so it's necessary for us to rest in and believe in this love And it's one of, in fact, Owen goes on to say this one of the most wounding things that we can do is to doubt the Father's love for us. It breaks his heart for us because his heart is filled with nothing. but love toward us. And uh and and he puts this in such a strong way, this uh uh great uh English theologian, he puts it this way, when he says, our experience of God's love changes. It's variable and changeable. Sometimes it's more, sometimes it's less. But it's all done for our good. Our Father doesn't chide us in case we are cast down He will not always shide us in case we're cast down. He doesn't always smile in case we take his love for granted and neglect him. But his love for us is still always the same. And then he cites this objection. He says, you'll say, this comes near to blasphemy. You're saying God loves his people in their sinning as well as in their strictest obedience. If this is so, who would bother to serve him or seek to please him? And then Owen writes the answer. There are few truths of Christ which have not been. uh greatly more greatly misunderstood and twisted by the ignorance of foolish men. The love of God in itself is the eternal purpose and act of God's will. There is no more, it's no more changeable than God Himself. If it were, nobody could be saved. God's love doesn't change for us, but God's love doesn't change, and therefore we are not consumed in his wrath. That's one of the prophets. Does God's love then for his people continue while they're sinning? Yes. He loves his people, but he doesn't love their sinning. But doesn't God's love change toward them? Not the purpose of his will to love them, but the working out of his gracious acts and disciplines toward them is changed. He rebukes them, he disciplines them, he hides his face from them, he smites them, he fills them with a sense of his indignation. But woe to us if he should change his love or take away his kindness from us. Those very things which seem to suggest that his love to us changes, in fact, come to us from his love. But won't this encourage sin to suggest such a thing as to admit you've never tasted the love of God? The doctrine of grace may be turned into an excuse for doing evil, but the principle cannot, and we may further affirm that God did detests and loaths sin in his people. It's not inconsistent with the acceptance of their persons and their being chosen for eternal life And so I just hope that little taste of Owen gives you a sense of something of what the Father intends for us. to know is one of the greatest implications of Jesus summoning us, call on God as our Father, as He does, to live in that unchangeable relationship of love with Him. Amen. Amen. Thank you.