At uh the Lord's Prayer and we're looking at the opening phrase uh our Father and uh the Heidelberg Catechism uh uh says this and um On Lord's Day 46, why did Christ command us to call God our Father? To awaken in us at the very beginning of our prayers what should be basic to our prayer. a childlike reverence and trust that through Christ God has become our Father, and that just as our parents do not refuse us the things of this life, Even less will God our Father refuse us to give us what we ask in faith. And so I want to return to this and and uh finish up thinking about what it means for God to be our Father and how that relates uh to prayer And here's some of the texts we read last time, just by way of review, from 1 John 3, 1 and 2. See what kind of love the Father has given us. That we should be called children of God, and so we are. The reason why the world doesn't know us is that it did not know him Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we will be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And from the Gospel of John, the first chapter, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood. nor of the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but of God. And in Romans 8, 14-16, for all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons. by whom we cry, Abba Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And then Ephesians 1. 4 to 6, in love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, in which he's blessed us in the beloved And I I've said many times that to you all that adoption is the highest and greatest privilege of the gospel. Now justification is foundational, but justification is legal. God's a judge. And uh and so it's essential to have any standing as we who've been rebels and sinners to be justified with God, but adoption something greater than that, it's familial God is our Father. And the richness of that expressed in the Sermon on the Mount, where we have the prayer that we call the Lord's prayer. If you um have your Bible and turn over to Matthew uh 6 uh we'll see in um Verse 8, verse 6, excuse me, we'll start in verse 6. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. Or again, don't heap up empty phrases when you pray as the Gentiles do. Verse 8, don't be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. And then pray like this, our Father in And then of course further down in chapter 6, Jesus says, don't be anxious about your life. And in verse 20. 26 he uh speaks of the father, look at the birds of the air, they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. And then in chapter 7, verses 7 to 11, Jesus says these words, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find, knock and it will be open to you. For every one who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and the one who knocks, it will be opened. For which one of you, if his son asked him for bread, will give him a stone, or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent If then you who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? So you can see in the Sermon on the Mount that as Jesus teaches about prayer, foundational to it is the knowledge that God's our Father. This is what uh in many respects is what makes Christianity distinctive from Judaism is that uh we're we're in a familial uh relationship with the father in a much more expressive manner. And um If you have J. I. Packer's Knowing God around your house, you can uh look in his chapter on adoption, which is just so, so rich. He he makes the point that the Puritans really didn't make as much of adoption. um as the New Testament does, and we ought to make much of it. And in fact, he says you can really tell how much a person understands Christianity by how much they make of the fact that we're the children of God. If you don't make a lot of that, you probably really haven't understood the essence of Christianity that God's done something extraordinary for us. So I want to just kind of move around the diamond of adoption as it relates to prayer for a few moments. Adoption connects to assurance. It connects to our understanding of recognizing God's voice in Scripture. It connects to our inheritance. It has lots and lots of connections and actually helps explain better than justification why it is we would want to keep the law. It's not it's not because we're afraid we're going to get judged, that's been dealt with. It's rather because we want to be like a member of the family and the law itself, the moral laws make expression of the very character of God. And so we we're inclined to live it out, even though that'll always be imperfectly. So that God's our Father, that we're adopted children, has major implications for prayer. And one of them is that we don't have to try to earn a hearing We don't have to try to impress God. One way that this should be manifest is that we should be very bold. And we don't need to be concerned with whether they're we're good enough. We certainly don't need to clean up ourselves to make ourselves presentable. We have free access as we rest on Jesus' completed work. He's gifted his righteousness to us And that we call God our Father, this is the next little facet, we can call God by the name that He's tuned into Now, my children are the only ones who get to call me dad. None of them call me Rick Now, by way of full disclosure, my son's children started calling his mom and dad by their first names. They were not too happy. I'm not dad. But my children call me dad. And I'm honored to be known as their dad. Now there's 72 names for God in the Old Testament, and there's even more still in the New Testament. And uh some people knew to Christianity find it very confusing. Why all these names? And of course, each of these names shows us something of the richness of who God Himself uh is. But every time Jesus addresses God, it's his Father. There's a cute little vignette from the days when the Kennedys were in office and John uh Jr. wanted to make his way uh to his daddy and the Secret Service pushed him off to the side, that's the president. You can't go talk to him and he said, maybe the president to you, but he's dad to me. And that captures something of just the privilege we have and the freedom to come, even though we're coming to the sovereign Lord of the universe, the Almighty God, the Lord of the uh hosts, the armies of heaven, even though he's uh omnipotent, omniscious, he's beyond our comprehension, he's still our dad. And another facet of this is that the father's love for us means that we can just be deeply honest with him We don't have to hide from him. We don't ever have to be ashamed before him. We can come as the messy people we actually are. Now that that sometimes is hard for us 'cause a church We all clean up pretty well. We all look our best. People don't uh usually we try not to show that we're messy. Most people are embarrassed if they cry at church. uh even though they may have very good reasons to cry, both tears of sadness as well as joy. But but we simply don't need to worry about getting everything right as we come into the presence of God. We don't have to worry about having just the right words. He welcomes us. He welcomes us in our immaturity. And last time, the next facet of this that's connected to this is that we commune with the Father in His love. That's how we enjoy our relationship with him, and we must receive his love. And if you missed last time, uh I I took some time to kind of walk through a little bit of what John Owen said because he's the one that opened my eyes to this truth. But once you see it, it's like so many other things in the Bible, it just becomes alive to you One of the most grievous things we can do is to close ourselves off from his love. It wounds his heart. His heart's very tender toward us. And if we do that, we fail not to be his children, but we fail to experience the warmth and the richness of the relationship he intends for us. And so we need to move away from our unbelief. We have to turn away from that and look to the cross, because the cross is the only final evidence of the love of God for us. You can always find in your life experience reasons to think God doesn't love you, just like you can in a relationship with any human being. You can always in any relationship find reason to doubt this person loves you or cares about you or is really your friend. Well, if you look at the circumstances of your life, you will always find reason in them to think. Uh God is not as kind or tender or generous or giving or loving towards you as you would hope you would be. But it's the cross, and the cross is the only uh final place that we have. to really break down that unbelief in our hearts and find a place of rest in his free, undeserved, and eternal love. Another facet of this is that the father is the father that we need. And so we need to do life with him. And that's one of the reasons I recommended Paul Miller's book. uh on prayer at the beginning. I meant it mostly for those who were struggling with prayer. But one of the things he does well in this book is he talks about how to connect our lives, what's going on in our lives with prayer in in a lot of really helpful uh ways. And now for my son, it really um It was like a light bulb moment for him when he got exposed to some of the ways Paul talked about prayer. And so we need to do life with God in prayer. Prayer is a journey of learning how to relate to our perfect, wise, good, and all-powerful Father. Prayer is how we bring ourselves and our lives as we experience it. And so that's part of why Uh there's a there's a balance here, but some some people who tend towards structure tend to leave their lives out of their prayer life. because they've got this these categories, and of course the Lord's Prayer has a bunch of categories, and they want to move through them all. They want to get it all covered. They want to feel like they've done the a complete job or at least they've touched all these things. And sometimes that can really get in the way of your taking time just to be with God the Father and talk to him about how your life is going. and uh what's uh grip to you. And you know I there's a need for you know having some of both. Um but We grow as children as we bring our lives to God in prayer and we discover his fatherhood. It's kind of like what's happened with my children is they've become adults and then parents. And I'm sure some of you have had this experience. That as adult children with parents They're starting to appreciate our role as parents in their lives in a way otherwise they just didn't. They they couldn't. They've start to see, wow. They we really love them, not perfectly, but as best we could. And and now we're f we're really friends, which is um For those of you who have young children, that's really the thing you're waiting for, is when your children can become your your uh friends whom you just delight in. And so we discover really what it means that God's our Father by living our life out with Him. And of course we'll never outgrow this. We'll always be children in this life. The next thing I want to put the emphasis on here is that we're taught to say our Father. God is a communal being. He's a community of persons. And we're made in his image, and that means we're made to be in relationship. Being alone is a terrible condition. Being put in solitary confinement is utterly cruel because it cuts against the very grain of what it means to be human. We're meant. to be in a relationship. It's one of the reasons why the pandemic's been hard on so many of us. I know I spent three months uh without uh the touch of another human being and hardly saw anybody for three months except uh in this uh in this way. Um and as I dashed to the grocery store wondering whether I was taking my life. uh into my hands and picking up a loaf of bread. It's an experiment uh experience I'm glad to have behind me. Um who would have thought But we can't live as Christ's disciples unless we live it out with others. So Christianity is fundamentally relational It's a religion of relationships. You can't really follow Christ without being in meaningful, significant relationships. And so that means that prayer is not primarily about getting off by yourself down at the shore or over uh somewhere on a private uh part of Rehoboth Beach or in the woods. It's not primarily about locking yourself in a room for solitary prayer. In the prayer that Jesus teaches us to pray, it's not me and mine. It's not the first person singular. It's ours and us. It's the first person plural. And this has some implications for our prayer as well. We are expected to pray in a group. We're expected to learn how to pray in a group. And I uh think as a pastor that many people, that's how they actually learn to pray. They learn as they hear other people uh pray. They hear the variety of the way people pray. They begin to see that prayer is not about having a certain set collection of words and and phrases. And thirdly, we're not only expected to pray and learn how to pray in a group, we're expected to pray in a group, learn how to pray in a group, but we also learn how love others as we give them Give ourselves to them in part by praying for them. As we pray, give us our daily bread, forgive us, lead us, and deliver us. We're not the center of our prayer. Our prayer life that's bound by the words me, myself, and mine is deficient. And that's that's hard. I think that's hard uh in a lot of ways for us. And um again, I know I'm talking to the choir tonight because you're here and you're going to spend some time in prayer, but I think the implications of this are foreign to a lot of American Christians. Part of it is this that, well, we claim our privacy is a right. And some of this is self-protective. We just don't want anybody in our business. We don't want anybody saying anything to us about how we live. And so being intimate with God in a group seems kind of risky. We fear if we really expose our hearts in prayer in a group. as we're talking to God that we'll be rejected. We worry about what others think. And a lot of times when people are praying in a group, they're far more focused. on what other people are thinking about their praying than about praying. As if they were performing for a group of people or giving a public speech. Another thing that I think makes it hard for us as very individualistic Americans to pray is, I just alluded to it, we fear criticism. for the words that we use. Some people think they need to pray in a special language. often influenced by uh the King James English or sometimes it's some person that they first heard pray like a pastor. And uh and that leads some people to feel, well I can't match that, so I shouldn't speak. Another dimension of this is that for many Christians, they were not exposed to group prayer at the beginning of their Christian experience. And it seems really foreign to introduce it. 10, 20 years into your walk with Christ. And we've come to accept prayerlessness as sort of normal. And in many Christians' lives, prayer is more of something we do in a kind of a token fashion by saying grace at a meal or opening of a meeting. But Christ has something deeper for us in the church. And if you look around the world in the 20th century and ask, where is the Spirit move? most powerfully, while it's in places where Christians gather for extended periods of prayer. Uh I'm sure you know that the Great Presbyterian revival in 20th century Korea resulted in and was sustained uh for decades because Koreans got up in the dark at at five thirty at five o'clock, went to their churches to pray in an unheated building for an hour Not Monday to Friday. That's what uh Koreans uh did. And it's just unimaginable to me that we in America would gather like that, that we would think prayer is uh that important, that corporate prayer would be that important. And so, you know, I think it's still true that we need to pray like the first disciples. Lord teach us to pray. And again, I want to commend you as a church as I've gotten to know you. You all are doing better than most of the churches I've served in gathering to pray like this. And I'm glad for that I'm not sure that we're all the way there as a church, but really much to commend here. So I want to close by tying this together this way. Our Father means that we can boldly and confidently know that we are heard and he will answer us with good gifts. In a healthy family, a child experiences this many times. They come to mom or dad asking for something. Maybe it's for a need for food or warmth or understanding or help And it's natural, it's reflexive in a parent for a father or a mother to give to their child whatever the child needs as often as it expresses a need. And God our Father is better than the best of human parents. He hears the cries of our hearts and gives. Well, Jab Hacker in that book I mentioned last time tells the story of being a child of seven or eight and he wanted a bicycle for his birthday. And his parents instead gave him a typewriter. And he was pretty disappointed with his parents' uh choice of gift. But his parents had a deep knowledge of their son, and they knew he had a fascination with words. And they knew that in fact giving him that typewriter would open a whole world to him. And it did. And so it is with our Heavenly Father. And this is the glorious grace of the gospel, that He gives us good gifts Gifts better than the ones that we ask for. Amen. Let's pray. Gracious Father, in these uh just a few thoughts about your uh fatherhood in relation to prayer We ask, Lord, that these things would more and more become our experience, that even as we pray together as a group, Our confidence, our boldness, our deep assurance that your hearing and answering as our Heavenly Father would deepen They are communion both as a group and as well as when we're in our prayer closets. uh just grow that we uh might experience more and more of the riches of your kindness and love Thank you for uh Father for these uh moments together tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.