So there was a movie back in nineteen ninety-two where the main plot was a court martial. Of two U. S. Marines charged with murder of a fellow Marine, and the difficulties that their lawyers underwent as they prepared their case. The incident had taken place on a base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The movie I'm making reference to, of course, is A Few Good Men. At the end of the movie, I promise you this is not too big of a spoiler alert, the colonel is egged on to give some self-incriminating testimony. Colonel Nathan R. Jessop. Nothing having to do with this town that my family and I live with. In responding to the lawyer who wants the truth, says famously, You want the truth, you can't handle it. It seems that this movie, the main characters, believed in absolute truth and arriving at all of its consequences When the movie was made, it was at the tail end of an inflection point that our society had been undergoing for really several decades. The change I'm referring to is a notion of absolute truth and relative truth. The quickest and easiest illustration that I can think of is from the world of sports. Specifically, I have baseball in mind. Three umpires are in a bar. I promise this is not a joke. Three umpires are in a bar after a game, sipping on their sodas. These men were from three different generations, and they were discussing what really happens when they call balls and strikes. What they were really doing is discussing the relationship between truth and their apprehension of said truth. Now the oldest umpire spoke first and said, When it comes to making calls behind home plate, I call it the way it is. The second umpire said, When it comes to making calls behind the plate, I call it the way I see it. And the youngest umpire said, when it comes to making calls behind home plate, it ain't nothing until I call it. This illustrates the difference between the notion of absolute truth and what we call truth or relative truth. Truth is so very important because it helps us to make proper decisions in life. It unites us as a community and a society To deny its existence or that we can arrive at it can end up in all sorts of anarchy. We need truth in order to arrive at justice and ultimately maintain peace in society and in relations. When I was in seminary, I thought I had some good definitions of truth until I was in a class where my professor was asked for a definition The professor, please forgive me if I mispronounce it, was Dr. Spruel. He paused for a moment and fired back the best, simplest, and profound answer I have heard so far. His answer was, truth is whatever God believes is true. Truth is whatever God believes is true. Whatever God says about whatever really is the last word on the topic. Are there times when we disagree with God? I think we do as individuals as well as a society. We want to define what is true for us and do what we think is right and Our own eyes. Have you been there at times when God's people have done this as a community For a nation or of people. Our passage this morning speaks to this very question. And so let us turn our attention to it by opening our Bibles, if you haven't already done so, to the book of Judges, chapter 21 and verse 25. It actually is the very last verse of the book of Judges. Please rise for the reading and hearing of God's word. Hear now the word of God. In those days, there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, your word is truth. Help us to see it, help us to understand it, and help us to recognize that what you proclaim by definition has no genuine or legitimate rival to explain reality. Help us to recognize the importance of submitting and conforming to the revealed truth of God's Word, and remind us as we We pray that the ability to do so comes from the hand of God through His grace. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. The following is a quote from Dr. James Dobson. Many of you would be very familiar, who served on Focus on the Family for many, many years. who by the way, in this quote, he is relying on a study, a Barna study that was done entitled What America Believes In the survey taken, interviewers were asked the following question: Do you strongly agree? Agree somewhat? Disagree somewhat or disagree strongly with the following statement. And here's the statement: There is no such thing as absolute truth Different people can define truth in conflicting ways and still be correct. Only 28% of the respondents expressed strong belief in absolute truth And more surprisingly, only 23% of born-again or evangelical Christians accepted this idea. What a telling revelation. If more than 75% of the followers of Christ say nothing can be known for certain, does this indicate, as it seems, that they are not convinced that Jesus existed? That he is who he claimed to be, that his word is authentic, that God created the heavens and the earth, or that eternal life awaits the believer. That's what the findings appear to mean. If there is no absolute truth, then by definition, nothing can be said to be absolutely true. To the majority, apparently, it's all relative. Nothing is certain. Might be, might not be, who knows for sure. Take your guess and hope for the best. End of quote. What's interesting from these findings, from this survey, is that the general populace 28% actually said that they believed in absolute and objective truth. It's in the evangelical, the born-again community that believes at a lower 23% rate. It's shocking to consider that Bible-believing Christians would entertain such an idea alarmingly at alarmingly high rates. 77%. You see, to believe that there is no objective truth or a possessor possessor of truth Or a giver of truth sets up a person or a society to basically define truth for themselves. This, of course, is defined by moderns as relativism. Relativism, however, is not a new idea. It was a predominant belief in Rome. It was around at the inception of the New Covenant Church in the first century. The church, however, did not adopt a relativist view. In fact, it rejected that notion. We see that she was firmly committed to objective truth in that she spent the first five centuries Formulating its confessions, of which we had one of them this morning, combating heretics with their false and misleading doctrines. Ecumenical councils don't gather and come up with confessions without the belief that an objective truth exists. That there is a giver of it and it can be arrived at. There wasn't an effective infestation of relativism within the church. Until more recently. And we'll get to that in just a little bit. But was there ever a time when the church suffered from this sinful abandonment of a absolute truth in the past? As I mentioned earlier, our passage this morning speaks to that question. My focus this morning will be to look at this verse from its own past. The time of its writing and its future implications. Having historical context is always helpful for understanding. So let's take a moment to detail what led up to this very bold statement ending the book of Judges. Many commentators say that this passage is a transition point in Israel's history from intermittent authority figures to a consistent monarchial power, i. e. A king. Indeed, when we look at Israel at the time of the book of Judges, we find ourselves after a time from when the people of God had been plucked from the hand of Pharaoh. Having experienced the wilderness trick, gone through both the Exodus and Isodus generations The death of Moses, the great lawgiver, the ascendancy of the great military deliverer, Joshua, and the conquering of Canaan. And finally, settling. The book of Judges begins shortly after the passing of Joshua, and it's filled with a recurring theme Of God raising leaders to do battle and execute justice as his representative But in each case, we find that they possess some ethical, administrative, religious, or character flaw. Judges 3. 4, we see that although the people settled into the promised land, God left some enemies in the land in order to test his people. Would the people of God? Did the people of God follow God's ways? I think it's uh good for us to read that passage and I'll bring it out for us. It begins in Judges chapter three and verse three, naming all the different peoples that were left there, and then he says in verse four. About them. They were for the testing of Israel to know whether Israel would obey the commandments of the Lord, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. With the people of God, convert the land of Canaan into a land dwelled by God's people, a new lush garden. Where they would walk with their God in the noon of day. Or with the land of Canaan, Canaanized the people of God. That was the test before. I think that if you've read through the book of Judges, it's clear, crystal clear, that the people of God were becoming more like the people that they displaced. They displaced the people, but not their ways of thinking, and not their ways of living. It seems today that the refrain from many conservative church leaders, that the church in America is becoming more and wor more worldly. Something that James warned us against. That it has become imperceptible how the church or Christians are different from the world. In fact, if you were to conduct a study today on how the church in America is different from the world, I wonder how church attenders would answer that question. How would you answer that question? No difference? Some difference The Bible characterizes Christians as peculiar people. That is, the world would consider us peculiar because we don't seem to fit in in some ways. Over the last two centuries, I would venture to guess that we haven't been peculiar because of the spread and success of the gospel. The gospel had a positive impact upon society as people were changed and became Christians. But I think more recently, I would say within the last 50 years, I'm not so sure whether secular society is having an impact on the church or the other way around. You know, it may well be that just as a remnant of Canaanites were left in order to test the church in the times of the judges. We today are being tested by the enticements of the world. I wonder, how will future generations of Christians around the world look back at the church in our part of the world? And see our response to this test. We're only a few days away from the year ending, and this is a time when most folks do some reflecting. If people were to look at a biography of your life, how would they assess your walk with Christ and the testing that he placed in your path? If you had a copy of that book, what changes would you consider need to be made in your life? Would your understanding and belief in truth be something that you would need to reconsider to be more reflective of the Bible's definition? It seems to me that with all the advantages that they were given in in the time of the judges God's provisions, God's protection. But this would have been a slam dunk. But it appears as if, as many biblical scholars can't help but deduce, Sometimes the people of God are their own worst enemies. It seems that we can't get out of our own way. We know what God commands. We know what God commands in our lives, what he expects from us. But do we always do what we know God expects of us? Do you find that sometimes you are your own worst enemy? I know that in my personal life I struggle. And yes, there are times when I am my own worst enemy. I have God's provisions in my life, as well as protection. And as a teacher of God's Word, I have a pretty good idea of what it is that's required of me. For the reason why I continue to struggle. Is that the times when I face God's test and fail, it's because I lack sufficient faith to trust God and His ways. In those moments when I do that, I am impatient for him to deliver me or give me what I want the way that I want it. I think I know better. In those instances, I am my own worst enemy Enemy. You see, that's when I do what is right in my own eyes Here, judges, we have a nation of people that have turned away from God's oracles and now live by what they think is right in their own eyes The book of Judges is replete with God punishing his people for their sins, listening to their prayers of repentance and rescue Sending a deliverer judge and freeing them. Then seeing the cycle repeat itself over and over again What about the tribes and the leaders that God raised from them? What about their character? We don't have time to go through all of this this morning in any detail. But perhaps maybe this afternoon you may choose to read the book of Judges. But very quickly, the Danites, the tribe of the Danites, they were religious pragmatists. They said, let's kill these people and take their land, not because God told us, but because it's convenient and it's easy. The Ephramites were people that were filled with so much pride. The self-centeredness of Samson. Well, I don't need to go into details about Sampson's life. Or the weakness and the cowardice of Barak. Remember what he said. I will obey what the Lord commands. Only if you go with me, Deborah. Gideon practiced paganism. If you recall, he set up false worship. All the marks of the depravity of the Canaanites could be found in the people of God. Are these marks of worldliness evident in the church today? Are we a people who have sold out our great God and his wonderful law for a bowl of porridge? Have we given up our inheritance for a couple of gigabytes of Wi-Fi, streaming data, and all the neat gadgets that you need to access? This book calls us to examine our selfish pursuits as well as to assess if we're being honest with ourselves. Are we living lives that are obedient to God's ways? Are we, in effect, making gods of ourselves? Gods of other people, and doing what is right in our own eyes or in the eyes of our gods. Every day that a local church decides moral issues based upon anything Anything other than the Holy Scripture, that church is saying that there is no king. We are our own kings Whenever the church defers to ethicists, scientists, philosophers, TV talk show hosts. or popular music stars to define what is proper and acceptable behavior, that church and people are saying that there is Is no king. Capital K. Every day that goes by and we disobey God's law in our lives, we are in effect saying There is no king, or I respectfully disagree with the king Our passage this morning is looking backwards. It says, In those days there was no king. This clues us into our understanding that at the time of this writing there was a king, or perhaps making a case for a king. You see, the time frame recorded in Judges depicts for us really a a sort of an anarchy that's going on, with the o occasional intervention by God who provided a leader to bring about order, justice. and the enforcement of the law. But left to their own devices, the people of God would only sink back into their own sinfulness, their worldly ways Instead of trusting God as their sovereign king, they wanted to be like the other nations and called for a human king. Did you catch that? They wanted to be like the other nations So they wanted a human king. Well, when we consider the kingship of Israel, we have the famous contentious battle between Saul and David. Saul coming from the tribe of Benjamin, and David coming, of course, from the tribe of Judah. In whole, it seems that the book of Judges is making a case for the house Of Judah and ultimately David. A godly king must show loyalty to the people, unlike Abimelech, who throws the people under the bus for his own selfish gain. A godly leader must be humble, unlike Gideon. A godly leader must have true piety. Again. Unlike Gideon, he must be wise and not take hasty oaths. He does not seek after his own selfish desires. Unlike Gideon Samson. You see, Saul failed at all these points. Seems to say our verse today Although the land had a king today, we are living like we don't have a king, like the time of the judges. But as we fast forward to present day, we do have a king, his royal majesty, Jesus from the tribe. Of Judah. Although we have a king, are we living life as if we really don't have one? Do you live your life daily, making decisions daily Make plans for yourself or your family as if there is no king in your life. So we are to see that this book is not only making reference to a past without it. King. But it's also looking forward into the future for a king that would be a good king, a proper king An upright king, a just king who would rule, who would rule the land and God's people in righteousness One that would go beyond David and Solomon. As good and as wise as they were, they were not able to make people to walk in the ways of God. In all things. I think part of the reason for their failure was that they themselves could not live according to God's truth. There were points in their lives when they lived in accordance with what they thought was right in their own eyes. From their administration and on, the people of God were to look for the better, the ultimate King, who would live a perfect and righteous life, who would move forward, who would make his people to obey God's law Now the book of judges is a picture of failure. But if we're to be thorough and fair to the book in our examination, we would be able to see pictures. Pictures, snippets of a leader that everyone would want. Perhaps we can see pictures of the Messiah For example, Othniel, the very first judge, the one that becomes the mold by which the other judges are to fit into, his name meant the lion of the tribe of Judah. He earned his bride by fighting and defeating God's enemies. Does that sound like anybody we know? Cobbled together all these pictures of Christ, we can look at different judges and see that there are foreshadowings of Christ in each of their personalities. Or administrations. We are then to conclude that we are in need of a king who transcends the failures of the judges The failures of Saul, David, Solomon, and all the kings, frankly. When we look back at the panorama of the leaders who have arisen from mankind Not just in our country, but throughout history and the world, we may come across some pretty bad ones. Some so so To really great kings and leaders, but we could always point to something about their person or their administration that, well, has been failure or leaders. to failure. The truth of the matter is that that is the best that we really can expect from a man. We need someone who is not only human, but also divine as well. One that is not born of the taint of sin. What we need is a king who can conquer totally our fallen selfishness. One who is not self-serving One who does not thirst for power in pursuit of self-gratification. You see, you and I, although we have been redeemed and the penalty for our sins have been paid. We still have remnants of the old man within us, which makes us susceptible to sin, and well, doing what we think is right in our own eyes Eyes. The scripture reminds us today that we are to look to the king that has demonstrated his selflessness to the point of sacrificing his own life for his own people. This king is no other than Jesus. And he's already started his session as king, but we are to look forward to a day when he will return. You know, the times when I'm tested and and don't fail, it's because I look to Christ and the Holy Spirit working in me. He grants me the grace to trust God. And his ways. When Christ returns, it will be a day when He will take away the temptations to do what is right in our own eyes. Yes, at that future time there will be a king who will reign over a perfect kingdom, whose subjects will only believe and do. What is right in the eyes of God. To that reality, God's people can say, Come, Lord Jesus, come Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed for ascending that perfect King, that perfect God man. That was our Savior, who is our Savior and is our King. We pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us Each and every day, each and every moment, to remember what your word teaches us about truth and life. That we may trust you, and that we may follow you and your ways, and not find ways for us to do what are Sinful hearts are prone to do, and that is to think that we are right in our estimation that we know truth better than we Than you. And we pray, Father, that we would do these things, that we would be changed by your Holy Spirit, that we would follow you for your glory and your glory alone. And we ask this.