It's great to see you, and I'm still needing your help. Learning your names, especially the mask, just add another lawyer of challenge to doing that. We're going to read from Philippians, and we'll just continue in the days ahead to work systematically through that book. If you have a Q Bible, it's page 980. Or if you have your own Bible, please turn to Philippians 1. And if you would, would you please stand? Let's pray together. Gracious Father, Lord of heaven and earth, who brought all things into existence through your powerful word. We thank you that you would speak to us today, and we ask that you would speak into us life and faith and hope. Oh Lord, be pleased to meet us here and free us from distractions. For we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Beginning in the second part of verse 18, Paul writes, Yes, and I will rejoice, for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, This will turn out for my deliverance, as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but with full courage, now as always. Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which shall I choose, I cannot tell. I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith, so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus because of my coming to you again. You may be seated. André Francois Rafet, a lawyer in Arilles, France, made what any business person would think was a sure thing. According to the Chicago Tribune, he agreed to pay the sum of $500 a month to her with the rights to take over her apartment on her death. Well, the woman living in that apartment was Jean Clement, who was 90 years old at the time. And any actuary table would have told you that the likelihood of his uh receiving the apartment soon made this a good investment for him Thirty years later, and $180,000 poorer, Raffrey still had not moved into the apartment. And when Jean Clement celebrated her 120th birthday, she was arguably the oldest person that was in the world. Now, each year on her birthday, she would send the lawyer a birthday card that jokingly said, sorry, I'm still alive. how uncertain life can be. Now much of life is uncertain, although it has this appearance to us that it's not. because of how regular things are in our lives. And so the illusion that all is well, that all those that are loved by us are safe persists. In spite of the reality that we really don't know what each day will actually hold. Have you reached the place in your own spiritual journey where you can face uncertainty with joy? Uncertainty, if you're anything like me, has a way of awakening fear. It's the unknown that leaves us uncomfortable, ill at ease, out of balance. And after all, as bad as it might be, there's always a possibility it could be worse. If you're laid off and money is tight. Well, tomorrow might bring bankruptcy and foreclosure. If the surgery left you in discomfort and today's chemotherapy leaves you exhausted, Tomorrow the cancer could return and your life could be in great pain. Paul is modeling for the Philippians and us. just how it is that we can note joy in adverse and difficult circumstances. And in the last two sermons, I've been seeking to unpack that for you. But those sermons would be incomplete without what Paul writes here and us looking closely at it. Without the ability to look into the future. with joy. Now we see Paul doing just that in this text. And if you uh look in your Bible at verse 18, um My Bible has a heading splitting up verse 18. And so the first half of 18 ends, and in that I rejoice. And it continues, yes, and I will rejoice. In that I rejoice is present tense. Paul is at the moment, joyful And yes, I will rejoice is future tense. And Paul is showing us here how we too can live in the future even though we don't uh know. How it is we can face the future with joy At the heart of what Paul says is the very secret of his life. For me to live is Christ. Christ is Paul's life. He's just completely identified with Christ. His life is centered on Christ. And if this is true of us, then we can be joyful even when things are uncertain, and we can be joyful in the certainty of our death. Now Paul looks into the future and twice he uses the words I know. Now you may Read this and think, well, he's got some special insight into his future. After all, he's an apostle. Perhaps he has seen a vision or received a special revelation about it. And that's understandable. But if you look at verse 20, it's clear that in fact he doesn't know how his imprisonment will end. Whether it will be with acquittal and uh freedom and life or condemnation and death, he is not certain of the outcome. But whatever the future holds for him, he will not be deprived of his joy, because Christ will be exalted in his life. And we too can be joyful in the midst of what's uncertain. Look at verse 19, if you will. For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out. for my deliverance. Paul's joy, I rejoice for I know these things, is based on the knowledge of his deliverance. Paul's words are actually the same ones used by Job. Job says this is one of the more famous lines from the book of Job. Though he slay me. I will hope in him, yet I will argue my ways to his face, and this will be my salvation. Paul's connecting his suffering to Job's suffering, and he's actually using Job's words to say, I know that what has happened will turn out for my deliverance. That raises the question, what deliverance does he have in mind? Well, there are two possibilities. One, which really, uh often when I've read this passage, I've often thought, well, this is what he means. I'm going to be delivered from imprisonment and execution. But the other possibility is this. It's deliverance in the sense of eternal salvation. And while the first option seems attractive, actually I want to show you that what Paul intends is the second. His joy is because his eternal salvation, something he cannot lose. No one, nothing that happens to him can take that away from him. And so look at this. In verse 20, Paul says this deliverance will be his experience irrespective of what happens to him, whether by life or by death. And then Paul's, and he's using these words of Job, he's citing them in their context. And I'm sure that you realize Job's three friends. his comforters, as it were, uh come to him and they tell him basically this Job, you've lost your health, your family, and your prosperity because of your sin. If you would just fess up about your sin. God would come and he would uh meet you. And what Job is saying here is he's saying, you know I'm going to be vindicated by God in spite of your accusations about me. God Himself Even though I'm going to argue with him, my case is going to, in the end, vindicate me. And of course, that in fact is what happens at the end of the letter. And the Lord God insists that Job's comforters repent and apologize to him for their words which were spoken without knowledge. And then the language of verse 20, my eager expectation and hope. This language is used again and again in Paul's letters. about the distinctive hope we have as Christ followers, a hope that will not leave us ashamed on judgment day. We will not be found guilty. We will not be condemned on that day. Rather, because of what Christ has done, that day for us will be the day of completion of our salvation. when we are fully freed from sin, where every tear is dried from our eyes, where death and sorrow no longer will touch our lives. And we will in fact receive the full redemption of our body as the first step in God redeeming the glorious universe that He's made. And Paul's saying he's confident that he will be ultimately delivered and vindicated by God, no matter what the emperor decides. No human being can take that from him, condemn him. And Paul is confident in these circumstances that his suffering and uncertainty are all working for his salvation. And he wants us to share in his confidence. In Romans chapter 8, which for many of you is probably a favorite place, a high point in the New Testament, Paul says this, listen for his confidence. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing to the glory that's to be revealed in us. Or in verse 28. And we know things work together for the good, for those who are called according to his purpose. I consider And we know that's confidence. That's faith expressing itself in confidence. All things include the present difficult ones and the uncertain ones. And this hope is our hope, because our God will never abandon us, and he will dismiss them. As the Spirit pours the love of God, hope is awakened in us. And by the power of the Holy Spirit, Paul says at the end of his letter, the power of the Holy Spirit enables us to abound in hope. Now, surprisingly, here, Maybe you picked up on this. Paul says he is dependent on the prayers of the Philippians. He says, For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Holy Spirit, Paul is saying that it is the prayers of the Philippians that enable him to have this confidence and hope. That he and other places asked that they would pray for him, that he would be bold, as he bears witness on trial, as he interacts with the guards, that he will not be intimidated. But here it is that Paul's saying his perseverance in faith depends on their prayers. Paul's sanctification depends on the prayers of others. The answer to their prayers is the unfailing help of the Holy Spirit. And that help here means God's generous provision and an undergirding strength. Let me put it a different way. Paul's personal growth doesn't take place in isolation from the prayers of others. Now spiritually, we're all like Nancy and I have had three of our grandchildren born in the last three years. And uh our youngest, uh uh Tess Naomi, she's still, well, she's just so dependent on her parents for food. to be held for comfort, to have her diapers changed. And even though she's now she's just about cruising, she's really dependent on them to move about in the world. And we remain, no matter how long we followed Christ, still in many respects spiritual infants. We are dependent on others for our growth. Now this cuts against the grain of our thinking at several places. We tend to think, and perhaps we who love the Reformed faith tend to think this a little bit more. That our growth and sanctification and persevering in our faith is just going to happen automatically. Grace has been given to us and it's just going to happen. Or we think that our growth and perseverance are simply and purely an individual matter But this text teaches us, it's one of many, that we are dependent on each other for the help of the Holy Spirit. We need to have and in fact are commanded to have deep relationships with one another We've been united to Christ and therefore united to each other. And we have to have a depth of relationship in order really to understand, well, our shared humanity. The places that we struggle are weaknesses. We all have weaknesses. There are places where we're attempted and and uh Our spiritual fathers uh used to talk about our besetting sins. There's just places within each of us where we tend to go. where uh it's easier for us uh to fall down. Fortunately it's not the same for all of us. And uh what Paul's saying is here is that they have enough insight into him and his circumstances. to know how it is to pray for him. And let me just say as an aside, we need such prayer for one another, but we also are to speak uh graciously uh the word of God to each other in the midst of our weakness and our struggle with great tenderness and gentleness because we ourselves are strugglers and we need to have people in our lives who know us well enough that uh they know that uh they have permission to say to us something we might not want to hear. Something that, well, uh touches that very tendency we have. You know, when we want to lean to the left and we really need to back up and lean to the right. Well there we have people like that in our lives. This is really hard for us as Americans. We think of ourselves as rugged individuals. And Paul does not. You see, when you think about this, that the apostle who surely is filled with the Holy Spirit, knows his Bible better than any of us will ever know the scriptures. that he participates in worship. These things, as essential as they are, are not enough Paul says, I need your prayers. Your prayers are a part of the very way that I will stand in confidence. Now there's nothing wrong in praying for medical needs, for work, uh, for passing grades, uh, for uh guidance and direction. But what's often lacking in our prayers are prayers for growth, for spiritual growth, for the increase of faith. for the help of the Spirit in Christ. Now, general, broad prayers, Lord, help us grow spiritually as a church. They're good. They're very good. But as our catechisms indicate, we need to pray also for specific things specifically. Here's what I mean. Lord, grant that this loss of work would not so rattle this person that they would lose confidence. Or this broken engagement would not so crush them that they would just isolate and and turn away uh from you, but and others, or that this difficulty that's pressing on them that just feels impossible to them will not cause their faith to collapse. So I want to ask you, will you commit yourself or recommit yourself uh to praying uh for each other in this way. Now of course you can't pray for everybody that's a part of the church this way. You'd never get done uh praying. You wouldn't probably know enough to pray in the details of this, although every now and then some real struggle becomes obvious. You don't have to wait till somebody's unemployed. tells you I'm really struggling with the future, how I'm going to make ends meet. Um we know that. Uh and perhaps you've experienced that. You know you have some idea and insight as to how they're facing it. They may not face it the way you did, but you certainly want to pray for them in that. But really often the reason we don't do this is we don't share Paul's high view of prayer. You see, prayer in Gus economy is the means to the fulfillment of his will God has ordained that the prayers of his people will be the means through which he accomplishes his purposes in perseverance in the faith and our ultimate salvation. So will you give yourself to it? Now each of us uh has different responsibilities in life. And uh if you're a young mother, You're not going to be able to give yourself to this the same way that Nancy can as someone who's an empty nester She simply has more time, and it may be very difficult. You may just once in a while, as you're in between something, say a word or two, and that's fine. That's good. That's uh as the Lord brings somebody to mind, just a short a short sentence, an arrow, if you will, just shoot up an arrow prayer to the Lord. And others of us, and especially those in leadership. We have a responsibility to labor in prayer for people as they face life's difficulties. And so if you have the time and you're not doing this, well I want to just say to you very gently, in my experience, people make time for what's important to them. So if it's important to you, you'll find time to do it. And let me add, in this season of your life as a church We need to stand in concerted, united prayer. For God to do things that only He can do. for him to do great things that actually are beyond what we would expect to happen. Not only in the church, but through the church and Laurel. The second thing I want us to look at is how we can be joyful even in the certainty of our death. Now Paul's speaking very personally here about his feelings about life and death. And as a pastor, I've been around uh death uh from the very uh beginning service. I visited people who were close to death, and I've done my share of funerals. Even so, I could hold death at arm's length. But then on two occasions, death touched me in a personal way. The first when I was 35 and I received the pathology report. I was informed that I had a growth that was on its way to become melanoma. And when I was thirty-five, melanoma was pretty much a death sentence. And in fact About a year before that, a colleague who was in his forties had died from it. And it just chilled me. Because it was on my back and I would have never noticed it. It was really only because my wife saw something else that I'd seen the doctor at all And then in 2012, my mother died. My father had preceded her by eight years. And then within two months, my brother died. He was an alcoholic. And that left me with no one in my immediate family. And I had a distinct sense that I had moved to the head of the line, that I was next. Now what is surprising here is that as Paul talks about life and death, he describes Both of them as desirable alternatives. Verse 21. For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which shall I choose, I cannot tell. I'm hard-pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. Death is no threat to Paul. For me to live is Christ. and to die is gain. Now this really contrasts with what the world says to us. It says, live and death is loss. The world teaches us to live for ourselves. That as it's as if life is a solar system. And what we do is at the center, and everything and everything else, everybody else revolves around us. Our dreams, our hopes, our ambitions, our plans, our values. And Paul defines life as Christ. To live is Christ, to live means Christ, to live is to depend on Christ. To live honors Christ. The foundation, the center, the purpose, the direction, the power, and the meaning of Paul's life is Christ. And then Paul goes on to verse 22 and he says, to live in the flesh. And what he's saying here is he's claiming that every aspect of his personal existence, his bodily, earthly existence is permeated with Christ. Now you might think that, well, he's boasting, saying in effect, I have reached perfection. I'm fully mature in Christ. But actually he'll say that's not true just a little bit later in this letter. But what he is saying is his whole life is oriented around Christ. And when he gets away from it It just returns to that. There's a pull back to Christ, the way magnets pull toward each other. And this often contrasts with what people say. They say, I like Jesus, he's great. I want some Jesus. I want some Christianity. I'd like some church. But I'm going to stay at the center of my life. Jesus, you orbit around me and every take notice of you. How you define life will set the tone of how you view death. If life for you is about comfort, then Death is not something you're going to want to embrace because death isn't comfortable. If life for you is about being in charge, being able to shape and control things in your life, then you're not going to like death. You're not going to be able to embrace it the way Paul is, because you cannot control the timing or the way in which you're going to die. How in the world do you get to this place where Paul is? That you're hat and be with Christ, or to stay here and serve his purposes? How do you get to that point? Well, for Paul, death is more freed from the burdens and woes of life. It's easy, even as a Christian, to think of that. Well, I can't wait. Till there are no more tears, no more sorrow, where there's no more inner struggle, when the enemy within me is finally conquered. I'm looking forward to that. I'm actually looking forward more and more to getting a new body, as this one is starting to show a little wear and tear. But what Paul says here in verse 23 is very significant. He says, I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart. and be with Christ. Paul's using a metaphor. It's a camping metaphor. If you've ever tent camped Or if you've backpacked, well, uh that's the picture. Death for a Christian is the end of camp life. It's the end. Of a cold morning. Maybe not getting uh cleaned up, maybe no uh showered um food that's insubstantial, mosquitoes, um death is packing up and heading home. And even if you love the outdoors, eventually Yeah. A shower and a comfortable bed sounds pretty good. Imagine if you're traveling overseas. Recently I took Atlanta, I had a layover in Paris, then on to Delhi, and finally to my destination. uh this egg. And it was a very long day of sitting in a very narrow uh seat. lugging uh all the things I needed. The bags were heavy. Um and in Delhi around midnight we got to our hotel. And the man who carried things up, which is this is just so common in the majority world, is someone will help you do all of this, you can't say no, he was both deaf and mute. And I didn't even know if he understood English. But uh he takes me up uh s to my floor and I'm really I'm exhausted. You know, I've hardly got my bearings in this hotel. And He puts the card in that slot and it doesn't open the door. And so he leaves. And I'm just standing there. I'm not making this up. I'm just standing there thinking. Is he going to come back? When should I go try to find my way back down uh to the lobby And uh when he returns, he opens the door and he places the card in a slot on the wall. And I thought, well, that's a nice touch. And after I've sort of made my preparations for bed, I always like to keep things that are important right next to me. And so I went to get the card to set it on the nightstand, and as soon as I did, the room went pitch black. And I groped around for my phone, and for 20 minutes I tried to turn on a light because I wasn't quite ready to slip into bed. But I gave up. And the next morning, my traveling companion came and he took the card and he stuck it back in that holder. And he explained. In India, well, they don't want people wasting electricity in those rooms, and if you're not in it, the power is off. That was followed by four more hours of airtime. Two weeks living out of a suitcase in a strange bed with food that I was unaccustomed to eating and pillows that just didn't feel right. And I can tell you, after two weeks, I was so ready to get on that plane and come home and see my wife. Well, that's exactly what Paul is saying here. For the Christian to die is to go home. Gaining Christ covers more than covers any loss incurred for the sake of Christ, even the loss of life itself. If you gave Paul his brothers, he says he would pick going to be with Christ. What could be better than that? Nothing. On the other hand, what would serve God's purposes more? Well, staying here and serving the church a bit longer. Verse 24, but to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith. so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus because of my coming to you again. So Paul is pretty sure what God's going to decide. He doesn't know, but he's pretty sure. And he doesn't want the Philippians to worry about him. He wants them to know that he fully expects that he'll be released from prison and resume his ministry among them. You see, for Paul serving the community. Serving Christ's church outweighs his own desires as an individual. He will serve for the progress of their faith, for their joy in their faith, and that they might glory in Christ. Paul wants them to make progress in their relationship with Christ, to have a deeper and more consistent faith, for joy to increasingly characterize their lives. Just as he's determined to press on on all these things himself. And Paul says here, and this may strike you as a bit odd, he says that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus. Paul elsewhere will talk about the mutual boasting between him and the Corinthians. For all of us as Christians, our greatest joy and pride is to boast in Christ Jesus. Now, some of you know that Pastor Glenn, who worships with you, was my pastor at one point in time. It was a very s it had a very significant impact in my life. Um I uh appreciated so much his uh expositing the Word of God. He counseled me personally. He played a very significant role in my uh coming to understand that I was called to go uh to seminary. He married uh Nancy and I. He opened the doors not for one position, but actually two because people sought a recommendation from him. And as much as I think highly of Glenn, and as much as his life was one of utter integrity, You knew that what he preached he actually lived. There wasn't this gap, you know, there wasn't the public and the private glend. No, those were the same people all the time. Nonetheless, it's all in Christ. It's not about Glenn. It's about how Glen has shown me Jesus Christ. I've seen so much of Jesus in Glenn. And so I boast. I can glory in him. I have Just cause to rejoice. I'm so delighted he's here, and I get to see him once again. And there have been many, and I'm sure for you, there are many. Who have modeled for you what it looks like to follow Christ. And that's what he's asking them to glory in. that they see in him what it looks like to follow Jesus Christ in the midst of uncertainty and not only adversity. Paul wants us to magnify Christ. It's like the words of the psalmist that were read just a few weeks ago. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there's nothing on earth I desire beside you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. What are you pursuing? We are by nature desiring pursuing creatures. If you don't want something, you're no longer alive. We are just, we well up with desire. It's just who we are. We're made to desire God. And Christ through whom we now can enter his presence and the gracious Spirit that God has sent within us. And you can tell what you're really desiring, because it actually, if you become a keen observer of your inner world, you'll notice that it moves. Here to here, here to here. But one of the best indicators of what's really got your heart is what you think about first thing in the morning. Or what you think about the last thing at night. Are you pursuing achievement? Career success? Health and fitness? A fulfilling marriage? Having respectful and accomplished children, financial stability, popularity, community recognition, knowledge, beauty. Those are all good things. There's nothing wrong with desiring any of them. But none of them are big enough to be your highest goal, the goal for which you were created. If your sights are no higher than one or many of these things, sooner or later one of two things will happen. Sooner or later, either you will discover you can't have that the way you think you need, the way you desire, or you lose what measure of it you thought you had. Or you will achieve it, and you will discover in the end it ultimately doesn't satisfy any more than the latest purchase that you make. It doesn't take long for the new whatever to become old, no matter how exciting it was at the moment we got it. Only Christ can ultimately satisfy. Jesus has come for this very purpose, that we might have life and have it abundantly. And in order to do that, He gave himself on the cross. In fact, that's what this table announces to us, that he gave himself. And in giving himself, he not only took the righteous anger of God that's due to us because we ignore God, because we want a God substitute. There's something that we tell ourselves life isn't worth living. If I don't have this. Even the good things And what's more, what's really amazing is not just that we have forgiveness, but Christ has exchanged for our sin his righteousness. He's given us his righteousness. And so we truly are received and loved and made the children of God. I hope at this table when you come you'll renew your faith in recognition of this. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father. In and of ourselves, if we are so weak, Lord, uh we think we're strong, and then something happens, and something that's important to us becomes uncertain. The future's unclear. The illusion that the future was certain has been shattered And Lord, often our faith is exposed as being mixed. And we ask, Lord, that as you refine our faith with adversity and uncertainty, that the pure gold of that faith would emerge, that more and more we would in fact Bring glory to Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen