If you've already turned to John chapter twenty, I hate to disappoint you. Uh this was not my text for this morning, though it is a good text. Uh our text this morning is Philippians chapter two, so keep going to the right in your Bibles. And um this morning I want to talk about two questions, and really we've had a good introduction in our liturgy as we think about the law. Because I want to ask this. What would it take for people to see us differently as a church? What would it take for people to view us as Christians individually differently? And then secondarily What would make the world a better place? Now I don't have any delusions. I'm not even to be honest, I'm not if you even know what this means, I'm not even a post-millennialist, so I don't have delusions of the world becoming some grand utopia. But what might we be able to do to improve the world? I mean, we live in a world where recent events show us that uh people are willing to die. In order to move a false religion forward, people are willing to kill thousands of others, to move along their ideology. That's really not something that's just, you know, we find in the Muslim world. We find it in America as well. We find that people are willing to do heinous things to make themselves more comfortable. People are willing to kill others so that they might prosper financially. Even here in America, right? What might we do that would set us apart here in America? You know, most of you you either live in a neighborhood or in an apartment complex or maybe you live out in the country, but still that probably at least has some sort of neighborhood. You have neighbors of some kind. And probably you have the same socioeconomic background as most of those people that you live around, same educational status as them So it asks, what makes you different from them? Maybe you're happier. The Bible would tell us you should be less selfish and more generous. And I would just say for all these things to happen, for you to look different, for us corporately to look different. And for the world to be a better place, at least in small ways, we have to be willing to lower ourselves. Serve the world in radical ways and even to die. And with that introduction, I go to Philippians chapter 2. So if there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord, and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others, having this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant. Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus Every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The word of the Lord. Let's go to prayer. Heavenly Father, this is your word, and we need your Holy Spirit to come and speak into our hearts. To our minds, to open our eyes, to unstop our ears, Lord, to bind the evil one who would keep us from hearing, who would keep us from being changed, who would keep some of us from being saved. We ask that you would do this in the name of Jesus. Amen. Now, before this Paul had said this phrase. Conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel. Now that really harkens back all the way to as we were singing the Ten Commandments. That's my second time ever to have sung that song, by the way I sang that once down in Virginia to church. I've sung it once here. I actually like it because, you know, if nothing else, singing it, you know, it helps you remember the Ten Commandments. You know, if you sing it enough, I guess you've easily memorized the Ten Commandments. It starts though with a prologue, which basically says, I am the gracious God who came to you and saved you from your sins. Saved you from Egypt. You were slaves. You were living in a land of bondage. And I came. And took you out of that. I'm the creator God who came and formed you into a nation, made you my covenant people. I have loved you That's all prologue to then saying. And now, because of all that, some weird noises behind the curtain, sorry. Um, because of all that Obey me. Live as I command. Paul's really doing the same thing here. Instead of using The salvation from Egypt, the being pulled from slavery there, he's saying, if you've experienced Jesus If you've been saved from your sins, if you who were wicked have been saved by Jesus Christ going to the cross, then Live in this way. So he says, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel. The gospel and salvation and grace come before the commandment. But then verses one through four, he basically says, if you've gotten anything at all out of knowing Jesus, and is it if his love has made any little difference in your life, If the Holy Spirit is at work in you in any way, hopefully that would cover any of us who put our faith in Jesus. That we've gotten something out of knowing Jesus. That in some way it's affected us that he died and suffered the wrath of God on our behalf. If the Holy Spirit had worked in us in just a little way, he says. Then conduct yourselves in this manner. He says, don't let selfish ambition, vain conceit, be your motivator any longer, but choose humility and put others and their interests before you. Now I will say that is maybe at this point in our history the most un-American statement that anybody could possibly make. To put others and their interests before yourself. Now I know there are things within the kind of Americana That would say, you know, we should serve and we should give on behalf of others. But in an everyday way, I think that that goes against the grain of America. Because There's some weird hissing back. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. Anyway, the reason I would say that is remember back I was alive and I could remember the reports coming on the news and a lot of you are Unfortunately for you, you're older than me. Kidding. But um you will remember this as well. Around the mid to early eighties, reports came out they had tested children in China, South Korea, Japan, and they had compared those test scores to our children, to American children. And what they found was we're falling behind. They said their math scores are better. Their science scores are better. They're going to be better engineers. They're going to be better scientists. America is falling behind. And thus. Sociologists and historians would say the soccer mom was born. Because we had to catch up. We were number one And now Asia had the nerve to try to be number one. They had the nerve to have better test scores than us, so we had to go out and show them who was boss. And we had to get our children to violin lessons and swim team, and they had to be math leaks, and they had to go to ballet class, and then our two and three-year-olds had to start getting flashcards, right? Because they had to start learning math early. They had to get ahead, and then they had to either go to the right schools. And it the the phrase was, America needs to stay competitive. And anytime you talk about being competitive, you're talking about being number one, trying to win, taking the top place. And I would say that is just the air that we breathe in America, which is being number one. I want you to think about it this way. Think about phrases like this and just how they strike you. Middle of the pack, average, third place, or C student If someone said that about you or your children, how would you feel? Someone said, oh, they're average. They're average looking. Oh, he's an average student. He's a C student. Oh, he's, you know, he's he's a good worker. He's a solid average worker. I say in America we were like we don't like that. We want to be the top dog. We want to be number one. And we want others to see us as number one. And so Paul, the writer to the letter to the Philippians, says no. He says, put others and their interests ahead of yours. And it goes against our grain, I believe, as Americans. Going back to the text here, verses 5 through 8, he says this, have this mind among you Which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grass but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death. On a cross. Now maybe you regularly, we're going to say the Apostles' Creed later, you regularly say some form of the creed, like the Nicene Creed, which says that Jesus, the second person of the Trinity, was very God. A very God. He is, and he was, and always will be, God. Right? But he became a man. There was a point in which he was not a man, and there was a point in which he allowed himself to first be, I guess, an embryo, and then You know, he was a fetus, and then he was born as a newborn child. And I will tell you that there is nothing more romanced and romanticized in Christianity than that moment. Right? Jesus coming to be a child. Son of God being born. You know how we do it? We get out our nativity scenes. Maybe you personally don't do this, but as a culture, and certainly within Christianity we do it, we get out our little glowing plastic figurines and put them on the front lawn. Or we shape lights that way. Or sometimes we even have these living nativity scenes. When I was growing up, I was actually in a living nativity scene at the church I was in. because for whatever reason the choir director who was kind of in charge of it, she said, will you kind of look Mediterranean a little bit? I guess that was kind of like everybody sitting there going, not really, maybe. But at our church, trust me, I was like on the far end of the spectrum growing up in the southeast. So it was like myself and this other girl, I guess she supposedly looked Mediterranean as well. So we were Mary and Joseph. And then we had a little baby. And then we had the manger. We had the little box that Jesus was going to be placed in. And we acted out all the parts and our parents made robes. And of course they were brand new, you know, clean material. Well, you know, in high school, another thing I did was I got to work on a cattle farm. My best friend's grandmother owned all this land in North Georgia. And so we used to go and hunt and fish on it during the summer and the fall. But then the rest of the year the deal with his grandmother was was that we would come over and work the cattle. They didn't require a lot of work, but they had to regularly have these big bales of hay throughout the winter put out for them. And in the spring they had to be wormed and then the you know, the calves had to be separated. So it was a lot of just work It was actually fun. We maintained the fences and things like that. Now let me tell you what I learned in those two experiences. When you work with cattle, I want to promise you that it is never clean. That it is never nice. It is sweaty. And it is gross. Because when those cows go to eat, their saliva is going everywhere. And their feces is often dropped several feet from where they're eating. There are flies there. There is dirt and there is dust. Now what do you think it was really like? When Jesus came as a man. Do you think it was like we looked in high school, you know, nice, clean, brand new robes that our parents had just, you know, my mother had just sewn for me? Or was there feces in the stable? Was there saliva covering the manger where the sheep And the cattle ate. You know, my wife and I were just in Indiana and we went to the first day of the Indiana State Fair. I want to tell you something. The worst smelling of all the they had all these things. You went in to one place and you had cattle. You had cows and bulls. They were being judged. And another place with the pigs and another place with rabbits and poultry. But the worst possible smell came out of the place where they had the sheep. I mean it was overwhelming to the point. I have a five-month-old daughter. I worried for her. The smell was so outrageously bad. The just kind of the ammonia from the urine and just everything. I mean it was overwhelming. And they had the nerve to sell food inside. I thought, oh my goodness Jesus was there with cattle and with sheep and who knows what else. For us to be real, With our nativity scenes, we need to have like lights that just kind of go around the top of Jesus, around the manger, to represent the flies that were probably landing on him regularly. And when you know how some people get their manger and or maybe you see somebody you go in their house and it's sitting on their table and kind of the sheep and the cows and the donkeys and you know, the camels or whatever, they they know enough, they kind of bow before Jesus. You need to get a few mice and rats doing the same thing, you know, just a little they can make a little prayer face. something like that because I've never been in a barn that wasn't full of mice or rats or both. Anywhere there's feed, there's going to be those things. When Jesus came, it wasn't into our 21st century hospital situation. They laid him into a place that you know, I'm seeing children here. If I said to you, okay, your child, when it's born, I'm going to lay them over in this feces saliva color covered fly infested box. You'd probably stab me. No way you would allow your child to be laid into that and here comes God. Second person of the Trinity, the Son of God, and he is going to be laid into that. And flies are going to land on him. Because he was humble. He was very God of very God. To shoot to the end of his life. The last thing he did One of the last things he did for those who were closest to him, for those who would betray him, is he took the place of a servant. He took and put on the clothes of a slave, and he took a bowl, and he washed all the feet of his disciples because That's what the lowest person in the house would do. If you went to any meal, the lowest slave in the house would do it. And if there were no slaves, then the person who was considered the lowest in the party was responsible to take a bowl and wash the feet. of all the people who were there. But Paul not only references his life, he references his death. That Jesus would die on a cross. He said, submitting to death, even death on a cross. Now we're so familiar with that. I mean we we have cross chains and we hang crosses in our homes and everything. But remember that to hang on a cross was to be cursed in the eyes of two cultures. It was the lowest possible death that anyone could suffer. If you were Jewish, there was a phrase in the Old Testament that said this, cursed is any man that hangs on a tree. Cursed by God. Now, they interpreted that to mean not only being hung, but when they saw that the Romans crucified criminals, they thought that man is cursed because he hangs. Upon a tree, upon wood. And so that was the lowest, absolute worst possible death that Jesus could die in the eyes of a Jew. And then in Rome, there were lots of ways you could be executed. If you had a really high rank, historians tell us that you could go and just commit suicide on your own. That would allow you in some way, either by slitting your wrist or in another way, to take your own life so that you could keep your honor. You could be beheaded. You could have lots of things happen to you, and they kind of move down the chain. To crucifixion. Crucifixion was for the worst criminals, for the person that no one would stand up for and say, That man is my friend, I stand up for him, I stand up for his character. The worst possible nobody would be the person who was crucified. Absolutely the biggest mark of shame that could attend your death. Even in death, he didn't have his own grave. He had to borrow somebody else's. Jesus was a God, is a God like no other. Willing to humble himself, willing to be even humiliated for us Willing to take the absolute lowest place. You know, think about it. I mean he was God. He is God. Think he was up in heaven going, man, this is too Good. You know, everybody's worshiping me and all things on earth bring me honor and glory. It's too good. I just want to I wanna, you know, go and slum for a while. Do you think he desired that life? Do you think he desired that death? The Bible tells us specifically he did. He knew it would be so horrible to die that death and to be cursed by God that he went to God and three times and said, if there's any other way, let's do that. If there's any other way, let this cup pass from me. He's a god like no other. Look at other gods. Take kind of an ancient god at this point, Zeus, even though people are returning to worship him. That's a God Americans will probably like. Because he sees what he wants and he goes and gets it. He also became incarnate. He also took on flesh at various points. But what he would do is this. He would become a swan, and then when he saw a beautiful woman, he would go and seduce her. Make love to her, impregnate her, and then he'd go back to Mount Olympus, the Greeks version of heaven. Basically turn his back on the woman and the situation he calls. Or he would go to a woman named Europa at one point as a bull. He would rape her, take what he wants, and then leave. Not worry about the situation he had created. I wonder sometimes if that doesn't appeal to all of us The desire to say, really, I want to take what I want, and then I just don't want to worry about the consequences. I want to take what I think I need or I want and not worry about the consequences. You know, there is a small city outside of Houston called the Woodlands. Maybe some of you have heard of it, maybe you've even been there. And it's kind of like Columbia was, it is a planned community. Now, this was distinctly planned, its major designer and architect was a believer, a Christian And he had enough political clout to not only get the kind of city created and zoned, and it was you know it's quite beautiful. No no sign can be above such a height. You know, all of the malls and the shopping centers are surrounded by trees, so no one has to look at that kind of you know urban blight And then finally, he got enough people behind him to have a toll road made. Now if you get on the interstate from the woodlands and you're heading south towards Houston, Within a mile, you can get up on the toll road. And the toll road literally will take you above all of Houston. And then it will just bring you slamming down right into the financial district. Reason being, all the men and women who worked in Houston, but lived up in the woodlands, would be able to kind of just airlift themselves above the grime of one of America's major cities and descend upon the financial district, take what they want. And then when 5 o'clock or 6 o'clock came around, they could airlift themselves back to the woodlands, to the utopia in which they had created. Take what they want. And leave the consequences for someone else. And it was designed specifically by a Christian. Jesus says, I will die for you. I will suffer the wrath of God for you. Even though as Mark pointed out, we don't deserve it. Not a one of us in the last five minutes has been holy enough in our thoughts, our words, our deeds. Not a one of us. To be accepted by God, and yet Jesus says, I'll die for you. I will suffer all these things. I will suffer the indignity of having flies land upon me when I'm a child. I'll suffer rejection throughout my life. I will suffer the cross. I will suffer the wrath of God for you because I love you. The grace always comes first. And then he says, and now, you go and be like me. Have this mind. Have this mind. Put others before yourself. Put others and their interests before yours. It's the law of Christ. It's to be a follower of Christ, is to try to live like Christ in everyday ways, wherever you live. You live here in Laurel, in your neighborhood. That's where he's calling you to live it out. When you go to your job, whether it's in Laurel or DC or Northern Virginia or wherever it is. God says put others and their interests before yours. Live like Christ because you've experienced the grace of Christ. You know, I used to tell my college students this. I think we can all make applications, but I would say to them, you know, there's always that guy on your hallway. You're living in the dorm, and there's that guy. Well that girl. She's a little different. He's a little different. Whatever the label of the day is, they're a goth or a geek or a nerd or whatever. And they don't really have friends. Nobody really talks to them, you know. You remember if you were ever in college, you know, the residence hall, you know, your hallways just becomes this big social thing and you know all these people, but that there's always somebody who's kind of left out. If you're a believer, it's your calling to say, I'm going to leave the popular circle of people here and go and befriend that guy. One of my friends put it this way. He said, every Christian should, he said, every college Christian should make Jimmy the Geek their best friend. Even though it costs us popularity, reputation, may even cost us friends, it's going to feel a little bit like death. And maybe that person is hard to be around. You know, I every year in campus ministry, and this as far as I can tell, talking to not only other RUF campus ministers, there's a hundred or so of us across the the nation. But talking to Kempus Crusade and University, there's always like a guy that comes to be a part of the ministry and he's just hard. I mean it is like three times the work to even have a lunch with that guy. is it is to counsel another person whose parent just died or something horrible like that. Just like having lunch with him or her is twice as hard as counseling another person at one of the lowest days of their life. Because they're just socially awkward. They are, you know, just clueless in the world. And one time a few of us were complaining and a much older, wiser campus minister just said this in the middle of the conversation, and it just was kind of like he was a samurai and he kind of pulled out his sword and he just went, one blow, just put it back. And he said this. He said, you know why that guy's in your group every single year? Because when you have to spend time around him, you then get a little picture of what it's like for God to spend time around. You. Because God is perfect. And Jesus is perfect. And when he spends time around you, it's hard for him. Because you and I are whiny. And we're dysfunctional, and we don't do what he asks us to do. And when we do do it, we normally complain. But he loves us. And he accepts us. And he says, You come and be my friend. I'm going to identify myself with you so much that Paul would say we are in union. With Jesus Christ. And then he says, you go and be like me, even if it means death. The end result was Christ was obedient. He humbled himself. He posed others first. He chose love over the power and glory he might have. And then our text tells us this. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name So that the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. When he humbled himself and allowed even himself to be humiliated, he served others. God saw his service and glorified him for it. So that one day will come that even as we kneeled today, all people will kneel. Whether it's kneeling to say, Yes, God, you've been my God, you've been my redeemer, and I thank you. And I praise you and I glorify you, or whether it's to say I rejected you always and now I see my foolishness. And now I see that I deserve hell. All will bow before Jesus. Because God is going to glorify him. And the same path is true of us. Not that people will bow before us in heaven, but God will glorify his saints who have obeyed him. God will bring glory to those who are willing to follow Him and who are willing to humble themselves. Now I'll close with this story. This is not my story. This is actually a story that a pastor in New York City named Tim Keller tells, but it's a very powerful story. A woman came to him. One day after services, he said in the first couple of minutes of talking to her, it became clear that she was a non-believer. She didn't have much of a Christian context that you know that she'd ever been around at all. And so finally, he said, after five minutes, he said, Can I just ask you, how did you end up coming to our church? And she said, Well, it's a long story, you probably don't have time. And he said, Well, why don't you, you know, go ahead. And so here was her story. She worked in New York City at one of the major networks. He didn't say ABCNBC, but one of those networks. And she had made, by her own admission, an enormous mistake. One that she realized should cost her her job. It was a multimillion dollar mistake. And so she fully expected, any day now, I'm going to get a call, or I'm going to be called into someone's office, and they're going to say, we're going to have to let you go. And it never came. And as she started to subtly and slowly investigate, what she found out was her boss. When it came down and people were angry about the mistake and people started to question what had happened, he took the blame himself. He didn't lie, but he just said, you know, it's really my fault. I didn't oversee her enough. I didn't give her enough feedback. I didn't train her as well as I might have. It's really my fault. You should blame me. Now he knew that being a more senior physician, he'd been there a lot longer, that he could kind of take the blow. His reputation suffered. Maybe he even you know his future prospects suffered a little bit. But he was well liked. He'd been there a long time. He had a good background with that company, with that network. He knew he could take it. But she couldn't believe it. So when she knew for sure she wasn't going to lose her job, she went into his office and shut the door and said, what happened? And he just said, Well, just what I just said. You know, I knew my reputation could take it and quite frankly you're you're newer to the company, you're not as a well known commodity, and I knew you'd probably lose your job and I didn't want to see that happen to you so young and blah blah blah. So I I took the hit. Okay, well I understand all that, she said. But why? Well, you know, as I said, you know, I didn't want to see you get fired. I think you've got a good future. Blah blah blah blah blah. He just kept saying And she's like, no, no, no, no, why? And she finally said, look, I see a lot of people in this company who are superiors that will take credit when an underling does good work, because they'll steal all the credit. I never see them. Willing to suffer for an underling. And he tried to just say, well, you know, I didn't want to see. Just kept saying the same thing. And she pushed him and pushed him and pushed him and said, why, why, why, why, why? And he finally, even reluctantly, said, well, if you really want to know the truth, you push me. I don't want you to be offended when I say this, but I'm a Christian. And I believe that Jesus bore the penalty for all of my sin, all of my mistakes, all of my costly mistakes. And then he has called me to be like him. And he said this way, he said, my job as a manager in this network, in this company, is to absorb more pain than I inflict. Think about that. He said, said to an underling, my job as a manager is to absorb more pain than I inflict. That's why I did it. She began to investigate further after that conversation. And she found out that the reason he had such a great reputation. The reason he was so well thought of, the reason he wasn't going to lose his job is he had years of that kind of service to other people. Everyone who knew him had a small story at least of him taking the blame, of him serving them in some hard way. So that there was this sense in which even in a dog eat dog world like kind of Network Corporation in New York City, people loved him. People cared for him. No one wanted to see him get fired. Who else was going to take the blame for all their mistakes? But you see, God had even begun to glorify him in a little way through his service. This is the way God's world works. He had begun to humble himself, even allow himself to be humiliated at points for other people, putting other people ahead. And God had begun to glorify her. Now the interesting thing is, she said, and so the whole conversation with him ended this way. He told her the story, and she just sat there and she said, for about 40 seconds, I was just Dead silent, never heard anything like it. And then the only thing I could say was, well, what church do you go to? Now I want us to think as we go back to our neighborhoods and we go back to our jobs or our schools or whatever, even into our families. What are we doing that makes us different? What are we doing that makes us stand out from the crowd? Jesus stands out from all gods for one thing. No one can name another God. No one could say, oh, our God is willing to die for us. Not Allah Not the great Mother-Father Spirit that Buddha gives homage to? Nothing. Not Zeus. Nothing. The one thing that sets our religion apart is we had a God who said, You'll never do it. You'll never be good enough, so I'll be good enough, and then I'll die for your sins. The only thing that will set us apart, that will make us attractive, that will make us look different in this world, is to begin to follow Jesus. And be willing to serve, be willing to be humble, and even be willing to die that others might live. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, the law of Christ is the absolute, hardest possible law you could have given us, Lord. And we praise you, Lord, that it is Jesus who has fulfilled it perfectly. It is Him who is our righteousness, Lord And yet now you call us to humility, you call us to be humble in mind, you call us to even suffer for others. And we ask that you would give what you call us to do, Lord. You call us to do it, Lord, but you know we can't. Unless your spirit would come and work in our hearts. So we beg for that, Lord. We ask for it in the name of Jesus. Amen.