If you recall from this morning, we uh heard Reverend Wolfe preach on or preach from First one verses nine and ten And in that sermon, what did we hear? We heard of the pattern of God bringing men to himself, that men would first repent, they would turn. Then what? They would serve. And then what? They would wait or await Jesus Christ. So basically a pattern then for all believers. This evening, what we're going to talk a little bit more about is this word serve. I hope it's helpful to go on this little excursus that actually builds very well from what he said this morning. So I'm happy to say it's a nice building here. Why don't we all stand as I read? I'm going to read Luke chapter 10, verses 38 to 42. A passage I'm sure you're all very familiar with. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore tell her to help me. But Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you're worried and troubled about many things, but one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. Let's bow in prayer, shall we? Father, above, we enter your word, seeking to be conformed to it, seeking to listen at your feet And we pray, Lord, eagerly for your work now, for my words will count as nothing apart from your work. And we pray, Lord, for that work that only you can do, only you can accomplish We pray, Lord, for a hearing that the Spirit would work with and that the evil one could not or will not snatch away. So Lord, we look to your grace in this time now. For all here, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Now I suppose that some simple-minded some uh in a simple-minded way could say Okay, the Bible calls me to to repent, to serve and to wait, and now I'm j I see a place where Martha's serving and she gets scolded. Contradiction, right? Well I Not so fast. And I don't think many in this room would view that as a contradiction. Um however it does say what? It says this word serve, you know, to serve Christ has many nuances to it. So let's let's get into some of these. And what I'll what I will bring before you is simply five observations then. So there'll be five. You can keep counting. And uh so you also know when I'm nearing the end. But let's get started with some of these observations. The first And I think this is obvious to many of us, but it's possible to be doing the right thing or be doing a good thing And yet not be doing the right thing, right? It's possible to be doing a good thing, but it's not the right thing at that particular time. It's something that is good even by scriptural standards, right? But it's not the right thing. Clearly Martha here was doing a good thing. She was serving. That explicit word is explicitly used here, right? But it wasn't the right thing at that time. time. So Jesus has to gently rebuke her. And let me add it in this way, if the evil one can't bring us to do what is wrong, what will he do? It will cause us to do what is right, but on the wrong occasion, to the wrong measure, in the wrong proportions, with the wrong timing, right? I mean that seems like we're clearly seeing an example of that here. Um so we need to be on the guard not only for doing the wrong thing but doing the right things at the wrong time, occasion, place, priority, etc. Um and he will try to do that, won't he? As you all know. I don't think this is new to any of you. Um I think that we can also recount stories of men whom perhaps we know, but men who have done the right thing, but they have so applied themselves with that right thing to such a priority that it was clear that their lives were out of balance. You know, men who applied themselves so diligently to their work and yet their families were neglected. Even men of God who applied themselves to the Word of God, to the work of the church, and yet ignored perhaps their families, or ignored their neighbors, or ignored something. Right? So again, what we have here is a situation where they're not doing what is necessarily evil, but the evil one has come has brought them to that place where they're doing something good, but in a manner that's That is not ultimately glorifying to Christ. Observation number two. Look at the context that this particular passage falls. I know that Yeah, you you we did not read the the text before it and then immediately after it. But what occurs right before this is the parable of the Good Samaritan. So what has Jesus just done? He has just silenced. some of his critics who asked him, What is the great what is the great commandment? Yes, yes. Okay, but who is my neighbor? And Jesus goes into this elaboration and what is he s and and what does the man ultimately that That my neighbor was that man who showed mercy. That the neighbor is the one to whom is shown mercy. So, what Jesus is saying to some degree here is right behavior. He's commenting on right behavior here. What does it mean to love God and love my neighbor? And it's interesting that after this text. Is the portion where the disciples ask him, how do we pray? So one concerns action, one concerns prayer, and we have this little interlude here, which I would suggest is a very interesting bridge. Between action and prayer. And I would say that it's no accident that is placed here as such a bridge. For what do we find? We find a woman engaged in service. Was Martha stingy? No. She opened her household, not only to Jesus, but those who came with him. And it probably wasn't just Jesus' best friend, such that there were two people there. No, there was probably quite a crowd. It's no small investment to to uh provide for these all these guests that are all of a sudden in the midst of her home. And she also is the woman of her household. It's been said that perhaps she's a widow, that she is the lady of her household because she's now a widow. Her husband is gone. He was perhaps a man of means. Um but now it's gone and she's now caring for that household. Um But I think it's an interesting juxtaposition here between a text of action and one of prayer. And we'll comment more about this. Observation number three. What is that good portion? How is who is commended in here? Well, Mary, we know, is commended, right? She was the one that chose that good portion. And as Matthew Henry has stated it, she gave herself up to the guidance of Christ. Christ and received instruction from his mouth. That has helped Matthew Henry, and I think it's as good a definition as any you have read, is a good way to put. What is that good portion? She sat at Christ's feet. She could have assisted Martha or sister, but she didn't. She saw the opportunity, an astounding opportunity, to sit at the master's feet and took it. And was commended for it, right? It's a um It's a woe of today, I think, that in our pragmatic culture of doing, we're constantly busy, we're busy, we're busy, we're busy, that we have a very hard time often simply withdrawing to reflect. Withdrawing to be with Christ for a time. Withdrawing just so we might take stock of our own lives. I would suggest to you that that's one of the the grand purposes of the Lord's day. It gives us that day that we might do just such things. To withdraw, that we might take stock of our ourselves. Lord, how am I doing? I'm a father. How am I doing as a father? I'm a worker at work. How am I doing at work? I'm a witness to my neighbors. How am I doing, Lord? You know, I didn't do all that well this week. Lord, I need to confess a word of anger. Lord, I need to confess. You see where we're going here. That we are called to stand back at times and take a step back. But let me state it as Matthew Henry stated it Mar uh Mary gave herself up to the guidance of Christ and re received instruction from from his mouth. And at times we need to simply have some time. Have a time where we step back, take stock of ourselves, and listen to the word of Christ. Now many of us have grown up And we call this a quiet time. Or we call it personal devotions. And I would suggest to you, young ones, that this ought to be part of our daily lives. We need to take time apart. And set ourselves apart for reflection upon our lives and for listening to the word of Christ. And I think this text lends itself then to that kind of a practice, that kind of a habit. We need to guard ourselves against a world that would keep ourselves distracted. Distracted, distracted, distracted. And it's interesting that that very word is used. But Martha was distracted with much serving. What does that word distracted mean? That word means we ought to be doing something else, but we got drawn aside. So the word itself conveys that there's something amiss here. Is there a penalty for not spending time at the feet of Christ? For not withdrawing ourselves and being at the feet of the Master on occasion? Is there a penalty here? Well, uh what can we say? We will be rebuked. Jesus will rebuke us. Now we don't want to be uh We don't want to hammer that point too hard because what do we know from the book of Hebrews? That the Lord will discipline his own. So that will happen by definition. It will happen. It's not a matter of avoiding discipline We will never avoid discipline. So if you live your life seeking never to be disciplined, never to hear a word of correction from the Lord, I think you're going to be sadly Disappointed. You need to prepare yourself now for the fact that the Lord does discipline those he loves, right? But I would suggest to you that That the penalty of not sitting at his feet is that the Lord has to work ever harder for those who proceed down a long path. Without ever withdrawing themselves to reflect and to ask him humbly, Lord, am I doing what you what I ought to be doing? Am I doing what I ought to be doing? And what does the Lord do? He brings that person to a screeching halt. As I mentioned before, there are men in the ministry who have been known for neglecting their families in order to pour themselves into the ministry of the word. And what does the Lord do? He brings about some sort of a monumental event. To jog them. A son who's gone wayward and is taking drugs. A daughter who has become immoral. You know, sometimes the Lord just beats us about the head when it's necessary. So I would suggest to you that although we will always be disciplined, I think that the Lord increases the pain level When we just decide to go off on our own and continue on our own. Let's give another little analogy here. If we are soldiers of Christ, do you think that that analogy means that I just sort of live in my own personal army? And I live executing my own orders. Mmm, no. No. That analogy breaks down, doesn't it? But what do we have? If we are soldiers of Christ, whom do we serve as our general? We serve Christ as our general. We need to be receiving orders from him, right? I would suggest to you, if we are not spending time alone with him as our general, then I would suggest that there's some difficulty there in our submitting ourselves to our general. Yes, we need to be hearing the preaching of the word from up front, from our pastor. So I would suggest to you there's a place for us withdrawing alone, being with the general. And that general tells us his orders. And he would tell that wayward elder or that wayward pastor, you're spending too much time away. Your family needs you now. Go. And we need to be at his feet that we are able to hear that. Able to hear that command given. Do you see? We are not soldiers of Christ that somehow operate as independent guerrillas off in the jungle, never to hearing the commands from our our leaders. But somehow but sometimes I think we behave like that. And that's what American culture tends to make us is individual distinct gorillas. No, Lord, I don't need any help. I I'm doing fine. Don't need any counsel. Don't need any assistance. Just let me fight. That's not the way of the scripture, is it? I don't think so. What else do we see here? This is observation number four. The penalty of not spending time at his feet. We do need to uh We will receive a greater rebuke. Along the lines of the rebuke, let's make another couple observations now. Did uh Martha is the woman of her household, right? And and as such, she is she's the matron. She carries some respect here. Did Jesus shy away from rebuking her and rebuking her publicly? No, I would suggest yes, it's quite amazing. She is serving. She is seeking to do the right thing. And she says, Lord, tell Mary to get to work. And he goes, Martha, Martha, she's chosen the good part. He rebukes her publicly. Let's not belittle this. That was a severe slap in the face. A severe slap in the face. And I would suggest that we be careful. Again, let's not fault Martha too much here. But be careful of an arrogant spirit that insists that we are right and that the other is wrong. Be careful of such arrogance. If we wish to rebuke, and we elders sometimes have to do this, we have to rebuke believers, that is the time, if there is any time, that we must be on our knees in prayer before God Because that's one of the most humbling activities to do is to rebuke another believer for an action, for something done, or something that needed to be rebuked. So when we rebuke others, which we need to do and ought to do, but let us be ever prayerful about that. For there we need it perhaps most. Let us seek the counsel of the master when those situations arise. Let's not shy away from them. That's also a tendency in today's America to shy away from such rebukes. Okay. We've spoken something of the penalty. Is there a blessing? It's spending time at the feet of Christ daily seeking his counsel, seeking his wisdom, seeking to learn from his word, seeking to bring our lives before him, asking him to comment. Is there a blessing in this And I would say there's there's probably many, but I think one of the chief ones we find in the book of Philippians, and let me simply read it. I know this text is not new to you, but let me simply read. Be anxious for nothing. Was Martha anxious? Yes, she was distracted. She was anxious. She was anxiety-ridden in that time. And what does the scripture say? Be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God, and the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. So here we find peace mentioned as a product of such prayer, of such time spent in his presence before him. But let me go on. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things on these things. Again, this is something that I would suggest to you is a vital part of such sitting at the feet of Christ. Such a quiet time involves such meditation on these things. The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these do, and the God of peace will be with you. Again, this word peace crops up again now. In the spirit of prayer and in the spirit of meditating and doing, we find this fruit of peace. So in a world that knows no peace, the Lord gives us this blessing. So I would suggest to you out there now, is there is there uh intense anxiety in your heart, in your spirits? Do you know no rest? Now I would suggest to you we're gonna struggle in this world. And the peace we'll get is not a peace that means all the difficulties of the world are gone, dissolved. But Jesus does promise a peace to his own, does he not? And this is the peace we're talking about. He does promise such. But how do we gain it? Again, we don't gain it simply by wishing for it. We gain it by doing the things the scriptures call us to do. To do. We sit at the feet of Christ. We learn from him. And again, as Matthew Henry stated it, she gave herself up to the guidance of Christ and received instruction from his mouth. So how do we apply these things? Sort of one last hammer here. If you're an unbeliever, then you first need to turn and repent. There's no such thing as serving Christ until you turn from the way that you're already on. There's no serving Christ until you turn. So I would suggest to you repent now. If you're serving yourself, then recognize that for what it is. Are you serving Christ? Is that the intention of your heart? Is that the intention of your day to enter every single activity of the day to serve Christ? If it's not, then maybe you need to ask yourself whether you belong to Him. And if not, then you need to turn. Young ones, I would suggest that this is the occasion to begin the daily practice of spending some portion of time alone with your cross with your Lord, with your general. This is where he teaches you from his word and gives you his marching orders. This is a time where you can take stock and step back and reflect. Have I been obedient to my mommy and daddy yesterday or in the past week? It's a time for reflection. A time to sit at the feet of Christ at his word, and a time for you to pray, Lord, I'm not obeying my mommy and daddy very well, but Lord, will you help me? But it begins by you taking some time to doing just that. A personal devotion time, a quiet time. And believers, are you so caught up in the affairs of the day, so confident of your standing in Christ that you have left, such sitting at the sea at the feet of Christ? be sort of a a very occasional activity at best. Are you so confident that you know the commands and the mind of Christ that you don't really need to spend much time? Set apart in his word, praying before him, meditating, contemplating your life before him. Does he need to bring you to that place? by a severe illness, by an accident, by something that would say, stop. And I would suggest to you he does that. Does he not? Many of us can cite examples when he stopped us dead in our tracks because that's what we needed in that moment. I'd suggest to you If you're such a person that's always busy, busy, busy, then maybe starting tomorrow, get up 10 minutes or 15 minutes early and withdraw and say, Lord, what would you have me here this moment? How can I reflect on yesterday's events or today's events or take time tonight, 10 minutes or 15 minutes? But it will begin by a resolve to be seated at the feet of Christ. Doing the good portion, doing the good part as Mary had done