Uh two things I'd like to say right at the outset. First of all, I'm grateful to be invited to speak to you or to preach to you. I don't speak very well I just preach and uh my wife will tell you I preach with her morning, noon and night. And uh So I don't know how to speak. Um I do take objection to the fact that if I preached in Welsh, it would all be consonants. It's not true. Um I put quinky for where that when robots and isalio go go go isn't all consonants. Um the other thing is uh uh something that's uh uh divorced from your fellowship, but uh for the OCF. Um Uh I have great respect for the OCF. My son is in the um in the Marines and uh nobody is taboo when I say that Uh I live in Fayetteville and it's uh Fort Drag is right there next door and uh we have many soldiers and so I daren't mention that my son is a Marine Um but uh he was greatly helped by the OCF um when he uh went to um Officer Candidate School which is uh boot camp down in Quantico and uh uh Uh he told me when I told him I was coming here, I told him, well, it's I'm going to um the Officer Christian Fellowship House in Manchester. No, he said you got it wrong. And I said, no, no, that's the address I've been given by Pastor uh Dewsbury Dewsenbury. And uh uh he said, no, no, he's got it wrong too. So but as you realize he's a marine and so he feels that uh he knows better than anybody but um but he really uh was quite jealous uh that I was coming here. He and his wife I think have both have been here, but certainly he has been here. And I am grateful to God. for the work of the OCF during those early days when he was away from home and when he was experiencing um boot camp and uh loneliness and all those kind of things and it's it's an organization worth praying for. I am quite sure. Well, you've asked me uh I gave you a choice. I gave the elders a choice as to what I should speak on, and they chose the one I didn't want to speak on. Um but that's That's the way it is, as another of my sons who is now soon to be ordained into the ministry says, it is what it is. And so that's what we're going to deal with tonight. But I'm going to uh preach from Romans chapter eight and just one verse, the whole session. The four sessions will be taken up with just this one verse, verse 34 in Romans chapter 8. But before I come to read the verse, I want to read the first um eleven verses and I'll read uh at every session uh from verse 1 through 11, 12 through 17, 18 through 30, and then at the last session on Sunday morning, verses 31 through 39. Let us hear then God's infallible and authoritative word. There is, therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh And for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. To set the mind on the things of the mind on the flesh is death But to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you, anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. through his spirit who dwells in you. And then the verse that we're going to look at, who is to condemn? Christ Jesus the one who died, more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Let us pray. Lord, we have touched your holy and infallible word. We have sought to read it with understanding, and we've sought to listen with understanding also. And we pray now that as the scripture is opened and applied to our hearts, that we may realize how little we understand. but how gracious you are to us in making us willing to listen, willing to learn, and causing your Holy Spirit to apply that truth to the very center of our being. Bless us now, then we pray. We ask these things for Jesus' sake. Amen. Paul um is a typical preacher. Because he's always coming to the end, uh, you know. Um Verse 1, finally really, he's saying, There is therefore now no condemnation. Then in verse 12, so then he's come to the end again. And then in verse 18, why? He's come to the end again. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time. And then in verse 31, he comes to the end again. And of course, at that point, he's come to the end. But then it isn't the end because then he starts off again in chapter 9 in an entirely different context and entirely different direction But what we have here in this whole chapter is what Professor Murray calls life in the Spirit And the reason why I wanted to preach for this verse is to try to draw together what it means to be a Christian. And we'll explore that throughout this weekend. What does it mean to be a Christian? How do we live our lives as Christians? What is it? that that is in us, that's different. How is it that we are able to cope with all the issues and the difficulties that we face And this is what the Apostle is talking about. Remember who he's speaking to? He's speaking to Romans. They lived in the capital of the world. Uh Washington may be the capital of America, but in many ways it's the capital of the world. And you well know that. Uh I'm sure you must be aware of the fact that uh you live in the capital of the world. And I'm quite sure that you're aware of all the issues and difficulties and temptations which exist in such a big and busy metropolis. Well, that's exactly true for Rome. And Paul is addressing these Christians who were in the most difficult situation. You know, they weren't living quietly uh out in the country, ploughing with oxen and uh And everybody quite peaceful and contented as though there's no sin in the countryside. Believe me, I'm a farmer's son. I know there's sin in the countryside. But the idea is that the busyness and the turmoil of a big city is different to what's elsewhere. And to these Christians, he wants them to grasp just how privileged they are and what resources they have to live their Christian life And so he commences this section, verses 31 through 39. He commences the section by posing three major questions. There might be five there, but really I'm going to just deal with three. First of all, he says if God is for us, who can be against us? In other words, he's saying that the Trinitarian God is on our side. And so no plan of man can thwart his purposes for us It's important for us to understand that the Trinitarian God underwrites our salvation. And there's no possibility of us failing Even though we stagger along very often and are filled with doubts and fears and a sense of our own failures and so on and so forth, there is no condemnation He said that in verse 1. There is no condemnation. And so the Trinitarian God is for us. And then in verse 32, he says that every blessing is guaranteed to us. Look, he says, he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also graciously give us all things? He's given everything and he's given Jesus for us. Then everything else which is secondary to Jesus. The blessings of sanctification, the blessings of godliness, those things are inferior to the Son of God Himself And so we can be sure that every blessing is guaranteed to us. It's not going to fail. And then in verse 33 he says, who shall lay any charge against God's elect? No accusation made against against God's children can be sustained because we've been acquitted by him. We have been justified by God. We are quitted of our sins. And so we're free and clear, but there is a problem. And it's this problem he addresses in verse 34. Paul, you see, is knows himself very well. He knows he's a sinner. He's told us in chapter 7. Oh wretched man that I am, verse uh 24. Oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Now I believe he's talking about himself, and he's talking about himself then. He is a wretched man. And I don't think if we'd had a question, if Paul had been our congregation and we'd said, which one of you has really achieved everything you need to achieve? As a Christian and you're ready for glory. Well he might have said I'm ready for glory, but he wouldn't have said, I've achieved it. Oh wretched man that I am. He knew his own limitations. He knew his own sinfulness. But then it's essential for us to understand who would dare attack us? Even though we might be aware of our sinfulness, who can attack us? Who can seek to undermine our faith and bring us into captivity again? Because you see, being cleared of our sins means that there is no penal servitude for us. There is no death for us. We're not awaiting sentence. It's been cleared. It's been done. And so the Christian has to understand that accusations may be made, but they have no ground. Well, who would accuse us, he says? Who is to condemn? Who can condemn us? Well, let me preface this by saying Only God can condemn. Understand that. Only God can condemn. The devil can't condemn anybody. He'd like to think he can, but he can't. He may have people in his power, but they're condemned to death by God Himself. You know, you will not go to hell because the devil Tempts you, tries you, and takes you in his captivity. It's God condemns you. You've offended his law. It's God who is condemned, is condemning. God alone can condemn us. Well, who is it that condemns us then? Well, the spiritual world is ignorant. And there are three causes or three sources of condemnation that leveled against us. The first is that the world condemns us. Now by the world I mean not only ungodly people, but the whole world in its entirety You see, the whole creation, says Paul, later on in this chapter, groans and travails for the liberty, for the evidences, for the appearing of the sons of God. And so this creation in its entirety, encaptured by the devil himself, condemns us. And it condemns every one of us. It seeks to bring us down. You'll find that. Let me just uh turn to um Acts chapter sixteen and verse twenty and and you you read there these words. Um And when they brought them to the magistrates, they said, These men are Jews. They are disturbing our city. They advocate customs that are not lawful for us as Romans to accept or practice. The crowd joined in attacking them And the magistrates tore the garments off them and give orders to beat them with rods. Well, what have they done? You know, they must have done something terrible Oh, they must have killed somebody. They must have attacked some child. They must have beaten up some woman. What have they done? Not at all. They'd only preached. And then when they'd preached A slave girl had believed, and her master saw their hope of gain gone dry. And the world hates them. Chapter 17 and verse 5 about the same thing. But the Jews were jealous. Ha! See? Jealousy. They they they they're jealous of of people who are Christians. The world really hates us And so they set a more I I love the authorized version. They gather a l uh a lewd, a company of lewd fellows of the baser sort. That's a much better phrase than um uh and taking some wicked men of a rabble, uh they formed a mob. That's pathetic. Compared with compared with a lewd fellows of a baser sort. But that's what they do. You know, they gather people and they they infect them and uh y you know, you you saw it at the crucifixion, didn't you? There they are the couple of days before the c crucifixion. Uh Jesus is a hero. He is hail, king of the Jews. Here he is. And then when he comes to the cross, there they are pouring scorn and mockery on them. It's an appalling situation. But that's the world. The world hates us. And so the world seeks to condemn us. They say, what is this grace you say you have? What is this difference you have? It's nothing. You're just deluded. You're just mentally twisted. You're just robbed of your right senses. You just are carried up with the fashion. You there are others who say it's something that'll pass. I remember an elder in one church I pastored telling uh us how um uh the man who would become the Anglican bishop of the city where I uh I served uh in the in the north of England. And uh this man had become the bishop and he'd been uh the minister or the uh uh the vicar of of the church, the parish church where this elder had been brought up in in the uh on the west side of England. And when he went home after university and said he'd become a Christian, this vicar said, yeah, that's wonderful, he said, but it'll wear off. It'll wear off. It hadn't worn off, but but but it will wear off. It that's the world. On one hand they attack you, on the other they dismiss you. It's not important what's happened to you. Well, this is the world. It attacks your lifestyle. Oh, you know, you you try to bring up your children to fear the Lord. Yeah, you try to teach them, to sing hymns, to read the scriptures that you have family worship. And and they cheered about and they said, what do you mean? I mean they could be out playing soccer. Not that I think much of soccer, I've got to tell you, I'm a rugby man myself. You know? Well, maybe I could stop you playing soccer, but you gotta go play rugby. You know, the it's it's mockery. You know, why do you do that? Uh women will talk together, they talk m together more than we men do. And and uh uh a wife will say, Well, you know, we have family devotions Well why w what would be what's the point of doing that? You you live a good life, you you you're good people, you're kind people, you look after my children when I was sick What do you need to have worship? Why do you need to pray? You know, you just got get in that way. This is the world condemning the gospel. You may say, well they're not saying anything against the gospel. Yes they are. They're saying that your gospel is not enough. Your gospel is enough. Your way of life is superior. You don't need the gospel. They're dismissing the gospel as being an addendum you don't need. And then they condemn you for your worldview. You know, the world condemns us for our worldview. We say, who made us? God made us What else did God mean? Well, my little grandchildren and I have sixteen of those, although not all of them talk, but I'm sure when they all do talk Um I hope it's not at the same time, but but nonetheless they've all been taught to say that God made them. And He made all things. And that they believe in a creation which God brought into being. And I believe it. I'm one of those people who actually believe that the first nine chapters of Genesis are true. And and I believe that these things are so. But but it affects your worldview. The things you watch, the things you talk about, the things that you introduce to your family, the the way that your children talk. uh as your children grow up. How many of you uh sit together at a meal, which of course is a rarity in America. You sit together at a meal and you talk about something that's happened in school or happened in college or happened with our friends and And and and you say you make your comments about it. I remember one of my children coming home from school, from high school, and and saying, In the United Kingdom we're living there And he said, uh what do you think, Dad? Uh our scripture teacher, 'cause they teach scripture in school in the United Kingdom, uh, he said that Jesus didn't walk on water. There were stones under the water. And he knew they were there. And so he was walking on these stones. I said, really? So do you think that there was slime on those stones under the water? Well, I didn't think of that, he said. I said, Well you go home and tell him go back to school and tell him that that he could never have done that. It would have been either slipped It couldn't be done. And then he comes in a storm and he steals it. And so on. And and then of course he went and told the teacher, and the teacher brought back and said that that that I really was um Pretty blind. I mean my worldview was under attack. Now that's the world. The world is constantly attacking us and it believes it condemns us. And tragically So many people in the world believe their own propaganda. You know, it's a dangerous thing to believe your own propaganda, isn't it? If you believe that you're the biggest, strongest boy in school, that's a bad thing to believe. Because there will be somebody there who will hear you say that, and you may not be bigger or stronger. but he certainly feistier than you are and put you on your back in short order. You must never believe your own propaganda. But they believe their own propaganda. They believe that we must be wrong. Why? Because they are right. And they condemn us And they believe that they can condemn us and cast us into the outer darkness. But they're not the only thing. See, our flesh condemns us. Listen to uh John's um uh writing to uh his first letter and uh in in uh 1 John and chapter 3 And verse twenty. And um if my Bible lets me find it, I will read it to you. Isn't it strange things? Every time I get a Bible, doesn't matter which one I have The pages are too thick and they don't turn for me. But here we have it. It's John 1 John chapter 3 and verse 20. Listen, it says, beginning at verse 9. By this we know, by this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before Him. For whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and He knows everything. You know, our heart, although it's been changed, if you're a Christian tonight, your heart has been changed. On one level, it's different. But on another level It remains deceitful. How do I know? Because the very things I want to do good I do not. And the evil that I would not That I do. My heart, whilst it's been changed by grace, remains nonetheless still in its old way. It's um I can use illustration from but I I heard um uh the gentleman tell saying about how wonderful this place was and and and I I believe it's true Uh, except that for a thousand acres they should surely have put in an eighteen hole golf course. But um I I can't understand that they haven't done that. And uh uh but anyway. Uh you you you you have somebody like uh Tiger Woods. Who reinvents himself every few years and develops a new swing. And while he's working on this new swing He doesn't play very well because his mind is still doing what once he did, whereas he wants to do it differently That's the problem. It's the same spiritually. There was a way we lived. And now we've been changed. In a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, we've been changed. But there is a an ingrown muscular habit that continues to do bad things, to think bad things. When you became a Christian, did you stop thinking evil thoughts? Can you tell me tonight I never have a bad thought? I always think so well of everybody. I think well of God. I think well of Providence, everything that happens to me. I think well of grace. I never have a problem. Our hearts sadly are deceitful, and we cannot know them in their entirety. And once they've been changed on one spiritual level, on a very earthly level, they continue to trouble us. And our hearts condemn us. We see our own sin. How many of us today have seen our own sin? I certainly have. When I've been driving up, my wife and I have been driving up and we've been talking and we've had reason to talk to each other about different things and uh I can say it, I could point you to the spot in the road where I realized what a what a pathetic Christian I really am. My heart tells me, am I really a Christian at all? Do you see your failures? The failures you should have as a as a son and a daughter. As a as a child, how many of you children can say, young people can say, my parents are just wonderful and sometimes You come in from school or you get up from your class and if you're being homeschooled, or if you go to Christian school, you come home and you say, Dad, you are just the best dad that ever was How many of you dads can say that that's happened to you? Well, it takes time. My son who's soon to be ordained. um called his mother uh a couple of months ago and um he'd been having to deal with his children and uh he has four children and he'd had to deal with them over some issue and he suddenly realized, he said, suddenly realized I never said how grateful I was to Mama Dad, because he'd been going on and he said, aren't you children ever grateful for what I do for you? Have you ever done that? And and and then he said, I realized suddenly I'd never said to you, I'm grateful, Mum, for what you did. Because he certainly didn't when he was sixteen and seventeen. I'm sure And and the only gratitude was that if you paid the gas for his truck. I mean that was the only time that he was grateful. And he wasn't grateful for anything more than you'd expedited his progress and his own self-will. Now, how many of you, you young people, how many of you see your own sin, your own failures, you adults Your parents, your husbands, your wives, do you see your own failures? And then when you do Does your heart say, are you a Christian? Really, is that the way a Christian author behaves? When you come home from work and your wife has got Dinner on the table, and you sit down and eat, and you you say a perfunctory grace, and and then you get on with eating it, and you say nothing more. Let me tell you. In my family I had a grandfather whom I never knew. But my father used to tell me that um my my uh my grandmother had given birth to seventeen children and uh of whom Five died uh early early on. And he um but before all that happened uh when he'd she'd only given birth to twelve or thirteen He'd come home and she'd have made his dinner. He worked in the mines and he came home and uh he'd look at the food and if it wasn't what he liked, he'd throw it in the fireplace And my father always used to say that with tears in his eyes. You may not do that. You may not have a fireplace. But uh But how many of you are grateful? Thankful? How many wives? Your husband may not be great around the house. My wife will bear testimony to my inferiority in that respect. But you know how many of you when your husband may not be the best cook or the or the best uh vacuumer or or the or the best odd job man and he does something and you say, oh What a great does your own heart condemn you? Our hearts condemn us. And every day we stand condemned by our own hearts. Had it not been for the grace of God, we would surely condemn ourselves eternally. We saw our hearts condemn us. But the worst part is that the devil condemns us. Oh, he's sitting on your shoulder this very night Did you know that? You're sitting there, you look all nice people, you look okay. Uh I don't think that you've come up from outside Washington, uh nasty people, but you brought a guest with you. And he is the devil. He's sitting on your shoulder like he's sitting on mine. And and he's whispering in your ear. And he is condemning you. He's saying, nah. These things, this man is just talking through a hole in his head. He doesn't know what he's talking about. He has no experience. He just doesn't understand anything. He's determined, you see, to cast doubt on God and Christ's salvation. He's determined to say to you, How deep is this faith you have? How how profound is your faith? How how how real is your faith? Is it? You feel great things about God? You say, well, you know, I don't I I don't feel great things. And he said, see? It's not genuine. The devil's terrified when you say you do feel something, but but but you mustn't feel anything. I mean you don't feel anything, do you? You don't feel God's greatness, you don't feel his majesty. You don't feel his wisdom. You don't feel his gracious dealings with you. You come away feeling it's it's it's a it's all of a failure. How many of you go home on a Sunday and say, well, didn't get much out of that today? How many of you get in the car and and have Rose Preacher for lunch? How many of you? Well, that's the devil. That's the devil. I can tell you. And I'm I put it bluntly like this. Um many years ago, um about nineteen seventy-five, I'd been I'd been ill. And uh in in the that was in the October and in the November Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones, whom you may have heard of, came to preach at our church. And I picked him up at the railway station. And I was driving home with him and of course immediately he said, I don't know how things are going with you, my boy, and uh and and so I started saying and I said something that had happened and he said Do you know what that was? Here is a man who was a member of the Royal College of Physicians. He was a brilliant diagnostician. Brilliant. And and and he he said, uh I i I I was telling him all this and he said, Do you know what the problem was, you said? Do you know who th what uh was causing that? And I said, I thought, well, you know, it's because um I had some problem in my liver or problem like kidneys or so something, it's the devil. And he's right. It's the devil The devil is lurking around you all the while. He's using his guile on all the above things of the world and the flesh. He's using his guile to bring those things to bring about. You a denial. No, he doesn't want you to go off and become a a vagrant or become an adulterer. He's not bothered about that. What he's bothered about is that you hail God as Lord, and you believe you must live for his glory and for nothing else. And he is so angry about that. And he's doing all in his power to drag you out. Of that kind of thinking. He's an accuser of the brethren. That's one of his names, isn't it? He's an accuser of the brethren. And he accuses you to yourself, he accuses you to other people. And he accuses other people to you. And you will not believe the truth of God's grace. You know, you you you may criticize someone who's a fellow Christian, and I'm not saying that that person might be a good person. They might do things that are wrong. But how many of you have been in danger of condemning the marks of grace in a person, believing that by doing so you are serving God? You are serving the devil. And he makes us doubt, doubt others, and communicate that to others Well what's wh what's the uh the effect of these accusations upon us? If the world accuses us, the flesh, condemns us, and the devil undermines us. What's the effect that it has on us? Well, first of all it leads us to timidity. We're timid. We're timid to witness. We're timid to talk. We're timid to apply the truth in our lives. In our relationships with our neighbors and our friends. our relationships with um with other church members, with um with the wider church, with Timeda. You know, um, I don't want to say anything. I uh you know, I I believe these things, but we become timid because the world and the flesh and the devil have undermined our confidence. It in in the second place, it it plunges us into dark depression. Do you know anything about dark depression? The belief that you cannot be a Christian. That you want to be a Christian. And you've professed faith and you became a church member, and now you're filled with darkness. Oh, it's tangible. It's it you can feel the darkness you're in. Can you imagine what it's like to be a preacher, be filled with that kind of darkness? You appeal to people to come to Christ, and then you're wondering whether you're in Christ yourself. Do you know that? You see, that's the effect of these accusations that the world and the flesh and the devil level at you. And then of course, finally, you seek after other means of security. You know, you you learn of of flourishing and bright young Christians, and then they leave the faith, or apparently leave the faith, or they turn up, they leave the faith, and then they turn up in something else They they they've joined a liberal church and and and they think that this is wonderful and that their their lady minister is just a sweet angel and uh uh their um uh their elders are all women and uh and they think this is so emancipating and and and then they they have uh two women getting married I excuse me, but uh how do we propagate the the the race if we have two men marrying marrying and two women marrying but but I'm just an old man so I don't understand these things. But But but th they go into that kind of you say, well that that hasn't happened to us. Did you know, or so I'm told, by the the numbers crunches, the number crunches? that 80% of young people going off to college from evangelical churches leave the faith. Did you know that? That's frightening. No, I'm not convinced that that's something new. You read uh the story, the the the narratives of uh of the old Southern uh uh Presbyterians uh who record these kind of things and they tell you that uh it was a tragedy. Young people went off to college or they went off to work as they often did or went up from from the low country in in in c north South Carolina to the high north country and they never went near a church again. It it's it's not new. But what is true is that people really and truly go for other means of comfort. People go into the charismatic movement And become taken up with feelings. Oh, they're wonderful. But it's all because of the doubt that the world and the flesh and the devil has put under their skin. Well what's the remedy? Well, says the scripture, who is to condemn? There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. God has provided himself With an advocate. We have an advocate with God, says 1 John 2. 1, even Jesus Christ the righteous. Well, what is the quality of our advocacy? Well, he's the perfect advocate. He is sinless. He can plead for us before the throne of grace. He can plead before God that when we when we feel so low, He is for us. He is for us. Let me illustrate that to you. When I was a boy in school, I often got set about by others. Uh they would um uh beat me up. Uh they it wasn't that bad, but it was but the time it was terrible. And then uh a a a young fellow who who all the school were afraid of. I remember his name well, but I'm not going to say it here. And um he took my part. Oh. Oh, it's the best thing that ever happened to me. You know, I would I I would be out in the yard and these uh kids would stop uh making fun of me and mocking me and And this fellow would come along and they go, Oh, here comes Brian. You know, you know, hi everyone. Great, you know, good to have you company and so on. Terrified of him. He stood on my side. Listen, you, if you're a Christian this evening, have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous He's on your side. He won't let any attack succeed against you. He will leave nothing To destroy you. You belong to Him. And these condemnations cannot condemn you. Only the Father can condemn you. And He will not condemn you because Jesus speaks on your behalf. He pleads for you before the throne of grace. And the Father sees you in him. His light is shed upon you. It's as though the Lord God looks upon us. And sees Jesus Christ because he's in us. And we are safe and we are clear from all these issues and we can walk with confidence and witness bravely. Because Jesus is on our side. That's the advocate we have. In this battle, who is to condemn us? No one because Jesus speaks for us. Let me say a couple of things by way of application, and I must finish because you poor people have traveled just like me. And uh and I'm sure you're tired it. I'm fine. I mean my adrenaline is going. I can go on till midnight. But uh But I don't think you guys could go on until midnight. And if you did if you did could didn't you just fall asleep where you are, I'd be fine. Uh don't make a noise when you fall. And uh Any sort of condemnation should not lodge in the heart of the Christian. No thought of condemnation. And it should never hinder our assurance. Do you believe you're a Christian? You may say, well, I'm not overconfident. Do you believe that Jesus Christ died for your sins? Do you believe that you have been quit of all your guilt and all your sin by Jesus Christ dying for you? Do you believe that? Well then don't for one moment, no matter how weak your faith is, not everybody's faith is at the same pitch. You know, you uh some some of us have been Christians a long time. And if you were to probe our minds and our hearts, we would tell you there are days when we wonder whether we are Christians. So if you've been a Christian a short time and you're young, don't be afraid. Because if it's genuine faith, It's eternal faith. If you've got faith the size of a grain of mustard seed, says the Lord Jesus, and he says elsewhere, that the smallest of all seeds is the mustard seed. It's really small. But if your faith is only that much, if it's genuine, it'll take you to heaven. So you mustn't for one minute think of condemnation. When the devil comes and says, what can you do? You know, to us preachers, ah, you know, I mean uh how effective is your preaching? Look, look at Joel Osvey He's got 17,000 people on a Sunday morning. You probably couldn't put 17,000 in your auditorium on a Sunday morning, but 17,000 How how good are you? We're not asked to be as good as Joel Osteen. We're asked to be as good as Christ. That's all we ask to be. And to be faithful to him. That's all we ask to be. We're not asked to be anything else. And you and I should realize that not an ounce of condemnation should lodge in our hearts or hinder our assurance. We are not condemned. The second thing is this. Not having that fear of condemnation should allow us to be honest about our failures before God. You see, if we if we have these fears, these doubts, well, we'd be afraid to say I'm a great sinner because uh we're afraid of of admitting to something. We we're human. We don't like admitting to being a failure. Do you? You know your uh your your next door neighbor uh tells your wife um how wonderful her husband is. Oh He is just perfect. Oh man! You ain't seen a perfect husband until you've seen her your next door neighbor's husband. And and and and how many of you feel like saying, Well well I uh you know Maybe I'm not that good. You know, I don't wash the car every Saturday morning. I don't take a shopping. I I I I'm not that good Look, are you married to your wife or are you not? Have you got those written lines that say she is your wife and you're a husband? Then why fear? So it is with Christ. If we belong to him, then we can be honest about our failures. We can say, nothing's going to condemn me. Nothing's going to undermine my life as weak as it is. Nothing is going to destroy me. I can admit to being a sinner. And I can admit to needing the grace of Christ and the power of the Spirit. I can admit to that. We don't admit to these things and the consequences that we miss out on the joy and the liberty and the freedom of being a Christian. The third thing is this. Not being condemned gives us confidence to embrace Christ without fear. Because we cannot be condemned because we are in Christ, we can now embrace him and call him our beloved. My beloved is mine, and I am his, such a song of songs. And whilst I believe that there is another valid interpretation to that, it certainly is a picture of the way in which we are to relate to Jesus Christ. Can you say he is mine and I am his? Do you love him? Well you can say that because you have known fear of condemnation. He's cleared that away from you. And you can embrace him. And you can tell people I love him. Is that the first thing you do in the morning is to pray? Is that the first thing? Is the last thing you do in life is you lay your head down, you've had a busy day, where do you go? Do you just say, huh, I'm off to sleep? Or do you thank God for the day? Do you thank Christ for being his Savior? for having been with you in every difficulty and problem that you faced. Can you be thankful to him? Do you embrace him? Oh, w we we're not into uh these kind of uh mystical feelings, you know. Uh I I was I was lying on my bed and suddenly Jesus just took hold of me and and I felt his arms. You know. What we say is we love him. The scriptures allow us to say he loved me and gave himself for me. And we know we are the apple of his eye. And that should make us confident to come to him without fear and to hold him to ourselves. There is therefore no condemnation. For those who are in Christ Jesus. That's why there's no condemnation. That's why the devil cannot condemn you. That's why their heart can't condemn you. That's why the world cannot condem you because Jesus is in you And so you hold him in the highest possible regard and enjoy him in all his majesty, in his fullness of grace, and his unparalleled love. And the last thing I want to say this evening is this. Because we are free and indwelt by the Holy Spirit, we may boldly enter the obligations of the kingdom. We may boldly do that. You may say, well, you know, I'm I'm not a very good Christian. And you know, how how would what my witness, or what can I say? Listen Listen in. Let me turn to the end of the New Testament in Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 16. And just read these words to you. Do you know what? Oh no, I haven't. I thought somebody'd stolen it. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace. So that we may receive mercy and find help to and find grace to help in time of need. Let us with confidence We can do that. There is no condemnation. We belong to him. Listen to the apostle in Acts chapter 4. And and and at the the end of um uh of chapter four year you have uh the exact same sentiment And verses uh thirteen and and and then thirty-one. Um now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John Boldness. Well why were they so bold? There are a couple of fishermen. Maybe still smelling a fish. Why are they so bold? Why are they enough Afraid? Why are they standing there in the midst with the Sanhedrin and all their robes and all their gadabots and their gigors and all the rest of it? Well, they're confident because they had been with Jesus. And seeing the man healed, they could say nothing. How did they know they recognized they had been with Jesus? My friends, we can be confident. And the the the chapter goes on in verse 31 you read, And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and continued to speak the word of God with boldness. You can be bold in the work of the kingdom. You can go out to do it because Christ has rescued you from the pit of hell and death. And give planted your feet upon the rock and establish your going. And you can be confident that He is with you. Let me pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you tonight and ask you to bless us as we go to our beds. May we think carefully about the privilege we have to be Christians. May we be concerned to display that to the world in which we live. May we not be afraid of any allegations made against us. While we have Christ for us, who can be against us? Guard us now, Lord, we thank you for your mercies and your providences throughout this day. Guarding us every foot of the way that we've come here, keeping us from all difficulty and danger. And now we pray you would grant to us a night's rest. And that we would wake in the morning renewed to hear your word in all its truth and purity. We pray this for Jesus' sake. Amen.