Philippians two, verses twelve through sixteen read thus. So then, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but also in my absence. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or disputing, so that you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent. Children of God, above reproach, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you appear as lights in the world, holding fast the word of life. So that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory, because I did not run in vain, nor toil in vain. So here Paul encourages them in their sanctification to be at work on their salvation with fear and trembling. Not because they are strong to work towards their salvation. Not because, again, the Philippians put any confidence in the flesh. But because it is God who works in them to will and to do according to his good pleasure. And as we look to God to work, be at work in us. As we look to God for our salvation, let us turn to his word. Let us study it together. And let us hear what God has to say to us. Please turn with me to 1 John. We're going to be continuing to look at the first four verses of 1 John before we move on to the second half of the chapter next week. And uh just as we looked at the um the uh background of John's testimony, who it was who was bearing witness to the things um that he Expounded in the first four voice ver first four verses. So uh this morning we're gonna be looking at his actual testimony. What things is John testifying? What truth is he setting forth here in his epistle as he writes the churches in England? Please stand for the reading of God's Word, and before we read, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word. And Lord, we do pray that as we come to it now, Lord, I pray that you would open our eyes that we might see the wonderful things contained therein. Lord, that we might see your character, that we might see the beauty of your law given to us, your will for our lives. Lord, I pray that we might see Christ, that we might see the wonderful gospel. that is contained in in who he is and what he has done. Lord, I do pray that you would uh grant us your grace and that you would draw us to yourself for your glory and for our good in Christ's name. Amen. First John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes. What we beheld and our hands handled concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. What we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also, that you also may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father, and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we write, so that our joy may be made complete. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. John here writes of the person and work of Jesus Christ. And just as we looked last week at the life of John and what a strategic place that he had in the life and work of Christ. To be able to be a witness. So here we want to turn our eyes to what exactly is it that he's witnessing. And diving right into the text, we we see that uh in the very opening That John is proclaiming the deity and the humanity of Christ. Now, this might sound like a contradiction, and certainly it is a great mystery. that Jesus Christ is fully God, but he's also fully man. And these two have come together in one person. To reconcile us unto God. How can this be? How can this be? Well, let us look to the first four verses and see how, as John unfolds this mystery, bearing personal testimony, And bringing the good news of the fulfillment of all the scriptures unto his hearers and unto us. See, first of all, that Jesus Christ is fully God. As we go through the first four verses, we see several phrases that jump out at us to prove and to set forth this great truth. First of all, what was from the beginning? That simple phrase harkens us back to the Gospel of John where uh in the very first verse he says, In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And that phrase harkens us back even to the Old Testament, even to Genesis. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That Jesus Christ, this person, is not only a man, but he was from the beginning, from the very beginning of time. He existed and he was with God the Father. John here called him the word of life. Again, in his gospel, he uses that terminology, calling Christ the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. And here he he continues that. in saying the word of life, that eternal life, he calls him in verse 2. So he's writing concerning the word of life, and the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. So John is saying, not only was Christ from the beginning, not only what he was with the Father, but he describes him as the word of life, or eternal life. And what is eternal but God? No man can be called eternal, for we are finite beings. The system of the Old Testament worship was finite, was fallible. And one of the reasons why is that The priests, the high priests, those who were to be the mediator, to symbolize the place of Christ, died continually. And just as the book of Hebrews takes on that point and points out that Jesus Christ is a superior high priest because he ever lives to make intercession for us. In the Old Testament system, the high priests were constantly being replaced because even if they served 30 or 40 or even 50 years. They would die. But here, Christ has been made manifest. The superior, the true high priest And he is described here as the word of life, that eternal life which was from the Father and has been made manifest to us. And if we remember last week's sermon, we can think of instances in the life of John where John witnessed that Christ was actually God. One was Christ's baptism. Where John was there and he he sees John the Baptist baptizing Christ, anointing him, setting apart him apart for the work as the Messiah, and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove. John in his gospel records the testimony of John the Baptist that he was told that he would know the man who would come after him because he would see the Spirit of God descending on him as a dove. And John sees that. We know that John was a witness of the transfiguration, where he saw Christ transfigured from his earthly form into Blazing apparel. He saw him speaking with Elijah and with Moses. And he heard the voice from heaven, testifying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. And John also saw the resurrection of Christ. Saw Christ resurrected. He saw him ascend up into heaven. And he heard the angels' testimony, saying that he would return in a similar manner. So we see that John again is in a good position to testify and bear witness to these things, because they are things that he saw and things that he heard. But also the Old Testament bears witness to the deity of Christ. When talking about the Messiah, but when talking about He who would come to save His people from their sins. We see throughout the Old Testament that the Messiah was to be God. Isaiah 9, verses 6. This is a very familiar uh verse to us, for a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. That he's not just a wonderful counselor, he's also mighty God. We see in Jeremiah 23, verse 6, In his days Judah will be saved and Israel will dwell securely. This is his name by which he will be called the Lord, our righteousness. And in the original, it's Jehovah, our righteousness. The name of God is used in correlation with uh prophesying to that coming Messiah, he who would save his people from their sins. In Psalm 45 we read, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. So we see that in the Old Testament, we get testifying. The Old Testament speaks to the deity of the coming Messiah, and that Christ, as he appears, gives testimony to his apostles. And they in turn give testimony to us that Jesus Christ is not only man, but he is fully God. Now, as we look at this great truth of Scripture, as we ponder the fact that Jesus Christ is fully God, I think it's it's useful to look at the Westminster Larger Catechism because it asks a very interesting question. It says, why? Why was it requisite that the mediator, he who would come and save his people from his sins, he who would reconcile men to God, why is it necessary that he would be God? And we get in question 38 and answer 38 the response. And it says, It was requisite that the mediator should be God, that he might sustain and keep the human nature from sinking under the infinite wrath of God. and the power of death, to give worth and efficacy to his sufferings, obedience and intercession, and to satisfy God's justice, to procure his favor, to purchase a peculiar people. To give his spirit to them, to conquer all their enemies, and bring them to everlasting salvation. Now that's a mouthful that I would commend to you for further study. But simply to sum up. Christ, it was necessary or requisite for Christ to be God, so that he might bring power to salvation, that he might accomplish what no man could accomplish. And as we talk about the fallenness of man, that all have sinned, that all have fallen short of the glory of God, when thinking of the person of Christ as a man, we might say all but one. Because it is only Christ, the God-man, who did not sin. Only Christ, the God-man, who did not fall short of the glory of God, but fulfilled it perfectly. On behalf of his elect. And so it was necessary that Christ be God, because no man could do uh what needed to be done to save a people from his sins. But John not only proclaims the fact that Jesus Christ is fully gone. But he also sets forth the great truth that Jesus Christ is fully man, that he was human. And this is really the truth that um that his hearers and uh the folks that he wrote to were struggling with. And our day it's the opposite. There's plenty of groups that are willing to uh acknowledge that Jesus was uh was a man, was a historical figure, that he lived and he might have even been a good teacher. But when you get to their views on his deity, that's where they back off and and are unbelieving and their faith is exposed as false. But in John's day, there was a group, the Docetists, again from the Greek word meaning to seeing, where they just said, well, it just seemed like he was a man, but he was really just some a spirit. But John contradicts that, both in his testimony and uh and in unfolding the person of Christ. We see in several instances, he uses very sensual language using the senses that we have seen him, we have heard him, we have handled him. And by using these sensual things, he hopes to overcome the idea that it just seemed, oh, it's just that it just seemed that he was man. To say, no, he really was. And he bears witness to that fact. That he was heard, that he was seen, that he was touched. He also uses the phrase a couple of times, that he was manifest, that he appeared. We get see in verse 2, and the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness, and proclaimed to you the eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested to us. It's parallel in his gospel is the word became flesh and dwelt among us. What a concrete image. To counteract the heresy of his day, that Jesus Christ was just a spirit, just an intangible uh apparition. And we see from John's own witness that again he has uh the authority to testify to these things Now, as he speaks of seeing Christ, there's two different words he uses, and the sense of them are are very different, but they're both significant. The one is the the uh the sense of being observing someone, and this is um kind of in the midst of of action that that you would observe someone in um while they are doing something. Um it's not a prolonged look, but it's a look at at them in action. But the other word that he uses for beholding Christ is a word that means to gaze. And we get our word, English word theater from this word. And so it it's the the sense of Christ being up on a stage and the audience around just gazing on him. That's all they're doing. They're just looking at him. They're just drawing in the picture of who he is. And this is the sense in which God in which God reveals himself to the Apostle John. Not only did he have the opportunity to observe Christ in action on day-to-day, eating and sleeping and walking. being tired, but also in these rare moments, and in Christ revealing himself to the twelve and especially to the three, that he had opportunity to gaze at Christ. To drink in who he was, and to see the person of God and the person of man united together. Not only that, we see um from John's life that he at the supper leaned upon Christ. This is an image that is one of comfort and is often taken up uh as a symbolic uh gesture of of how the believer is, that just as we put no confidence in the flesh, as Paul said in Philippians, So we put confidence in Christ. We trust him. We lean upon him for our salvation. That's figurative. But John actually did lean upon Christ at the supper. And children, if you've ever sat in your parents' lap, if you've ever leaned upon their body or their arms, you know that if they take their arms away, you will fall. You know that if if your parent if you try to lean upon a projection from a from a uh uh a screen on a screen or uh from a projector, a picture of your figment. If you tried to lean upon that figment, you would fall right through because it is not real. And yet John leaned upon Christ. He not only saw Christ's flesh, but he leaned upon Christ's flesh. And the the word here used for handle was one used in the Gospel of Luke. If you turn with me to the end of the Gospel of Luke in the 24th chapter, this last chapter after um The resurrection of Christ, where Christ is appearing to the uh disciples in the upper room. We read uh beginning in ver verse thirty six of Luke twenty four. And while they were telling these things, he himself stood in their midst. But they were startled and frightened, and thought that they were seeing a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. So Christ himself, when he appeared, used this exact same word to say, if you don't believe, touch my hands and my feet. See, experience that I am not a spirit, but I am also flesh. The word in the Greek is um analogous to uh What a blind man does when he can't see, that he's feeling his way by touch, that he's handling the things around him, that he might know the certainty of them, depending on that sense alone. And so John says, we have seen him. We have gazed upon him. We have handled him. To say that Jesus Christ is not only God, but he's also fully man. Well again, I think it's uh right and fitting to to go to the Westminster larger catechism and to ask the question that's asked there. Why? Why is it requisite that that Jesus Christ would be fully man? And here's the answer that's given. It was requisite that the mediator should be man, that he might advance our nature, perform obedience to the law. suffer and make intercession for us and for our nature, having a fellow feeling of our infirmities, that we might receive the adoption of sons, and have comfort and access with boldness unto the throne of grace. And again, I'd commend this answer to your further study, but in summarizing it, say that Jesus Christ needed to be fully man so that he could be connected with us. So that God would have integrity. Remember if you read in Romans chapter 3. Paul tells the Romans that a way of righteousness apart from the law has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. And he goes on to saying that God, who left sins unpunished. And his forbearance is now punishing sins through Christ. And just as the death sentence for sin was given to all men who would sin, So it had to be taken up. It had to be fulfilled in a man and in no other. Talking about cheap grace versus costly grace. A lot of people have the idea of God as a grandfather, that He is just someone who's very gracious and very forgiving, and that He can just forgive our sins and not pay attention to them. But God is a holy and a just God, and He must punish sin. The image of a judge is very apropos. And as we come before with countless sins before his throne, God must punish those sins. He is to maintain his integrity, his character. And so Christ came as fully man. To take the punishment for sins upon himself and as fully God, that he might do that which no man could do. That he might bring us to God, that he might mediate between a fallen people and a holy God, and that he might save his people from their sins. And we see that also in the text, that John proclaims that to his hearers as well. That he says, What we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you, this is verse 3, that you also may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And as we look to the great salvation that we have in Christ, we see that Jesus Christ was not only fully God and fully man, but he was a mediator between God and man, used to reconcile the elect unto God. And uh as he as we come before God, and just as we confessed our sins, realizing that we are in need of a savior. And just as we rejoice in God's promise of forgiveness, looking at the means of how this is accomplished, how is it that sinful people can come into the presence of a holy God? How is it that when uh that when then God has ordained death for sin, and we have sinned, that we don't die eternally And it's because of the mediator, Christ Jesus. And beloved, if you are in Christ today and you have been reconciled to God, Little children, if you are in Christ today, then you have been reconciled to God. And if there's anyone in here Who does not know what it means to be in Christ? Does not know what it means to know Christ and have a personal relationship with Him. And I would urge you to come. Children to ask your parents. Others to ask one of the elders or ask myself or one of the deacons. To find out, to not rest until you know what it is to be in Christ. That you know what it is to know Christ who is fully God and is powerful to save. And is fully man who is connected with us and who lived a perfect life. And we cannot live a perfect life. Sometimes I think we forget what an amazing thing that is. But when we look at our life and say, Well, is our life perfect? The answer comes back a resounding no, and we see problems not only in our lives but in other people's lives and in the world. We see all this rampant sin and immorality, and yet to think that Jesus Christ came and lived a perfect life on our behalf It's wonderful. It's marvelous. Not only that he was able to accomplish that as God and in his power. But also that it has been credited to our account that in Jesus Christ God looks down and sees not our sin, but he sees the life of Christ. He sees that perfect obedience that we could never have, not in a million years. And we are reconciled to Him through that. That He draws us to Himself in Christ. Ephesians 3, just in passing, Paul mentions it, but it's a great verse. 312 says that in him we have freedom and confidence and access to the throne of grace, that in Christ we might be reconciled to God. And not only reconciled, but we might have fellowship. This word fellowship, I mean we think about fellowship dinners where you get together and you you eat or fellowship getting together with other believers and talking and and having uh a relationship. And but yet what does John say in verse 3? We have seen and we proclaim to you also that you may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship was with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And there's two things to notice here. One, John says, you may have fellowship with us. That being in Christ, we are called into fellowship with other believers. We're called into fellowship in the church. That great body of believers unified. We see in the Gospels that Christ in the high priestly prayer prays for the church He says, He prays that they may all be one, even as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us, and that the world may believe that thou didst send me. That it might be a spectacle to the whole world of the glory of God and salvation, that this group of people who are from different backgrounds, from different countries, from different nations, come together and are unified. Not around common interests, not even around geographical settings, but they are unified because they are in Christ. And that they have fellowship together, even though they have different personalities, even though they have um different ideas about practical things, yet about spiritual things. About heavenly things. They are unified in the person and work of Christ. But also other believers, that they can come together and have deep relationship. And uh just a few practical uh areas where as believers we can have intimate relationships with one another. In Romans 12, 15, Paul says, Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. And brothers and sisters, those are powerful words for encouraging one another, both in their times, in the times of blessing and in the times of hardship. That we should rejoice with those who rejoice. And weep with those who weep. Also, James five sixteen says, Therefore confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, so that you may be healed. The effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much. James says that it's fitting for believers to come together and to help one another, to pray for one another, to confess our sins to one another, to encourage each other in our walk with Christ. That we should not only gather together as one body on the Lord's Day, but also that we should maintain intimate relationships, that we should have deep fellowship amongst ourselves. But the object of our fellowship is not even these practical things, but the object of our fellowship, and the height of it, and the depth of it, and the width of it, is in our fellowship with God. John says, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. And again, as we look at our sin, as we look at uh the tabernacle and the temple of the Old Testament, as we look back as to how God revealed Himself to the nation of Israel, we see a system of barriers. Barriers of times, barriers of sacrifices, barriers of walls between the presence of God and men. That the high priest could only go into the Holy of Holies once a year, and that without blood, not without blood. And so, as we look and see all those barriers in the Old Testament that God set up because he is a holy God. And he was revealing his holiness unto the his people. So when we look to the New Testament and we read that we have fellowship with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ, what a marvelous truth that is. That we have been brought near to God. That what men could never do, what sacrifices could never do, was done in Jesus Christ, the God man, that we might have fellowship with Him. We have fellowship with the Father and worship. And I think it's helpful to think in practical terms of communication. You know, if we say we know someone, if we say we have a relationship with someone, then it means certain things that we talk to them, that we have a knowledge of them, that we interact with them on a regular basis. And I think uh it can be helpful to look um at fellowship with God in the same way. Just as uh there's communication back and forth between in it between individuals, so God communicates to us in the Word. Christ communicates to us through the sacraments. And we have opportunity to come and communicate to God in our worship, to sing songs of praise to Him. And our prayers, that we might pray to God. And that when we're in trouble, what does God's word say? Cast all your anxiety on him, because he cares for you. God promises that he will hear us. That we can uh see God at work in other people's lives, and we can encourage one another in getting to know God more intimately. It's a wonderful thing to know God and to have deep fellowship with Him. And as John proclaims the person and work of Christ, and this deep fellowship. Um he concludes by the way. Right? These things that that they may have joy in encouraging other brothers and sisters in their relationship with the Lord. that they may have joy as the b the body of Christ, both in uh uh in John's location and in other locations to which uh he writes. may be strengthened in their knowledge of who Christ is, that they may be protected from false ideas about who he is not. And that even over distance and even over time, as as we read John's epistle, He writes that his joy might be complete in unifying believers together, that we might be unified in our theology of who God is. As Ephesians, as Paul writes in Ephesians 3, there's one Lord, one faith. And he goes on and shows the unity of the church around the central doctrines of the Christian faith. And in doing so, in in studying these doctrines and coming to know who Christ is and what he did and what that means for our lives. How that has changed our life before God and before others. As we see this transformation taking place, and we see it in others, as we see God's kingdom growing and going forth. God gives us great joy. God gives us great joy in his presence. Now this joy doesn't necessarily mean happiness. I think a great place to see biblical joy is in the Psalms. And you'll notice that the psalmist, as we've been studying them in the evening, goes through the gamut of emotions as he encounters different things. great happiness, great sadness, great fear, times of strife and turmoil. And yet, again and again the Psalmist turns in joy to God To praise him and to rejoice, despite his worldly circumstances. Yet looking at God, he knows The great salvation that he has in Christ. That he has been given a new life. And that he has been given the hope of everlasting life in the world to come. And we see a a picture in the New Testament of joy perfected in the book of Revelation as John has this great vision of heaven. He sees in Revelation chapter 4 the 24 elders falling down and worshiping God, and the four living creatures surrounding the throne, crying out day and night unto God, giving praise. Rejoicing. Again and again, constantly. There's great joy in heaven. Joy without ceasing, without stopping. They didn't want wait for every seven days to praise God. They didn't do it once a day or even twice a day as the morning and evening sacrifice was in the Old Testament. But in verse 8 of Revelation 4 it says, And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes around and within. And day and night they do not cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty, who was, and who is, and who is to come. And when the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne, to him who lives forever and ever, the twenty-four elders will fall down before him, who sits on the throne, and will worship him Who lives forever and ever, and they will cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy art thou, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power For thou that didst create all things, and because of thy will, they existed, and were created. So constantly, without ceasing, day and night, they sing unto God before the throne, and fall down and worship him. So Paul in Philippians, as we read at the beginning of the service, writes, rejoice in the Lord. I will say it again, rejoice. So if if we are in Christ Jesus, If Christ has come as fully God and fully man to reconcile us unto God, that we might have fellowship with each other and with God. So we should rejoice in the greatness of that salvation. And the greatness of that opportunity. That where Adam broke his relationship with with other men and with God. So that has been restored in Christ. Whereas in our lives we see enity and strife between ourselves and other people, between uh even members of our family. So in Christ, we are new creatures. The old has gone. Behold, new things have come. In Christ, we might have fellowship with men and with God Himself. May God help us to grasp this, to delight in it. May God help us to rejoice in it, that our joy may be complete. Amen