Well it's good to be back with you again today. And it is the word of God that makes us to be fruitful, that makes us to flourish. You can see there in your hymn in your bulletin this morning that our scripture text. Comes from Luke chapter 2. And there I'm going to begin reading at verse 21 through to verse 35. Luke 2, beginning then at verse 21, hear now the word of God. And stand with me, please, for the reading of the scriptures. And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus. the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem. to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law He took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel. And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold. This child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed, and a sword will pierce through your own soul also. So that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. Luke 2, 21 to 35. Let's join together in prayer Lord, we would have it to be true of us, that we would be flourished, that we would be fruitful. And we know that it is the ministry of your word that makes us to be that. It is the ministry of your spirit blessing the word and how we need his ministry now. And we pray for it And we pray for it in the name of the one who died for us so that we might have it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And you may be seated. Luke chapter 2. Luke, one of our four gospel accounts in the New Testament, each of which is A remarkable document when it comes to the unfolding of redemptive history. Think about these gospel accounts that we have Think about when they were written. Well, we know they were written after the coming and the life and the death and the resurrection of Christ. In other words, they are new covenant scripture. That's when they were written. And yet at the same time, we also know that they are scripture that looks back upon that period when the old covenant was giving way. to the new covenant. Our gospel accounts look back on that season when the gospel under Moses, that era, was giving way to a new era, the gospel under Christ. And Christ Himself had come in order to bring about that transition. To use the image of time of day, we might put it this way: that the gospels were written at about noon. But they are documents that look back at those first moments, at the dawn of the day, when the sun began To rise and the gospels recount those moments for us, and the gospel of is just like that It's looking back on those first moments when the sun began to rise, and what's more it's clear that there were very few people at that time. That is, at the time that the Gospels are looking back to, very few people who realized that that was happening, that the sun was rising. Very few people at first who realized. That the day of God's salvation was finally dawning in the Messiah. There weren't a whole lot of people that knew it, partly because the Father was pleased not to reveal it. too broadly at first. The sun was rising. Here the day at last was dawning, and almost nobody knew it. at the time, except for a few folks who stand out, including Simeon. Simeon who knew here was this extraordinary moment in redemptive history. At long last, Israel's Savior had come. And Simeon of all people was one of the few people who knew it, and he knew it because God had been pleased to tell him about it. And in the passage that we've got before us, This morning, a passage in which Simeon actually comes face to face with this Savior. There are Lessons for us to learn about that Savior, in particular, lessons about what the Savior is going to mean to different people, what sorts of effects he will have in the lives of those who need him. And who are confronted with his claims. Lots of lessons to learn about The Savior and those lessons matter to us today. Why? Because, as Simeon himself acknowledges in this passage. As the Gospel of Luke generally is especially concerned to convey, he's not just Israel's Savior. He is the Savior of the world. He is our Savior today, and that's why these lessons about him. means so much to us today. So let's take a closer look at our passage here and notice some lessons. Obviously at this point in the story, the Savior has already been born. And as a result, as a result of his birth, there are certain religious matters that need to be taken care of at the temple in Jerusalem. And so that's where his parents go, and they take him, they take their baby. And so our passage begins, verses 22 through 24, setting the scene when the time came. For their purification according to the law of Moses. They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, quote, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. The stage is set in verses 22 through 24. There are apparently several different things going on in those opening verses. One of them Is that Mary has come to the temple, beautiful Jew that she was, she has come to the temple in order to make the required purification offering. The law of Moses, in particular at Leviticus chapter 12, required that a woman who had given birth to a son, 40 days after her doing so, she was To make a purification offering, and that is what Mary is doing here, and that's the reference in verse 24 to the particular offering that she is bringing, a pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons. So that's going on. At the same time, another thing that's going on in these opening verses is the presentation of her baby Jesus. to the Lord as her firstborn son. And again in the law of Moses, this time Exodus chapter thirteen It was required that, in a special sense, the firstborn son was thought to belong to the Lord. Numbers chapter 18 even requires that a redemption price be paid by the parents a price of five shekels. That was a way of acknowledging that reality, acknowledging that this baby belonged To the Lord in a special way. Now there's no mention here in our passage in Luke 2, no mention of that redemption price being paid. What we're told instead is that they presented Jesus himself to the Lord. And so what's been suggested is that what's going on here is something much like what Hannah did with her little boy Samuel in 1 Samuel chapter 2, which is acknowledging the Lord's special ownership of this child. How? Well, by dedicating him to the Lord. To the Lord's service in a special way. In any case, those are the two things that have brought Mary and Joseph up to the temple. on that day with their baby. Her purification and the baby's presentation or dedication. Both of those things are going on So they've come up to the temple, and then we learn in verse 25 that they aren't the only ones in the temple that day, of course. It just so happens that our main character is there as well. Verse 25, now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. So there he is. Simeon introduced to us in verse 25. Notice that he is righteous and devout A truly godly man, and he's a hopeful man. Notice that language that he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Waiting for the consolation of Israel. That consolation had been promised to Israel by her God Promise recorded in her scriptures, what we would recognize today as the Old Testament. Israel, especially during the time period of the ministry of the prophets, Israel was a troubled people and that in a number of ways, and yet their God had promised them deliverance. He'd promised to bring them comfort. He had promised to bring them consolation. In their misery, and what's more, he had promised to do that by means of the ministry of this anointed one This Messiah who is going to come and whose ministry it would be to bring consolation to his people. Well at this point in redemptive history those promises remain in effect, and from the vantage point of most remain to be fulfilled. Well then the faithful Israelite banked on those promises. The faithful Jew knew that God would eventually come through. On those promises of consolation that he'd made all along. Well, Simeon was one of them. He was one who was waiting for the consolation of Israel. In a sense, he wasn't alone. There had come to be by this time a kind of fever pitch of messianic expectations among the people of God, lots of people. were waiting, expecting, wondering. Unfortunately, in a lot of cases, their expectations were misguided A lot of folks who were waiting, expecting, wondering, they had messianic expectations that were largely political in nature. In terms of the way they were thinking about this Messiah who was going to come. And what is it that he was going to do for his people All too much confusion, but not so with Simeon. Simeon had expectations that were biblical and they were spiritual. We might even say capital S. Spiritual, because verse 25 tells us that the Holy Spirit, capital H, capital S was upon him. And apparently this wasn't just the ordinary ministry of the Spirit in the life of the believer, the way we know the Spirit in our lives, Simeon. Simeon enjoyed an extraordinary ministry of the Spirit in his life, the kind of ministry by which he was privy to special revelation From God, even special guidance, and that's what happens here. Special guidance from the Lord about what he was to do, where he was to go, when he was to go there. And you can see that in verses 26 and 27. They say it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit. That he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. There you have The extraordinary ministry of the Spirit in this man's life. Previously, the Spirit had revealed to him that he wouldn't die before he had seen the Christ. And now the Spirit is following through. The Spirit has led him into the temple at just the right time to make that happen. And it happens. Verse 27 continues on to verse 33. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, He took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for revelation to the Gentiles. And for glory to your people Israel. And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him. When I went to UVA, I sang in the Glee Club. And if you've sung in any group like that yourself, you know that most of the great choral works in history Our scripture texts. It's often the case I'm reading through the Bible and I'll come to some passage and I can hear it. I can hear that arrangement. However, we Performed it. Well, this is one of them, the so-called Nuc Dumidus, as it's put in Latin. Simeon's remarkable words. About a remarkable child in verses 29 and 32, and we're told that they marveled, and no wonder that they did, because these were marvelous things. That he had to say about their baby. In any case, Simeon knows. Knows that he can die now, likely that he'll die soon, although we're not told that explicitly. At any rate, he knows that the Lord has proved true to his word. The Holy Spirit had made the promise. And the Spirit has kept it. The Spirit has brought him into the temple so that he has seen the Christ. Now he can die in peace, and that's because he understood what he was seeing. He believed Simeon saw with the eyes of faith what maybe no one else in the temple that day would have been able to see, and understandably so. I mean think about it, it wouldn't have been a terribly remarkable thing to see. With the eyes in your head. Here you had a father and a mother and a baby, and they'd come up to the temple to make offerings. That was the kind of thing, presumably, that happened all the time. That was the stuff of ordinary Jewish religion. Outwardly, these three people would have appeared to be ordinary folk, and in a sense, they were, and yet. Simeon, with the eyes of faith, sees so much more, sees nothing less than the arrival of the salvation of God. And how does he describe that salvation? He says it is a salvation that God is bringing about in the presence of all peoples. For all peoples. On the one hand, he's to be a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and on the other hand For glory to your people Israel. And so this is for all peoples. He is to be the light of God. The light of God, his grace and truth, is going to shine through this child. No wonder that Mary and Joseph marveled. But then you see that Simeon wasn't quite finished. Having said all of that, getting us down to verse 33, he had a few more things to say. And he said them to Mary. Simeon blessed them, it says, and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed. And a sword will pierce through your own soul also, so that thoughts for many hearts will be revealed. Leon Morris, in his commentary on this passage, he puts it this way: short and sweet. He says, Quote, we now find that the whole story is not sweetness and light end quote. We now find that the whole story is not sweetness and light. There has been plenty of sweetness and light in what Simeon has said thus far, but now the tone, as it were, changes The story of Jesus is going to be one not only of salvation and consolation, it will be that, but it will also be a story of division and opposition. And exposure. Division. Opposition. And exposure. Division, as Simeon puts it, some in Israel were going to stumble over this child. Others in Israel will rise because of him. Also, opposition, Simeon says, he'll stand in Israel as a sign, a sign that will be opposed. Division, opposition, even exposure, thoughts from many hearts are going to be revealed thanks to the life of this child. He's going to have the effect of bringing out what is truly in the hearts of those who are confronted with him. Division, opposition, and exposure. And then in the midst of all of that, his parenthetical, at least that's how we have it typically in our English versions. A parenthesis there at the beginning of 35 And, by the way, Mary, a sword will pierce through your own soul also. It's hard to know for sure what Simeon meant by that Maybe he meant the pain that she's going to feel one day as a mother when her son is put to death. Maybe he means that her heart Is one of the many hearts that's going to be exposed thanks to the ministry of Jesus. And it certainly was. Whatever precisely he meant by that parenthetical remark, this much is clear. The impact of Jesus is going to be deep. And it is going to be widespread. It will be as near as his own family, and it will be as far and wide as the people of Israel and beyond. So that is certainly the thrust of his closing words there in 34 and 35. And taking a step back now and looking at the passage as a whole, now that we've gone through it, admittedly, it might seem rather jarring. That those are the kinds of words with which Simeon concluded. Division. Opposition and exposure. After all, isn't Simeon described? Isn't he introduced to us as one who is waiting for the consolation of Israel? That would seem to be a happy note, an uplifting note. And his first words seem to reflect that sense of consolation and blessedness. But then you have these concluding words, 34 and 35, they hardly breathe. a spirit of consolation. They are for the most part a prediction of controversy. So you might wonder, Simeon, which is it going to be? Which is it that this baby is going to grow up to be? Is he going to be? A cause of consolation or of controversy? And of course the answer is yes. That's the point. That's one of the implications of our passage, the way that Simeon's introduced to us. The way that Simeon speaks, it's not consolation or controversy. It's both. The entrance of the Messiah into the world, the meeting of the Messiah as he comes into contact with individual people, it will mean both. Consolation and controversy. Remember the image that Simeon uses. He says this child's going to grow up to be a light that shines. Well, think about it. Isn't that what light is like? Aren't those the effects that light tends to have? On the one hand, it is the source of comfort. For those who have been in darkness and who have longed for light, it is that. But light also stirs up trouble. Because there are some who would rather that the things hidden in darkness not be exposed. Light is like that. Well, according to our passage, Jesus is like that. At one and the same time, same Christ, he is the source of consolation And he is the cause of controversy wherever he goes, wherever he is preached. Simeon knew that as he looked forward in time, knew it in advance. We Know it looking up at Christ, seated in the heavens, and looking back at history and looking around our own lives today. We know that he spoke. The source of consolation and the cause of controversy. That lesson, to be sure, we can take from our text today. He's the source of both consolation and controversy. This week we'll treat what we might call part one. We're going to hone in on the consolation aspect. of the ministry of Jesus. And then at Lord Welling, perhaps on some future occasion, we'll be able to take up part two and think about The flip side, the controversy side. But in order to be clear about what we'll be covering today, let's think about the ministry of Jesus as a ministry of consolation. As I hinted before, we can get our bearings with respect to that topic in the Old Testament. There's a history here. Simeon was waiting for the consolation of Israel because God had promised that consolation to his people In their scriptures, especially in the scriptures of their latter prophets. And as I mentioned earlier, Israel definitely needed those promises. As you read the Old Testament, it becomes clear Israel was a people that was regularly afflicted by their enemies. On top of that, they were burdened by their own sin. To make matters worse, they often had men as kings who were faithless and corrupt, more so it seems, as their history went on. Israel was at many times and in many ways a pained and burdened people. They were a people who wept. And so think about what it would have meant for them, a people like that, to hear promises like this. Isaiah 40 verse 1, comfort, comfort my people, says your God. And once again, we hear the music. Comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem. Cry to her that her warfare is ended. And that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. That's what He had promised to do for them. They were burdened. He said, I will lift your burdens. They were sinful. He said, I will take away your sins. They were afflicted by their enemies. He said, I will put them down. Isaiah 40, verses 1 and 2, and then he kept on saying it, as you read on in Isaiah. For example, Isaiah 49, verse 13, Sing for joy, O heavens, and exalt, O earth. Break forth, O mountains, into singing. Why? For the Lord has comforted his people, and he will have compassion on his afflicted. Isaiah 49. And then Isaiah 51, verse 3, the Lord comforts Zion He comforts all her waste places and makes her wilderness like Eden, her desert like the garden of the Lord. And then Isaiah 52, verse 9: Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted his people. And then one more, Isaiah 66, verse 13. As one whom his mother comforts. So will I comfort you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem. Here was Israel pained And burdened and weeping. And over and over again, as if to make sure that they got the message. Their covenant, God said to them, I will lift your burdens. And I will wipe your tears away. And what's more, he had promised, as I said before, he had promised to do that by means of the ministry of an anointed one, a consoling one. And you get this too in Isaiah, Isaiah 61. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, it says. Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. There's consolation. To proclaim liberty the captives, the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn. To grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise. Instead of a faint spirit. Isaiah 61. No wonder that Simeon was waiting. And others were waiting with him. No wonder that every faithful Jew at the time who knew his Bible was waiting for consolation, even waiting for that one man who was to come and bring it. And Simeon knew that Jesus was the one. And of course, in due time, Simeon was vindicated in what he predicted. We've looked back in the past. To Israel, her burdens, her promises, now we fast forward. Beyond Simeon, and what do we find but that he was right The baby Jesus became the man Jesus. And the man Jesus turned out to be just what Simeon was waiting for. He turned out to be the consolation of Israel, thanks to his life and his death and his resurrection. He did everything that Israel needed to be done. In order for them to have comfort, after all, his obedience, his atonement, his resurrection. He fulfilled everything that needed to be done. He'd come to be the consolation of Israel. And you know that there were glimpses of that all along the way. As he was living, as he was ministering, you got glimpses here and there of the fact that this was somebody who had come to wipe away tears For example, he came upon those who were wailing because Lazarus was dead. And what did he do? He brought him back to life. Later he came upon Mary at his tomb, and she was weeping because his body was gone. And what did he do? He called her by name. And he comforted her. And then she knew He'd come to be the consolation of Israel, so that they might weep no more. Now, sadly, on the whole, the people of Israel didn't get it. They didn't believe in him. They didn't recognize the hour of their consolation. Simeon, sadly, was hardly representative of the people. For the most part, the Jews didn't look to Jesus and to his gospel in the way that they should have, but that doesn't change the fact that he was their consolation. They may not have recognized it, but it was true. And not only was he the consolation of Israel But on top of that, God, in his wisdom, in his sovereignty, was even willing and able to use that development, to use the unbelief of his own people. To spread the good news far and wide beyond them, to spread the consolation of Jesus to the Gentiles, those who otherwise would have remained on the outside looking in, weeping. With no one to comfort them. But God turned the unbelief of his own people into the spread of the gospel. And remember, Simeon had sort of predicted that too. He said he's going to be a light for revelation to the Gentiles. And he was right about that too. Jesus became the consolation of the whole world and he remains that. We can fast forward not just Beyond Simeon in the pages of the New Testament, we can fast forward to today. And it's still true. Simeon was still right. Jesus is still the consolation of all those who look to him. And that's good news. Because no less than Israel under the Old Testament, we need one today. We need a source of consolation, and that in a number of ways, many of them not unlike Israel. We still know the guilt of our sin. And we know the power of it. And we still experience pain and sorrow in life, and we still suffer loss and brokenness and abandonment and betrayal. We ourselves. Thanks to our own sin, thanks to the fact that we live in a sin-filled and cursed world, we are a pained and burdened people. We are a people who we. And Jesus comforts us still. He comforts us. Still, how does he do that? He does it through his word. We come to him weeping. Because of the reality of our sin. And it's through his word that he reminds us that our sin is paid for, and our guilt is taken away. And in that, he wipes away tears. Or we come to weeping because of the power of sin in our lives. And it seems like day after day we're committing the same thing. Week after week at the supper, we're confessing the same things. But through his word, he reminds us that the power of sin is broken. And that one day the presence of sin will be no more. We come to him, as those who have known, loss And brokenness and betrayal and relationships. And through his word, he says to us: Hold on, hold on to me, because I am holding on to you. And I am even using your pain so that you might be more like me. I am even using your sorrows To bring about a future day when I will wipe away every tear from your eyes. And they will be the last tears, the last tears of sadness you ever know. He is our comforter still. Even now he has begun to wipe our tears away. He does it through his word and spirit We can view it in that way from the vantage point of how he gives it. We can also view it in this way from the vantage point of how we receive it What does the experience of consolation in Christ involve? Well, I suppose it involves the old familiar trio of fact and faith and feeling. What does the experience of consolation in Christ involve? First, it involves the fact we've got to know and be well persuaded of this reality: that He is a comforter. And that he's qualified to wipe away our tears. So we've got to be well persuaded of that fact. Second, we've got to come to him with faith, Believing that it's true, bringing to him our sins and our pains and our tears And that means looking to him in prayer, finding reassurance from his word. So the fact is involved, the faith is involved. And then third, consolation does also involve our feelings. It involves having a real sense of it, of consolation in our hearts, a real sense of comfort, of relief, precisely because we have met the comforter. Through his word and by faith. In other words, the experience of consolation is in part an emotional experience. It involves our affections. It isn't only that, but it is at least partially that. It isn't necessarily an outwardly visible emotional experience. Some are more outward and visible with their emotions than others. But still, it is the case that we haven't really experienced the comfort, the consolation that Christ died to give us. If we go on our way, having prayed, having sought assurance in the scriptures, if we go on our way feeling as pained And as burdened and as sorrowful as we were when we came to him in the first place. You get the idea, the gospel promises Real comfort. It doesn't just spread the rumor that there's comfort out there somewhere, but I guess it's just for everybody else but you The experience of consolation involves the fact, know the facts about Jesus, that he is such a comforter. It involves your faith going to him in prayer. And reading the scriptures, but it does involve the feelings too. It means going our way, at least in measure, truly and sensibly relieved. And hopeful for the future. So those reflections Upon our doctrine today, upon, we might say, how it works in our lives, let me conclude this morning with a few words of application for us. And first, let me speak to any who might be with us for this service of Christian worship who are not believers in Christ today. Our lesson, as I've said, is that consolation, real consolation, is to be found in Christ and in Christ alone. Well, in your case, insofar as you join us today not believing in Jesus, there are two possibilities. Two states of affairs that might be true of you. One of them is that you've persuaded yourself that you don't really need consolation. You're doing okay on your own. The other possibility is that you're sensible enough to know that you need comfort in this life, but thanks, but no thanks. I have found it in something else, someone else. Other than Christ. So those two possibilities, and either way, I say to you, you are in serious trouble. Because if the one is true, you think you're doing okay, then you are in serious denial about your condition, about the life in which we live. If the other case is true, well, you're at least admitting your need, but you're looking for comfort in things in people. That will finally be of no comfort at all. And the teaching of Scripture is that both of those ways will finally end in tears. To continue our image of the morning. Jesus talks soberly about the weeping that is in store. For those who reach that last day, not having repented and trusted in him Those who failed to find consolation in him now. And that's why I urge you the way that I do. Now To repent and to believe and to find consolation in this one, the only one, who can truly give it to you. For those of us who do believe, a few concluding words for us, I've already tried to unpack What the experience of consolation in Christ involves. I won't review all of that now, but let me reinforce a couple of considerations as we wrap up. And the first of them is the importance of our being honest about our need for consolation. This present evil age, this is not the time to pretend that all is well. There is no sense. In fact, it is a false kind of heroism. No sense in downplaying the real burdens that we do bear in this life. Some think that it is the Christian thing to do, to force a smile, come what may. There are moments when a smile just doesn't fit. When we don't wear a smile well because it's not honest, admit it, your burdens are weighty. And your right to feel that, to feel the daily reality of your sin. And the daily reality also of your being sinned against by others. And all of your other sorrows, whatever they may be, and each of you knows far better than anyone else, except for God. What your sorrows and burdens and pains are, and your right to feel the weight of them. I was struck by this this past summer. We had a a week of study for our college kids. And the subject matter of our study was a chunk out of John Calvin's Institutes of the Christian Religion. A bit that has come to be published separately as the golden booklet of the true Christian life. Maybe you're familiar with it. Series of chapters, reflections. On living the Christian life. And one of the chapters was on cross-bearing, suffering trial. And it was remarkable Think about Calvin. Think about all of the stereotypes that are attached to him. Certainly one of them is that he was cold and unfeeling. And I tell you, it was remarkable to read that chapter because you will never find a more Heartfelt and stirring plea for Christian feeling and emotion. It was extraordinary. Here is John Calvin of all people saying, It is the Christian thing. To feel the weight of your trial. Christianity is not stoicism, that's sort of the way he put it. And he was right. So I say to all of us who do believe, if you're the one who's thinking that you're doing okay on your own. So that you don't need any consolation. You are kidding yourself, and sooner or later the cracks will show. You can expect to weep in this life. That's why we call it a veil of tears. And what's more, you can expect your brothers and sisters around you to weep in this life. And so you've got to be honest together about that. And you've got to be a people who remember together to look to Christ as your comfort. So that word of application and exhortation to honesty, and then a second and final word. Let me say this especially to the men of your congregation. including the young men and the boys of your congregation. Remember what I said before that the ex Experience of consolation is an emotional experience. It's not only that, but it is at least that. It does involve feeling relief. And joy and hope, and therefore it presupposes feeling pain and sorrow, and therefore all of this, men, is completely lost on you. If you are the kind of man that a good bit of our culture says you ought to be, which is a man without feeling. A stoical man, a man who has steeled himself against trial, a man who goes about with the stiff upper lip. According to a good bit of our culture today, that is the mark of real manliness. Whatever you do, don't feel. If you slip up and feel, don't show it. And whatever you do, don't weep. That is our new cardinal sin. Well, that may be our society's view of manhood, but it is not the Bible's real biblical manhood. Includes the capacity to feel pain and to feel joy And the point is that that's important, not just so that you'll have a better relationship with your wife. Although you will And I expect, after the service, to be profusely thanked by all of the women in the congregation. But the real reason that it's important is that you'll have a better relationship, a real relationship with Jesus. Do you see that you are called to find consolation in him and you never will? If you are a man who is above feeling anything, which is bitterly ironic because to be such a man is to be so far beneath. the kind of man that you ought to be. That doesn't mean being showy with your emotions. Some folks are more that way than others. Some are relatively quiet and restrained with their affections, and that's okay. It doesn't mean being showy with your emotions, but it does mean having them. Having a real sense not only of your needs that you bring to Christ, but of his sufficiency to meet each and every one of them. I say that I address that especially to the men. Of your congregation, but of a course it goes for all of you, men and women alike. And in fact, in a twisted way, our culture has come to be more and more against women. In this respect as well, especially young women, are increasingly bombarded with the message that you if you're going to get by in a world In which men don't feel. Well, then you've got to stop feeling too. It is so warped, and it is so profoundly opposed by the gospel. Because what is the gospel? The gospel has come unto me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, implicitly, and who feel it. All who are. Burdened, all who weep and mourn, and I will give you rest. I will lift your burdens. I will set you free, and you will feel it. And you will rejoice. Simeon was waiting. And his waiting was fulfilled. Christ is come, and he is our comforter now. Amen. Let's join together in prayer. Lord Jesus, we believe that it is so That you are our comforter now. We thank you that you give us your word. That we might be comforted, that you give us your spirit. And so by your spirit would you make this to be true of us, that we would be well persuaded of the truth. That you are such a comforter, and that our hearts would be great with faith, coming to you, looking to you, casting our burdens upon you, and that we would feel it. If only in measure now, longing for the day when we will feel it perfectly, and we do long for that day, Lord Jesus. Amen.