How good to be with you. We love worshiping here, each Lord's Day with you, morning and evening. And what a delight it is. to have this wonderful congregation so much in the heart of Laurel, blessing the city with its presence I hope you love Main Street the way I do. If you don't, get to know Main Street. There are good people there and great things to learn. It's always good to trade at home if you can. And make friends with those who serve you. And invite them to the church. We're close enough. They can find us easily and come and join us here. So my wife, Betty Jane, and I are delighted to be here with you. And celebrate this Lord's Day so precious to us all The session and pastors have uh generously Committed the fifth Sunday to me, if you're wondering how did that bird get up there, they were committed to the fifth Sunday. And I'm not letting them out of the contract, even though they might like to be let out at at times. But It's my privilege and joy to be with you today. We're going to read from the Word of God after you stand for prayer. Thank you. Let's pray for God's illumination upon his exalted and wonderful word. We pastors, ministers are servants of the Word. That's who we are. Servants of you and of the Word of God. Heavenly Father, look with favor upon our feeble efforts to read and expound the treasures of your revelation. Let your Holy Spirit open to us the deeper meanings of what is written. Keep our minds from wandering, our hearts from Longing our souls from being more abundant. Awaken us, Lord, to the hearing And the practicing of your blessed word through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. You may be seated. I want to read today from 2 Corinthians chapter 4, the first 12 verses. And It was our pastor's faithful, careful exposition of 2 Corinthians. He's now beyond this point, of course, but A sermon is often judged by whether it leads to other sermons. Does it lead to other thoughts and the minds of the hearers? Is it a beginning? of something in a spirit. And our pastor's expositions in this chapter were just that for me. Just the starting point to think maybe in another direction. So we read from Second Corinthians four Therefore, since we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we do not lose heart. But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, whose minds the God of this age has blinded. who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, which is the image of God, should shine on them. We do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves, your bondservants for Jesus' sake. For it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shone in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But We have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. We are hard pressed on every side, yet not crushed. We are perplexed, but not in despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken. Struck down, but not destroyed. For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh, in our body. For we who live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. May God add his blessing to the reading of his holy word. To his name be all glory. Amen. Ever since Advent in our Friday evening gatherings We've been looking at the Sermon on the Mount. And it's been a real delight to my own soul to review And to go perhaps deeper into this wonderful, wonderful manifesto of what Christ's kingdom is all about. Well, I personally made a discovery in that study. That the Sermon on the Mount is not a list of things we ought to try to accomplish. But a list of the type of people who are called into the kingdom. And take the first one, for example, poor in spirit. I thought, now how can I work to become poor in spirit? Well, there's another legalism entering my life, right? Work it up, get the reward. No. He's saying, you who are broken in spirit, who are spiritually zero, I came for you. Blessed are you. Yours is the kingdom of heaven. See the difference? Now I'm a slow learner, I fear. At age eighty-eight I should have known that decades ago. But I glory in the knowledge of it. Then we turn to Alfred Edelsheim's book, The Life and Times of the Messiah. Read it if you can. It's old, but you ought to let the sea breeze of the centuries flow over your mind more than most of the modern things we read. Read it. Ederschein has this amazing statement. After making that observation about the Beatitudes as not being a standard toward which we ought to aspire, But as being a description of all kinds of people who need Jesus. After making that point, He said, in the Beatitudes, Christ is the meeting point between the sinner and the kingdom of heaven. He has come into the kingdom under the heavens to invite all kinds of people into his kingdom. There isn't a spiritual type or a certain Christian type, no. Every type. You who are So sorrowing you can hardly lift up your head. I came for you. You will be comforted in the kingdom. And what a revelation that was to us to see the central place of Christ in the development of his kingdom on earth. We knew that in a way. But it came clear to us, Christ at the center. at the intersection between spiritual need and the kingdom of God which has entered this world under the heavens. I say under the heavens because That's the way the Greek says it. It doesn't say the kingdom of heaven, singular. It says the kingdom of the heavens Which is important because the Hebrew view of heaven was that there are three heavens. The first is the atmosphere where the birds and the airplanes are. The second the world of space and the planets. And the third is the throne room of God. Well, the kingdom is broken into this kingdom of the heavens, the first kingdom Where atmosphere is, where we actually live our daily lives. Jesus being born into the kingdom under the heavens brings the kingdom with him. Isn't that wonderful? And he invites everyone who would come to come into his kingdom. and to enjoy all the flow of spiritual abundance which he has for us there Now you are a well-taught congregation, and I'm getting taught with you, and I love it. And one thing you've been taught, I know. is that the epistles are the interpretation of the gospels. You've heard people foolishly say, oh, I like Jesus, but I don't like Paul. That kind of thing. That's only a revelation of ignorance because God gave us the epistles so that they coming after Jesus could be led by the Holy Spirit to interpret for us Some of the more mysterious places in which Jesus teaches. So we need the epistles ever as much as we do the gospels. They're not in any kind of Contrast. They are handmaidens to each other. Well, take that principle and put it here. Here Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount, he's talking about everyday living, life on this earth in the kingdom. How is it to be lived? Now, when Paul, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, looks at that, he looks at his everyday life to see how it is squaring up with the life of Jesus. Is it accomplishing what Jesus wants him to do. This book of 2 Corinthians, as we've learned in recent weeks, is a kind of spiritual autobiography of the Apostle Paul. And how wonderful that is for us. He's going into the depths of his own personal struggles and life. And so he's saying to himself, what sense am I to make out of all of the pain I feel in serving Christ? Every day is hard for me. I'm delivered up to death every day. What is this about? And by the Holy Spirit he sees that he is even now living out the death of the Lord Jesus Christ before those who see him. He said, I bear about in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. Scars, welts. eye problems maybe from a blow on the head, beatings which cause great uh bleeding in his back, all kinds of sufferings. shipwreck and fasting and hunger and thirst, all these he is bearing about. He says, what connection? Oh this is my connection with Jesus. I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. There is a kind of a continuity between his suffering and mine. And so I glory in my infirmities and in my problems. You see how it took the apostolic work to connect Jesus' pain and suffering to everyday life. Moreover, He took the sufferings And the death of Jesus. Deeper than his flesh, he took it to his soul. And he found there a selfish spirit. Every one bears it. He found a core there of me first. And he said, I'll put that to death too, the way Jesus died for me. So he said, I am crucified with Christ. meaning that the selfish life in me has died and I want no more of it. So he entered into his life with self-denial and sacrifice and fasting and so on. And in this he had a marvelous kind of fellowship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And in a way, Paul's life is a call to you and me to take the infirmities, the pains, the struggles, the sorrows, the losses. the uncertainties of this life and relate them to Christ's sufferings. So that in a Tiny way, we can say with Paul, I bear in my life too the sufferings of Christ. Now Paul has a name for that fraternity, those who join him. The name is the Fellowship of His Suffering. Imagine he named that little club. It's not so little. We're all in it. We joined the fellowship. the fellowship of his suffering. In other words, there's a bond between him and us when we undergo surgery or face some hard disease or lay a loved one to rest. There's a bond. Jesus is with us in that. The fellowship of his suffering. And Paul took that even one step further. Because he said. I fill up in my body that which is lacking or behind in the sufferings of Christ. A strange, strange sentence for anybody to utter. How can you or I or Paul fill up Add anything to the sufferings of the Savior. We cannot do it. They completely atone for every evil we have done. No one can atone by his sufferings for his sin. But I think what he means is That when I suffer, I draw so close to Christ and his pain that in a certain sense we share the journey together. When he says I add to it, he doesn't mean I augment it or complete it, what is lacking. I think he means I join him in the fellowship of the suffering. Paul said here, not only does he identify with Christ in his suffering and death, But he says that his life may be manifest in my flesh. What does he mean by that? I think Paul means that His own vital religion, his own conversion from being a bigot and a hater and a murderer To being a loving evangelist, he calls himself a nursing mother to the church. What a contrast. And the reason there is this great change happens in Paul is because Christ is alive. Christ is converting men and women even now. Every new birth of a soul is another testimony to the living Christ. who is alive and well and working in our present world. So Paul is saying, my life testifies to the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the risen life. How wonderful is that. And yet it goes even deeper, I think, here, and that's in this way. He said, I want the life of Jesus to be manifest in my mortal flesh, that is my everyday life. I want people to see that Jesus lived on earth a certain life in a certain way. And I want to portray that life as well as I can. I want to live as he did. I want to do the things he did and say the things he said. Please, Lord, Paul saying, that I may in my body portray The life of the Lord Jesus while he was on earth. What an amazing ambition that is for Paul. But we can see how he lived it out. He did the things that Jesus did. He went about preaching and doing good. Those are the same things Jesus did. He founded his truth and his actions on creation. If you'll notice in the Gospels, the Lord Jesus is going back to creation, back to Adam and Eve, back to the fall. Everything is founded upon that great fact that the Lord made the heavens and the earth And Paul builds on that, just as Jesus built on that. And we must do the same. But his teachings so reflect the teachings of Christ. He said, bless those that curse you. And we have in the book of Acts even a saying of Jesus that Paul spoke, which is not in the Gospels. He knew more about his sayings than are written there. You'll remember which it was. It is more blessed to give than to receive. That was a saying of Jesus, known by Paul. So we loved to take sayings of Jesus and revamp them a little and give them out with the same meaning. For example, Jesus said, be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Well, Paul's no uh plagiarist, so he takes the same thing, he puts it in other words, he says Be wise in good and bathe in evil. What good words those are for us, are they not? So you can see Paul living out the life of Christ. Here and there it protrudes out of the out of the book of Acts. We see it and we love it. Now, let me bring this passage closer to home, closer to you, right down to your life and mine. I think God wants us to live out the life and death of the Lord Jesus Christ every day in certain ways. Now what would that look like? Well it would certainly mean the mention of his name. Some of us are afraid to use the name of the Lord Jesus in public. Don't let anybody or any culture do that to you. It's a precious name. Use the name. It would certainly be having actions in your life that are like Jesus' actions. Take his most famous story, the story of the Good Samaritan. I suggest That we might have a GSA. Now you all as loyal government people know that that's the General Services Administration. Let's call that the Good Samaritan Award. He gets the GSA for that one. How wonderful that would be. I know a man who might have received that GSA award. He found a farmer, young man, a refugee from another country. The only job he could get was to clean out the barns and chicken coops. But this man befriended him and found a great deal more potential. And gradually helped him secure other employment where he rose to the top until he had his own business and his own farm and employed others to gather eggs and clean out the coops. He, in the meantime, gave his life to Christ, was baptized, joined the church, married a Christian girl, and raised a Christian family. I know that man. That was a good Samaritan award. We ought to be earning those, finding people who've lost heart. Who seem to have no hope. And yet a helping hand and encouraging word lifts them up and gives them a new future. Well, I think if we were to undertake living the life Christ did or trying to It isn't imitation like what would Jesus do? It's not that. That could be slavish and artificial. I think it's a matter of character qualities. Like hospitality. Not so much justly inviting people into your home, that's a starting point. But whom is it to you To whom do you extend hospitality? Those who cannot pay you back probably won't? That's what Jesus said. Bring them into your home. and show the love of Christ to them. Hospitality is a character quality. Watching our words is a character quality. Jesus was so careful about his words that we treasure every one of them now. And let your words be few and carefully chosen. For one day, you know, we will all be held accountable for our words. And of course the character quality of love would be there. And of helpfulness to others. Going out of your way, stopping what you're doing. To befriend the lonely one or to give a hand to a child. What we need to do in order to portray Christ's life is to practice at it. Practice it. Do the things Jesus did. Actually do them. Can you imagine what that would be like? It would certainly mean solitude at times. Or you're alone, and God can speak to your soul in quiet. That would certainly mean study. Because the Lord Jesus went deeply into the scrolls of the synagogue where he lived until he even found the charter of his own life written in the prophets, the study of scripture. Regular worship Would be part of your life, wouldn't it? We read of him. His custom was to go every Sabbath day to the synagogue. Practice the things Jesus did. Take time for others. Take time for God. How did he? How did he do those things? Think about it. Talk with others about it. I think it's how you see or how we see ourselves in relation to Jesus. We don't use the word disciple very often. I want to suggest another word. I learned this word from my friend Dan Baumann. He has a lot of good words he teaches me. But this is the word, apprentice. Because Dan had a plumbing business And he I'm sure was an apprentice at one time, and then he had others. An apprentice, he says, works at least four years just to get started in plumbing. And in that time he doesn't do Very important things, but he's watching, he's learning. Be an apprentice to Christ, a student of Christ, who follows him observes what he's doing, tries to do it yourself, learns how to do it. How do you do hospitality? How do you help the fallen? Watch Jesus do it. Be an apprentice. Don't be a customer of Jesus. Now down on Main Street there's a barber shop I love, the White Barber Company. And uh wonderful men there. But it's different from other barber shops. If you look closely, you'll see a young man, or sometimes a woman, standing next to Brian White, the barber. Observing. He's not going to get his hair cut. He's not a customer. He's a student. He's a learner. You see, a customer comes into the barbershop, pays his money, and gets what he wanted and goes out. And there are many Christians that are doing that. They go to the church, pay their money, and go out unchanged. That's what not not what Christ is asking you to be, a customer. He has enough of those. He wants followers, students, who will stand and watch and learn and begin to do, actually do the things Jesus said. The slogan ought to be learn and do. That's the apprentice. Learn and do. Don't just talk about it. Don't just sort of idolize about it, but actually do it day by day. Oh my, what a difference in our lives. If we tried to live out the life of Christ before others, and someone might say sometime, oh, how like Jesus he is, that's not what we're doing it for to get praise or recognition, but to remind that Jesus has lived in this world. And he lived in it beautifully and changed it and made his mark forever, and so can you Let us pray together. Let the beauty of Jesus be seen in me. All is gracious love and purity. May the Savior Divine enter this life of mine. And make it shine