So there is Peter's sermon, his address to this Gentile gathering, as well as the fruit that his sermon bore among. Among them. Now what is Peter saying here in his address to this gathering? What have we just heard in the Word of God? Well, he's saying, first of all, that he gets it now. He um has hadn't quite understood that vision that he had received before, but he gets it now. The time has come for the breakthrough of the gospel to the Gentiles in that in a way that it had never broken through to them before. And not only that, but in God's plan, at least on this occasion, Peter is the man for the job. And now, at last, he understands that, and so Peter proceeds to do his job. He goes on in his address to them to give them the gospel. In short, what he gives them is the message about Jesus. He gives them a classic apostolic eyewitness summary of the basic Facts of Jesus' earthly ministry, his earthly career. Jesus going about doing good, healing people, finally dying and then rising and then appearing. Appearing to many people, although not to all people, Peter says in his address. Jesus didn't go around after his resurrection showing himself to everybody, but he did appear to the apostles. Show himself to the ones whom his father had chosen beforehand to be his first official witnesses. And so Jesus appeared to them. He was made visible to those witnesses. He even ate and drank with the wheel. With them, Peter says, and he gave them instructions as well. This was no laid-back fellowship time. Jesus gave them orders about what their witness, their official apostolic witness, Was supposed to include. And those orders that Jesus gave to the apostles are what Peter describes in the two verses that we're going to focus on, verses 42 and 43. three, the culmination of the matter. What does Peter say? He ordered us to preach to the people and solemnly to testify that this is the one who has been appointed by God as judge. judge of the living and the dead. Of him all the prophets bear witness that through his name every one who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins. Verses forty two and forty three. There is one way, it is Peter's way here, of summing up the heart of the gospel, which in this passage includes two things primarily, and those two things are judgment and faithful. Forgiveness. Judgment and forgiveness. Peter preaches both, and the point is that it's the work of Jesus Christ to do them both. He is both judged. Of the living and the dead, and the source of divine forgiveness to all who believe. The work of Jesus, in other words, is a bit bigger than we might think. Yes, it is. Salvation, it is forgiveness, it is all of those good things with which we are especially familiar, things in which we delight, and rightly so. But Peter is saying, look, those aren't the only good things that Jesus is. called to do. There is also the good work of judgment, which the Father has given the Son to do on the last day. And in fact you notice that's the one that Peter mentions first here. About judgment first, and then about forgiveness. Now that doesn't necessarily mean that for Peter judgment was more important than forgiveness, but it does mean at least that That the work of judgment by Christ was no afterthought for Peter. Both of these things are important parts in the grand scheme. Both are parts of the work of Jesus. Christ Himself. And that, brothers and sisters, is our lesson this morning, our doctrine that Jesus Christ is both the agent of final judgment and the bouncy. That is our doctrine. Both of those things are true of him. He is both the agent of divine judgment and the fountain of divine forgiveness. Now I want to say. to um take some time to reflect upon that lesson a bit this morning in a few different ways. Before I conclude with some final words of application for us, I want us to think um a bit more, first of all, about those Two aspects of his work, judgment and forgiveness. We'll think first of all about them separately. And then having done that, I'll want us to think uh about the tie that binds them together. They're Are a number of ways in which those two aspects of the work of Christ are bound up according to Scripture's teaching. I want us to reflect upon one such tie. So we'll think about the two works separately. Separately, then we'll think about a tie that binds them, and then I'll conclude with a few words of exhortation for us. First of all, then considered separately, judgment by Jesus Christ on the last day. After all, this is where Peter starts in his sermon. This is where we'll start as well. Jesus himself taught this, that at the end of the age he would come back and he would judge the nation. So, for example, Matthew 25. But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. And all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another. one another as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on the left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come you who are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the Lord. Of the world. Then he will also say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. And these will go away into eternal punishment. But the right. righteous into eternal life. That from Matthew twenty-five. There are all sorts of lessons that might be uh gleaned from that particular passage in Jesus' teaching, lessons about the judgment that's coming. One of those lessons, our observation this morning, is the simple fact that Jesus is the one who's going to do it. He is the Son of Man who on that day will die. Matthew twenty-five. In John five he says this very clearly. John five, verses twenty-two and twenty-seven. Not even the father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. He gave him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. That's John five, twenty two and twenty-seven. The same idea. As in Matthew 25, even the same title, The Son of Man. He will judge every man on that day. And the Son will do that work, because the Father has given that work to him. Jesus taught this. Clearly in his own public ministry. And because he did, well then, this truth became part of the apostolic preaching after Christ went. was raised. And we heard that in our passage in Acts ten. And it's not only there in Acts ten. Also, for example, in Acts seventeen, Paul's great message in Athens. He preached the same thing, Paul, in Acts seventeen, verse thirty one. God has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him. from the dead. That's Acts seventeen, verse thirty one, and there's the same idea. God has appointed the man, Jesus, of course the God man, Jesus, to be the one who will judge on the last day. And there in Acts 17, Paul says, God has proven it by raising him from the dead. So Jesus taught this, therefore the apostles taught it in their preaching. Well, note as well that the apostles taught it in their writing as well. For example, Paul writing to Timothy, 2 Timothy 4, 1, I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ. Jesus who is to judge the living and the dead and by his appearing and his kingdom preach the word. Jesus Christ will be the executor, he will be the agent of final divine judgment. That is part of his word. One part that just so happens to remain for the future, a future day, when he'll summon every person before his throne, and he'll separate those who are the people of God from those who aren't. And he'll assign the one group to an eternity of blessedness in fellowship with God. And he will assign the other group to an eternity that will be very different from that. Jesus will judge, and remember, by the way, the idea is, the biblical idea, is that God the Father has appointed him for that work. The idea is not that Jesus is going to judge instead of the Father in such a way as to steal some of the Father's glory not at all. The Son is going to judge because the Father has given him that work to do, and so he will judge to the glory of the Father and of the Son. And of the Holy Spirit. Judgment on that day will be a Trinitarian word carried out by Jesus in the Spirit on behalf of his Father. So that the first part. He will be on that day the executor, the agent of divine judgment. And he is this day, even now, already the source, the fountain of divine forgiveness. That as well is part of Jesus' work. And here again, see the very same pattern. Trace it throughout the New Testament. Jesus himself taught it. First of all, in his own earthly ministry, Luke 5, parallels in other gospels, Jesus said, The Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. There's that title again. Son of man. And he has this authority as well, the authority to forgive. And of course, already during his earthly ministry, Jesus exercised that authority. Follow the New Testament. From there, Jesus not only taught it during his earthly ministry leading up to death and resurrection, but after death and resurrection. He appeared to some of his disciples and he said, Look, this is what the whole plan of redemption was all about. All along. Luke twenty-four. Verses forty six and forty seven. Jesus said to them, Thus it is written, pointing them back to their own Bible, thus it is written that the Christ should suffer and rise again from the dead the third day. And that repentance for forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. That's Luke twenty four, verses forty six. and 47. And that's what Peter was talking about in our passage this morning in Acts 10. There is Jesus giving them orders, giving them their marching orders as apostles, the proclamation of of forgiveness in his name. And then continue the pattern from there. Follow the New Testament. Jesus gave them those orders and they obeyed. He told them what to preach and they did it. They proclaimed it in Sermon after sermon in the book of Acts, chapter two, and then chapter five, and then chapter ten, chapter thirteen, chapter twenty-six, they proclaimed it. The simple message, Jesus was dead. But now he's alive, and what that means, they said, is that there is forgiveness in his name. And again, not only did they preach it, but they wrote it. two. Colossians one, Paul wrote He delivered us, God delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom, in Christ, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. So too. First John two verse twelve. I am writing to you little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. say. 1 John 2, verse 12. You see, this is part of the work of Jesus as well. Forgiveness of sins, and he's qualified for that work because Because he shed his blood when they hung him up on that cross. Hebrews nine twenty two according to the law, one may almost say, All things are cleansed with blood, and without shedding of blood there is No forgiveness. That's Hebrews 9 22. And that's how it is that Jesus has the authority to forgive. And so now the proclamation of the gospel is precisely what Peter proclaimed. That everyone who believes in him, everyone in every nation, as Peter slowly, perhaps reluctantly realized, everyone, without exception, who believes in Jesus receives that forgiveness, guilt taken. away perfect righteousness imputed to them instead. So those are the two Aspects of the work of our Savior that we've got before us this morning, considered separately. Judgment we have considered first because Peter mentioned it first, and then forgiveness as well. Both of those things Things are true of Christ. Both of them are aspects of his work. But there's more to it than that. There is, as I said, a tie that binds the two things together. There are, I suppose, several of them biblically. I want to hone in on one in particular. We've already begun to touch on it because I've already been using the word authority. Because the Bible itself Uses that word concerning Christ, the authority of Jesus Christ, or the exaltation of Jesus Christ. In a word, the Lordship of Jesus Christ. The Lordship of Jesus is the explanation, one of them, of his roles as judge and forgiver. His lordship is a tie that binds both of those things together. This too is the testimony of Scripture. Both of these works that Christ carries out, they are the expression of that one authority. The authority that he has as God's exalted Christ, his Messiah. Messiah, God's anointed one, who now sits in glory at his Father's right hand. That's why the most basic confession of the early church could be the very simple statement, Jesus is Lord. Romans 10 9. If you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. Because to say that Jesus Is Lord is to say so much about him. I mean, you might read that verse, Romans 10:9. If you confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord, believe in your heart that God raises. You might read that and think that's it. Just Jesus is Lord? I mean, that'll do? I mean, shouldn't we say a little bit more than that? Shouldn't we say something, anything, about his being Savior as well? Well, of course, there is a great deal more that the church can and does say about Jesus and always has. But the point is that that simple confession, Jesus is Lord, doesn't show Short changing. It doesn't neglect the reality of his forgiving mercy, because in Jesus' case, that's part of what it means for him to be Lord. That's the kind of Lord that he is. He is a forgiving Lord, as well as a ruling and judging one. To put it another way, Jesus is a Psalm two kind of Lord. Psalm two, there's a messianic Psalm if ever there was one. The authority of God's chosen king is the theme of it. And in Psalm two, what does his authority mean? The authority of the Christ of God. Well it certainly does mean judgment, Psalm two. Verses eight and nine, ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as thine inheritance, the very ends of the earth as thy possession. Speaking, God speaking to his Messiah, you shall break them with a rod of iron. Shatter them like earthenware. There's judgment, to be sure. There is the authority of God's chosen king. But then there's more. How does Psalm two conclude? Same Psalm, same Messiah, same anointed King of God. Psalm two concludes Worship the Lord with reverence and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he become angry and you perish in the way. For his wrath may soon be kindled. And then how blessed are all who take refuge in him. Here you have this stern, fearful, sobering judgment. Language. And then with respect to the very same king, how blessed are all who take refuge in him. There is the Lordship of God's exalted kingdom. King. And the point is that exaltation does mean wrath and judgment, but it also means the refuge and the blessedness of forgiveness. That is a messianic. And Christ is the Messiah. That is the picture of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the kind of Lord that He is. He is a gospel Lord. He is a Lord who is also a lamb. that was slain for the sins of the world. That's the kind of Lord He is. That's why the Church could and still can confess about him. Jesus is Lord and with those three little words say so much about him. That's why the sermons in the book of Acts are so big on the exaltation of Jesus. Because his exaltation, his authority at the right hand of God means so many things at the same time. Once he wore a crown of thorns. Now, brothers and sisters, He wears a crown of glory. And that one crown that he wears now, one crown, it is wonderful and it is dreadful at the very same time. It is It's wonderful for those who are his friends, those who come to believe in him, and in believing find forgiveness in him. But it is dreadful for those who are his enemy. Those who do not know God and who do not obey the gospel of his Christ, the same authority by which he speaks words of pardon and assurance. To his people is the same authority by which he will say to his enemies on the last day, Depart from me, you cursed ones, as we heard in Matthew 25. The hands with which he wipes away Our tears are the very same hands with which he wields that rod of iron, and he will crush the nations with that rod on the last day. That's our Jesus. Our Lord Jesus. Our exalted King. Is he meek and mild? Well, yes, he is that. He is tender to forgive. The bruised reed he will not break, a smoldering wick he will not quench, yes, that is true of him. And by the very same authority, he is a consuming fire. And he will judge the nations. That is our Lord Jesus Christ. Now finally, a few concluding words of exaltation. For us today. Let me address myself first of all to any who might be with us this morning. Do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, how to exhort you today, how to address you. Well Peter's own words served the purpose very well. Unbeliever, hear Peter. Peter's words. Jesus Christ is the one who's been appointed by God as judge of living and the dead. Through his name every one who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins. was the testimony of the apostles two thousand years ago. The point is that is still the testimony of the church today. More importantly, it is God's message to the world. Today. The Lord Jesus Christ is going to judge you someday. And same Lord Jesus, he alone can give you the forgiveness of your sins. Sins that will make you ready for that judgment one day. It is so simple because it is all bound up in Christ. He will judge you then, and he will follow. Forgive you now if if you believe in him as the Son of God and Savior of sinners. That is the simple message. And so do I call you today. Will you believe in him? May it be so. To those of us who do believe in Christ, a few words of exhortation. Exhortation for us. The first is this. Let me exhort you, exhort all of us to know Jesus thoroughly. To know him thoroughly, not piecemeal. But in a way that's faithful to the revelation of him in Scripture, the whole council of God. No Jesus thoroughly. Admittedly, this isn't quite the debate that it was a few years back, but there were and there still are some Christians who are holding fast to the idea that it really is possible, it is biblically permissible to be related to Christ in such a way that we know him as our Savior, but not as our Lord. In other words, um possible, permissible to know him in such a way that we receive some of the gifts that he has to give, like forgiveness, but without necessarily coming to grips and coming into conformity with the demands that he makes upon our lives. Brothers and sisters, I hope it is clear in light of what we've considered today, how absolutely preposterous is that suggestion. That we can somehow know Jesus as Savior without necessarily knowing him as Lord. And that is a preposterous suggestion, not just because he's both of those things, though of course that's true. But further, because those two realities are all bound up to one another. He is Savior precisely because he is the kind of Lord that he is. He forgives us as our Savior because he has the authority. Authority as Lord to do so, it is impossible to know him in the one way without knowing him in the other way as well. Now, admittedly, that um was never an idea that was um terribly popular. popular in our circles, our uh Presbyterian and Reformed circles, and so we might be uh tempted to think, well that's really not so much of a concern for me that I would ever think about Jesus that way. But isn't it? Isn't it really a concern for each and every one of us who's a Christian, even if we don't claim it in our theology? Isn't it really a temptation for each and every one of us to become oh so enamored of the The gifts that Jesus gives without being all that enamored of the demands that Jesus makes upon us, the demands to be holy, to love other people, to put our own sin to death. You see, it is a very real temptation for us to want to know Jesus like that, which is finally the desire to know a Jesus who isn't there. A Jesus who does not exist because brothers And sisters, the only Jesus there is to know is the one who wears that crown as the Lord of the universe and therefore Lord of your own life. So in the same way, under this heading of knowing Christ thoroughly, see that our lesson today is also a death blow to the old silly liberal notion that Jesus was just a nice man who was so full of love. That he would never ever think of hurting anybody who would never be involved in a messy business like judgment because he's just our friend. He's everybody's friend. No, Jesus is the Lord. Jesus. And as Lord, He will judge. And Christian, you have got to be willing, we as the church have got to be willing to bear witness to that truth in the world today. So all that to say, know your Savior and love your Savior thoroughly. Obviously, the judgment that He will exact one day will not rest upon you. Because of that forgiveness, you are spared. But that doesn't mean that his lordship has nothing to do with you. Know Jesus thoroughly. And then a second word, a last word. Is this let me encourage you to believe I mean really believe that we are forgiven. And there are perhaps some of you, discouraged, downcast, who struggle with that especially. There are some among us who struggle to do just that, to believe. What does seem at first glance to be unbelievable that we really are forgiven of all our sins, and to a degree, I suppose each and every one of us wrestles with that sometimes. times, can it really be that all of those things that I have done and said and thought and so on, that all of those things are forgiven? Well let me encourage you to the degree that you do struggle with that, with having a real sense of the pardon of your sin. Just remember who it is who's pronounced you pardon. the Lord. And listen to that. The Lord. That's not um just some throwaway title for Jesus, a first name that we don't really mean. That title means a great deal. It means that he is the exalted king over all creation and recreation. It means that he is the one to whom all authority is. in heaven and on earth has been given. Do you see he's the one who has said that you are forgiven now and acceptable to God now because you have come to believe in his name. And so the question becomes: do you have a greater authority than he has, by which you might call his pronouncement into question? You do not. He is Lord, and you are Lord. You are not, and thank God for that. Thank God that you are forgiven for Jesus' sake, in his name, because of his authority, and thank God that there is no greater authority. in heaven or on earth that could ever take that away from you. Jesus is Lord. That has always been the church's simplest confession and it will Always be. And it should always be on our lips, and we should worship and rejoice when we say it. Jesus is judge. Jesus is forgiver. Jesus is Lord. Let's pray together. Our Lord Jesus, we bow before you today and confess. That very truth that you are Lord, exalted King over all creation and recreation. And we would, by your grace, know you and love you thoroughly. And bear witness to you thoroughly in the world that by your authority you are both the one who will judge one day and the one who wipes away sins. even this day. And as those who have known that forgiveness, we rejoice in you, and we long for the day of your return. We thank you for this one day in seven, That is an opportunity for us to stop and to remember, to rejoice and to praise, and we pray these things in your name and for your glory. Amen.