And Peter does not exempt himself, as he says, a fellow elder. And he could have said that he was a witness to the transfiguration of Christ. The point I'm drawing out here is that Peter is not referring to some other office. Help us to reconcile ourselves to you. where God told the prophet to proclaim that God was going to judge and purify his people. When the Lord returns, the judgment will then focus upon the unbelievers. The church is now the temple wherein which God dwells, and the people of God are the living stones making up the new temple. Now the same word, un in Greek, which is translated in the ESV as so, can also be translated as therefore. He states that along with being an elder, that he is a witness to the sufferings of Christ. They believe that they need to be punished further, and this notion exceeds God's own mandates for punishment. When there is a genuine desire to repent in humility, as opposed to the warning that if it's a response burst by pridefulness that says, I'm not wrong. is the same certainty that all those who have fallen sin now can have forgiveness in Christ, even now. Peter now turns his attention to what the elders should be focused upon. But here in this verse, he uses the word episcopas, which of course we get episcopalian, or that of a church ruled by bishops. It has been noted over and over again how certain individuals over the years and over the decades and over the centuries want to become elders. Or does his excitement to serve the church come from advancing his personal and professional life? his temple. that God's judgment and and that includes purification begins from his temple, the house of God. This all then begins to make sense to us, and we see that this morning's passage is not some unrelated and brand new thought. And we ask that you would grant us changed hearts, so that we may obey and walk in the ways of our Father, so that we may bring The point being that Peter, as an elder, identifies himself as one who is subject to God's judgment. If you recall when the Lord asked Peter three times if he loved him. But here he chose instead to state that he was a witness to the sufferings of Christ. The net effect of this is I'm wiser than God. And I think there are also times when we haven't felt the freedom from guilt and shame when we've been forgiven. And over a period of time that those wounds heal and they become scars, right? That may be an indication that something is wrong here. When he's talking about the purifying actions of God upon the church, starting with elders. for the negative press that comes from revealing these false shepherds for their sins of greed and lust and abusive control to both the church and the broader society. The future tense to be revealed in this sentence is looking forward to Jesus' return. and wants to encourage people by pulling from his own failures, from his personal past, as both proof and encouragement for those who have failed. Because he wants the elders for whom the refining fires come first that there is hope. that he begins this paragraph by pointing to the presbuteroi, that's the Greek word, the elders, in verse one of this passage. It's just what their role or function is at that time that they're referring to. as opposed to a positive motivation. The point here is that it is not improper for anyone to approach churches to do honest, gainful work or employment. etc. When this happens, the elder is using his God-given authority for his gain or benefit at the expense of others. That you would sustain us in the midst of these trials, to not be discouraged, but to be comforted and to recognize that yet this is another means But the godly elder will, as Peter states in this passage, not domineer over those in his charge, but instead being examples to the flock. Please note, it's not even when you die. Looking to serve others with their authority for their benefit, not theirs, and not make difficult decisions, looking to please others, but instead make of what we will be studying this morning, which is from 1 Peter chapter 5, verses 1 through 4, as if it is something disjointed with the elders. Would you please now rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word, which is from the book of 1 Peter, chapter 5, verses 1 through 4. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you. Not for shameful gain, but eagerly, not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Grant us light, so that we may see the truth. Him glory. Peter now draws some conclusions from this fact. The point being that this suggests further proof, further evidence, that this is a continuation of Peter's thoughts. Now, Peter does not allude to his authoritative office as an apostle here, but rather humbly refers himself as an equal with the elders in the churches to whom he's writing. And if God is going to maintain the standards of holiness, he requires of his bride, the leaders of all members are not exempt. They don't get a pass or have lower standards for serving. The elders are under the limelight before the laity. One starts to wonder if Peter was still bothered by his denial of the Lord from back then. Do not allow themselves to experience the peace that is associated with reconciliation. Too easy. The way I like to make this the that distinction between the two is when someone is wounded or experience a wound Or maybe is it something entirely different? With Christ, there is forgiveness and reconciliation and hope. I think this is a great encouragement to not just the shepherds of the church, but to all that forgiveness and restoration is available to the humble and genuinely repentant. With the elders. God has shown over and over again that He is less concerned And he is more concerned to protect his sheep. Peter states that he is going to partake of the glory that is to be revealed. This is not a person that is living in shame or is punishing himself because he thinks he got off easy We don't have to wait for Christ's return to have peace. What a gracious Savior we have. between the function of eldership with that of the function of the bishop. Interestingly, the verb he uses for shepherding, tending, is the same verb that Jesus used back on that beach, chapter 21 and verse 16, where he said, The second is desire for personal gain. Let's take a look at them each in turn. Because you can justify your lower level of service because no one else is willing to do it. One thing that we can agree upon is that this kind of attitude will not result in leading others to greater heights of service and pursuit of personal holiness. This follows up by eagerly, as in instead, do it eagerly. but not to engage it with selfish or greedy motives. In fact, as the church, and not only this church, but every church, we need people to do work at times that we hire, whether it's cutting trees, plumbing, electric work, construction. Why would one want to enter into these callings? They want to do so because it gives them exposure into the community and possible work, contracts, or business that they would have normally not had the opportunity to be exposed to. as an employment, but what makes it stand out is the qualifier. Or you can see the ministry as a vehicle to something else that you seek. This is good news again, that we can have hope. We can look to Peter's life and know that with true repentance founded upon humility, there is hope for forgiveness and restoration. by which we know that we have assurance of our salvation, that you have not left us to the world. This type of selfless behavior is what the laity is to mimic. Peter is exhorting the elders to not develop an attitude of compulsion. It's not a reward that will fade away like those found in this world and in this life. It is something that a king would give to his most valiant soldiers who commended themselves in battle. It would be something that would be a symbol for honor. looking for sordid gain, lording it over their flock, and doing it out of compulsion. They should instead answer God's call voluntarily, with eagerness. at times unpopular and difficult decisions for the public approval of Jesus His Majesty. This is part of the ongoing sanctification of all the saints, but the refining begins at the bottom. And perhaps an entirely new thought introduced into the book of 1 Peter. The processing that is, and is now bringing about the relevance of his reference to the Ezekiel passage. Now, if it's been quite some time and every time that incident comes up and it feels like it just happened and it's a fresh wound Has made, or why do you think that I think Peter has made peace with the past? that he is also a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. or when he himself was called to the ministry. Now, for those who have read through that period of Christ's ministry, it is impossible to not remember Peter's actions at that time. Sometimes some folks tend to go on living as if we perhaps don't deserve to be forgiven. That there is hope. or may in the future. It would fit in the broader context of suffering for Christ in this book. There are folks that feel a need to step up because there isn't anyone else willing to do it. Not a means to another goal. Now the reason that this is important to Peter to point out is that it turns the kingdom ethics on its head and makes it like the kingdom of man. are things that you and I should look for as warning signs, as qualifying signs. minds and hearts, giving us life and wisdom. Yes, he was forgiven, no doubt. Maybe you struggle with this. I think that this is a very dangerous place to be spiritually. You see, when you and I do that, what we in effect are saying is that I know better than God. When the gospel proclaims that the shame has been taken away for your sins, it means that you don't have to feel its weight anymore. As the elder is performing his duties, there are three concerns that Peter is highlighting. But willingly. A lack of motivation to do things in the first place. Things always need to be above board for elders. In God's house. to be what you have called us to be, to be reconcilers. Father, we also pray. Lording or domineering is really a misuse of authority that the elder has been given. That we should not be surprised by this type of suffering. That you have not cast us aside, but you have promised that you will draw to yourself and refine all to yourself that are your elect. The elder who is abusive and does not and does this can be seen to try to at times preserve power, right? Knowing that you have been called to this office by God should cause you to do this with eagerness So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. His denial of the Lord has undoubtedly got to be the low point of his walk with Christ. This letter is being written decades after Jesus came to Peter on the beach. By the way, the opposite is also a problem. But we don't always apply the benefits of the gospel in our lives and go on living with the shame and the guilt. Now I'm sure there have been times in our life when we no longer feel the guilt or the shame when we've been forgiven. It's a person who has been blessed by the gospel, a person who understands its power for healing. Imagine that. interchangeably. An internal grumbling against those that are not answering the call to serve, not willing to accept criticism for a job poorly done God would not want you to serve Him with a begrudging heart. In this admonition, Peter is moving away from the internal state of the heart to that of outward actions. Authority in the kingdom of God, as Jesus taught, is so that the leaders of the church are the greatest servants. And they use the power or authority given to them for the benefit of those whom they serve, not so that they can be served. What is this unfading crown of glory, you may ask? Elders should be looking to receive this type of crown when the chief shepherd returns, and not in the meantime. Does that man demonstrate a vibrant desire to serve the Lord? Do you have to ask him many times to volunteer and to help? Does he have a grumbling spirit? God will expose and remove the false sheep. Finally, the good news is that God has started judgment from within the house of God. Or forgiveness was extended, but sometimes we think we need to be punished some more. Why? How you are so otherly than us mere creatures. That would be an example of a proper healing and reconciliation between ourselves and God, ourselves and our neighbor. Now it's plausible, as some have mentioned, that the sufferings of Christ is an example for elders to suffer. Let Peter's testimony minister to you. He calls Jesus the chief shepherd. Or unwillingness to admit that you can ever be wrong, the warning is that God will purify from the house of God first. Grant us grace, Heavenly Father, to become more like you. Victory, as in an athletic event. So I think that if there's anything that we can all take from this teaching, is that whenever you are asked to consider a man to be an elder, you need to look to this passage. And he concludes his exhortation to the shepherds of the church by telling them that when the chief shepherd appears, that they shall receive the rewards for their faithfulness. This should be an encouragement and also a warning for elders. Thirdly, which is the start and is found at the start of verse 3, is not domineering over those in your chart. What he means to say here, I think, is that the same presbyters should exercise oversight, episcopas. He could have referred to other events in his time with the Lord. Simon, son of John, do you love me? And it was going to begin with the elders and move outward from there and them. having provided an encouragement to the overseers of the church that there is hope with Christ, even with failure. Or they have not been punished enough. God is continually refining his church, beginning with those called to shepherd and lead his flock. And we ask this in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Why does Peter bring this incident up in his life here in this passage? Last week, as we studied the last section in chapter 4 of 1 Peter, we pointed out that there was a reference made to the book of Ezekiel, chapter 9. Holy Spirit, the words of God are able to open our eyes. This means that you don't answer the call or to the call and its responsibilities because no one else is doing it, and someone has to do it. These false shepherds pursue power and authority within the church for the wrong reasons. Whatever you've done. We hire pastors, we hire administrative people. So having alluded to the church being judged first, that is, before the world at the end of time We pray that your refining and purifying fire would have its effect upon the church as you have prophesied. Let us pray. Do you look back at your life and think to yourself, man, I've made a colossal failure of my walk with Christ. Maybe you're struggling with it even now, or maybe in the past. First, it's this sort of begrudging heart. The standard that God has set is not enough. Live with the hope and the reality that you can be forgiven with humbleness and repentance of heart. Therefore, all elders are in some way under shepherds. It is not given to all, but only to those who are worthy of public recognition. These and other things that would address the concerns Peter has outlined in this passage. That if as elders, and not only elders, but all Christians, that if one falls even into serious and grievous sin, This is the passage that Presbyterians would point to that as a distinction that should not be made But the motivation to serve must be an eager desire for the good of the church. And help us to reconcile brothers and sisters. He starts verse 1 with the word so. Three times, same night, denying God, denying knowing Jesus. I think people can sense when someone is performing his tasks when their heart is not in it. Grant us the grace, so that we may follow in the footsteps of our Savior, the Lord Jesus The elders are under the limelight before God's eyes. But sometimes, when we have been forgiven, unequivocally, without doubt, All very pivotal points in his life, as well as the ministry of our Lord. But this future certainty This is coming from a man who denied God the Son three times in the same night. He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And the third is lust for power. I think for me, it is him pointing out that even if you're an elder and have fallen into sin. It is at the return of Christ. It is used within the context of something that a king would wear. What seems to be a significant, or should I say, a consequence is that most people Well, this passage is concerned that if not be for dishonest gain. This can lead to a bare minimum getting done Well, because we believe that we are wiser than God's standards. However, I'm not inclined to believe that he is referring to his own failures at the time of Christ's suffering. And Father, we pray that you would help us. In fact, it's just the opposite. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace, for your unbelievable and amazing grace. There is hope. Have you sensed that when he does serve, does he do it meanwhile complaining and grumbling? Having said all of this, it is important that we point out that this issue is not gain Something spiritually is wrong here. So a presbyteroi or a presbyterian elder is also known as an elder and a bishop. Do his actions reveal this? You can touch those scars, you can poke those scars, you can, you know, you can scratch them, and they don't really hurt. And in larger churches you have maintenance people, youth workers, and so forth. However, we are to see that just as Peter said in 4. Doing something in a dishonest or unfair way. The second is not for shameful gain. By doing so, How you continue and are prepared to forgive us for our sins. Help us to reconcile unbelievers to Christ. He is using the office of presbyter, the title of elder, and that of bishop. Shameful gain. The ministry must be the end goal. Meanwhile, they tend to their sheep, but instead they should do this out of a heart of gratitude and love. Having already established that at Pentecost Be with us now as we continue to worship My ways are more proper than God. And he will refine those genuine under-shepherds to conform to his will. Not willing to forgive someone who is asked for forgiveness because you think that that's So why do you think that Peter I think the answer lies in the next page phrase. An encouragement that there is hope. That sort of response is coming from sort of a negative direction. Help us It is interesting to note He could have said, I have been a witness to the resurrection of Christ. There is forgiveness with Christ. Having said that, shepherding of the flock is a responsibility that has been assigned to the elders. And similarly it begins And that judgment was going to start from The elders What I mean by the beach is the reference to John chapter 21. And this refining and pruning begins with the elders He could have pointed out to the time when he fed, the Lord Jesus fed 5,000 people. The first is sloth Now without this background, it appears to many that Does he volunteer with a cheerful heart? Let's note here that as Peter identifies himself with the elders of the church, I think that there's a contrast here, and it's not on the emotional level. This is a word that is used for valor. He wants them to know this, even with such a colossal failure. And the Lord said to him, Tend my sheep. He points to a reward that is not perishable. Amen. Is this something perhaps that bothers Peter? This is the word of God. The first is that the elder is to perform his duties, not under compulsion. So you kind of blame them for being slothful. We pray, Father, that you would indeed make us peacemakers. And I need to be punished some more. It should not be motivated by a desire out of greed Increase their power or exercise their power for their own benefit. The elder must not become drunk with power. But the promise of reward Amen. 17 of this book, Hear now the Word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. And in fact, many translations have done so. He says Prophesied all the way back to Ezekiel. But it's the motive.