Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men. We're privileged this morning to have our soon-to-be assistant pastor. Teaching Elder Jerry Maguire, bring God's word to us. But before that, let's confess our faith using several questions from our shorter catechism. So please turn to page 872 in your hymnal. Eight seventy-two, and we'll be using questions forty-five, forty-six, and forty-seven. This is the part of the catechism. That expounds the Ten Commandments, which continue to be a rule for us as God's people, not a guide to our Um justifying ourselves, uh uh means by which we realize how impossible that would be when we understand what God requires of us, but as those who have been justified, a uh means by which we can express to God our love, our faith, our gratitude. Number 45, Christians, which is the first commandment. The first commandment is thou shalt have no other gods before me. Now, eight of the ten commandments are in what's technically called apodictic form. That's in a negative form, thou shalt not. But uh are the ones who framed the catechism, and we believe properly so, understood that those negatives assumed a positive. That certain things were required. And the reason certain things are forbidden is because we so frequently fail to do what we ought to do. So, question 46 says, What is required in the first commandment? The first commandment requires us to know and acknowledge God to be the only true God and our God, and to worship and glorify Him accordingly. And then what is forbidden in the first commandment. The first commandment forbiddeth the denying or not worship and glorifying God. the true God as God and our God, and the giving of that worship and glory to any other which is due to him alone. All right, notice the the positive, it requires us to worship and glorify God accordingly, as he ought to be worshipped, and it forbids our not worshiping and glorifying Him. And we saw last Lord's Day, Romans 1, verse 20, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, not to be grateful to God. who is the fountain of every blessing is uh a sin of robbing him of his due glory. Part of what it means to worship and glorify him as he ought to be worshiped and glorified is to be content continually giving him thanks, and the failure to do that is to rob him of his due worship. So with that in mind, I'll ask uh uh Pastor McGuire to come forward and yield the pulpit to him as he brings us God's word. And again, a warm welcome for others. Before we read the scriptural, you'll notice that it's not just one little portion of the scripture. It goes many scriptures through the book of Colossians. Don't normally do that, but this is medicine for my own soul, and so I hope it's going to be medicine for your soul. This past week when Marg and I were opening a bank account locally, I didn't shake hands with a bank manager. I wasn't trying to be cold, but I had a cold. So as we were filling out paperwork, eventually she said to me, Now I want you to go home and drink some herbal tea. And put some brandy in it. And I guarantee you'll feel better in the morning. What she was prescribing for me was a cordial. What she was saying is that you need some comforting medicine. And where we are in the book of Colossians, as we're going to be read through it, Colossians has. Comforting medicine for our souls, which we need. Medicine because our souls are sin-sicked. Even this side of heaven, we haven't arrived yet. And so, particularly, these scriptures talk about thanksgiving because our hearts are so easily set up rather than God, and rather than our neighbor. We love ourselves. The Bible never tells us to love ourselves. We do that. That's the nature of sin. We put ourselves first and we worship ourselves. And so you'll notice as we read these scriptures that they are all pointing us to God and to be thankful for him and to be thankful for our neighbors. So let's stand together as I'll read this portions from God's Word Let me pray first Father, indeed, it's natural for us to worship, to worship ourselves. And we fight that battle the whole time. We're this side of heaven. We thank you for. your Spirit working in our lives and drawing us to yourself and showing us the glories of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. But we must confess, O God, that so often we lose sight of you. Our hearts are prone to wander. We know it and we feel it. And we love ourselves So we would ask that this day, that as we follow up even on last week's sermon, we need these cordials. We need these. uh bits of medicine that you have uh given us in the book of colossians. And we pray that as uh we read them, that your spirit would work as I preach that you might be kind to help us uh be melted before you the hardness, the the calluses that build up because of the heartache of sin. uh being sinned against in this world and sinning and and and uh and uh just being tired at times So would you put before us the beauty of yourself, O God, in new ways that we cannot cannot help but praise you and give you thanks and gratitude today. as we pray in the name of Christ our Savior. Amen. Well let us work through these five different cordials, these five bits of medicine that the Holy Spirit has given us through the Apostle Paul in the book of Colossians. As we read them together. Colossians chapter one, verses three to five. And I'm going to be just want you to see this. We don't use the word Eucharist very much. The Roman Catholic Church has kind of taken that over, and because they call the Lord's Supper that. And the way they misuse the Lord's Supper, believing that it's actual body and blood of Christ. We've gotten away from using that word. I'm not saying we should use it a lot, but I want you to notice As I read of all these words of thanksgiving, the Greek word is Eucharist, which means thanks. And so just that we can see that and not be turned away from a biblical word. And that we might give thanks ourselves. Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 to 5. We always thank God, Eucharistemen, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope that's laid up for you in heaven, of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel. Let's turn to Colossians chapter 1 and verses 11 and 12. May you be strengthened with all power. according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks, Eucharistoros, to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints of light. Colossians chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, So walk in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. You caress the eye. Colossians chapter 3, verses 15 to 17. And here you'll note that there's three times we're told to give thanks in three verses. Colossians 3, 15 to 17. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful, Eucharisteroi. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another with all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thanksgiving. The word there is karatai, it comes from caris, from grace in your hearts. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord, giving thanks. Eucharist the resto. And now the fifth one in Colossians chapter 4 and verse 2. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it, with thanksgiving, Eucharistii. The word of the Lord. Please be seated. Now when my wife particularly was wondering about my preaching this week, and I told her I was going to preach through the whole book of Colossians, she was a little afraid And because we have five passages, we won't be able to open them up in great measure. But I want to touch each one that you might just see How the Apostle Paul is bringing, as I have an opportunity to bring his medicine, the God's medicine before you, these cordials. Last Sunday, as Pastor Deucenberry opened 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, giving thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. And in doing that, the Holy Spirit really acted as an x-ray on our hearts. Because if you just hear that, giving thanks in all circumstances, this is God's will. Sometimes you have to wonder what God's will is. But you know that it's God's will for us to give thanks in all circumstances, and we don't. It shows When he did that, he revealed the wickedness of our ingratitude and our unthankfulness for every perfect gift from above that comes down from our Father of Lights Now, as I've been preaching through the book of Colossians with my assistant pastor this fall, I've just been struck at my own heart And so that's why I've gotten these five cordials together. I hope you benefit. But I had the week where I don't have normally have the week because the pastor knows that Sunday's coming. And he has to do the next passage. And so he doesn't often get to take the whole book or put verses together and do something like this. So it had been such a joy for me because I needed this. Because when I preached on the one passage it said overbounding uh abounding with thanksgiving, that means a flood. And it leaves silt everywhere and the water is everywhere. And it's overpowering. And my thanksgiving is not everywhere overpowering. It's often hard to be seen. Pastor and biblical counselor Paul Tripp describes the entitlement mentality. And as I thought about myself, I really have an entitlement mentality with God. Instead of being thankful, I'm always thinking, I need more. And so my prayers always start with gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme. You know, oh yes, I get myself together and I say theologically, oh God, you're great, I love you, and I can do that, and I praise God when I start with Him first. The truth is, uh I just kind of got my list, and I treat God so often more as a vending machine or a or a bellboy to fit my wishes and my needs. And I have that entitlement mentality. So when Paul Tripp said this, he talks about us, he says, I have that entitlement mentality with God when I place myself in the center of my world. And I live with an I deserve attitude. Because I live with such a sense of entitlement, I develop an inflated and unrisk sense of personal need. Because I have an inflated and unrealistrealistic sense of personal need, I expect that situations, locations, and relationships of everyday life Focus their energy on serving what I've named as my personal needs. Because in my foolishness and arrogance, I've forgotten that this universe wasn't created to serve me. I'm not the center of its attention, despite what I wish to think. Inevitably, those people and places will fail to cater. Or even to recognize what I've named as my personal needs. And since I did not get what I deserved, I have a multitude of reasons to complain and grumble. Oh my. That was like a mirror at times. Not all the time, by God's grace. And there's times like this morning, my yearly reading had me in the book of Isaiah in chapter 53 and to 55, and the gospel and Christ is there, and I couldn't Do anything but be overwhelmed with praise, but often it's not like this. The mirror that I have before myself is this entitlement mentality. And the reason why that is so evil and wicked As Pastor Dewsenbury already said from Romans 1, that is the characteristic trait of an unbeliever. Paul tells us in Romans 1. 21, for although they knew God, they did not honor or give thanks to him, because their foolish hearts were darkened. And so, brothers and sisters, when we have and live with unthankfulness for everything, we live like unbelievers. We're not being salt and light to the world, much less our family, much less to each other. When the first thing out of our mouth is what's wrong. It's not that we don't share our hurts and struggles, right? But it's what's wrong rather than how great our God is that He's keeping us and giving us to each other. Al Moller, the president of Southern Baptist Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, said it this way. It's humbling to see that Paul so explicitly links a lack of thanksgiving to sin. Foolishness and idolatry. A lack of proper thanksgiving to God is a clear sign of basic godlessness. Oh my. And yet I find myself that way, making that list of what's wrong and needs to be made better, rather than the blessings of God. And let me just also read John Piper as he says this about us. There's a very good reason that human beings, being by nature, do not want to magnify God with thanksgiving or glorify him as their benefactor. The reason is that it detracts from their own glory. And all people by nature love their own glory more than the glory of God. At the root of all ingratitude is the love of one's own greatness. For genuine gratitude admits that we're beneficiaries of the unearned bequest. We are cripples leaning on the cross-shaped cross of Jesus Christ. We're paralytics living minute by minute in the iron lug of God's mercy. We are children asleep in heaven stroller. Natural man hates to think of himself in these images unworthy. Cripple, paralytic child, they rob him of all the glory of giving it to God. Therefore, while a man loves his own glory and prizes his self-sufficiency and hates to think of himself as sin sick, And helpless, he'll never feel any genuine gratitude to the true God. So he'll never magnify God, but only Himself. So beloved, I bring this to you today, these cordials, because I'm so thankful that God and His providence gave me this week to get them to get the The medicine that I need. And I pray that in his grace, as we open these five cordials, as if we just touch base on them, you might mark them. And go back to think about your own soul and that God would give you new eyes of joy and his greatness as we look up, we look to him, and we look So the first cordial that we're given here in the book of Colossians is to give thanks to God for his saints. Colossians 1, 3 to 5. Let's look at it together. This should be what we're about in our giving thanks. Colossians 1, 3 to 5. We always give thanks to God. The Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope that's laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of truth, the gospel. Now in the church, we have an imperfect family, don't we? Just like our own families Right? We all hopefully had great joy in being with family and friends Over Thanksgiving. But there were landmines there, weren't there? There are certain topics or certain things you don't ask certain people, or you don't tell that past story, or you know, because we're broken. And even in the church, it's that way too. And we can we can talk about, oh yeah, that person over there, they're doing that. But but when Paul thinks of the Colossian church, he is just amazed. of God's grace in their lives and that they're being changed, that He's at work. And so He can't help but giving thanks for the other saints. And so what our prayer should be and where we should be is We think about the church as being thankful for one another. It was such a joy for me to be thinking even this week of our own church, because it was a hard week for our church. Two of the people in our church lost fathers, older couples lost fathers because of Parkinson's disease. One was a believer and one wasn't. So one was grief, but not as the world, and the other one was just grief, because uh the the the father would not be going to heaven. And then of other things, similarly, you know, hearing of difficulties with children and the rest that we all have, right? But I thank God as I was away. Because each of them had the anchor for their souls of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they are growing and trusting in Him. So our thanksgiving should be for the saints, as the Apostle Paul did here. In Revelation five nine says this, and it's not just our own our own church, but thanking God for the saints in the world. I was thankful that uh that uh Pastor Dusenberry earlier talked about you know every tribe and nation that's worshiping across this world today I've had joys in going to Uganda, getting to know other brothers and sisters. And Revelation says it this way. And they sang a new song. in heaven, where all of us gathered together saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and open its seal, for you were slain. Talking of our Lord Jesus. And by your blood, you ransomed the people of God from every tribe and language and people and nation. So, our first thing to be thankful for is God's church, our brothers and sisters, locally, but in the world. Christ's Church is worshiping in every time zone as it goes across the world today. And we should be thankful. Thankful, and I rejoice that you also pray for missionaries and for the persecuted church. The second cordial that the Apostle Paul gives us to help our own hearts to be thankful is in Colossians 1 verses 11 through 12. And it's really being thankful for your salvation. Being thankful that you're redeemed, being thankful that God in his mercy, because we don't deserve salvation, would put his love upon us Colossians 1, verses 11 through 12. May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might. For all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints of life. Christina Fox has talked about how to be thankful for our salvation. She says it this way. Our thanksgiving is directed to someone. To the God who made us, and it's a response to He for who He is and what He's done. A believer's gratitude comes from a humble heart that acknowledges but we are but dust. God created us and breathed in us the breath of life. He sustains us each day. We're completely dependent upon him and can do nothing apart from him. A humble heart knows its position before God in the universe and bows in reverence and awe and wonder and gratitude. Such a heart knows that it's unworthy and undeserving of God's grace. And salvation through his giving his son for us. One of the things I often say when people ask me how I'm doing, especially out in the world, is I say, better than I deserve. I got that from Dave Ramsey, in case you were wondering. I heard it from him and I just thought that's exactly what I am every single day. One of my neighbors in the apartment now he goes by me and he says, I know, better than you deserve. And he says and uh but he gives me the opportunity because then people say, Oh no, that can't be You must not be a killer or murderer, you know. You know, you think you're all what are you talking about? And I have an opportunity to tell them I deserve hell. I deserve God's judgment I'm a serial murderer. I have murdered so many people in my heart over the years. You know? Someone doesn't like me, someone doesn't respond in the right way, and I give them that look that could kill. I'm better than I deserve every single moment. So we should thank God for our salvation. We always are. The third cordial that's brought before us in the Scripture is in Colossians 2, verses 6 and 7. And here it's talking about our walk with Christ. That as we have a Savior who walks and upholds us and sustains us, we should be thankful that we're not alone and He is with us in our walk with Christ. Colossians 2, verses 6 and 7. Therefore, as you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in faith, just as you were taught, abounding. Overflowing, being flooded with thanksgiving. It's easy to give thanks when things are going well. But to continue to give thanks in the midst of trials reveals the type of soil in which thanksgiving resides. A humble and thankful heart to God is the soil that would produce gratitude in all seasons. whether in sunshine and rain or drought and devastation. I thought uh maybe Mark as the elders prayed today had had uh had read my sermon somehow. I didn't think he was spiritual telepathic, but uh He had prayed Habakkuk 3, 17 and 18. And there the prophet gives this prayer that is amazing to us. When I read it, you'll know it because you've heard it before and you just you're kind of aghast. And I think of this prayer when I think of the person of the church that's persecuted. And how they have to hold on to Christ. But the prayer in Habakkuk in chapter 3, 17 and 18, as we walk with Christ, it's. It's not just those mountaintop experiences. Yeah, I I was part of the retreat. That was great, wasn't it? But what happened after the retreat? You had to go home and go to work, right? You had to come home and you had to unpack the bags and put everything away and do the laundry before you did everything else. And and i it wasn't high, right? You know, and and Jesus after the Mount of Transfiguration as he's with there with the other disciples and they they see Moses and Elijah and they come by have this wonderful time of worshiping. They come down and immediately they're attacked by Satan. And so we, you know, we have these mountaintop things, but our thanksgiving is that in our walk with God, God walks with us in all of it, and we can trust His will. Work. So Habakkuk says this, and or Habakkuk, however you like to say it. Chapter 3, 17, 18, though the fig tree should not blossom Nor the fruit beyond the vines, and the produce of the olive fail, and the field yields no food. And the flock to be cut off from the fold, and there's no herd in the stalls. Now, this is a There's no giant, there's no wife, there's no Wegmans, there's no Super Walmart. This is an agrarian society, right? Everything's gone Yet I will rejoice in the Lord, and I will take joy in the God of my salvation. Beloved, let's just let God, by His Spirit, even speak to us now. Because you may have even been experiencing some of those losses right now, right? Yeah, for some of us, this uh this Thanksgiving is just been great. Been with family and it went well and you're full and maybe they haven't even gone home yet. Well maybe you'd like to have them go home. I'm not sure, but uh for some of us it's a hard Thanksgiving goods, the first one without a family member. Or uh Uh what you wanted this year didn't happen? And I can't even talk to some of you because I don't even know that. But because we live in a broken world, this isn't heaven yet. Some of you found it hard to be thankful this year. But your God walks with you. He doesn't slumber or sleep. He wouldn't allow anything to come into our lives except that your shepherd knows. knows that that's where you need to be. Remember the Lord's Prayer is that we walk by the by the by the uh he takes us by the the waters, the quiet waters and the green grass Grass at times, but he also takes us through the valley of the shadow of death and the place where our enemies are. Not because he hates us, but because the shepherd is uh leading us where we need to be. is his sheep and he is with us. And that's why we give thanks, not because I'm not asking you to say, oh God, I really thank you for That hard experience. But oh, you are with me. And you know I need to be here. You know because I need to not look at myself, but I need to trust you and look to you. And find you faithful. The fourth cordial that we're giving here for our souls for thanksgiving is in Colossians 3, verses 15 to 17. Lord willing, as I'm working through the book of Colossians, this is where we are. It's gonna be my last sermon at my the church that I'm leaving in Concord, Massachusetts. And so I will spend a lot more time than I can spend here now. But in the book of Colossians, The first three chapters, the first two chapters, excuse me, are indicatives. God is telling us about the sufficiency of Christ. He is telling us that He's all we need You don't add anything on to him as the false teachers were trying to do with the worship of angels and other things. Salvation is by grace through faith, and Christ is enough. But now in chapter 3 and 4, he's going on with the imperatives, the commands that come because you love Christ. What you profess must then be shown in practice Your creed has to work out in the way you live. And so he's doing that now. And he's taking different parts Of the Christian life. He'll talk about the family, being an employer, being an employee. He's going to bring God's word to bear because Christ is sufficient to all those things. But here he's talking about the body, the church. And so he's saying that you need to be thankful for the church. And he tells us three times about the body of Christ and our relationships with each other. So this fourth. Cordial is talking about that you have this privilege of being a part of having brothers and sisters in Christ. Colossians 3, 15 to 17. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which you indeed were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in the body. We need to come to each other with God's word to encourage each other and confront one another. Because we love one another to be conformed to the image of Christ, admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual thongs with thanksgiving in your hearts to God. And whatever you do. And particularly in the church, as this section says, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. In this portion here, I'm just thinking about this admonishment, which is really hard. And one of the joys that I am thinking and thinking about and coming here is that you have. A history of elders, both ruling and teaching, that love you enough to visit with you and encourage you. To bring you God's word. I know that Pastor Dusenberry preaches faithfully through the books of the Scriptures, and that's a weekly admonishment. And the elders, when he's not here and you don't have another pastor, they'll open up God's word and admonish you. And the elders are supposed to admonish each other publicly, but also privately. And one of the joys that you've signed up for, you've taken an oath, is that I need this discipline and shepherd in my life. And one of the vows as a member of this church is that that I want people to speak into my heart in my life because I need it. I am blind. I I can I can I can rationalize doing any sin if I want to. Can't you? Think of the one right now. You know, you wanted to do it, you knew exactly what God told you. To do, you know, because God's will is clear, but you got around it and you said, I'm going to do it anyhow, and you rationalized it. Right? And what a joy it is to have someone who loves us. It's not going to come with a spiritual hammer, but it's going to come and sit down beside you and admonish you with God's word. What a blessing. Thank God that you have such a church. It's a privilege. It is a joy to have someone care about you and your soul. So Hebrews 13 says, Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those will give an account. Let them do this with joy, with thanksgiving, not with groaning. That wouldn't be any advantage to you. And the last cordial is in Colossians 4. 2, the last bit of medicine that we're going to Ask the Holy Spirit to apply to our lives today is to give thanks to God as you come to Him in prayer. Colossians 4:2. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. To thank God for that difficult thing that He's doing in your life even today Because it's going to cause you to let go of whatever it is. You might have to let go of mother or father or child or daughter or house or job. And find God sufficient, your health. And to find that He is the one that you can rest on, give thanks to Him all the time, being watchful. You have to watch our hearts. Because our hearts are often not thankful. Mark Altrige, a pastor, has just listed six different ways to cultivate Thanksgiving. We have these five cordials, but I'm going to give you six more. That go quickly. But maybe one of these will be one of the things that God will use to help you. Be more thankful, but keep your your heart in the right way. This first one is one that really, really helps me. Thank God the first thing when you wake up in the morning. You would start that way, rather than getting up and going. Oh no. And even before you have devotions, just wake up and thank Lord, you've gotten me through the night. And I'm vertical. I'm up. I'm moving. But what I do that helps me if I can do this is I start with the Lord's Prayer. And the reason is not because the Lord's Prayer is magic. But because all about it turns my heart away from me. Your kingdom, your will. Right? Because I wake up in the morning and start thinking, okay, what do I have to do? How am I gonna do it? Get this list done. I'm a list maker. I'm ready. But it starts to say, Lord, it's all about So as I have this day, help me start it with you, and it helps me being thankful. So start the day with Thanksgiving right after you get up. For some of you, it's keeping a thankfulness journal journal. Because we so forget so much of the Bible is talking about remembering. Right? And when I have that thankfulness journal, I can look back on it and say, yes, God did this and he did that and he did that. So when I look at his promises in the future, I know that we can get through that. One of the things that happened early on with Marg and I when we worked with the organization called Young Life, we had to raise our salary, half of it. And Young Life in Pittsburgh said they'd raise half. And about halfway through the year they said, we can't raise our half. And I remember getting this paycheck with 0. 00 printed on it. I wish I would have saved. I don't know how much it cost them to print that. That's where my twenty percent went. But it was during that time that we bought our first house because someone gave us $7,000, not a relative or anything else. And so I can look back to that. I remember one morning during that time, the 0. 00 paycheck, I woke up and I said, Lord. Um and I was putting my socks on and I put my foot through the sock. Oh Lord, if I just had some socks Went down to the mailbox and there was fifty dollars cash. I didn't need that many socks. But you see, I have that in the memory. I can remember that. One of the things I do is people send us Notes of thanks over the year. I keep files. I have one at home and one at the office where I store those away. Now not every thank thank you note is that way, right? You get a lot of thank you notes. You know, you had them over for dinner. Thank you for having us over to dinner. Oh, okay. I'm glad. That was nice. But they'll start to put something in it, you know? As we were there, we touched base, and as you said that, it helped my heart. Thank you for that. Right? You get those kind of thank you notes, you know, where people thought about them, right? I keep those. I need that to go back and remember that someone was thankful for the ministry. You know, and we need those with God to remember because when we look to his promises in the future, our eyes are clouded, our faith is weak, but we keep this journal, we can look back and see what he's done. Thank God for all the spiritual blessings you have. Just to name a few, he's adopted you as his child. He's given you eternal life. He's made you one with Christ. He's delivered you from the dominion of sin. He's made you a joint heir with Christ. He's filled you with his Holy Spirit. He gives you eternal hope. And he's blessed us with every blessing. In the heavenly places. Thank God for your material blessings. Yes, do it. Don't start there, but thank him. Wow, we are so blessed here. That's part of our problem, isn't it? We start looking at our gifts rather than the giver of our gifts. We start looking at the good things rather than our God, but we should thank him for all those things. So thank him for all the material blessings. You know what they are. And then thank God for any hard things you're going through. You didn't have to mention that one, did you, Pastor? One of our best friends are Tim and Cherry Hoke, and they are Missionaries in Uganda at African Bible College, Palmer Robertson started, and just this morning Cherry On Facebook, put this portion of this hymn, Whatever Our God Ordains Is Right. You probably know it. I don't know the number there, but I'm just going to read part of one verse, right? And And this helps put my heart right and to thank him for this. It says, whatever my God ordains is right. Here shall my stand be taken. Through sorrow, need, or death be mine, yet I am not forsaken. My Father's care is round me there. He holds me, and I shall not fall. And so to him I leave it all. Do you believe that? Do you believe it? Do you believe it? Well loved, let us let us thank God. 'Cause it's in these times that we really do our growth. It's not through the happy clappy times. I'm glad we're happy clappy times. You can give me all you want, Lord. But I tend to forget him in those. I might thank him at first, but then I just become I get into that I deserve it mode. Oh Lord, more happy clappy. I like it But it's during those times that are hard that I just say, oh Lord, you are all I have. You're my treasure and pleasure. And I find him to be faithful. And my joy grows. Thank God for the hard times And then the sixth thing is thank God in the midst of your petitions and prayers. Just thank him that he is God and that you have him as you Psalm 136 is a helpful psalm for our hearts and our souls. It's good medicine also because there's 26 verses, and every one we thank God for his steadfast love. My love isn't steadfast. And I now by God's grace we've been married forty-two years. Hasn't been any giant sins that's broken us, Marg and I apart, but I you know, some days I wake up and I'm going, mm-mm. And she would tell you, he's not acting very warm. By God's grace, we've been together and he has been good, but God's love is never like that. His is always steadfast. fast. Psalm 136, 24 times, it says in it, it starts and ends this way: give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love. Yours forever. Never ends. That's a wondrous thing. Well, today, as you come to the Lord's table, as we come to the Lord's table, Remember that each of these thank yous that we read today, but one were Eucharist. Thank you. As we come to the Eucharist, as we come to the Lord's table, thank God for your Savior and your salvation. They get that word also because in Luke 22, 19 it says, as Jesus took the bread, and when he had given thanks, Eucharistas. In Matthew 27, and as Jesus took cup when he had given thanks, you could restos. And when I come today, I need to say, oh Lord, I have an attitude of ingratitude so often. Would you help me? Would you turn me around to see these things? Would you would you have me mark and remember these? Isn't it good that you can come back now and I hope you've marked them. If you haven't, you've got your bulletin. Because when you start feeling your way, go back here. Go back and drink of the cordials of God's promises and what he's wanted as he mentions each of these five different things to help your own soul. So, as I come today, I'm confessing my own sin of ingratitude. And John Piper says this as we confess our sin of ingratitude. He says this. Jesus has nothing to do for those who insist they are well. He demands something great to confess that we're not great. And Jesus said, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, I came not to call the righteous but sinners. It's bad news for the arrogant, but words of honey to those who've given up their charade of self-sufficiency are seeking God. So as we come to the table today, let us each confess the wickedness of our own unthankfulness and run together with thanksgiving to the table of our Lord Jesus Christ. And find healing for our own sin sick souls as his gospel is proclaimed, even in the Eucharist, the Lord's table. As we remember and give thanks for his body broken for us and his blood shed for us. Let's pray. Father, we indeed give you thanks for a love that is steadfast. There is not a moment that we shouldn't give you thanks, but we So easily find our hearts hardened or full of ingratitude, and we thank you for so much that you've set before us May you encourage us as the body of Christ, as believers, to come to each other, to encourage each other to see your blessings. May we count them and number them and remember them. And being overwhelmed, especially for Christ, for who he is and what he's done. Amen.