When you started talking about growth, I was afraid you were gonna refer to my weight. I have grown a lot in that. Um I used to run six miles a day, and I had the appetite to uh sustain that, and then the Lord was pleased to give me a pretty severe back injury and I've been incapacitated for almost two years, so unfortunately my appetite didn't keep up with my lack of uh ability to exercise. Um the uh so I've grown that way for sure. I'm confident in that. It's a wonderful place, and it's wonderful to be with you all. It has one defect as a room for a meeting in that there's no clock in the direct sight line of the speaker. Not that that's intimidating at all. But um it's a wonderful opportunity to be with you. Um your elders picked this topic of several that I I gave that were much more interesting. Um we're our general theme is uh conflicts in the Christian life. And usually when you go on a retreat Maybe you're thinking about getting away from conflicts. Um it's not an attractive term. It's not an enticing circuit. Circumstance. But on the other hand, in the midst of the beauty and peace here, it might be a good time for us to meditate on the resources the Lord has available for us to live faithfully unto Christ in a fallen world. So we want to first ask ourselves: how ought we to think about conflicts? Opposition, sometimes severe, between brothers and sisters. in Christ or others outside the church, but more certainly more painful with brothers and sisters in Christ. How do we think about them? Well or do we only hope to endure them, if at all? We could look at conflicts as something to be feared, ignored, or hidden away, to be suppressed, at best to be suffered with hope of minimizing the damage that we know. is going to follow. Or we could, the more militaristic of us might look with uh at conflicts with a kind of unwholesome relish. An opportunity to put my opponents to frustration and flight, my cause to be vindicated. There are people who follow on both sides of that. Spectrum. Where we could look at conflicts as merely accidents, part of this confused and chaotic state of affairs in the world that we live in. Live in, troubling us from time to time and for no good purpose. These options would all have us think about conflicts in exclusively horizontal terms. This is, in fact, only according to appearances. But we who know and love the Lord Jesus Christ have a much higher calling. We know well our Lord's command that we are to judge not by appearances. But to judge righteous judgment. This antenna is going to drive me crazy. Let me adjust this a little bit. To judge righteous judgment Now, throughout my service as an elder in Christ Church, I've been regularly called upon to help resolve conflicts in the church. I served for many years on the Presbytery's committee that was tasked with the responsibility of going into congregations where there were Difficulties and it was a painful business. But over these many years, in a variety of circumstances, I have learned that if you're to be of any use to others in dealing with with conflicts, you have to always begin by dealing with the problem of helping everyone getting rightly oriented to the situation of conflict conflict in their lives. To understand it in its larger context. So this evening and over the next few days we're going to look at conflict, the conflict troubling the church at Corinth, to gain a proper orientation toward climate. conflicts in the church. There are great truths concerning God and the world that must be practically brought to bear in any conflict in our lives. And it will be our work to meditate together upon these scripture truths. To gain practical insight as to how to deal faithfully with the problems that we face. Throughout, we will be guided of our understanding of Scripture's teaching through the wonderful work of Ken Sandy and the Peacemaker's Minister. Ministries. How many of you had a chance to read The Peacemaker? That's wonderful. I have a number of their books up here. Of course, The Classic, The Foundation, The Peacemaker. But they've gone on to sort of do niche marketing for everybody who has troubles. So they have the Peacemaking Pastor, they have Peacemaking in Families, and Peacemaking Student Edition. It's the it's the thinnest volume, but it's the most needful of all of them. Um the uh this ministry has had a tremendous effect on our Presbytery Uh at one point during the history of the Presbytery, the committee that I served on, we had about five churches on fire. And we were absolutely exhausted going from congrugation to conjugation, trying to uh deal with the difficulties. And we thought really the committee itself was going to uh fall apart. And it was then we came across Ken's book. We studied it together as a committee, and then persuaded the presbytery to have peacemakers come in and do a program for the whole presbytery. And it was wonderfully received, great turnout. And the next year, the committee had almost nothing to do. The Lord blessed it wonderfully as people began to take up the calling of peacemaking and have some tools in hand for that great work. So I'm going to be drawing on the work the peacemakers have done, setting forth their soundly scriptural insights, informed and elaborated upon by my own study of God's Word and illustrated by my own practical experience in these matters. So general theme, conflicts in the Christian life. We're going to look tonight at conflicts as a means of grace. That ought to be a shocking title to you. We're going to look at bearing with one another in love in the following session. Then going and showing for the third. And finally, on Sunday morning, we're going to look at the nature and necessity of forgiveness in the Christian life. So that's what we'll be about. We go then to uh 1 Corinthians and I'm going to t pick up reading in the tenth verse of the first chapter. I appeal to you brothers. By the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, that there be no divisions among you, that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. For it's been reported to me by Chloe's people that there's been quarreling among you, my brothers. What I mean is that each one of you says, I follow Paul, I follow Apollos, or I follow Cephas, or I follow Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were any of you baptized in the name of Paul? It's a horrifying situation to the apostles. To anyone who knows what profession of faith in Christ ought to bring into the life of a people. It's rooted in their attachment to particular teachers. But we look in this text today not to address the particulars of Paul's concern, but rather to look at something of its broader significance. Our confession of faith in chapter 1. 6 speaks this way. The whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, for man's salvation and faith and life. are either expressly set down in Scripture or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture. The divines are saying there are some statements of Scripture, which are straightforward, indicative statements, or imperatives that give you something special. But they're further saying that whenever you find two propositions and bring them together and something follows from them, that's just as surely the teaching of God's Word as those expressed statements. And this evening I want to look at some of the good and necessary consequences that follow from what we see in this text. This conflict is a catastrophe for the church. It is church-threatening in and of itself. Paul is deeply concerned. Infantile jealousy and strife have arisen among this people. People who are feeling tremendous pressure from the outside, and now they're about to explode from the inside. And yet, this conflict becomes the occasion of extraordinary good. Paul deals with it straightforwardly, in a godly manner manner. And the Corinthian church ends up being edified out of the circumstance because of what God does with this conflict. Paul and 2 Corinthians will write to them. He said, even though I made you grieve in my letter, I do not regret it. Though I did regret it, for I see that the letter grieved you, though only for a time, as it is, now I rejoice not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved and to repent. Something wonderful came out of this conflict. Again, in 2 Corinthians 13, he said, the reason I write these things. is with the authority that the Lord has given me for building up, not tearing down. Dealing with a conflict properly, biblically, becomes the occasion for the building up of the church, not its destruction. But note this, not only the Corinthian church. This letter, directed by the Spirit of Christ, becomes a blessing to the church in every age. The Corinthian crisis becomes a cordial for the church, the dirty laundry of this congregation, an occasion for the cleansing of all of the churches that would be blessed. By the Spirit of God in the reading and heeding of these circumstances. Is this an accident? Is it just a happy coincidence? No, it's nothing other than the unfolding purpose. of the great God of heaven and earth. Paul had reminded the Corinthians in 1. 30, it's because of him that you are in Christ Jesus. It was he that brought you to Christ, and he does not intend to abandon you to anything less. They are, Paul will say in 3. 8 and following, God's field. And he intends for them to grow. Again, he'll say that they are God's building, and he is constructing them through the ministry of Paul to be a structure that cannot fail. Thus we learn, from the point of view of the Lord, building his church, that he intends conflicts in the church to be a means of conflict. Grace. Now you know that phrase, don't you? Means of grace. It refers typically to things like prayer, the preaching of the word, the reading of the word, fellowship, and so on. Instrumentalities. that have no power in and of themselves, but they're intended by the Lord with the blessing of the Spirit to be a way he conveys his goodness, his favor to us. And we're called to take up these means, trusting in the Lord to bless them, to make us more Christ-like. It's easy to see how reading the Bible, enjoying fellowship together would be a means of Grace. But the startling thing is that God intends things that are bad in and of themselves, yet to be a means of grace for God's people when they embrace properly the instructions that he's given them for dealing with conflicts. So tonight two parts, the context of conflict and the calling of conflict. First, the context of conflict. The question is, will we deal with the problems in our lives with worldly wisdom or with a renewed mind? Consider the ancient Chinese proverb, the longest journey begins with the first step. It reminds us that even great enterprises must begin in small things. But even before the first step, we have to be going in the right direction. We have to know the direction with w with respect to which we need to put forward our efforts. You need to get your bearings. You need to get rightly oriented. Now this is true in all of life, but it's especially true in difficult circumstances. We must always get our gospel bearings if we're to live out the gospel in a fallen way World. Paul presents to the Corinthians and to believers in every age a very different perspective from that of the world. Paul founds his address to them not upon their failings. but upon the faithfulness of God. In 1. 9, he says, God is faithful, by whom you were called into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ the Lord. Conflicts are to be seen as coming to us from the context of the faithfulness of God. God. Not the abandonment of God, but the faithfulness of God to his people. What God? Well, in one eight of the sixth verse, it's God the Father. From whom are all things, for whom we exist, and the Lord Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and through whom we exist. It's the God of everything Heaven and earth, the ruler over all the works of his hands, and his son Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. It's this God. And so, we must not be conformed to the world. But recognizing this God, we need to be transformed by the renewal of our minds. In every conflict you face, the crucial question is, will we deal with the conflicts from the point of view of the renewed mind? Or from conformity to only worldly interests. How does the renewed mind see things? In the first instance, believers must come to any conflict with the practical conviction. That God has brought this circumstance about. The practical conviction that God has brought this circumstance. The Apostle Paul insists that God works all things according to the counsel of his own will. Ephesians 1. 11. Now here we're carving out a difference between theoretical Calvinism and practical Calvinism. The practical Calvinist not only asserts that God is sovereign over all things, but is quite convinced that this circumstance, right now, has been appointed by God. This slander that I suffer from others at work, this crossing of hopes by someone in the congregation. This disobedience by my children, this unfair treatment by my parents, this misinterpretation of others by my desire to do good, this was appointed for me. By God, God my Father, who loves me and wants me to become Christ-like. I ran a study center halfway between Annapolis and Washington. For about a decade in the 80s. In those days, Calvinism didn't make the front page of the New York Times. In fact, uh Reformed theology was still looked at uh with pretty dim views by a lot of people. There's been an amazing revolution in this country since that day. But everybody was a little startled at this uh co country farmhouse out in Mitchellville, Maryland. Uh and they talked about a guy who was teaching out there and that if you cut him he bled Calvinism. And that seemed rather sh r rather shocking and uh uh a curiosity. It was like going to the zoo to see some Curious animal. That's the kind of reputation that I had. Uh now uh we live in this wonderful old farmhouse, thirteen rooms we usually Had students with us. The second floor had a host of bedrooms. There's a long hall that went down to a sunroom at the end of the hall. Now I loved my wife very much. But from time to time we suffered disagreements. Now, the pain of those disagreements in many ways largely was this. She would be angry at me for some purpose, and she could go to sleep at night, just as soundly as if she were at perfect peace. But on the other hand, I could not sleep at all. I would be sort of caught up in the whole business, and uh it made it even more frustrating that she was there sleeping peacefully And our never m I'll never forget one night I was walking up and down that long hall and the moon was full, so as as I go in the eastern direction that I'd walk into the light. And I'd turn around and walk down, and I'd walk back into the darkness. And I felt like that was what was going on in my soul at the time. And I was rehearsing in my mind all the studies that I'd done, the way that I was trying to help people, and this woman who was causing such turmoil. And I virtually heard myself saying, This woman you gave me I was traumatized. My Adernic nature had been revealed in the moonlight And then it dawned on me, yes, this is the woman you gave me. And these circumstances in our lives right now are the circumstances that you, the sovereign God, have appointed. For me and Jenny. And the only question is, will I receive this from you and respond in faith, or will I respond like a worldly? The way I was responding. God has appointed these circumstances. We may not understand his purpose in particular, but we know in general that it is for his glory and for the good of his people. as a body and the particular members thereof. This is so beautifully illustrated in the life of Joseph Recall his brothers, their terrible malice, the murderous treatment suffered at their hands, that led in his life to years of slander, privation. Imprisonment, general misery. And then suddenly they were in Joseph's hands When virtually all the power in the world was his to deploy, to gain his revenge, if he had so desired. at the mercy of his power, and what's revealed about Joseph and the way he looked at the world. In Genesis 50 at verse 19, we read this. Joseph said to them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. Joseph, who might have been filled with loathing for these brothers for all that he had suffered for so long. Comforts them with respect to their fears about what he might do. And he brings the perspective away from their relationship and what they had done And he says, Am I in the place of God? And the answer is obviously no. And it continues: As for you, you meant it for evil. Joseph doesn't shy back from the truth. He doesn't act as if it didn't happen. He faces it perfectly realistically. He knows he suffered. You meant it for evil. But the horizon of his gaze lifts beyond his brothers to the God of heaven and earth. who behind them and their ill intent, Joseph says, God meant it for good. For good to bring about that many people should be kept alive. He looked around at what happened out of those circumstances that he had been given the visions to understand a famine was coming. There had been food gathered so that people from all over that region were rejoicing and nourished and fed because of the terrible thing those brothers had done God meant it for good, that many should be kept alive today. So do not fear, for I will provide for you and your little ones. And thus he comforted them, and he spoke kindly to them. You see, because Joseph knew that at the end of the day he was dealing with God, a God who loved him and attended good, he was freed up. From the bitterness, the revengeful spirit that might have consumed him. Joseph had a divine calling in dealing with his brothers in the harm. That they had done to him. Thus we say again: conflicts are properly understood as a means of grace, an instrument for conveying to us God's goodness. For we know with the Apostle Paul that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. This is an expression of the practical significance of the doctrine of providence, surely one of the most precious doctrines that the Bible teaches. J. F. Packer is one of my favorite theologians. I've been blessed by him so enormously I can't help but feel a debt of gratitude that could never be repaid. Packer's written a marvelous little book called Concise Theology that I've gone through. with our students over and over again at New Hope. And one of the finest sentences among many fine sentences that is he wrote, this statement about Providence. I think is uh uh not divinely inspired, but wonderfully inspired uh in the human sense. The doctrine of Providence teaches Christians that they are never in the grip of blind fortune, chance, luck, or fate All that happens to them is divinely planned, and each event comes as a new summons. Every event in your life is a summons from God. A summons to trust, to obey, to rejoice, knowing that all is for one spiritual and eternal. The event comes and it's a summons from God. Trust me now in this circumstance The event comes. It's a summons from God. Obey me now, in this circumstance. The event comes. And it's a summons from God. Rejoice in me now in these circumstances. Conflict comes to us, therefore, as a summons to respond in faith to God's providence. And it presents to us an extraordinary opportunity, fourfold, to glorify God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, to grow, to be like Christ, to serve others, and to bear witness to the transcript. And we see that in Joseph. Joseph responded to that conflict, summonsed by God, and he glorified God. He became more Christ-like. He served his brothers and many others in the way he responded. And it is an extraordinary witness to the transgression. So that leads us to our second point. We want to look at these each in turn, the calling of conflict In conflict, we're called to glorify God. Now, I hope you're all ready with a handy definition of glory, God's glory. At New Hope, I've rehearsed this so often that I immediately get several shouts of the definition. Anyone have a handy definition? What is God's glory? It's his manifest excellence. It's the wonder of all that he is shining forth. And so for us that glorify him, we can't add to his excellence. It means that we're reflecting in some way God's excellence. In the way we act in the light of what He's appointed. God's glory is His manifest excellence to glorify Him is to show forth the excellence. Of God. And this is in fact the goal of all of our endeavors in this world, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10:31, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, you want in some way. to be manifesting the excellence of your great God. It's particularly with respect to our redemption in Christ. that we show forth the excellence of God. 1 Corinthians 6. 20. Paul says, you were bought with a price. Do you realize what your redemption means? What's that translated to in our lives? Glorify God in your body. To glorify God in the midst of conflict, it means that in the first place we know he's our only resource. So we call upon him in prayer. To glorify God is then calling upon him in prayer to have faith that he'll give us the resources needed To faithfully respond to what he's appointed. We walk here by faith and not by sight. Having called upon him, exercising faith, then we act. We act according to his word. Trusting the Lord, acting for his pleasure. 2 Corinthians 5. 10. Whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him The key question in every conflict in your life is not how it turns out. It's whether or not You have been pleasing to the Lord in this matter. Not whether you won, whether you've survived, but whether the Lord can take delight in seeing what his grace has affected in the way you've treated other people. people. So one, number one, the calling of conflict is to glorify God. Number two, the calling of conflict is to grow in Christ-likeness. Now, this is the purpose of life in this age. When we get to heaven, we'll see him, and seeing him we'll become like him. Perfectly transformed But in this age, God intends that through the difficulties, the trials, the joys, the sorrows, that through all of those things we should be growing slowly. in Christ-likeness, dying more to more to self, and coming more and more alive to Christ. Paul puts it beautifully in 2 Corinthians 3:18. He says, We all with unveiled face Beholding the glory of the Lord. Do you remember this is hearkening back to Moses? Moses, God would meet with Moses. Moses would have this extraordinary glowing from the presence of God. The Israelites couldn't bear it, and so they wanted him to veil his face. Paul is saying is that you and I, in the redemption that we have in Christ, we're like Moses, and none of us needs to be veiled any longer. The glory of Christ is appearing. And what's happening? Well, we're being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. This comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. Conflict is a part of the suffering in this world that has a redemptive purpose according to the great God who loves us. Recall Paul saying in Romans chapter 5 at verse 3 and following. He begins, We rejoice in our suffering. What is a polymasochist? Is this some kind of weird distortion of human nature that there should be joy in suffering? Well, Paul is not saying that we rejoice in the sufferings themselves. Strictly speaking, if you rejoiced in sufferings, they'd no longer be sufferings. What suffering does is make you miserable. And if you have some kind of weird psychological quirk that suddenly you think this is a good time, you've left the uh pale of human nature. But you no longer count as being one who's suffering. No, what he's saying is this. He says we don't rejoice in the sufferings themselves. That's impossible. For a person of right mind created in the image of God, we rejoice in what God purposes through those sufferings. So he goes on to say we know that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character. And character produces hope. A hope that does not put to shame. What an extraordinary thing that out of suffering should blossom this beautiful flower of hope that cannot be denied, that cannot fail, because God's love has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit. who's been given to us. We have the opportunity to glorify God in dealing with conflicts. We have the opportunity to become more Christ-like Further, in the midst of conflict, we discover our weakness and we discover our need for God's strength. We have a fundamental inability to do good of ourselves. It's only by God's strength Now, God works to transform us. We have a new birth. But just like a child born, Though you have all the potential of human nature within you from the time of your birth, the only way that potential is unlocked is through exercise. through challenge, through difficulty, the things that are there in seed form, in potential, are brought into actuality. They blossom and they bloom Warfield illustrated this beautifully in an essay that he wrote called Inability and the Demand of Faith. And he was trying to help people understand how this could be. You know, the Bible teaches that not only do we not please God, we cannot do so. We are unable to do so. As we are, dead in trespass and sin. And yet commands are addressed to people like us. Repent. Believe. And we're taught we can only do that by the power of God. So I hear the command, repent, and I sit around waiting for a sort of God-powered feeling to come over to me, uh over me, so I'll have the ability to do it. Now Warfield said, no, think about it this way. Remember that Jesus, the man with a withered hand, withered from birth, the man knew it was a useless hand. And Jesus said to him, Stretch out your hand. And he didn't wait around for a hand-stretching out feeling to come over him. He heard the word of Christ. He was determined to try to obey, though he knew he couldn't do it, and it was in the context of seeking to be pleasing to Christ that he found the power for that hand. is to stretch out. And Warfield argued that that's a perfect picture of our lives spiritually. We are unable. But given the desire to please Christ, it's in the going out after the pleasure of our Lord that we find the strength. In the furnace of affliction, the glories of God's grace at work are manifested in our lives. Paul speaks of his own experience in 2 Corinthians 12, 9. He had prayed for the affliction that he suffered to be lifted. Prayed in faith. Prayed perfectly, believing that God was good and that he had the power to do it if he wished. But he also knew that God was wise, and after his Lord, he was fully prepared to say, Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. And so he said that the Lord revealed to him, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. And Paul concluded, Therefore I will boast the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may remain He became self-conscious of his weakness, and that became the occasion for looking more and more to Christ for strength. And in so doing, he came to know not only his weakness, but he knew the strength of his own. of the Lord. 2 Corinthians 13, 4. He was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. So we also, weaken him, but dealing with you, we live with him by the power of God. Here, too, we uncover sin and seek for his grace in repentance. In the midst of conflict, I come to see more clearly my own sin. I've come to see clearly the sin of others. Now notice this. This isn't in order to do harm, to be mean, critical in some way or another. The believer wants more than anything to have his sin revealed more and more to him. Because it's only as it's revealed to him can he come to that wholesome repentance that helps him die to it and come more alive to Christ. That ought to be a hard society. Jonathan Edwards used to say, you know, if you really want to grow in Christ, you ought to listen to your enemies who criticize you. He said, look, your enemies, they really want to hurt you. And so they're not going to make up false things. They're going to land on the things that are really wrong with you. But from their malice, you can profit. Say, thank you, brother. I'm happy to die to that. Because I want to come more alive to Christ. We uncover our sin and seek his grace for repentance. We grow, we grow in the graces of love, patience, courage, and forgiveness through exercise. You recall the apostle in Galatians 5, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, pa patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control against these. There is no law. And those who have belonged to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. So if we live by the Spirit, let us walk. He speaks in the past tense. There's a sense in which there has been a crucifixion with respect to those desires. All of these things, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, all of these thing things revise reside inside of each one of you right now who has been Born again by the Spirit of God. Every one of them. And they're lying there ready to be brought into actuality through exercise To be manifested by the kinds of conditions in the world that bring them into manifestation. The best wine comes from grapes, most stressed in the growing season. And the best fruit in the Spirit of God comes from those souls who have been stressed in the trials and difficulties and struggles of life Which means that therefore we must be good stewards of conflict. Can you imagine that? Have you been a good steward of the conflicts in your life today? Have you carefully nurtured them to make sure that all the fruit that might come will be brought to pass in your life? Such a radical change in our perspective. How has Christ been formed in me more through this circumstance? And look, that possibility Christ formed in you through this circumstance That can be true no matter how the matter turns out. Whether it's resolved properly, whether you continue to suffer persecution by others. That doesn't matter, because the lessons that you can learn from conflict are not dependent on the outcome of those circumstances. The outcome belongs to God, but in faithfulness we can grow in Christ-likeness, whatever the outcome Conflict is a call to serve others. Paul could have said to the Corinthians, you know, you people are a mess I'm fed up. What do I have to do to get through to you? Here I've declared to you the glory of Christ, his cross, and nothing but that alone, and you people are saying some of you are of Paul and some of Apollos. All who are nothing but servants for your sake in the gospel? No. Paul, instead of saying, look, I'm the one who ought to be served, can't you people get it together? On the contrary, their conflict was the occasion for Paul's reassertion of his sense of call to serve them. The very ones who were causing his difficulty. So he says in 3. 5 of the first epistle, what then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you believe. as the Lord assigned to each. He repeats the idea in 4-1. This is how you should regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mystery of God. Again in the second epistle in 4. 3. For what we proclaim to you is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord and ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. Paul took the conflict with these believers to be an occasion for the reassertion of his calling to serve them in some way. And of course, it's self-sacrificing service. Paul rehearses the list in 2 Corinthians 6. 4. Endurance, afflictions, hardships, calamities, beatings, imprisonments, riots. Sorrowful yet always rejoicing, poor, yet making many rich, having nothing, yet possessing everything We need to ask, is Paul unique in this? Is this some special apostolic calling? No, the calling to serve others, even in the midst of conflict. is but an expression of the royal law of our Lord. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There are varieties of servants. We're not all apostles, but we all have the same Lord. 1 Corinthians 12, 5. And the gifts that He's given us are for the building up of others in every circumstance. 1 Corinthians 14, 26. What then, brothers? When you come together, each one is a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, an interpretation. Here he gives his general proposition that's to guide the Christian life. Life, let all things be done for the edifying. Even engaging in conflict. Let take it as your mission to build another up. What does that service look like? Well, we're called to bear one another's burdens. Galatians 6, 1 and 2. Brothers, if anyone's caught in a trespass, you who are spiritual, restore them in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch over yourself lest you two be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Often a person in conflict with you is in that conflict because they're bearing some kind of a burden. Some kind of anger, some kind of resentfulness, some unwillingness to have resolved a matter. And you're called in that context to try and understand how you can help bear that burden. We serve by encouraging our opponent to trust Christ and presenting to him an example of the same trust that we're encouraging Brother, we've got to look to the Lord in this. I want to do that. Don't you want to as well? The Lord's servant, Paul writes to Timothy in 2 Timothy 2, verses 24 and 25, the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome. But be kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting opponents with gentleness, God may perhaps grant them repentance. Leading to a knowledge of the truth. It's one of the most startling passages, I think, in Scripture. Paul tells Timothy what he must do as a Christian. As a minister. And then he says, God perhaps may grant repentance and our knowledge of the truth. He doesn't guarantee the outcome. He just tells Timothy what he's to be about the world and says, leave direct. The King James has this translated in a way that's wonderful. Peradventure. Peradventure. God may grant them. repentance and a knowledge of the truth. And the point is that faithfulness is our calling in dealing with others. And the outcomes belong to our God. In conflict, we serve others by seeking the common good, not personal vindication. Paul instructs the Philippians in chapter 2: Do nothing from rivalry or conceit But in humility count others as more significant than yourselves. Let each one of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others Not too long ago, I was called to a meeting of people that had important leadership positions in the PCA. And uh we were all f flown into the city, several of us, by a very generous benefactor. Because the it became something of a crisis in the functioning of the church of the certain level that there'd been this falling out between two people. It actually threatened the good of the church. One had taken offense with another, and we were there to try and help mediate. To help them begin to talk to each other. And the most wonderful thing happened in the course of the day. The whole thing kind of boiled down to the offended one saying, Why did you do this to me? And finally they were able to talk, and the one who was accused of the offense said this. Why did I do it? I did it because I care for you. And the things you were doing seemed to me to do. be doing you harm. And I did it because I care for the church. And the things you were doing seemed to me to be doing harm for the church And so I wanted to do good for you and good for our church. The offended one was shocked to hear this. He he he was uh uh uh amazed that at the end of the day he was seen to be himself suffering in behavior that he was pursuing. And that others wanted to try and keep him from that suffering. And it was beautifully disarming. In conflict, we have the privilege to learn and to help others learn where we are wrong and how to change. Back to my meeting. The fellow who was offended said, I can see that now. I see what you were trying to do But rather, I want you to know I think you chose the wrong means. Because it seems to me you did more harm than could Good. I appreciate your motive and I'll honor that. But I want you to understand that I think the instruments you used were more destructive. And edifying. Other means would have been more appropriate. And the man who had tried to intervene and had his good-hearted labors uh misinterpreted Said, Yes, I see that. Please forgive me. And there was the most extraordinary reconciliation that did great good not only in their lives. but in the life of the church. Finally, conflict is a call to witness. A call to witness. Can you imagine that? Uh knock on the neighbor's door. Um, do y'all go to church? Do you know anything about Christ? Well, I want to witness to you, so I brought a friend that I'm angry with. And I want you to see the difference that Christ makes. The four spiritual laws of combat. It's a call to witness. The Corinthians' way of life, in response to Paul's exercise. Led to this. 1 Corinthians 1. 6. The testimony about Christ was confirmed in you Their appropriate response, their repentance and faith, the testimony about Christ was Confirmed in their lives. They claim to be forgiven, and the invariable reality that follows upon a person who's really received forgiveness is that they're ready to. Forgive. Be kind to one another. Ephesians 4. 32. Tender-hearted. Forgiving one another as God in Christ has forgiven you. It's a confirmation of the reality of forgiveness in our own lives. Conflict is a crucial occasion for witness. A new commandment I give to you, says Jesus in John 13, that you love one another just as I have loved you. You are also to love one another. By this all people will know that you're my disciples if you love one another. John 17, Jesus takes the theme up again. The glory that you have given me, I've given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I and them, and you and me, that they may be perfectly one, that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even. Even as I have loved you and you have loved me. I want to say, I don't really think myself that this verse has anything to do with the manifestation of a perfect unity among believers in this world. I think John 17 is entirely eschatological. It's a profound mistake to suppose that somehow the testimony of Christ in the world is dependent upon the unity of believers. But I will say this the testimony about Christ in your life is to Dependent upon you as one who is forgiven, being prepared with long suffering to forgive others. And our servants of a living Lord and Savior in the way we deal with our conflicts. My son and his family live in Santa Barbara, California. It's virtually heaven on earth. I'm an Easterner from birth. I was born in Washington, D. C. You couldn't get more. blindly co cosmopolitan. Um and so I naturally grew up making fun of people in California and California in general. So the first time we went out to Santa Barbara to visit them and they drove us up uh Route Wa Highway One, I had to spend half the trip repenting. Such a gorgeous place. And decent even some decent people there. Um Uh but one of the threats to this paradise is that uh although it's lush, it actually is, according to according to who would it be Geographers or who who who says what kind of land is what? I can't even remember the science, but it's largely desert. And it's only a peculiar set of conditions that makes it possible for it to be so lush. And thus, when it is dry for a long time, fires are an enormous threat to that area. A threat to wealth, a threat to life. It's a terrifying thing. Just down from Santa Barbara several years ago in Montecito There was a fire that broke out that spread up the coast. Andrew and Betsy would go to bed at night looking out through the big bay window and the mountain behind them was on fire. A remark they were sending remarkable pictures. Hundreds of millions of dollars of destruction from that fire. In Montecito, that's where Oprah lives. You get some sense of the opulence of the place. And word got out that the Christian college there, Westmont, that it was some students of from Westmont. That caused the fire. And the blogs and the newspapers were filled with the most vitriolic, bitter, complaining, terrible, slanderous accusations and so on. The college's published public image was just being destroyed, and people really pouncing on the opportunity. And two faculty members Decided they were going to take as their mission to respond to every accusation that they could see. in a way that reflected the Christ that they served in that college. And it was the most remarkable thing to watch these terrible things being said. And then with gentleness, a person said saying now this isn't entirely accurate and here you can see what the facts are if you look here. And understand this about it. Not berating in return, not accusing in return, so that after several days of this, two of the bloggers who had been most vitriolic publicly apologized on the blog. And said, we now discovered that the facts were wrong, but further, we were treated with such kindness and care that how could we not value the presence of such people in our community. It was an amazing demonstration of witness to Christ in the midst of the most bitter kind of conflict publicly pursued that you you could have imagined. Well, just a word or two quickly. Your patient group this evening, I know you've had a big day. But let me urge us in summary. uh to realize this that conflict comes as a summons to respond in faith to God's providence and it presents us with an opportunity. We ought to go out of here tonight thinking about our own lives. Have I been a good steward of my conflicts? Has my investment of time and trouble paid off in growth and grace? Have I seen these turn out to be for the glory of God, for my own growth in Christ-likeness, that I take it as an occasion to be a servant to others in the midst of it? And to witness the transforming power of the gospel, both in my life and the life of another. Consider for a moment: is this the approach you've taken to conflicts in the past? If so, give thanks and pray for more grace. If not, repent of it, and receive this instruction, and resolve that you will by God's grace learn to do better than you have. This is my testimony in 16 years on the Conflicts Committee of Potomac Presbyteria and now several years on the Standing Judiciary. Commission of the Presbyterian Church in America. These are both tremendously difficult assignments. I have had the opportunity to see the believers at their absolute worst. It might drive your hope for faith right out of the world. But here's the payoff of this Labor. So often I've had the opportunity to see the Lord at his absolute best, bringing good out of evil, healing out of brokenness, reconciliation out of alien. Not always. His ways are inscrutable. This is a broken world, and heaven remains a hope yet to be realized. But often, often enough to help me to be encouraged and to persevere in the confidence that He can when He wills, and He wills according to His own wisdom and purpose. And I can be faithful and trust him in these things. Is there some conflict in your life now that's troubling you? Come to it from this point of view. of you. Resolve today that you'll take up God's calling to receive conflicts as a means of grace, as a stewardship in your life And let me conclude with this. In all of this, of course, we must set our minds on Christ Who he is, what he has done, and who you are in him. There's a wonderful hymn entitled Wonder Is Above All Others. The verse has us sing this. Could we bear from one another what he daily bears from us? Think of your faithfulness and Christ's patience with you. Could we bear from one another what he daily bears from us? Yet this glorious friend and brother loves us though we treat him thus. Us, though we render good for ill, he accounts us brethren still. And so we sing, in light of that truth, O for grace our hearts to soften. Teach us, Lord, at length to love. We alas forget too often what a friend we have in above. But remembering that, friend, how shall we live? Another great song penned by Count Zinzendorf. Flock of Jesus be united Grant us, Lord, with thy direction, love each other, we comply, aiming at unfeigned affection, thy love to exemplify Let our mutual love be glowing, thus all men will plainly see that we, as on one stem growing, are living branches in the May our light before men with brightness, from thy light reflected shine. Thus the world will bear witness that we, Lord, are truly. Let us pray together. Father, we pray that these wholesome words from your word Would bear fruit in our lives, that we'd understand them, that we'd come to love them. They planted deep in our hearts. There would be good soil found, prepared by you. That through the Spirit they would blossom. Father, we thank you for the faithful labors and witness of Ken Sandy and the peacemakers. Father, as far as I know, just now Ken is seriously ill. And we take this occasion to pray that you would heal him and preserve him in his life and service. But we thank you for the wonderful way this student of your word has helped so many people to come to grips with these great truths. And we pray that you would glorify your name now in our midst. And we ask it in Jesus' name, Amen.