Just as a programming note, if if for the lack of a better term, uh this Sunday uh we are uh Uh studying through the Gospel of Matthew, uh not its entirety, of course, uh just a couple of passages. Uh I'd like to consider that this passage, and hopefully it'll become obvious to you, as being a sort of a capstone. or follow-up or summary, if you will, of the book of Haggai. Next Sunday we will not be meeting here for worship. We will be at the retreat And then the following Sunday, now some people were wondering, I will begin to preach out of the book of Malachi. That is, of course, the last book that we have recorded for us right before you can find it very easily. Just go to Matthew and just turn the page back and there it is. Makes it real easy to find as it relates to the minor prophets. Uh but we'll be going through Malachi and um the journal books that uh were handed out to you, you may be able to continue using them because uh that was uh right along with uh the book of Haggai. So next Sunday we will be at the retreat, and then following that we'll start with the Book of Malachi. So speaking of Haggai, over the last two months, we have been studying through the book of Haggai. Last week we concluded our study with God encouraging his people. that he chose the rubbable, uh, descended from David as a signet ring of his kingdom This would and did communicate to God's people that God was still with them, and he is still with his remnant. They were to look to a future where his chosen one would come to bring about the kingdom of God. This was, of course, a foreshadowing of Christ Himself. Just as the rubbable was called by God to build the temple, a physical temple with physical stones, the chosen one, the anointed one, would build the temple, the true temple of God, by living stones. and would adorn it with the finest appointments by the peoples from all the nations, you and I. But what was, but that was not the only nor main message from the book of Haggai. If you recall, it began sixteen years after the first band of returnees had come and built the altar of God and restarted the sacrifices, but they stopped due to threats from their neighbors. Over that 16-year period, they had turned their attention to themselves, their needs, and their aspirations. They built their own houses, repaired their living abodes. In fact, they were so consumed with themselves that instead of giving thought to building the temple walls and a ceiling to cover it, They were more concerned with doing upgrades to their houses. They had become more concerned with their properties, making it uh their personal properties, that is, making it on the front covers of Jerusalem's Better Homes and Gardens and the latest editions of Babylon's architectural digest. God thwarted their efforts and their pursuits of becoming wealthy and self-dependent And he told them flat out that he was responsible for that. God was not the pursuit of their hearts. His kingdom was not what they sought after. They were other interests which replaced the pursuit of God's kingdom and his righteousness. God called them out and told them that they needed to consider their ways. And this brings us squarely into our passage today. Verse 33 encapsulates what I've been pointing out quite nicely. Having said that, would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? It is from the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 6. Our bulletins have verses 31 to 34. However, I am going to start a little earlier in the chapter, verse 19, as I will be making mention of those teachings, and it would be helpful to have them fresh in our minds. Hear now the Word of God. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also The eye is a lamp of the body, so if the eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. Therefore, I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns. And yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not more value than they? And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is alive, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? Oh, you of little faith. Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need have need of them all. But Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. Therefore, do not be anxious about tomorrow. For tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And as you are being seated, would you please pray with me as we entreat the Holy Spirit? Holy Spirit, we thank you for your grace, and we look to you now to be with us as we study the Word of God. Help your people, help this preacher, to see and to understand the truths that you would want us to learn. Help us to recognize. Where there is repentance necessary in our lives. And we turn to you even now that you would grant us that grace, the grace of repentance, so that we may. Place God, the kingdom of God, and his righteousness first in our lives. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. The passage that we just read is found in what is commonly called and well known as the Sermon on the Mount. It begins in chapter 5 and ends in chapter 7. Now before we get into our passage, I'd like to provide a little more context, which I think would be helpful. Sermon on the Mount is about the kingdom of God. The one that the people of God had been waiting for and was about to break out in and by Jesus Himself. Not only spoke of entry, but it also spoke of kingdom ethics and how citizens of that kingdom were to interact with one another as well as with the world around them and the priority of placing God and his kingdom first in their lives. As Jesus taught this largely agrarian society, who lived day by day, at times who largely wore Basically, all of their wardrobe on their backs, if you will, without refrigeration, some challenging implications of what it means to be a kingdom citizen. This surely arose in their minds. This was, after all, a kingdom, and it had its laws and its properties. So he had just taught them they should love their enemies, control their anger, give to the needy. The whole issue of taking oaths, divorce, giving away with generosity, and so forth. This certainly would have raised questions in the minds of some that were there. If I'm going to live out this kind of life, how is one supposed to have enough food, drink, and clothing? As you can intuitively relate, this would have caused some worry in the minds of those that were present. Now, all of these Present challenges for the individual disciple. All the things that the Lord was teaching them presents challenges for you and I. Now this challenge, however, represents a challenger that the Lord addresses in verses 19 to 24. The Old King James retains the old word, I'm sure you've probably come across it, mammon. Our translation has it as money. It is money, but it does have with it the understanding of wealth Regarded as an evil influence or false object of worship and devotion. That's what mammon in this context means, or money in this context means. A wealth regarded as an evil influence or false object of worship and devotion. Now, this gets at the heart of the struggle when they took their eyes off of God, The interesting thing is that believers, in all probability, who are challenged by men, continue to go to church every week, give their tithes and offerings. But the focus of their heart can become divided. Now, we know this is true in Haggai's time, because God God called them out on this particular issue. And number two, all you had to do was look at the state of disrepair at the temple, and that's all the evidence that you could have ever possibly needed. It doesn't just have to be the pursuit of money, however. It really can be anything when you think about it. The Lord teaches us that the disciple must have only one master, God Himself. The devotion must be to his kingdom and the seeking out of his righteousness. Although we may argue that there is harmless overlap. And we can do whatever it is that we're trying to accomplish. You know, no harm or foul. But at some point, whatever or whoever the challenger is to God, it will, God will force you to choose. As the world's ways are simply not compatible with God's ways. But let's face it, when we're pursuing things of the world like money, What are we doing? We are placing our trust in those things. Are we not? But in doing so, we lose sight and take our eyes off of what is primary. for the kingdom citizens. God's mission and our fruitfulness, our contribution to that mission. Practically speaking, this manifests itself where our commitment at first wavers, and in no time we're just running through the motions. Checking off things that we have to do with no spiritual growth, no joy, or a sense of mission or purpose for the kingdom of God. Brothers and sisters, are you, have you, or are you becoming like the believers in Haggai's time? Within that 16-year period of time? What are those challenges in your life? Can you even identify them? Now, Jesus understood that changing the way one lives could cause fear and then anxiety and worry For even the very basic needs of life, food, safe drink, and clothing. He uses illustrations and gives us stories about birds of the air, the flowers of the field, and the grass, and so forth in the field. The Lord points out that God's providential care of the birds of the air shows his concern and care for them. Should we, as the crowning achievement in his creation, the image-bearers of God, be treated any less, we need not be anxious. All the worrying in the world produces nothing. It adds Nothing. It doesn't make it come about. It doesn't come any faster or slower. And let me tell you, neither does it make your hair grow bigger or faster. Or even more of it. In fact, what it can produce is paralysis. It can cause paralysis in our lives. It's a waste of time. It takes our eyes off of what we know we have to do. Right? I'm certain that most of us, if not all of us, have experienced all of this. When we worry about things like clothing, where we're going to live, housing, what we're going to eat, food, we become distracted from doing what? The kingdom works that the Lord has set before us. Now, the reason why we don't want to be concerned about all these things is because God says that He will provide them for us. He makes a distinction between the unbelievers who don't know God. They are anxious about these things. Well, they should be. But those that are in the kingdom of God should not be worried, because God will provide us what it is that we need. We are a peculiar people. We are different. At times we respond differently to the same set of circumstances. At least we should. We kind of stand out like that. When you consider the lives the remnants led in Haggai's time, Would someone visiting from another part of the world, let's just say Egypt, come and say that the people in Haggai's time are different. Or they're just like everybody else around that region. I think the point is that they would have said the latter. I think that we, you and I, individually and corporately need to ask ourselves the very same question: Am I really any different than the unbeliever today? Do I respond the same or differently to the same set of circumstances? How do I respond to financial problems? How do I respond to conflict at work? How do I respond to people who treat me with evil intent? How do I respond to loss? And how do I respond to emotional pain? Well, now that we've talked about what the priority is for our lives, let's talk about what God's provisions mean and don't mean. Now, this is a broad principle. And we must remember that He will give us everything that we need so that we will be successful. At achieving the kingdom goals that He has set before us. Let me say that again. He will give us everything that we need so that you and I will be successful at achieving the kingdom goals that He has set before us. However, we have to be careful to make a distinction, a couple really, between needs and desires. Sometimes we can be quite picky in the things that we say that we need, right? How can I eat my jumbo shrimp without my favorite cocktail sauce? It makes all the difference in the world. Why is God cutting corners when it comes to me? He said he would give me what I needed. There is a difference, isn't there, between what we truly need and what we desire. And let me also point out: there's a difference in the amount of what we need and what we desire. We as disciples should concern ourselves not with things we desire, nor worry over basic needs, for our Heavenly Father knows we need them before we even experience it. Our first priority in our lives is to seek out the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now, let's get to the bigger issue here. That is the issue of saints who suffer and are persecuted and go without God said that being a Christian is not going to be easy. He said there will be times when we will experience pain and suffering. The Lord said to his disciples, look at how they treated him. They should expect no less. We should expect no less. In God's providence, just like the Lord brought about the kingdom of God by suffering, suffering unto death, we also, as followers, will experience suffering. as we serve the kingdom of God and should not be, as Peter says, surprised by suffering There will be times that in our placing the kingdom of God first, we will experience the pain of doing so and want. We should not interpret those times of want as God not providing the basic needs in life, like food, clothing, and drink. Those are times and events in our lives where God has chosen to glorify Himself and call to serve Him. In those situations, we will have all that we truly need to serve God and his kingdom. Despite all the odds that were against the disciples, God provided and sustained them for their kingdom work. God does that for us as well. Let me point out that as followers of His Majesty, we are called and were originally called little Christs, Christians. He was stripped naked. He was hungry and thirsty upon the cross But he would be the first to say he had all that he needed He placed the kingdom of God first. When his father said no to him, this cup shall not pass from your hand Jesus put his father's interests first. So when God says that we will be provided what we need, It means that God will provide us everything we need to do, whatever kingdom works that He has prepared for us. So now we are to go about living kingdom lives as kingdom citizens. See, this affects our ethics, and it also affects the way we plan out lives. We plan out our lives, the decisions that we make in life Seeking God's kingdom and his righteousness amounts to the same thing. Here, righteousness is the law of the realm, the law of God's kingdom. We've already established that this passage is for the disciple, those that are within the kingdom of God, the Sermon on the Mount. We know that we have no righteousness of our own. It is God's righteousness. It is literally Christ's righteousness that was accredited to our account. The passage does not say, place God's kingdom first and seek out your righteousness. So it is not about doing good works or proper ethics for salvation. Let's see if we can dig a little deeper regarding the meaning of God's righteousness. I think the clue that in forms of Christ's meaning here is what he's already uh said is our problem. The reason we have worry and anxiety in the first place The type of behavior that is typified by the unbeliever is that we have, as the Lord said, little faith. Again, let us note, it is not you who have no faith. It is you with little faith. Since these are kingdom citizens, the assumption is that they are of faith, that they are experiencing anxiety and worry because their faith is weak. And needs to be fortified, built up. With this understanding, we can direct our focus to seeking our God's righteousness As the enterprise of building up of our faith. And we do that by pursuing the means of grace. Prayer, word, and sacrament. Isn't this true, brothers and sisters? When we seek out God's grace, we have more faith. When we have more faith, we by definition trust God more. And when we are not of little faith We have what? Less anxiety because we trust God to provide us the basics of life. Are you anxious today? Are you full of worry I know that there are times when I am. It's natural for us to experience this feeling. What we also have to admit is that it doesn't happen in a vacuum. For us, as followers of Christ, as his disciples, when we get lazy in our walks, we begin to forget that God does provide for our needs. But when we allow ourselves to sin, as in breaking of the tenth commandment, covet stuff that we don't have, we can begin to desire things that we really don't need. In fact, by definition, if God is providing what we need, we really don't need the thing that we are coveting. So you see, the discovery of sin in our lives is actually a pretty good thing. It's like discovering a cancer early. So it's easier to treat and maybe less painful. Not only the discovery of sin, but repentance is so important Yes, I know that it can also be very hard, but we can experience true repentance when God gets involved. People of God in Haggai's time not only were brought to the knowledge of their sin, but they had placed their own needs before God's, but it didn't stop there. Do you remember? It was God's Spirit that needed to move them to genuine repentance and stir them to action. They gave up what they were doing and addressed the needs of God's kingdom. And they were able to pursue God's righteousness. So my last point today is about how to make and take practical steps in putting God first and seeking out his righteousness. The first is keep at it. Keep at it. Don't give up We are to be tenacious, looking at this journey that we are on with the living God as a marathon and not as friends. Don't allow setbacks to overwhelm you. Get back up and turn to the Lord to support you and to encourage you. Walk in the Spirit. The Apostle Paul tells us that we should walk in the Spirit. He produces fruit in us, the Spirit does. We should engage him, the Holy Spirit, in doing so more and more in our lives, and to cultivate that fruit. The world has its ways and its wisdom, does it not? Take the time to learn. And apply God's wisdom in everyday life. Ask godly people in your life for counsel. Ask them for God's wisdom. Get closer to God. Spend time with him. Listening to him. Speaking to you in his word. Learn about him and delight in his being. Get closer to him by praying. I think we should rejoice. We need to spend more time rejoicing in being a conduit for the love of God when it flows out from you unto other people. Even when it comes at an expense to us, even when we have to suffer, rejoice, knowing that God is using you for his glory Consider having a close Christian friend to be an accountability partner That would be full of God's grace. And point you in a loving way back to God when needed. Acknowledge God in all his ways, in all your ways. Every decision and action that you take should be done with God in mind. Worship the Lord on the Lord's Day. And if you aren't already, begin to give of your time and your talent and your treasure. These are ways in which we can place God first and his kingdom first and seek his righteousness. Live with the purpose of pleasing God. Follow God's will for you. Obey His commandments, and follow the direction of the Holy Spirit. And finally, be concerned about what God thinks of you. Don't be consumed by what others think or may think of you. This will only lead you to anxiety and worry. Be concerned about what God thinks of you, not what others think of you Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we we thank you. We thank you that you have revealed your kingdom to us. We thank you that you have given us life. And we thank you that you have given us your spirit, and you have sent your spirit to be with us and reside within us. We pray, Heavenly Father, that We would consider if in fact we are leading lives that are divided In our purpose and our mission. Help us to recognize that there is no room for your kingdom and anything else. Help us to not be double-minded. Not divided in our thoughts, but rather singularly focused in faith upon you, your will in our lives. May we take comfort and may we rejoice in you and you alone. Help us, Holy Spirit, we pray, to recognize when we're not doing this. And grant us the grace to repent. And help us to draw nearer and nearer to our Heavenly Father. And make that the desire of our hearts.