We're going to be this evening in the book of James, and uh because I'm not going to be preaching through the whole book uh or here weekly to do that before we read the scripture, I just want to remind you of a few things. About the book of James and give you a little context in regard to the letter. We believe that James is the first of the New Testament books written about 45 A. D. and that it was penned by James. who was one of the half-brothers of Jesus, who, like the rest of his family, except for Mary, was actually not quick to believe in the Lord It was very slow to believe, but in 1 Corinthians 15 it tells us that when our Lord Jesus had risen from the dead, that he appeared to many, and among them was James. And then we find out later in Acts 15 that James was the first moderator of the General Assembly in Jerusalem. And so the historian Josephus reports to us that James became known as James the Just and was martyred for his faith in 62 A. D. Now, this book of James, he's writing to these group of believers that were dispersed from Jerusalem when the persecution of the church began there. And as they were dispersed other places around the Roman kingdom and all across the world, they found themselves also persecuted there. And so James has been called the Proverbs of the New Testament because of his very practical way that he talks about faith. certainly does talk about his half-brother, the Lord Jesus, and there's much theology in there, but it's a lot of just very practical we have this creed of being in Christ, that He's our Savior, but how do we live as a result of that? And so how does how does our conduct match what we confess? So tonight, as the book opens, we're going to particularly look and see how trials are not only a part of the lot that God gives to Christians, but to you and me. God brings trials into our lives, but for a specific purpose. He's not some kind of sadist who's out there and say, ha ha, my kid's gonna cross the street, see if I can trip him. Absolutely not. That we have of God and Father who's there to care for us, and He brings trials into our lives so that we will stop and And in the trials, trust him and become even like our Lord Jesus, who suffered many trials himself. So it's with that kind of understanding and think then thinking about our own lives. Their own difficulties. We were told, and Jesus told us in John 16 that in this life you will have tribulation. Tribulation is a picture of a of what happens when you go in the ocean and you're tossed around by a wave and you have to eat sand and you're turned over. And it's tough, and you don't even know uh where you are at times. The whole world that seems discombobulated, you're coming up from air, you're not sure what's going on. Jesus said that's part of what life in this world is like. It's full of those times of turmoil and trouble, and it helps us look forward to later when there will be no more tears. So it's that understanding that we come to the book of James tonight. So let's stand together as I pray, and then I'll read this portion of the scripture. Let us pray. Our Father and God, we have a long list of prayers, and while a section of them are given to praise, Uh there are so many things and so many difficulties that are on that list that we struggle with this side of heaven This side of heaven, because of our parents, Adam and Eve, and their own sinful rebellion, their desire to be like God instead of to enjoy you as God, has gotten us into this problem. Uh it is a broken world. Uh we not only sin, but we're sinned against, and there are turmoil and trials. But we thank you that for your children, They are not wasted. There isn't one day of trouble. There isn't one trial that comes by mistake or chance. But that you purpose them in the lives of your people, that we would turn to you, that we would find ourselves loved by you, and that you would be at work as you use uh the trials, the pressures, the The fiery furnace, uh, to part of uh of getting rid of the dross, the dregs, and uh conforming us even to our Savior Christ. How we rejoice That we might rest in that. Father, would you speak to your people tonight? Would you speak to us? We need to hear your word because we confess that we can become hardened. We confess that our faith is weak. We confess that we might have bitternesses or difficulties from things in the past, not understanding trials. And we also need to know as we encourage one another what you're about in the midst of trials so that we might build up one another, that you're you as you conform us and we love each other in the body of Christ. So, Father, we ask you to do a great work amongst your people tonight to encourage us as you continue your loving work in us for Christ's sake and glory. Amen. We're in the book of James and uh read chapter one and you can follow along if you desire. James chapter one um verses one through four. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion Greetings. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let the steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Brothers and sisters, the word of the Lord. Maybe seed. James begins his letter with a resume. He's writing to these fellow brothers and sisters that have been dispersed because of the persecution to tell them who he is, although his resume isn't like the one you and I might write. Because if I were writing this resume and knowing my own sinful uh notions to sin and my own pride, I would probably start the letter by saying. Well everybody, uh this is James, half brother of Jesus. Former moderator of the Council of Jerusalem, first one there ever was. Now you all better listen to me. And I'm afraid that if I were writing the letter, that's the way it would start. But that's not the way it starts. Let's look together at the resume. that Jane gives us here because it surprises everything that we know in this world because when we write our resumes for a job or an interview, we don't Very often start this way. We put all our best bullet points up there. Let's see the direction, the surprising direction that our brother gives us here James chapter 1 and verse 1. James, a servant. Literally in the Greek, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the twelve tribes in the dispersion greetings. You see, instead, James has given us here, he describes himself as a servant, literally a bond servant. One who was bought with a price. It was bought by the price of his dearly beloved half-brother Jesus Christ. He was bought by the blood that was shed for him on the cross. And he is willing to say that. The Greek word doulas, bondservant, depicts one who is a slave, a person who is deprived of all personal freedom and is under the control of his master. Now I know that some of you here are brothers. When was the last time you were willing to put yourself under your brother Right? Oh yeah. Hey I'm Jerry. I I'm the slave of Jack. That was my brother No, my wife can uh tell you that even though I was a believer, my my uh my brother wasn't, and uh one of the first times she met with my My my brother went to his house and we were with his wife and his son and uh next thing you know we were playing Monopoly and it broke out in a fist fight. There wasn't much there about submission, was there? You know, we don't know much about that in this life, but James here. Comes to his brother and he is Jesus and he says he was much more than my half-brother. He is my Lord and my Savior. I am his. I am blood bought by him, and I am here to serve him. Matthew Henry tells us about James and all ministers of the gospel that those who are the highest in office or attainments in the Church of Christ are but servants. They should not therefore act as masters, but as ministers. And here James follows the example of his brother. His half-brother Jesus in servant leadership. Because remember what Jesus said about serving in Matthew chapter 20 and 28. Jesus said, the Son of Man came not to be served. But to serve and give his life as a ransom for many. And what a joy it is here to see our brother as he speaks to the church that's under difficulty. He says, I'm I'm a servant. And I'm here to serve you. Um that's one of the things that you'll hear me talk about Uganda and I prayed about it and talk about African Bible College. But my friend who is a close friend who's uh one of the Uh he takes over when Palmer Robertson isn't there, Tim Hoke. He's written his whole doctoral thesis on servant leadership and that's what they're there doing, him and his wife cherry. And he says, I want to die in Uganda if the Lord allows to. We want to serve there. We want to give our lives away. And what a testimony we have when we see fellow Christians that way. And that's what James is doing here. He's saying, I'm here to serve the church. And we all need to think about that because most of us don't like to serve. Um we like to lead, we like to do. Or you know even if we do serve, if we're not recognized, we don't like it. You know, I'll serve, but they better make sure my name's in the bulletin. Pastor better not forget to thank me. Now none of us would say that, would we? Right? But we all look on that, right? You know, you get a picture group of people, where do you look first? You look to see how good your wife looks? No, you look at yourself. Right? Is my good smile? Is my hair done, right? We have all have such trouble with this. And so we're so thankful that James, as he writes this book. Starts that way. He's leading us here about what it is to give ourselves away and to serve. Well, he not only starts with a surprising resume, But he gives us a surprising command, and it really is an imperative here. James 1, verses 2 to 4: Count it all joy, my brothers. Of course, we can say sisters there. He's talking to the church too. But count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kind. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness, and let that steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete and lacking in nothing. Well, the first thing you need to see is that James is saying if you're in Christ, you're going to have trials and troubles. That's for sure. He's not saying that if you come to Christ, you're going to experience as the biggest quote-unquote church from the pastor in this nation says, your best life now. You're going to have your hardest life now in many respects, physically and spiritually, and difficulty when you come to Christ. You're certainly blessed, you're certainly saved, but it is going to be not only full of trials, but various trials. Your trials will be different than mine. They're made from you by God, but this life, this side of heaven, is indeed full of trials. And James says that you are going to have that. Job said it this way. In the Old Testament, it says, man is born to trouble as in a fire the sparks fly upward. Now I know some of you boys love throwing sticks into fires Especially at night around the campfire. Because when you do that, what happens? You get to see all those sparks fly up, right? And you see him up, it's like fireworks, and that's the way it is. And he says, when we're born in this sinful world, it's like that. We're thrown into this world and sparks fly upward. It's a difficult life. James is clear, not if you do meet trials, but when you meet trials. And then he really surprised us because he says, to count it all joy. Tom, maybe you guys just had a great laughing attack today when you were rear-ended, right? You know, we're not talking about that kind of joy, right? But I was joyous that you could pray for the guy driving the truck to Tonight. You know, there's something going on in that in the midst of the trial that by the end, at least being here, you begin to get your head around, you know, God's going to use this somehow, you know. Yeah, you don't wanna call the insurance company and you don't wanna go get the car, you know, get 'em take it to whatever insurance company and have s them figure out how much it's gonna cost and get the rental car and Joy, right? We that's not our first response, but we can not ha ha ha ha ha ha I got hit by a truck. That's the that's the stuff of Saturday Night Live, right? That's that kind of foolishness. But it's a joy and a peace in knowing that God wasn't sleeping God hadn't turned his head and refused to hold back the truck. God looked particularly and knew that you needed the truck I don't know why, Tom. I'm not saying you're any worse than me, you know. Anybody needs a truck. I need a truck But God wasn't asleep in that. And and that's part of the joy of knowing that he's at work in those difficulties that Tom and his family are going to have, the extra pressure. the extra expense, the concern and the worry that you're going to have to bring their hearts and minds back to Christ. But that is not natural for us. You see, none of this can happen unless it's supernatural, unless you're in Christ. If you're not in Christ, This is just one more thing and one more reason to stick your hand up to God and say, you don't care. That's what the world does most often in these kind of situations. But for us, it's to realize, say, oh God, I, unless you protect me, I am undone. I am needy and dependent on you. Thank you. not doing something much worse than what I deserve. It's a spiritual natural things. Thomas Manton said when we go through these things, he said it this way. He tells us that when trials come, do not judge by your senses. When trials come, if you go by your senses, you're going to go ahead and one and one that God's working to get two spiritually for you and you're going to get seventeen or pi or something else. You're not going to be able to add it. Your senses are telling you, this isn't fair. You don't care. You weren't around. You're not powerful enough. All these things that the devil would love to whisper in your ear in our own hardness of heart bring out. And so Thomas Menton says, when trials come, don't judge by sense, for sense can feel no joy in it, and sense will suggest nothing but bitterness and sorrow. But we're not to go on by that count and reckoning. Don't judge it by your senses, your natural man. Instead, the believer must judge it by supernatural light For it's by God's Spirit that we learn to discern and esteem the things that are of God. He adds, judge by supernatural god grounds, and thus It is a misery, but God will turn it to our good. God's corrections are sharp, but we have strong corruptions to be mortified. We're called to great trials. But we might reckon upon God for great hope. And Matthew Henry says it similar, but he says it in this way: He says, Philosophy may instruct men to be calm to the troubles. But Christianity teaches them to be joyful because such exercises proceed from love and not fury in God. What father would inflict pain on his child for no reason Even the pain that was inflicted on Christ as He was given for us, God had a ultimate reason for it, didn't He? It was for our salvation. And he wouldn't inflict any pain or any trial upon you except that he loves you and he says, this is exactly what you need. That you would look to me and trust me and not live by your senses, not live by your feelings, but live by the facts in the Word of God. Warren Wearsby said it this way, and I want you to think, maybe, maybe there is a particular trial or heartache that's in your life right now. And I want you to take, think about that. Ask God to bring it. Some of you might not have any problems. You might have a list. But maybe some of you it's just going great right now. It really is Thanksgiving. You have to think back to a trial. But I want you to to to see what Warren Whisby says and maybe take that trial or difficulty right now and listen and and put it In this character. Our values determine our evaluations. If we value comfort more than character, then trials will upset us. If we value comfort more than the character God's about in developing, then trials would, I love my comfort. I mean look at me, I was made for comfort, not for speed. I like comfort. I don't like trials If we value the material and the physical more than the spiritual, then we'll not be able to count at joy. If we live only for the present and forget the future, then trials will make us bitter and not better. Mm. Isn't that where we find ourselves, especially at first, in the midst? But we're to have joy in the process as we see and understand the promised outcome of the testing. Do you see what it is in the scripture there? Is that we it produces steadfastness? And when the steadfastness has its effect that you might be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing, you'll be mature. You'll be mature in Christ, with Christ. God is at work through the difficulties. to make us like Christ. That's the whole purpose in this. Romans eight twenty eight. God works together all things together for good for those who love him according to his purpose. Why? That he is going to conform you to the first point. Romans 5, verses 3 and 5, once again, Listen to the same kind of teaching that's given to us here. We rejoice in our sufferings. Knowing that the suffering produces endurance. The endurance produces character. The character produces hope And hope does not put us to shame, but God's love has been poured out to our hearts through the Holy Spirit given to us. It's in these times that God will come closest to us as we look and trust not in ourselves. Not in our possessions, not in our health, not in our success. But we learn to trust alone in God and to rest alone in and with Him. In 1 Peter, we're told like this way, in 1 Peter 1, verses 6 to 8. Now listen, once again it says, rejoice. In this ye rejoice, though for now for a little while, if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials So that the tested genuine of your face, more precious than gold, that perishes though it's tested by fire, may be found to result in the praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. What's happening here, he's talking, and I'm going to read it in particular someone who knows better than I what's going on, but to get the only reader I know it I watch well I shouldn't confess my wife's gonna be mad and I'm gonna confess that I watch this sh Well maybe I won't do it. It's Friday's gold rush. And these guys go up to Klondike and they're looking for gold, and they're kind of hard guys. And all the rest, but they're digging for gold and they have to smelt this ore. And when they smelt the ore to get rid of all the impurities, They have to put it under high pressure and high heat to melt off all the impurities and and they and they melt to the melt the ore until it turns into liquid under such high heat and then this flag comes to the top. And the way you know that the gold is pure is you keep skimming off the slag until you can see your own face. And the melted gold is there. All the impurities are gone. And why is God bringing the heat and the trials into our lives? Do you know why? He's skimming off. As those come, the impurities come as we trust him. And he keeps the fire until he can see Christ in us. And when he looks down. Upon us and sees Christ in us. The official way, Kenneth West says, is this. The picture here is of an ancient goldsmith who puts his crude gold ore in a crucible. He subjects it to intense heat and thus liquefies the mass. The impurities rise to the surface and are skimmed off. When the metal worker is able to see the reflection of his face, clearly mirrored in the surface of the liquid, he takes it off the fire, for he knows the contents are pure gold. So it is with God and His child. He puts us in the crucible of Christian suffering, in which the process of sin is gradually put out of our lives. Our faith is purified by the slag of unbelief that somehow mingles with it so often, and the result is the reflection in the face of Jesus Christ in the character of the Christian. This above all, God the Father desires to see. Christ's likeness, God's ideal for his child, Christian suffering is one of the most potent means to that end. It has been said that the eastern goldsmith kept the metal in the furnace until he could see his face reflected in it. So our Lord keeps us in the furnace of suffering until we reflect the glory. and beauty of Jesus Christ. We believe God It would be hard to. It's a supernatural thing. But he says that this is about what he's doing in the trials. And I understand that you are like me. You're made of dust. Right? And there are some times you get through that trial and it's, yeah, okay, I know you're at work, God. But there are some times when the trial is that thing that hits you in that spot That pain is just so hard. And you say, God, do you care? Are you here? Have you even noticed? And we need to begin to see God's being at work in the midst of our trials. The church in Uganda, which we've already talked about tonight, is like most of the third world country. It's been infected with the so-called health and wealth gospel. Which is the heresy that's been exported to them from the United States. The health and wealth gospel in the third world countries, and I've known about Missionaries from other third world countries that it came from here. It's that kind of name it and claim it theology. Just give your money to the church, believe, and if you've given enough and you have enough faith, then God has to bless. It's the word of faith movement. God has to bless and name it. You name it, and then you can claim it. And in the third world, they see pastors from America drive up in Humvee and have gold chains on and preach and say, bring all your money. And then you can get it. And they want a Humvee and they want gold chains. And they buy into it. And they've never heard the truth here. That God is at work and He loves you enough that He's going to bring trials into your life, so you won't trust yourself, but you'll trust Him and you'll be able to say, Father, not my will, but your will, and you'll become like His Son Jesus Christ. Christ. During my last trip in Uganda in April, I was sent away from the African Bible College where it's safe. They have walls there, and at night they have guards with guns. Well, sort of safe. I mean, safe as you can be in those kind of environs and uh they have good theology, but they sent me away by myself with a driver who I got to know on the way, but they sent me eight hours away to Lira They sent me to a church called Truth Foundation, and I preached. On Saturday I taught a biblical counseling course, and on Sunday I preached. And when I preached on Sunday, I wasn't sure what to preach, but this is what I preached. And before I preached, I just want to tell you about the church. It had two graduates from African Bible College. good men, they had good sound theology, but they went back to the home churches, were charismatic. So they were kind of reformed charismatics. And they're trying to change things. But they were also fr of of the tribe that they were Swahili's. And so they were kind of charismatic and they got excited during the service. And Swahili's, when they get excited during a service, what they when they get excited and the way they express their joy is they're usually very tall. And and they jumped straight up and down like a pogo stick with their arms at the side. And it was like these guys up front were just going, woo, woo. It was it was incredible. I've never seen anything like it in my whole life. And they were excited. And so I'm coming in there, you know, you know, and they have a lot of the health and wealth kind of stuff, and I'm going to bring them this passage, right? Uh count it all joy, brothers, when God brings trials. And uh and there was a lady there who was from the government. Um she uh was a local government official. And they not only took the first offering, but then they took the second offering for the building. And uh when when it was her time to offer when she went up there, she had sung a beautiful song that she had written, and she was known as a Christian artist in Uganda. It was a nice song. And then she said to everybody, Well, this is for the building and I'm going to lay it down for God. And she laid down A hundred thousand Ugandan shillings. And she says, you come and do it too. And so uh well hundred thousand Ugandan shillings is thirty dollars. Um so just in case you were wondering how much she was. But she laid that down in a in a in a in a place where people make two dollars a week. And uh and so I thought, oh man, you know, not only is it tend to be charismatic and health and wealth, but this lady's laying down hundred thousand, you know, and I'm gonna talk about trials and Oh God, you're gonna just you're gonna have to work. And the joy of it was Is that I had remembered going up and I had learned something. As I was going up those eight hours, I kept noticing that the houses in the rural area It was cool because you didn't have to bring all the money like I have to closing tomorrow to get a condo, but you can make your own house. Because the houses are made of sticks and thatch and palm things and and bricks. And I noticed that they made bricks by forming the red clay into bricks and putting it in molds and putting out in the sun. And I thought, that's great. You know, you could just make your house. You could just go out and get a piece of field and and make a house. What a place this is. What a country. Except I learned that if I would have done it that way, the house would have fallen down. Because the sun doesn't dry the bricks enough Because after a while, if the rains came, the house would have melted away. Or because they were just sun-baked, that the bricks would have broken after a period of time. Because I didn't realize, like, because I was a foolish Magunzu, I was a foolish white man, I didn't know that what I also saw on the way up were these things that looked like pyramids made out of bricks. And what they were was a furnace. And they had openings in the bottom where you put wood, and then it was stacked like a pyramid with bricks, and you put all around it. And to make those bricks strong enough. You had to fire them. They had to be under intense heat and pressure for hours and hours until they could be useful for their maker And when I opened this passage of scripture and then told the Ugandans that God puts under us under the fire of affliction, the fire of trials, because he wants to make us useful to be Used. And beloved, that's why God's bringing trials into your life. He's making you, He's skimming off the impurities, and He's saying, I want you to trust me. I don't want you to trust your gifts. I don't want you to trust your bank account. I don't want you to trust your health. I don't want you to trust your family. I don't even Want you to trust your church, I want you to trust me And when we do that, and we say, Lord, here I am, we're finally able to be used by our Maker in another brick in his church to be built on the foundation of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And to my surprise, after they had heard that, and they heard that God said He's purposely bringing trials and they heard that story about the bricks. The lady who was the singer came to me afterwards crying, the government official, and she said, I I haven't been able, President Museveni hasn't allowed me into his cabinet. I've been stopped from going into his cabinet three times. And I've held all this bitterness before the trial. And now I know that God is involved in this and he cares about me. The trials aren't because he hates me. Because I've been in naming and claiming that I'd be in his cabinet rather than understanding that God loves me enough to make me useful for his purposes. And then the pastor's wife came and said, we've never heard this before. We always thought that God wanted nothing but blessings for us. We didn't understand that he cares enough to bless us, to get rid of the impurities, and to make us like Christ. I'm going to write a song so that we'll sing about this and remember it And then the pastor came to me and says, Now I know what to tell my people when When they've given their money and they have faith, and their child dies. Or one of them loses a job or loses a leg. And it's not because God hates them, but because God wants them to know him and trust him and believe that he loves them, even in the heartaches, as he loved his son to give him, he loves us. And you know, in thinking about that, it helped me because this year I went back to the 40th anniversary of the first church I served for 10 years. And in serving that church after about five years, we had to work through church discipline. And part of working through the church discipline with someone in the church is it was a rural church and everybody was related. So when you disciplined Jimmy, you really disciplined Uncle Al. And Aunt Sarah and and Brother Joe and every you know, it was like we disciplined the whole church. And I had to go around and visit fifteen different families who had signed a petition to get rid of me in the whole session. Because we've been faithful. You know, sometimes we go through a trial because we're sinful. That's one thing, but we go through a trial because we're faithful And it wasn't until this year that I was able to go back for the 40th reunion and finally understand that going through that trial I understood that for the other four churches that I would go, the other churches I would go to, that I could remain faithful to God, and He would still take me through any trial. And that's where the Lord wants you tonight, too. Where is that trial for you? Where is that thing where the devil might whisper into your ear and you're tempted to listen? You know, God really doesn't love you because blank And understand that we, as God's children, as we're to be humbled and his servant, even as James was, and he speaks to us tonight: I am the servant of the Lord. Lord, do with me what you want. You have redeemed me and saved me. I am yours. My health is yours. My income is yours. My family is yours. Bring what you will. I will serve you. And I'll count it joy because I am redeemed by the blood of your son. What do you need to bring into his hands tonight and say that you believe him? And say that you trust him. James 1, 2-4. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let that steadfastness have its full effect that you might be perfect and complete and lacking in nothing. Where is it in your life? Where is that hitting? Where does your tune need to be changed? Instead of complaining, instead of being bitter. Instead of maybe just being quiet, you would say, Lord, thank you that you love me enough to bring me exactly what I need. I trust you in this. Thank you for walking with me. Bring it to him tonight because he loves you. Loves you. Count it joy, not ah ha ha ha ha ha. But Father, you know what I need. Thank you that you're going to walk with me and make me like Christ. Let us pray. Father and God, we know that all of us will have various trials and we struggle through them. But I thank you that you'd have directed us through our brother James, who was your servant, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, who has called us to bring you these trials, the various ones that you bring lovingly to us. That you would conform us to our Savior. Would you do that? Would you build our faith? And would you encourage us to come beside one another that we might talk about these things? And learn how to trust you and be a light and salt to the world that has no hope in the midst of the brokenness. We thank you for the specific and perfect love that you give us That you would rid us of our sin and build righteousness and make us like Christ. For we pray in his name. Amen.