Well, it's about upon us the second of the presidential debates. It seems like we're not talking about issues. It reminds me of the way when I listen to the political pundits, it's almost like they're describing a drag race. Sunday, Sunday, Sunday come to grudge match number two with crooked Hillary Clinton going against crazy Donald Trump. And in the midst of that, I found a lot of Christians Saying, what's going on? We don't talk about issues. What's going on with our nation? Who do we have that we can vote for? And it's not so much that they care about one policy or the other, but we understand that God gives to Those who lead us from the president down, God places them in those positions to yield the sword, to bring righteousness To bring that what is right, to protect his people. And so when his people look at that situation, they become overwhelmed or looking at the world as it changes. And so sometimes God's people ask, how can we praise him when the world seems to be crazy or crooked or whatever else you want to describe it around us. It's interesting because God's word is so good in a much, much harder situation when God's people have been uh carried away from Jerusalem when the temple was destroyed, and they were carried into Babylon for 70 years to be captive. They cried out, How can we sing your praises, O God, in this circumstance? And I've had Christians come up to me and say, What's going on? How can we Follow God here when the world seems to be so weird, and especially in our own nation. Let us stand together. We're first going to read uh Psalm 137 together because those kind of very words are in the scripture. So let's stand together and uh you can follow along as I read Psalm 137 The whole psalm fits this, but I'm going to be reading verses 1 through 4. As you see, God's people in a much worse situation. But they were asking those same questions. When it all seems so rough, how can we praise God? Now the description I described tonight, you you may not even care. You maybe don't even care about politics, right? You just know that Things are gone, but we all have those times when things are just tough. Maybe it's a job, maybe it's someone in your family, maybe it's a broken relationship. Maybe it's your health. Maybe it's your marriage. Maybe it's your children. All these things. And we start asking, how can I sing God's praises now? And so, how good it is that God gives us his word from his saints, who have carried these very same words directed by his spirit to him. And so we'll look at Psalm 137, verses 1 through 4 first. By the waters of Babylon. There we sat down and wept, and we remembered Zion. On the willows there we hung our lyres, for there our captured required of us songs And our tormentors mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. And they said, How shall we sing the Lord's song in a foreign land? Amen. Please be seated. Well, Lord willing, tonight we're going to be answering that question. How do we sing the Lord's song when around us the situation in our life is hard? How is it when we don't see a way out? How is it when we're broken? How is it when we can't even express uh among ourselves sometimes what's going on inside of us. And we're going to do that tonight by doing something very unusual. I usually take a small passage of scripture and preach through it. We're going to preach through a chapter tonight. The first chapter of Daniel. And I'm going to go through it very quickly. And so we've read this just to set it up, but as we go through this, I'll be reading a couple verses of Samuel and then commenting on it and reading a couple of verses and commenting on it. Because I believe that going through this and seeing the overall big picture of what happens just in this first chapter is a picture of what happens in the whole book. John Calvin, when he made his commentary on the book of Daniel, he commended it to, he dedicated it to the French Protestants, the Huguenots. They were about to be wiped out by the Catholic Church. They were under tremendous pressure for being faithful to the gospel of grace. Salvation by faith alone, through Christ alone. And as that was happening, John Calvin wrote this This introduction to the book of Daniel, commending it to them, but he's commending to us when we're facing trials too, that Daniel is a good place for us to go. He said this. I have the very best occasion of showing you, beloved brethren, in this mirror, how God proves the faith of his people in these days by various trials. And how with wonderful wisdom he has taken care to strengthen their mind by ancient examples. You see what he's doing this? Yeah, this is an ancient book. You know, we're gonna read Daniel long ago and far away. But it is a mirror to our own lives. And we need to use it that way. God has given us a mirror of working with his people then so we could see our lives now in the midst of our own difficulties. He says that they should never be weakened by the concussion of the severest storms and tempests. You feel like you have a concussion sometime living in this life. You feel like you have whiplash As you seem to be beat by the world or circumstances or your own struggle in your own flesh and desires. He says that we should never be weakened by the concussion of the severest storms and tempests, or at least If they should totter at all, they should never finally fall away. And as we look at this book of Daniel tonight quickly, that's what God, I trust, can do for us. to strengthen us amidst the concussions of life and the storms in our own trial. So turn with me to Daniel and we'll go through the first chapter, Lord willing. Quickly, I'll read a section and talk about it and uh go through it quickly because it's really the whole chapter and what's happening here. It's a it's a picture of the whole book, but which will help us. and our own hearts and souls this evening. Daniel chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim King of Judah into his hand with some of the vessels of the house of God, and he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his God. Speak about a concussion, there it is. The God's people who had trusted him in Israel said, God, we love you, and he allows them He says, he gave them to Nebuchadnezzar to be taken away from their own hands, their own lands, their own family, all that they knew. along with their temple that they worship their God and to be destroyed, and all of its treasures taken away and given to Marduk, the king of Babylon, the God of Babylon. How could this happen as if people are taken away from the king, uh king of the world and taken into this new place? And as we are here, we're going to see what the world does with us. As Nebuchadnezzar was very smart in the way that he captured uh nations and we see even what happens to our own heart as the nation our own nation in its ungodly uh practices seeks to capture us at times in our own faith and our own lives. The first thing he does is God's people were taken to a new country and given a new school. Now they weren't just didn't God Nebuchadnezzar didn't just take the treasures from the temple to give to his God, but he also takes these people, these young men, especially. Daniel 1, verses 3 and 4. Then the king commanded Afenes, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel both of the royal family and of the nobility, used without blemish, of good appearance and skillful in all wisdom. endowed with understanding, learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace and to teach them the literature and the language of the Chaldeans. So here God uses, so Nebuchadnezzar is using as he's trying to bring them and change them. He's using isolation. He's taken away from the people and the God and the worship they knew. and he's using indoctrination as he is going to teach them his culture. Forget about that you're God's people. Forget about that you are from God's nation that He set up. You're now my people. I've taken you away from that, and I'm going to give you our learning. You know it gives them that, but it gives them the new diet, verse 5. It says the king assigned them a daily portion of food that the king ate of the wine that he drank, and they were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king. Now, this was a difficulty for them because they weren't allowed to eat such things as the king would eat of horse meat And of pork, two of those things, and the way that the Babylonians would have prepared them would have been also with their blood, which they also were not allowed to eat But the king is wanting to make them one of his. He's bringing them in, giving them their learning, being in his place, and having his food. And here we're going to try to get these young men to compromise. And not only that, but one of the biggest things that he does, and we don't always realize this when we read it, but in verses six and seven, he gives them new names. In verse 6, it says this. Among these were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishrael and Azariah of the tribe of Judah. Each one of them had a name that every time they would hear their name would remind them that they belong to God. That they were Israelites, that their whole lives were given to serve and love Him. Daniel means, God is my judge. When Daniel went out to live his life before the world, he knew that every time he heard his name, God is my judge. I must live for him. God is watching. Hananiah, God is gracious. I have life because God is good. Mishael, who is a God like ours? Ours is the only God. All other gods are pagans. Azariah God is my helper. I don't have to do this all on my loan because God helps me What did Nebuchadnezzar do? He gave them new names that pointed to new gods. He was bringing them in, saturating them in his culture, getting them to give up what they knew to become a part of his world. Belshazar means Baal will protect your life. Baal was a calf god that they had in Babylonia, and then he says, not God is your judge, but Baal, the calf god, will protect you. Hananiah, they named Shadrach. You are under the command of Aku. Aku was the god of the moon. Mishel, instead of who is a god like ours, it says, who is a god like Aku? You see how all these names are to change who they were and what they knew and what they believed. And Azariah, God is my helper, changed to Abednego. You're a servant of Nebo, the moon god. That's what the world seeks to do. It seeks to turn over, like Nebuchadnezzar is to do, everything that we believe here. Everything that we believe the Bible says You know, the Bible says that that we're to be married a man and a woman. And of course our culture has completely blown that away now. It says It doesn't matter who you marry. You could marry a man and a man, a woman and a woman, and it's willing to take and change that all around. Change the truth and change the names of what is true. This is not new that's happening in our culture. It was happening a long time ago. All these very things, the culture wants to isolate us away from our God, wants to have it believe and and taste of its dainties and to love those things and to find our hope and our help in them. He goes on in these He had proposed a new way. Excuse me. But we see in the midst of all this difficulty that Daniel and these three friends of his We're willing to propose a new way. And I don't want to spend much time on this, but just see the gracious. We'll read it in the gracious way they responded. You know, we have to respond to the world around us. And sometimes we think that the only way we can respond if we're going to fight the world is raise our fists and say, I'm a Christian, I'm not going to do that. Right? But notice the way they react here. They act very wisely, very graciously, and God works in the midst of it. Daniel chapter 1, verses 8 to 16. But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food, or with the king's wine, and he and he drank. Therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs, To allow him not to defile himself. And God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. And the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear my lord the king who has signed your food and your drink. For why should you see that you are in worse condition than the youths who are your own age? So you would endanger my head with a king. Then Daniel said to the steward, whom the chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Hananiah, Michel, and Azariah Test your servants for ten days. Let us be given vegetables to eat and water to drink. Then let our appearance and the appearance of the yews who eat the king's food Be observed by you, and deal with your servants according to what you see. So he listened to them in this matter and tested them for ten days And at the end of ten days it was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate of the king's food. So the steward took away their food and wine, they were to drink, and gave them vegetables. How wondrous of God to work, wasn't it? Imagine that, getting fat on a vegetarian diet. But God was at work. God also gave his people new understanding. Verses 17 to 20. Let's look there. As for these four youths, God gave them learning and skill in all literature and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. And at the end of the time when the king had commanded that they should be brought in, the chief of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar. And the king spoke with them, and among them none was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishel, Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king It wasn't just that they stood before the king and had this wisdom, but their wisdom they used not to advance themselves. How often we're willing to do that, right? God will bless us and we want our own glory to go before. But these four men Purpose that they would give glory to God, and God used that. If you turn a little further in chapter 2 of Daniel, Daniel 2 and verses 46 and 47, God indeed gave them wisdom with the dream. And with that God worked as they gave glory to him. Daniel chapter 2, verses 46 and 47, as the king heard the truth that they brought. Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and paid homage to Daniel, and commanded an offering and incense be offered up to him. And the king answered and said to Daniel, Truly, your God. Is God of gods and Lord of kings and a revealer of mysteries, for you've been able to reveal this mystery. And then as it continues, um Daniel it says, um, let's go back to Daniel chapter one. And Daniel was there until the first year of King Cyrus. Do you understand what happened here? They were in captivity seventy years. And Daniel outlived Nebuchadnezzar. And Daniel outlived the next king. And Daniel outlived the next king. And Daniel outlived the next king until Cyrus comes. And the people have finished their 70 years of captivity. Daniel was one who said, I will trust God. And because he did, an amazing thing happened. Turn to Jeremiah 29 with me. You're going to give Jeremiah will give us a little picture a little commentary of what happened during this time. Jeremiah chapter 29 Isaiah, Jeremiah chapter 29, and you can follow along as I read from verse 4 to 14. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I've sent into Babylon, from Jerusalem to Babylon. Build houses and live in them. Plant gardens and eat their produce. Take wives and have sons and daughters. Take wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage. That they might bear sons and daughters, multiply there, and do not decrease, but seek the welfare of the city where I sent you into exile. and pray to the Lord on its behalf for its welfare, for you will find for your welfare. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel Do not let your prophets or your diviners who are among you deceive you, because what's happened is there is they had a lot of people saying, no, no, no, you're not going to be taken into captivity. But they were. Verse nine, For it is a lie that they're prophesying to you in my name. I did not send them, declares the Lord For thus says the Lord, When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you, and I will fulfill to your promise and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for wholeness and not for evil, and to give you a future and a hope. Beloved, I know how easy it is to look at our nation and the politics. Or to look in what you haven't even mentioned tonight, but what's in your life that overwhelms you. Maybe it's a sin you feel captive. You're not actually captive, but A sin or a situation you feel captive in, or a relationship you feel captive in, or whatever it is. And the problem is we look at our eyes, we look at it through the historical lens of what's happening. We say, this is what's happening. We look at the situation not by faith. But we look at it by sight. We say, this is awful. It's so hard. How am I going to do it? But what Daniel reminds us of is we have a sovereign God who is working even in the hardest things. even in our captivities, even with its difficult. I want you to look back to Daniel chapter 1 again, but verses 1 and 2. And when you start to feel like you're being overwhelmed by a situation in life, how can it be like this? How can it have gotten so out of control? How could God, how can I sing God's praises? when it's so difficult right now. Well, the reason you can sing God's praise is because you have the ability not to look just at the historical lenses. of what's happening around you practically, but you have lenses of faith to see that God's hand is at work in the midst, even in the captivities of our life, even in the difficult things. Take Daniel chapter 1 verses 1 and 2 and underline them. Because it says, during the captivities and hard times, let's look and see what it says that you and I might get our encouragement. This beginning of chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, is a picture of the whole book. Historically it says this: in the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it. How horrible! God's temple's being destroyed. The treasures are taken away. God's people are being put into captivity. And if it ended with verse 1, we would have all been overwhelmed. But what comes after verse one? Verse two And the Lord gave Joachim, King of Judah, into his hand. It didn't happen by mistake God wasn't sleeping. He hadn't slumbered. God is actively at work in their captivity in the hard circumstances of their life. that they would not trust in themselves, in their houses, in their temple, in their family, where it's comfortable, when it's easy, when it's the way they like it. Because God wanted to build up his people, and it said in Jeremiah, I have plans for your good. And you have to not just look through the historical lenses of what you see. But by faith, believing that God is at work in that circumstance right now in your family. At your work, with your health, with your children, with your family With your boyfriend, with your girlfriend, at school, all the situations when you're ready to give up. But God But God is giving and working in them. Gleason Archer says this from the expositor's Bible commentary that's helpful. He says, this is what we take out of the whole book of Daniel, but this first chapter. The principal theological emphasis in Daniel is the absolute sovereignty of Yahweh, the God of Israel. At a time when it seems to all the world that his cause was lost, and the gods of the heathen had triumphed, causing his temple to be burned to the ground. It pleased the Lord strikingly and unmistakably to display his omnipotence, his omnipotence. The theme running through the whole book is that the fortunes of kings and the affairs of men are subject to God's decrees Crooked Hillary, Crazy Donald? Put in your blank whatever's going on in your life right now. The theme running through the whole book is that the fortunes of kings and the affairs of men are subject to God's decrees and that he is able to accomplish his will despite the most determined opposition by the mightiest potentates on earth. Right now in our adult Sundays Sunday school class, this cliff is leading it. He's entitled, at least one of the titles that he's using is this: The Power of the Gospel. No matter how dark our times, Daniel points us to a greater Daniel. Daniel was thrown into the pit with the lions and he wasn't eaten. But we can have faith and know that God is at work because the greater Daniel, Jesus Christ. Our Savior and Lord was chewed up by the lions. He was thrown into the pit of lions. It's interesting, and you might not realize it, but Psalm 22 in the Old Testament is it talks in prophecy about our Messiah, Jesus on the cross. Listen to the very words that it uses. Psalm 22, verses 12 to 18. Many bulls encompass me. Strong bulls of bastion surround me. They open wide their mouths at me. Like a raving and roaring lion. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It's melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a potchard. My tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death For dogs encompass me. A company of evildoers encircle me. They've pierced my hands and feet. I can count all of my bones. They stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Let us not end with Daniel and his three friends who were faithful But let us remember the one who was faithful, who was eaten by the lions so that we wouldn't be, who endured the wrath and fiery wrath of God so that we wouldn't endure it. And if he is alive and at work, he's praying for his church. He never stops praying for you. And as something happens, it doesn't happen by mistake or chance, as we seem to be given sometimes into the enemy of sickness or broken relationship or lost job or financial whatever it is. But we see the second verse God gave so that he would redeem his people because he loves them Let me encourage you tonight in what you're going through. That you might remember Daniel chapter 1 and 2, chapter verses 1 and 2. Daniel chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. And just look back there. When you feel like you're being captured, when you feel like you're being overwhelmed, yes, I'm being carried away. I don't seem to have any hope. But God gave And remember that he did gave. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believeth him would not perish, but have everlasting life. I'm going to end with a very prayer that John Calvin ended with as he ended this portion of the scripture, commenting on it, that it might move our own hearts before God. Grant, Almighty God, since thou besettest before us so clear a mirror of thy wonderful promise, providence, and of thy judgments of thy ancient people, That we also may be surely persuaded of our being under thy hand and protection. Grant that relying on thee, we may hope for thy guardianship, whatever may happen Since thou never loses sight of our safety, so that we may invoke thee with a secure and tranquil mind. May we so fearlessly wait for all dangers amid all the changes of this world That we may stand upon the foundation of thy word, which can never fail. And leaning on thy promises, we may repose on Christ to whom thou hast committed us, and whom thou hast made the shepherd of us all thy flock. Grant that he may be so careful of us as to lead us through this course of warfare, however troublesome and turbulent it may prove. Until we arrive at that heavenly rest which He has purchased for us by His own blood. Amen.