So let's go ahead and start. Let me start this our time this time by praying, okay? Glorious Heavenly Father, we thank you again for this wonderful day. What a beautiful opportunity we have before us to be able to look out the windows and to see the beauty of your creation, to be able to reflect on the power, your power. Your word tells us that you created all things, that the heavens declare the glory, your glory, and the sky declares your handiwork. And we see it night after night pours forth speech. Even right now we look and we see the things that are around us, and our hearts are just filled with gratitude for your goodness and those mercies that are renewed each and every day. As we turn to your word, as we turn to speaking and hearing from one another, we pray that it would be so that you would be speaking to our hearts. That which we were about to hear, we pray that you would sink it deep into our hearts and cause us to live by and through this the very things that we're about to hear as I am sure that is what you would want. And so bless us now, superintend our time, and do all to the praise of your glory we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So in our last session, uh I talked about the fact that culture today is marked by a retreat uh from God and And we have different these worldviews, secularism, moral relativism, hedonism, all these things, and that they have one uh common uh thread, and that is uh the intentional exclusion of God. which would then be antithetical to what we are called to do. That is to draw near to God. And in drawing near to God, we submit ourselves to God and we live. uh in the through the grid that he has provided for us. And for what purpose? To glorify him and to enjoy him. We when we live the way that God wants us to, and we endeavor to walk in the beauty of holiness, it is a guarantee that even if our circumstances are such as the Apostle Paul, where we're in a dungeon. we will still be able to do exactly what he did, and that is sing harm, sing Psalms in the midst of what seems like a dire situation And so in the midst of everything that's going on around us, we need to remind ourselves that Scripture repeatedly calls us to draw near to God. We see that in James 4. 8, as I mentioned last night, as I spoke from, and Hebrews 10. 22, for instance. So listen, don't be fooled. The Christian life, however, is not neutral. And I think I made that point. I think I tried to make that point in our last session that the Christian life is not neutral. You're either going to go in one direction or the next. If we're not drawing near, we're going to be drifting away. And it's for that very purpose that Hebrews 2. 1 tells us, therefore, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard. less we drift away from it. And so we need an anchor. And we know without a shadow of a doubt that our primary an uh anchor And definitely our salvific anchor is Jesus Christ, right? Hebrews 6. 19 tells us as much when it says, we have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. Our hope is secure in him. And remember I said that there's a different definition of hope. It is a sure thing, secure thing. Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. He is our all and all. And yet it can be rightly stated that he's also given us another sure anchor. Not as a tool for our eternal redemption, but as this eternal fuel that holds us together, even in this temporal age. And so we need to ask ourselves, what is that anchor? What is that anchor you ask? What keeps Our faith steady when life gets stormy. You know? When life gets stormy, you hear that? I'm reminded what Jesus said. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus say If the storm comes, or did Jesus say when the storm comes? He absolutely said when the storm comes. There will be storms in our lives. And if you make up your mind that you are going to serve God wholeheartedly, you're going to be swimming against the waves of culture. And if you are swimming against the rays of culture, then you should not be surprised to hear what Jesus says come true. They persecuted me, they will persecute you. They came against me, they will come against you. They lied against me, they will lie against you However, we have a anchor. Now, when this question concerning this anchor that holds things together is asked When I have you that question, hey, so what is this anchor? What do you think it is, right? Some of us would readily say that it's doctrine. We need doctrine. It's the word of God that will hold us. And guess what? That's true. Absolutely. Others might say prayer. God has called us to pray. And so we have to pray. And that is the anchor that will hold us together. Still others might say community. Right? Fellowship. We need one another. We have to encourage one another. Hebrews 10 25 says, do not forsake the gathering of yourself as the custom of some is and even the more as we see the day arriving So all those are good answers and indispensable tools to have. But the answer that is being poured out from the throne of heaven above all. The throne of God is love. You see, love, friends, undergirds and holds all those things together. Here I'm reminded of 1 Corinthians 13, the first part, and I want to read it for you, the first verse. Because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how much knowledge you have. It doesn't matter how much you're committed to things and that nature, right? If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a changing symbol. And if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all fate so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give give away all I have, I give you let me tell you, I'm not giving away all I have, Lord. I'm just sorry. Okay, all right. I work hard for the money. I repent, Lord. And if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. I do not please the Lord. And if I'm not gaining anything, I am not doing that which God has called us to, because He has called us to gain for His kingdom. Right? So, with those words in mind, I want us to hear 1 John 4. 19. Because it uses love and it talks about the same love that's spoken of in 1 Corinthians 13. C. S. Lewis does a great job in his book, The Four Loves, of of isolating four loves that exist, right? One of them he doesn't include, or one of them is not included in the Bible rather, Eros. And I think it's because of the cultural connotations that Eros had uh in the first century where, you know, you had temple prostitutions and all those sort of stuff. But eros is like erotic love and then you have friend love. Right? And then you have fem familiar love. Right? And so you have those love, but this is the agape love. This is the love that God and God alone actually can give. And so you should know that Christians in the world, I mean people in the world, we might not hear this often, but people in the world cannot By virtue of the fact that they're not regenerated and do not have God's Spirit, they cannot demonstrate agape love. They cannot live through the grid of agape love. Okay? We are the ones that can live through the greater Vagapi love. That's why it's so important that we as salt and light be the ones to live this out Because no one else can do it. Did you know that? No one else is equipped with this and how are you able to? It's a fruit of the spirit. We don't produce anything on our own except that which is of the flesh. It is the Spirit of God that works in and through us to produce the good works that are right? We're called to work out our salvation. We're free and trembling. and then we're here in the very next verse, for it is God who works and wills through us to accomplish his good purposes. Alright? So know that this is something that we produce and how and why? Listen to John 4. 19. We love, very short verse. We agape because he first agape us. We love because he first loved us. If I could just form a thesis out of this, I would say because God loved first, love becomes the anchor of Christian faith, of our Christian faith. It grounds our identity. It motivates our obedience. It shapes our community, and it fuels our mission. You remember what happened when Jesus went to Peter to restore him after Peter had denied him? Three times. Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord. Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord. Peter, do you love me? Lord, I don't know. This is Peter thinking his mind, I don't know what's going on right now. But Lord, you know. Right? And then how does he follow it up? Then feed my sheep. As a shepherd, everything that Peter was going to do was being going to be done through the grid of love. As ambassadors for Christ, everything that we're done, even even when we're responding to people who hate us, are vitriolic towards us. Anything like that, even in difficult situations, everything that we do will be done through love. There was a principal, assistant principal that used to be in a church I was in years ago. And when she retired, people were coming up and you know they w they had a a celebration for her. People were coming up and talking and one person came up, I'll never forget this. And they said, and she was a Christian woman in our church, by the way, very meek and humble woman, awesome woman. And they came up and said, man, she would curse you out, and you didn't even know you were cursed out until the next day. Because of how sweet she sounded when she was talking to them and correcting them and things of that nature. And then the next day we wait a minute, she was fussing at me. That's the kind of salt that we should have in the midst of our conversations. People should know that we love them when we're talking to them, even when we disagree with them. And the reason that happens is because of God's Spirit actively working in and through us. Is there a time for anger and outrage? Yes, there is. But once again, when we answer, when we're engaging in people, when we're in the communities, when people are against us, whatever the case may be, what marks us? The fact that we have agape love. Working in and through us. Okay? And so I'm going to talk about four anchors, if you will. And here I'm thinking about in the Navy. When I first got into the Navy, I used to um Went into the Navy. I was in the deck department. I don't know if you guys know what that is, but when I first went to the recruiting station and they asked me what I wanted to be, I they I said a marine biologist. And they said, well, we don't quite have that in the Navy, right? I didn't know better, right? And so they said, I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll just put you in this on-the-job training area. And then you can just be in that particular area and you can figure out what you want to do when you're first out on the fleet. So I did not know that on the job, OJT meant being in that department. Which means that I was going to be cleaning toilets and floors and things of that nature. And so, you know, a a a bathroom is called a head. You know, the the the floor is called what? The deck. And so I'm like thinking, 'cause I was very proud for God back then. I'm thinking to myself, what in the world? And I'm gonna tell my people when I write back home to tell them what I'm doing And the thought came to mind, just tell him you're a deck test mission. You know? But the point is one of the things that we also did in that department Is we were also the ones when a ship came in to shore, the big ships, we were also the ones that had to put the mooring lines and things of that that anchored things down. And so sometimes they would look or be a little bit longer, a little bit different. And so here I'm giving you four different anchors of love, if you will. Does that make sense? Four different anchors of love and how they work out. And so the first one, the first identity or anchor that we have in love that we have, the love that God has for us. Because that's the first thing. Remember, God loved us first. It was while we were yet sinners. Wherever you were, however you were, whatever you were doing, all of us were sinners. Born in sin, received through Adam, and then by our own sin. All of us were justly deserving the wrath of God. All of us were sinning. All of us continue to sin. But we hear those wonderful words. It was while we were yet sinners that Christ died for us. Before eternity passed, he had us in his mind and in his heart, and he manifested it through his finished work. His act of obedience, he walked under earth and was scorned, left the riches of heaven and came down here. He didn't have to do that. Jesus had a good life going on. You remember he perfect communion with the Father and the Son in heaven. Everything was under his you know total control and stuff like that when they created the angels. He didn't have to create any of one of us. It was ours of love. And that love was extended to us. And so he actively came and fulfilled the law. And then he stretched out wide on that cross. And you heard those words. It is finished. Pastor Burge is mine. You are mine. It is finished. And God has given, the Father has given you to me. And no man can take you out of my hand. It is finished. Perfect love has grabbed hold of you and now holds you fast. That is a thought that should just blow our minds. The fact that God loves us in a way that we can't even begin to understand. And he did that before We loved him. We were not able to love him. We were not able to come to him. A dead man cannot Raise himself from the dead. If we see a dead man out there, God forbid, you can perform all the CPR, you can do all you want to, but rather rather mean he is not going to get up. He's not. He's not going to be born again. He's not going to be recreated. I mean the human mind that thinks these kind of things. Stupid things like the world came into existence by a big bang. Let me tell you something. This is a true story. I put a whole bunch of cans in my backyard one time and I left them out there for a month and I went back out there and none of it did not become a car. I was so disappointed And so I decided to add some screws to it and then leave it alone and it still didn't do anything, right? God created everything And he did so out of love. And he's embracing us out of that love. He loved us first. He created us. We are the new creations. that 2 Corinthians 5. 17 talks about. But the point though is he loves us first. And so that's identity. who we are in this culture, in this time when people are having all these identity politics things going on. The one thing that we need to know when it comes to identity is who we are. And who are we? We are God's people. Called by his name. Think about that. Some of us are very proud of our last names because there's a last name that we got from our father and we love our father and we want to be identified with that particular family. Some of us have our last name because of our husband who we love, and our last name used to be something like Shambaling Ding, and now it's like Grady and so it's like a beautiful name and we love it. We love our husband, but we love our name now because we have you know so but the point is now we're identified. We are identified with that particular family. And we love the fact that we have that identity. God calls us by his name. How awesome is that that we are loved by God and we are given his name. And we live through the grid of his name. Our identity is rooted then in his initiating love. Not in our performance. Did you see that? Our identity. My son right now could be doing something wrong right now. But guess what? At the end of the day, he's still my son. When the prodigal son father, when the prodigal son ran off and he came back, he came back saying, oh, just make me a servant of the house. But no, he still had his father's name And guess what his father did? You don't ever see God running, but God ran. The father ran to the son who had his name. That's love. You know? And so that's where when you talk about these issues with our kids and doing waywardness and things of that nature, how do we love them through the grid of that agape love? But agape love does not compromise. It stands firm in the truth because it is the truth that's going to save ultimately. But our identity is rooted in God's love. And so we have assurance that love secures our standing before God. You see that in Romans 5. 8 again. And you see that in Ephesians 2, 4 through 5. Our standing is secure in God. Because of the love that He extended to us and He extended to us first. So you don't have to earn God's favor. He reached out to you when you were a piece of work. All of us. And now he's holding us. And we don't do good to try to earn merit or anything. We do good because we're in the bonds of a loving fellowship. I treat my wife well because I love her. And I'm a call to. Not because I'm trying to earn the cookies that she's gonna bake next week for me saying this So God loves us. Anchor 2. Motivation for obedience. Love motivates obedience more reliably than the fear of a duty. Remember I said that I was a piece of work in school and things of that nature? Well, that started all the way back in junior high. I was raised by my great aunt, my grandmother's uh sister, and she took me in when I was three months old. We all lived in the projects together. My mom. My aunt, my grandma aunt, another aunt, all of us lived in John F. K. Kennedy projects. And my mom moved away with her husband, my stepfather. to New York to work for Hess Well and I stayed with my aunt and if I tell you that she had every right to send me back to my mom because I was a piece of work. I'm not I'm not telling you. And so in my junior high year, my seventh grade year, I would not go to class. I would catch the bus as if I was going to school. And then I would skip class, hang out in the hallways, go downtown, walk in. This is a 12-year-old doing this kind of stuff, right? And so at the end of the school year, Um I I would go to class to take exams, you know, cheat and stuff like that. Um don't tell the church So one morning I was told at the end of the school year, I was barely able to pass, and my aunt was told, this is the first time she's hearing this, that I either had to go to summer school Or I was gonna stay in the seventh grade. And so she would get up early in the morning, like around four o'clock, because she would drive from one end of the island. from the center of the island to one end to provide food for her older brother and then drive back to the other end to go to work with the police station. Um and so she would get up early in the morning. So this one particular morning I got up And she was, I mean, she was bawling. And I the only thing, you know, and all she the reason she was bawling is because of what I had done. And she was saying, you know, I tried so hard, I don't know what to do, all of this sort of stuff. That thing affected me so gravely that it I I'm telling you is part of why I'm here today. It was because I knew the depths of her love. That is what kept me the next year I got straight A's in school and that lasted all the way up until senior high until you know what happened then Because the the me came out again. But what I'm saying is the love that she had for me was the fuel that I that pushed me. to be who I needed to be. The sacrificial love that she had for me, it motivated my obedience to want to do what I did for her. And in the same way, the love, when we understand that God loves us first, when we understand who God is, his perfections, and all the things that He's done and is doing. We are then motivated out of that love to walk in the beauty of holiness, to walk in a manner that honors him. That is why we won't compromise anything because of our love for Him, first and foremost. That is why we'll be persuaded in our hearts and in our minds to sacrificially walk before. And to walk in the patterns that He set for us, to walk in the beauty of holiness, as He is, we are the apple of His eye. Who are we to be the apple of God's eye? Who are we? We're nobody to be the apple of his eye. Anchor three. This love shapes the Christian community. You know, I talked about the fact, you heard me talk about going up to the room yesterday, and it's like, wow, the doors are unlocked. I I gotta be be honest here and don't tell the church, but you know, Burge has some sodas in his room. And I said, the doors aren't locked. But the reality of the situation is love thinks of others before itself. And that's why you don't take what others have when you truly love them. And it's out of that that we love one another in the Christian community. We look after others. You know, the Bible has so many things to talk about, the one-another's of Scripture. We forgive one another, we love one another, we encourage one another. And just over and over and over again, it gives a picture of people of God Loving one another and living in community. And the reason they love each other that way is because they love God first. Love God with all your heart, mind, and soul. Love your neighbor as yourself. And that love shapes, that agape love, the love that only we can have, shapes the Christian community. And that is why we should be known as lights on a hill. That's why we should be known as salt and light, because while the world is hating each other and competing with each other, That should not be named among us. What we should look like is 1 Corinthians 12, a body that's working perfectly. Eyes, nose, everything else working with Christ is the head. And when people see that, when people come around and see that, when they feel the love that you have because God first loved you. That will draw them to Christ. When they see the love that you have, when you exhibit that love, demonstrate that love in your household And as a consequence of that love, you follow what the Word of God says. Train your children up in the way that they should go. Speak of the Word of God in the How is and Bowies, Deuteronomy 6. All the things that you should do. That does not guarantee that your children will be one, you know, godly Christians per se, but it will set The atmosphere to show them who you are. And no matter even if they walk away, they will always know I'm a prodigal, but there's a father back there who knows God. A mother back there who knows God, who knows the love of God and shows the love of God and lives the love of God. Love is the undergirding foundation of it all. And when you're a church like that, if I walk into a church and I know that people love God and they love one another, you can feel it. That's one of the things that people used to say about the church where I came from in Mississippi. People would visit and they would be like, man, the the the spirit of God and and just the warmth of the people is so genuine here. And it started with the pastor. Be in that way. He was loving, he was emanating the love of God, and because of that, the church developed a culture of love and it distinguished them. Not anger. You can have holy anger, but that's not what's going to set you apart. The world looks angry. So it shapes the Christian community. Genuine community flows from our mutual experience of God's love. Love resolves conflict and forms sacrificial service. You can see that in Galatians 5. 13 through 14. Fourth one, love. It powers your mission, our mission and our witness. We love because he loved us and so we love the world. Because God loved us first, we loved the world. Listen You know one of the most popular verses, you used to see it when you went to baseball games, and it's not that more now because we're retreating, because culture is retreating. But John 16 was what you saw all over the place. And what does John 16 say? For God so loved the world. And so if God so loved the world, if he so loves his elect, Shouldn't we also love his elect? Shouldn't we also then want to be engaged in the mission that he's put up? Go into all the world. Go to all nations and make them disciples, learners. Shouldn't that be at our heart too? If that's at the heart of God, to draw his elect from every corner of the globe. Shouldn't we want with all our hearts to draw his elect from our community, where we live and where the church is? And I have to make that distinction because like the churches that I've been in, a lot of them have been commuter churches, which means the majority of people were driving from a far distance to come to church and they weren't right there by the community. But the community is the church community. And if you're in the church community, then you have a responsibility to that area also. And that might look different than the people who are right right there in terms of the time that you can give and things of that nature, but it is the love of God. They should be propelling you to do that when you recognize what God has done for you, how sacrificially he's done something that no one else could have done. And now, because of that, it is your reasonable sacrifice to go out and to serve. the true and living God, and to do so through the grid of love. Evangelism is it's an overflow of the grateful love that we have and not manipulation. Let me tell you something. If you go out and you're witnessing to people as an act of manipulation, they'll pick up on it. If you don't care about people, but you're just doing it because you think that's your Christian duty, they'll pick up on it. You know, a lot of times, uh, and this was particularly in areas where we used to go, uh I was working well, I was on the board of the YMCA some years ago, and we went to Washington, D. C. And one of the things it was an initiative called Pioneering Healthy Communities. And one of the main things that they told us is when you go into communities, don't be service Placed, be service-based. And let me tell you what that means. Don't go into a place and tell people here's what I'm gonna do for you and then just do things for them and just leave But go in there and find the people who are in leadership, find the people who are influenced, find the people who are whatever the case may be, and engage them relationally and empower them to do the things and it will be lasting. And it's in the same way when we go into an area, we go in with the love of Christ relationally. to engage people relationally, and it's through the grid of that relational that we will then be able to share an authentic gospel that's coming from a heart that truly loves the object of our speech. So it powers mission and witness. Now, from a theological standpoint, I'm going to end with this. God's love is initiating. I said this before, God is the first mover in redemption, right? We know that. We all know that. Well, look here. I said I'm just gonna end now and I got ten more pages Well, let me tell you, right? I figured it out. Here's the deal. I'm using the Apostle Paul thing here. He went and he preached in a room and a man fell out the window and he died, right? As long as no one falls out a window and die, it don't matter how much time I take, I'm good, right? No, I think I'm going to skip to this and say just okay, let's talk about some practical outworking and I'll save some of this. And these are disciplines that are shaped by love. First, James says faith without works is dead. So it doesn't necessarily say how much we love God, how much we believe, how much we this. He says faith without works is dead, but he could have also said that faith is shaped by love. Right? You see that in the scripture. The scripture tells us even the faith we have came from God. And through what? The vehicle of love. And so when love is your anchor, your prayers are experientially known to you as the communion of a loved child. You know when you're praying to God, when it's through the grid of knowing that he loved you first, that this is not just praying to an object. This is not just saying God, God. That's why for me personally I love to say father. And I know that some people have bad relationships and bad experiences with fathers, so it's difficult for them sometimes to say father. But I love to say Father because I'm saying it in the grid of knowing this is the creator of the universe who loved me first. And it is a relationship that we have that's grounded in his love. For me. And so when I'm praying, I understand that you should understand that you're literally praying. You're literally in communion with a loving father who loves you. Beyond imagination. And so if that's the case, there is no sense of condemnation. There's no need for you to try to bargain with God. There's no need for you to try to hide anything from God. He already knows it all. You just lay your heart out in a loving relationship with God. knowing that you are a loved child of his. Scripture is perceived as it should be. It's a practical outworking. We see Scripture the way it should be when we see through the eyes of God loving us, God's voice of love to his image bearer. and ambassador. We understand that the word of God, even those words that are correcting us, we understand that it is not some sort of tyrant. But we understand that the discipline that comes from God is because and through the grid of the love that God has for us. The Word of God says that if he does not discipline you, you are what? A bastard. Which means that you are a person that doesn't have what? Correct. That is never the case with us. Right? And so when we look at the word of God from from the first verse to the last verse and anything that we say ouch, it's like ouch. Yes, dad, that felt good And that goes for preaching and teaching. When you go to church and you hear something that offends you or whatever the case may be, the question you should be asking is, is this what God is saying to me? And if it's what God is saying to me, then know that it's coming from love no matter how you feel at that point. And then you say, enable me to see what you see within that relationship. When the love of God is our anchor, Worship becomes our natural and most grateful response. And here I think I was talking about true worship. You know, we sometimes we go to church and I d does your church do the doxology? And then we also do communion every week. And uh you do communion every week? Oh, cool. Hey, we gotta talk. But the the sometimes like when you say the doxology, right, in the back of my mind, I'm thinking to myself, are we so used to this that we're missing what we're saying? You know what I mean? Is it just becoming a rote thing where we're just saying it? Or is it the fact that every single week when we say it, we're reflecting on what we're saying? And then it's warming our heart. It's always first through the mind, and then the heart is warmed. And the response is genuine praise. That is spirit and in truth. Right? Are we doing that or is it just a rote thing? The same thing with communion. We have call and response uh things that we say and the same thing. So I I'm very, you know, sort of intentional in trying to meet move us away from just being organically rather than just this is something that they're doing from our we're doing from our heart where we're expressing the love that we have for God. Why? Because we understand how much He loves us first. He loves us first. Quick questions. Doesn't oh wait, let me ask this. Did anyone in this Any one of you have questions? And what I did this time is I said, okay, they don't want to ask any questions. They want to act like Presbyterians. I'll come up with my own questions. Yes sir. No, I appreciate that pastor and thanks for all this morning. Um it is a loving saying of course speak through like being salt and light. So we're gonna have discussions, you know, about what about how do we show love uh and yet not Looks like we're condoning, you know, falling into the algebra challenge that you mentioned. Yeah. You're talking about sexual sin, sexual identity, those sort of things. these predominant things of the age. Can you tell us what that looks like? How in a practical way we can show love? I know Rosario Badafirio is a great example. Uh we've had that talk in our church. What in your experience and how should we behave in regard to? Love the person enough to witness the gospel to them, not condone But at the same time we always want to avoid our our flesh wants to learn the bite. Yeah. We want to avoid being called a bigot. We want to you know seem like a open minded or avoid those attacks. Any advice on that? Well until you got to the word bigot, I had one thought in mind, but let me just say the thing about the word bigot. Get used to it. You're gonna be called a bigot. It doesn't matter how much love you show, how tender you are, you're going to be called names, you're going to be opposed. So, you know, the what came to mind immediately when you first talk, started talking, is we always need to be begging God. Begging the Lord, begging the Father, begging Jesus, begging the Holy Spirit to have us demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit. To have the fruit of the Spirit working through us. So Galatians 5. 20. is what we should be begging upon God's mercy that would be emanating through us. At our last General Assembly, a gentleman got up and he started speaking And what he was saying was very true, but the moderator shut him down because of his decorum. And, you know, I was reading um a book. Just recently, oh my goodness, the the name of the author is is um fleeing me right now. Um I might be able to tell you later so you guys can go read that book. It's very, very good But the point that he was making in that is that our disposition, no matter what, should always be godly. And we have to be guided by the word of God and the Spirit of God, and then our disposition needs to be commensurate with those things, and then we just speak the truth. You know, and we have to speak to one of the things that I was always taught in writing is to use third-person evidence. And what I mean by that is sometimes it's good you just don't say, well I think, well I think, will I think, well I this, will I that, because then it becomes you and them But if you like sort of allude to a third person resource and then tie to scripture, that's also something that's good to do. And you don't might not always have the time to do that, but it's good to be able to do that. You know? And so I never ever try to say I I believe, I this, I that. Um always stay away from it's my opinion and things of that nature. So I will, in a heartbeat, allude. And then you have to do like the Apostle Paul. You have to find out whether or not the person has any sort of biblical background. They know the scripture. You'll be surprised how many people in our society that don't even know anything about the Bible. And so in those types of situations, the Apostle Paul took them from creation. Um and then he took them from creation and then walked them into redemption. So but that's the again, it's a difficult world that we live in. We just have to be able to have the composure and the fruit of the Spirit working through in and through us when we're engaging the culture and speak in and act in love. And guess what? The best place to practice that is starting in your own house. Don't be fussing your wife. I see you. I heard you. Don't, you know, the Practice those the sort of composure, prayer, the patience, all the things that the Bible, the Word of God calls us to. Practice it in your home, practice it in your church community, and then it will be natural. Yes, ma'am. Yeah. So I would like to know how do we make the difference between the cheap to uh creating pastor and which other than the fast falls or umball falls and everything because um sometimes And we prefer ourselves to let you watch those pastors online and or while driving. some could based on what they say like um the same of what we want to talk about it sometimes it seems very important and then I just listen to them what I'm writing But I always I've always thought they were helpful. But now it's different. I'll let you know how we identify them And what you want to follow. Hmm. The answer is always R you repeat. Yes, I'm sorry. So she asked she mentioned that this morning I talked about certain pastors who I did not call by name until I did. And and that she listens to them driving and things of that nature and they say good things. Um I'm not saying exactly one-to-one what she's saying, but this is the heart of it. They definitely say good things, she listens to them where she's driving and things of that nature. How do you know the difference? If I'm claiming that they're not, uh true you know, truly preaching the word, how do I know that? And that they're instead being influenced by uh the worldview positivism How do I know that how do she distinguish that particular thing? Because I said you have to discern, right? Well the answer is are they preaching the gospel? Are they talking about sin? Are they trying to convict the people that are listening of sin? And I guarantee you if they start talking about sin every week, their congregation will whittle down by 25, by 80%. You don't ever hear them talking about sin, but you have to hear the bad news before you can hear the good news. There's no way around it. It is absolutely bad news that we are separated from, we were separated from God because of our sin, that all of us are sinners. One of them says that they don't ever refer to them to people as in s as sin. Okay? And the second thing is once you start understanding people's theology and you hear people saying on national television That there's more than one way. Yeah, I do believe there's more than one way to go to Christ. What? Jesus and the the apostles screamed under persecution. There is no other way under heaven by which a man can be saved. This is the apostles whose teachings we're supposed to continue in. And so if you have someone saying something differently, right? And now it now, I don't know if you're realizing this, but sooner or later, when a person is like that and they're slipping over here and they're not truly who they claim to be, they'll start doing things like embracing things that God does not embrace. Right now, and I ain't calling his name T. D. Jakes, embraces homosexuality. So if I'm sitting here now talking to you about loving people and the love of God and God loved us first and now loving people, is it loving to allow a person to sit in your pew week after week after week after week, comfortable being actively engaged in the homosexual lifestyle. Let me tell you why it's not. 1 Corinthians 6. 9 says, Do not be deceived, neither the effeminate, nor the homosexual, and all kinds of others will inherit the kingdom of heaven. That means that if they don't repent, hear the gospel, and turn to Christ, they're going to hell. If you and I know that being in the presence of God Experiencing the new heaven and the new earth is the best thing that could happen to anyone in the entire universe. Is it loving to let a person stay comfortable go to hell? It is absolutely not. Neither is that person who refuses to tell that person that truly representing God. They're not. So, yes, sir. Uh would like to add uh to what you're saying that one of the ways that you can distinguish is that it's all workspace. It's self works, it's not term Correct. What Bird just said, and this is what my church is going through right now, the book of Galatians right, is that another distinguishing mark, and maybe even more, thank you for that, even more than what I said, is the fact that what they preach is works-based. Merit. Earn your way. You know? It used to be a song that I in a church that I used to attend. I'm coming up on the rough side of the mountain. I'm trying my way to make it in. And I used to be there uncommitter. It sound good, it feel good, but it smelled like smoke. And so we have to discern those things. Yes, sir. Yeah, so and I think there might also you might want to make a delineation that uh A preacher or a pastor or a teacher can have you know most all the gospel right, and then some secondary issues like their view of baptism or They haven't quite got their arms around a current cultural crisis, right? And they're they can be wrong on that, but all the others can be fundamental. Yes. So what he just said, um, if I could sort of paraphrase, is that the the pastor can have all the central things correct, but on the secondary issues and things of that nature and cultural things Those things he might be a little bit off on, and that doesn't make him false or anything of that nature. It just means that he's not there with those parti in those particular areas. So yeah, I absolutely agree with that statement. Um, yeah. And so and by matter of fact, R. C. Spro and John MacArthur, uh, they had a and you can see this by the way, if you go online on YouTube, you can see they had a debate on infant baptism. And when it was R. C. Spro's turn to speak, he got up and he said, you know, if I had to be in a theological foxhole with anyone, it would be John MacArthur. And but I he didn't mean that. You know, he wasn't talking about that particular thing. But the point was made. Here are one that's coming from a Baptistic reform and here's one that's coming from a Presbyterian reform. So there's different ways and here's one that would talk strongly about culture and another one that wasn't necessarily that strong in that area. So those are the kind of things that, you know, there is some latitude. In fact, we have a bunch of denominations, and the way you distinguish them is by the centrality of the gospel. Is it by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone? Yes ma'am. And then with um the aspects of the court dis types of love. Um as Bible tells us, um, you know, love unconditionally and turn the cheek when someone has done you wrong. And you still love that person. Um Not because God tell you but their family or friends. And you may have one or two others that continue to have um it may sound crazy what I'm about to say. love of hurt are not forgiven. How do we as Christians we continue to love them, but they're still like doing stuff Sabotage and always trying to hurt you and using other people to hurt you. How do we continue t how how do we How do we deal with that with those persons uh demons? A person, you're f your call to forgive, your call to love. But a person continues to do the same thing over and over again, the same abuse, the same maltreatment, the same heart disposition towards you, how do you deal with them? That's your question in general, right? The answer is it continue to love them, continue to forgive them, but you don't have to be in that space That's the same thing unfortunately where you know you had to churches where a husband was physically abusing a wife and the pastor was counseling the wife to stay in that. No. He needed to tell her, get out and go to a safe space. Forgive him, pray for him, get to a safe space. God hates divorce. Pray that God would change his heart. Um even go and file a restraining order with the the government if you need to. The civil government needs to get involved in certain things. Um and if you have to do that, do it. Um, but do not stay there and get abused. And it's the same thing um with any other thing. By the way, if a person has that sort of disposition Where they're abusing you and they're acting in those kind of ways and things of that nature, the probability of you being able to minister to them is going to be very low. But the accountability, but bringing accountability to them is one way that God can turn them around. And hence it's very important to have a mark of a healthy church is having church discipline for the very reason. Okay. I think that's it, right? I think people are too hungry to listen to me anymore. This is the end of my presenting. So I just want to thank you so much again. particularly for allowing my wife to have a anniversary present. She might even go ride a horse. And I just want to leave you with the encouragement to live through the grid of love, to walk faithfully in God's word and live it out. And I and I just I'll be praying that God will continue to bless you and use you as his his body. Um just keep in mind. The church belongs to Jesus Christ. He's the one that's building it. The gates of hell will not prevail. Walk steadfastly in his word. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for the love that you extended to us even while we were yet sinners. It is our heart's desire that we would be able to manifest that very love. Your word clearly demonstrates that it is love that comes from your throne, that you are you alone have that sort of unconditional love. And now because we have your spirit, we can live through the grid of that same love as you work in and through us. And so we pray that we would have minds to submit to your word. minds to walk in the midst of your word, and hearts that would be subject to being molded and shaped by the image of the Holy Spirit so that we might be molded and shaped into the image of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, rather. And so that we would then emanate the fruit of the Spirit's And then we would walk in that fruit and doing so as we share your word through the grid of love, that as your word is lifted up, you would draw men in our local communities to yourself. Draw them from where we live, draw them from around our churches, draw your elect to yourself, and do so through the grid of the power of your spirit, enable and working through us by the love that you have given us. Even before the foundation of the world. Would you do these things, we pray, to the praise of your own glory. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay