Let's let's do that now. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh your grace in our lives. We we thank you uh for the great sacrifice uh that you have made of your own son for our sake. We pray that you'd be with us, that uh you would be especially with Dean as he uh opens up the word and um and teaches us. I pray that your Holy Spirit uh would give him the unction to uh to uh speak uh clearly and powerfully. And I pray, Father, that you would be with us as as we listen, that uh we would be focused, uh, that we would uh um have a great desire to to listen to your word, minister to us, to speak to us. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would convict us where conviction is needed, and that you would grant us the grace we need. in order to um um to reflect the Lord Jesus more and more in our lives. So we pray for change uh from within uh that goes out. And Father, I I also do uh pray for those who are who have not arrived yet that you would uh give them safe uh passage and journey uh uh until they arrive here. We pray, Father. And we ask all of these things in the name of our blessed Savior, even Jesus. Amen. All right. Amen. Okay, we're on. Good. So I guess one thing that Burge, Pastor Burge, Reverend Burge might, did not tell you is that we knew each other. before he was married to Jenny. I beg I guess you should have pulled that. Therefore, I knew him while his children were in him Like how we were all in Adam. And so I actually um had to complete an internship to complete an undergraduate degree. and Pastor Rick Phillips uh placed me with Burge. And so we were together uh uh as running buddies basically from that time And so I definitely, like I said, when he asked me to do this, I had tons going on and I was like, you know what? I gotta do it for Burgers. And then the other thing that providentially, sometimes when you your heart is like that and you sacrificially do things, you benefit from it. So this past Sunday was my thirty-fourth wedding anniversary. And so we didn't get to do anything. So I'm like, okay, I'm taking you out here. And you don't have to do anything except go up to eat whatever. And so here we are. All right. So thank you so much for having me Thank you so much for having me here with you. I really, really am glad uh to be here. Uh seriously. So my goal uh this weekend It's to encourage you to make God your chief source, as Burge talked about, drawing near to God. You know, that is something that should be dear to each and every one of our hearts, the drawing near to God. And the the the title that I call this first one was Drawing Near in a Retreating Culture, which would indicate that I would sort of comment. on the negative things that are around us in culture, but I thought about it and I said, you know what, for this particular uh presentation, and by the way, let me back up and just say something about that for a second, okay? I I can teach, but there's just something about me that's always like dragging to preach. So if I get a little preachy, just say amen and be okay with it, okay? So Again, my goal this weekend then, I don't I'm not going to tonight, I'm not going to focus on the culture and and worldviews and all that sort of stuff tonight. Tonight you've made it, you drove a long way, you had uh work to do, you had, there's things that's going on in the family. There's all sorts of things. that are pulling us away from where we want to be in our focus and things of that nature. So I thought tonight would just be a time of that passage, that pericope if you will. this everything that would be connected to this, it would start in verse one and it would end in verse 10, and it would sort of be pointing out the fact that that we that we are drawn, that we are sinful and and the world draws us away and things draw us and that we should repent. You know, we live in a culture, and I said I wouldn't go to deep into that. But we live in a culture where we we don't often take responsibility for our own actions, but we blame it for others. And maybe we're not like that, but there's a lot of that going on in our culture. And so I don't want to talk about that. So it but that particular passage in James 4, 1 through 10, it it's all about us recognizing our own. uh potential to sin and to do things and then it's calling us uh to to humility, to repentance, to resist in the world and things of that nature. But again, I don't want to focus on all of that this evening. What I want to focus on is verse 8, chapter 4, verse 8, which says this, draw near to God And he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Verge prayed, but let's just pray and ask God again to be with us. Father, we thank you for this time. Such a wonderful place that we're here. You are the one that has sovereignly brought us to this point, providentially so. And so we ask that you would give us this time, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would cause us to know and understand the love that you have for us and the desire that you have for us who are called by your name. to be drawn to you, to be drawn to our Savior, to recognize and to acknowledge his finished work, to submit ourselves to your spirit. And grow be thereby in the delight that you have for us and the grace that you are pouring out on us. Would you open our ears and our eyes even now? We pray these things all to the praise of your glory. Amen. Well brothers and sisters, our Westminster Confession of Faith says, or asks the question, what is the chief end of man? And the chief end of man we know is what? To glorify God and to enjoy him. When? Just yesterday? No, forever. Does forever start now? You better believe it does, right? And so God has called us to glorify him and to enjoy him forever. And one of the things that I want to do, and you'll hear me doing throughout my time here is always kind of starting in the garden because you see in the garden Adam and Eve were in the garden. They were created. No sin, nothing. When God created them, he said that they were good, very good. Everything that he created. And he put them in there. And it says you have the picture. Of God meeting with Adam and Eve in the cool of the evening. They were in perfect communion with God, if you will. And I want you to think about that. That perfect communion with God or of God did not start at that point. You see, God the Father God the Son and God the Holy Spirit, they were in perfect communion with each other, eternally so. Eternally so, because God is perfect Absolutely perfect. That means there was perfect love between the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Perfect love, perfect communion, perfect fellowship. And because the Father loved the Son so much, you know what love does? It gives. And so out of that love, he said, let me give my son a people for himself. Let those people understand and know and experience what it feels like to experience what we are experiencing right now. This fellowship, this communion, this wonder of being able to communicate with each other at the fullness of love and understanding. And so God created man And extended the communion and the fellowship that he had with man. And what happened? Adam sinned. And that broke that fellowship. But God in his grace did what? Even in Genesis 3. 15 you see it. We hear that I, the seed of the woman. Will destroy the seed of the serpent. So even in Genesis, after man did what he did, God still was saying, I will draw my people to myself. He still was saying it even in tights and shadows at that particular point. And so this communion that we had with God, this perfect communion is now broken. Sin comes into the world the way it has. And now all of a sudden you hear me talk about this on tomorrow. We now become self-centered. We are broken in our fellowship with God. But then we hear these awesome words. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Why? To bring us back into fellowship and communion. with himself to draw us near to God. Everything that Jesus did had that end in mind to bring that which was broken back together. That which was upside down right now, he's making it right side up again And in the midst of all this, even though we've been saved, we still wander. We still move. And it is out of that context then that James says Draw near to God. And so now the question becomes, what does it even mean? I mean, what does it even mean to draw near? Well, let's start by by saying it's an intentional spiritual movement toward God. In the Old Testament, it was a general expression for the one who sincerely approached God. in penitence and humility. The high priest, when he went into the holy of holies, right, he had to cleanse himself. He had to be ceremonially cleansed and washed with was indicative of the cleansing of his heart. And he's representing the people going in to the holy of holy. God is drawing him God is the one that said, here is how you would come in to see me. Here is what you had to do. I am drawing you to myself. And in doing so, he was representing the people of God being drawn to God. You hear me? Now we find the opposite of this drawing in the book of Isaiah where the prophet wrote, This people draw near with their mouth. and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. In other words, they were going around playing church at this particular point, you know, playing like they were the gathered people of God, like they wanted to be with God, but in actuality They were not. They did not. The gods of that age and the idols of that period of time were what they really wanted, not God who had done and was calling them to himself. They did nothing Israel did to earn the favor of God that they had. It was by his grace that he chose a people who were less than nothing. And then said, Here I am your God. Draw near. Come to me. And so they walked away, and they only then started pretending like they were drawing near. Is that where we are by any chance? I would say no. Now contrast that with ASAF Who in the 73rd Psalm started out with acknowledging his own waywardness. And his waywardness, ASAF waywardness started because he was envious of the wicked. Right? But then it said that when he entered into the sanctuary, that is when he drew near to God, he began to understand. what was going on. He began to understand. When he entered into the presence of God, when he drew near, his perspective changed. And thus he could proclaim, those who are far from you shall perish. But for me it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord my refuge that I may tell of all your works. When you are drawn near to God in fellowship, you will find that you will want nothing more than to share the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ with all those who are in your sphere of influence. You see, beloved, and it's not about physical proximity when we're talking about drawing near, but spiritual closeness If you remember when Jesus took a side walk, a side to go through Samaria, if you will. Remember, Jews would never have gone through Samaria, but he was like, I must needs go through Samaria. Why? because he had a mission in Samaria. And he met the Samaritan woman. And remember what she said? She said, our fathers say you are to worship up in this mountain But you Jews say that you're to worship in the temple. Who's right? And he basically said the Jews are right because they were given the oracles of God. But then this is the critical thing he said, but there is coming a time, and now is when those who will worship me, oh God, will do so in spirit. And in truth. Spirit is in sincerity of heart, wanting to be in the presence of God, wanting to come as Nathaniel without no guile, as Jesus said when he saw Nathaniel. wanting to come that way and according and and in truth is according to the dictates of God's word. How do we meet God the way he calls us to? And it is then that we can boldly join the psalmist even in the midst of weakness in proclaiming, the Lord is near to all who call on him. To all who call on him in truth. David, the man whom God called. A man after his own heart. God said that concerning him, said to his son Solomon, Solomon, my son, know the God of your father. and serve him with a whole heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searches all hearts. The Lord is searching all hearts. He already knows, but is showing a concern, a care, and intentionality on the part of God. And if God, who is all things and so awesome, can have an intentionality about seeking us out, how do we not reciprocate with all that we have? loving him with all our heart, our minds and our souls, and seeking him out. How do we not do that? Oh, it should be our joy, our greatest joy to do that, to glorify him, knowing also that the fruit of that will indeed be to enjoy him. And so brothers and sisters at this point, I hope you've grasped the undeniable truth that drawing near is a deliberate reorientation of our desires and loyalties towards God. It means turning ourselves, turning from self. You know, I have a term that I call the MMI syndrome. It's the me, myself, and I syndrome. You'll hear some more about that on tomorrow, maybe And and it's all about us, if you will, right? But we are to turn from self. We are to turn from sin. Sin is any want of conformity to the to the law of God. If God says, go left, And there's a crocodile, a cobra, and all kinds of stuff here. And there's some great path of safety over here. Guess what? If you go in that safe path of safety, you're sinning. And guess what? God is able to cause these things not to do anything to you like he did with Daniel in the lion's den. So God wants us to turn, to draw near to him, also means then that we have to intentionally Say, Lord, I am not going to keep me from sinning against you. Keep me from it being about myself and myself. And keep you, Lord. I want you to be the I. the apple of my eye and divided loyalties. Time and time again you see, for instance, Joshua standing before the people of Israel and then recounting their history of idolatry and everything else. And then in 2415 you hear, but as for me and my house We will serve the Lord. Is that where you are? Are you drawing near to God? And forsaken the idols of this world, and particularly yourself We battle against the flesh, the world, and Satan. And sometimes we blame Satan and the world, but as James 4 says, a lot of it is us. A lot of it is us. So how are we dealing with that? So God is, he wants and desires our loyalty towards him and not just mere ritual. So now here's another question we need to ask, because you know we we say God and we talk about God and we say the word God and we say Father, but who is God? At times you have to reflect on that again because we allow things to compete with God. But we need to ask ourselves the question: who is God? And reflect on who he is. And so before I go any further, I want to ask and answer a question that should be very easy. And I've already asked it already And our reflection on the answer of this and the meditation on the height and breadth of it should cause us To engage in nothing less than total praise. When we think truly about who God is. We should engage. It should cause, it should move us to total praise and the doxological fervor of hearts that have been bathed in streams of fragrant truth. And so the question again is who is this God? And there is so much that can be said there. You've heard it, but don't just hear it. Really, really and truly reflect on it. Because you're asking yourself, why should I draw near? And who am I drawing near to? Who am I drawing near to? Right? And so we ask ourselves that question: who it is? Who is this God? Right? And so now you have here a 27-year-old, but I'll let me get to that, right? There is so much again, but here's one thing that we have to say about God and we have to acknowledge. He is perfect. In every way. It is hard for us to comprehend the perfection of God by our understanding of only the things that we can see. But God is perfect in every way. And guess what that means? Because He is perfect, there is no variableness of shadow of turning with Him. Well, as James 1:17 says, every good gift. And every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Folks, listen to what this young man, William McEwen, who died at the tender age of 27. had to say about God's immutability. He wrote, sickness impairs our health. Death changes our countenance. The grave devours our flesh. The teeth of time will even leave some impression upon the hardest of body, and the rocks may be removed out of their place, all may fade and see corruption, but Jehovah The covenant God is the incorruptible God, the rock of ages, the living God and steadfast forever. Now what does that mean for us, you ask? Well, it means that as we draw near, we're not drawing near to someone or to something who will be here today and gone tomorrow. It means that we're not dealing with one whose emotions will be one way one day and another the next day. It means that we won't have the favor of God today. The love of God, the grace of God, the depths of everything that he cares about us, and then all of the sun tomorrow have the anger of God that turns out at wrath for us. He won't be that way with us. If he loves us and he's put us in his heart and we belong to him Therefore, we cannot be loved any more tomorrow than he loves us today. And we will never be subject to his wrath. Why? Because he's perfect. So when he perfectly chose us before the foundation of the world, we can rest secure in the hope that we have in him, and he will never be angry to the point where we are now subject To the wrath that we deserved before Christ died for us. You follow me? No longer, no shadow of change and perfection in all his ways. It means that. And because of that, that is why you can shout with the Apostle Paul: What shall separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus? Folks, if you were to look at the Apostle Paul throughout scripture and you look, this is a man who received the revelation that he had from Jesus Christ himself And when he would ponder these things, when he would reflect on these things, just like you see in the end of Romans 8, it brought him to a point as what I was saying to you of just total praise. doxological praise. And that's why he would say, what can separate us? Because he understood that as you draw near to God He will draw near to you. And guess what? You didn't initiate it. He did. But he wants you to keep coming. That's why we call ourselves reformers. Because we deform all the time and God wants us to keep reforming. Keep coming back. Come to me. Come to me. Abide in me. I am the true vine. Why? Because he is perfect. Omniscient. Because he's perfect, he knows all things. Right? Does anyone in here know how many counties are in every state in the U. S. Can anyone tell me precisely what's going to be taught in every classroom in every university in the United States this coming Monday? Not only can God tell you that, but he can tell you how many hears are on each and every one of your heads. He don't have a problem with me and Berberish. He can figure it out easy. Everything that's going on in the entire galaxy, past, present, and future perfectly. I mean stop just stop for a second and then throw in nose every grain of sand And all the oceans and all the seas knows, I mean, every minute, there is nothing that's out of the knowledge of outside of God's knowledge Nothing. And yet you hear, who am I that you would consider us? But yet he does. This is who is saying to us, draw near. Can you think about that? Let me tell you something. Well, maybe not all of you, but typically when you have a president that's loved by everyone, let's put it that way And he calls you to come to the White House. You know what you're doing? You dropping out you're doing and you're catching a plane flight and you're going to you remember it was a time when every sports team went to the White House and they were hee hee hee. And all of that kind of stuff. You did not let that opportunity go by because this is the president of the United States of America. Well, let me tell you something. Who is God? He is the king of king, the Lord of Lord. He is the everything, the all-in-all. So when he calls How much more should we drop what we're doing? How much more should we say yes, Lord? How much more should we be saying there is nothing else? There is no one else My soul pants for you. How much more? The fountain of all true wisdom, because he's perfect, The one who is calling us near is the fountain of all true wisdom. Solomon was said to be the wisest person that ever walked on the earth, with the exception of Jesus. But how many of you know that with Solomon's wisdom compared to what God knows, understands, and all the everything, every contingency, I mean God knows right now. what every cell in your being is going to be doing and why it needs to do a certain thing in order for a certain thing to unfold. I have to speak in general out of leaves like that, because I ain't too smart. But God knows every contingency. His wisdom is unsearchable. And so if that is the case, when you're walking around every single day, you have to rest in the fact that all things work together for good. For those who love the Lord and are calling according to his purpose. You have to rest in the knowledge that on a hair can drop from my head. Nothing is outside of the abundant wisdom of God, the all-knowing power of God and the wisdom rather of God. Nothing. And if nothing is like that, how do we not walk around with what God has already offered us? The peace that passes all understanding in Christ Jesus. When we reflect on God and take our eyes off of ourselves, off of our circumstances, off of everything else, and we do what he says is to draw near to him. That's what happens. Now we're starting to walk into what we are called to. We start glorifying him in the things that we do and intentionally. And then we start feeling the peace that surpasses all understanding. I keep like thinking about the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul gets thrown in a dungeon. And dungeons back then ain't like the old jail that we have now with AC and cable and all this kind of stuff, a little gym in the backyard you can lift up. They were in stinky dungeons and ain't no suicide and things of that nature, right? That's what he was in. And so he's in that. And what is he starts doing? Singing psalms Singing songs. Under the greatest of duress. Don't know if your life is your life isn't, you know, you don't know which coming or going, what's gonna happen to you. But yet you're praising God. Sedrach, Mesek, and Abedniko, oh my boy, a bad Negro, right? They King, we know we hear you King, but hey, we not doing that You know? Why could how could they be so steadfast? Because they had drawn near to God. And he had reciprocated and how they and caused them to feel and experience what they were experiencing. So it's not the externals that determines How you should feel. It is a God that is calling you to draw near to him. And now we have the indwelling presence of his spirit. And let me ask this one question also. Is there any promise that God has made that he has not fulfilled? The answer is absolutely not. And so when you see this particular thing, you do recognize that when it says draw near to God and he will draw near to you, you do recognize that that's a promise. That is a promise. And so you have a promise that you can bank on here. Well, Dean, how do I know I can bank on that? Did you see what happened on the cross? All the promises are established in God's in Christ's finished work on the cross. If God can put his own son on the cross like that and allow him to endure what he endured the way he did. How do you not think that he is going to fulfill all that he has said? The God who I said is all perfect and therefore knows every contingency, know everything. He will absolutely fulfill all things. Every promise that God makes is yes and amen. And this is one. So as you walk. This Christian life. And you know that God is saying, draw near to me, and I will draw near to you. You know without a shadow of a doubt you should that he is. You know that he's given you his spirit You know Philippians 1:6 says that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of our Lord. You know it. And so no matter what the circumstances are, no matter what anyone says. You listen to God and his promise. And what has he said? Draw near. Draw near. And what what should we do? The verse goes on to say, cleanse your hands. That's practical holiness. So there's outward action on our part. We don't do good works to earn our salvation. We do it out of the love for our Lord and obedience to walk with him in the beauty of holiness. In Exodus 19, you saw God give them instructions as to how to serve him. And then it says, purify your hearts. That's an inward renewal. And so God is concerned about the inner motives of our heart. And that's why he said what he said to the Samaritan woman. Now, why turn to God? I'm just asking some questions. Why turn to God for joy and fulfillment? You've already heard some of this, but I'm just specifically getting to it. Why turn to God for joy and fulfillment? Brothers and sisters, because God alone satisfies. In the book of Ecclesiastes, he said he's created eternity in the heart of man. So when you see someone running after drugs, sex, power, whatever the case may be, they're trying to fill a gap that only God can. Why turn to God for joy and fulfillment? That's what He created us for. And we will not find our joy in anything else until we run, draw near to God. We won't find it in family. We won't find it in our spouse. We won't find it in anything except drawing near to God. We were created for a relationship with Him. I started off by telling you about the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in perfect relationship with one another, extending that. Think about that. God loved, the Father loved the Son so much. That he gave him a people. The Son loved the Father so much that he and us so much that he gave his own life. And the Spirit loved the Father and the Son so much that he is holding us That he applied the finished work of the Lord, and now he is the one that's keeping us, that's illumining our minds, that's teaching us, that's doing all this. And they're doing it as an extension of the love that they have for one another. When you think about these things and you reflect on the truth of them, It should cause you again to say, oh man, I'm putting aside all these things and I'm running with the Lord. Remember when Jesus told the people, unless you eat my flesh and drink my blood, you have no part of me. And people are like, ping-on, I ain't got no time to that. And he turned to the disciples and said, You leaving too? And he said, where else should we go? You alone have the word of life. You alone know all things. You alone are perfect. That is who we worship. That's who we run with. That is who calls us friend. Wow. There is no worldly substitutes. They leave us empty and divided. We all know that sin feels good. Right? Sin feels good. I'm telling you, when I get engaged in my gluttony, that's one of my pet things. When I eat the whole chocolate, I man, it feels good. But afterward it's like, oh, this don't feel good. Or whatever else you want to get into, it feels good. If you're lying, if you say sin does not feel good. I get man, I'm telling you when When Eve ate that fruit, she was like, man, this thing is off the chain. Oh my goodness. Adam, you gotta check this off. And he was like, man. Man, she messed up, but it's my wife. I gotta go with her. You know, instead of God, I gotta go with her, you know, and he's and here we are today, you know Idols give us brief pleasure but not deep satisfaction. And so what are some practical pathways to draw near? X thing I want to ask. And I'm calling these daily rhythms to draw near to God. The only way God has revealed Himself through His Word. That's how we know Him. The heavens declare the glory of God and the skies declare his handiwork, yes. But that's general revelation. The second part of that chapter tells us that the Word of God is what's given to us to reveal God to us And so scripture reading, if you have slacked on reading the Word of God, think about what it is that you have in your hand. We have so many Bibles in our homes, and sometimes we don't open any one of them. But think about what God, who it is, who's think about what you have in your hand when you have the Word of God. One of the things that I do in addition to everything else that I'm doing at this particular point is I make sure I've adopted reading devotionally, reading through the Bible every year, but devotionally. So it's a devotion. And then there's a sh a short devotion about this long, and then there's like maybe three different books that you work through, and then when you do that, you're working through the entire Bible every year. like that. And that's in addition to studying to preach and teach and and things of that. Because you need to be devoted, have your your time of devotion. And so just a ten ten to thirty minute reading and and honest reflection. Don't neglect it. Don't neglect doing so because it is by doing that that you are indeed drawing near to God in the proper knowledge of God. How are you going to draw near to what you don't know? If you're married or you have a spouse and things of that nature, if you're never around your spouse, if you're never hanging out with your spouse, how are you going to get to know them? And I mentioned my wife and I have been together 34 years and sometimes she does things today and I'm like, man, I never knew that about you. You know? Still getting to know each other And uh John MacArthur, bless his soul who died a thing. You know, he wrote that entire uh New Testament uh commentary. So he preached through the entire New Testament. and wrote a commentary on it. I have the entire set. It was gifted to me um by uh I'm a you know Presbyterian, you know And my eschatology is not what John MacArthur's is, but the guy that was in the Presbyterian church, he had backed his ideation, so he thought he would convert me. By giving me John MacArthur. So but he don't know. I've always loved John MacArthur, but I don't walk with his, you know, eschatology. But anyhow, the point is That John MacArthur said after 40 years of teaching through the New Testament and preaching through the New Testament, Every time he goes back to a passage, he learns something new. The word of God is inexhaustible. And as we draw near, we'll find the reservoirs that Jesus told the Samaritan women about. The Holy Spirit bubbling up in us and illuminating our minds and drawing us closer. Prayer. Two to three intentional conversations per day Daniel prayed three times a day. I'm pretty sure Daniel didn't do what I do. You know, I just sometimes I say, Lord, it's the top of the afternoon. I just want to say hello. All right, I'm off. You know, I you don't have to join me in admitting that prayer can be difficult, but it's a discipline. And again, we have to remind ourselves who it is we're talking to. who it is that's allowing us to draw near to them and then discipline ourselves. I'm so glad that, you know, my two My 29-year-old and 31 and uh 31 two days from today are back in our house. I'm not glad they're back in the house, but I'm glad that we get up in the morning. And my son is leading us in a devotion. And I'm like, man, I'm supposed to be the man of the house. What's going on here, you know? But I love it. Yeah, and we are not all there like that, but the point though is that that's what we should be doing intentionally. praying to the Lord, devoting our heart to the Lord, and then have a good season of time of prayer. So this two to three, one is definitely where you're talking to the Lord. You're in depth with the Lord. Don't always be praying about yourself. Pray for others. Pray for your enemies. You can't hate someone who you're praying for. But this is what God is calling you to do. Okay? Confession. Weekly confession and accountability All of us still sin. The Apostle Paul wrote two-thirds of the New Testament, and yet you find him in Romans 7 saying, oh, woe is me. The things that I want to do, I'm not doing. The things that I don't want to do, that's what I find myself doing. And that's what God used to do all that he did. And if he's talking about that dynamic, how much more us? How much more should we are we going to be, you know, in that same vein? And so, but we hear these words. If we say we have no sin, we are what? Lying. But if we confess our sins, he is what? Faithful and just. And you can just put in parentheses right there and perfect, so that he will perfectly answer according to the dictates of his own word. Sabbath rest. We live in a culture, and I said I wasn't going to get into culture too much, but we live in an environment that it wants to move us away from having that time of rest in the Lord on the day that he is set apart. But that is something that we need to fight to sort of engage in the rest that God has given us on the day that He has support and ordained. for himself. I could say a lot lot more about that. And that's something that there's a lot of deviation in the body of Christ in terms of how we approach that. In our denomination, that's the The one thing that folks take the exception, take exception on most with the Westminster Confession of Faith. But I'm telling you, you can never go wrong resting in Christ on the day that he is set apart. You can never go wrong. And service. If you're drawing near to the Lord, you are going to want you're gonna love the things that he loves. And if he is in about the business, of making disciples of all nations. If he's the business of uh lauding people that don't deserve it with common grace, then we should also be about the things that he's about. And so we should want to serve the Lord and worship our acts of love. As we draw near to God. It's about proximity of spirit, not physical. So in summary, I'm just going to read this. James couples a command to draw near with a promise. He will draw near. The Christian life is not passive. It requires intentional reorientation of our hearts. But is also deeply encouraging. God promises to meet us as we come. The call to cleanse hands and purify hearts shows that this nearness transforms both our action and our motive. I wrote it, but I just read it like if I wrote a book, because that's the longest thing I've ever come close to come writing a book. You see? So brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you. Like I said, no negativity, no negativity tonight. Not calling you out in your sin to convect you of sin or anything of that nature. Just want to encourage you. to reflect on who it is that you follow as God and to run hard after him. He has called you to draw near. Why don't we all join in doing exactly what he's called us to? Let's pray. Glorious Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this time again that you've given us this time of respite, rest. renewal and refreshing. It is our earnest desire as you've called us to draw near to you. It is indeed our earnest desire to do just that We acknowledge that we are caught up so often in our own daily shenanigans and we're caught up in in wanting our own way and our own pleasure and our own things and fail to recognize. that the fullness of joy rest beginning in your bosom. The fullness of rest is rest rather in following our Lord And working according to his purposes, praying that your will will be done, that your will, that our will will be subsumed by yours. By seeking to glorify you, to walk in out the callings to which you call us, so that we would accomplish the works that you call us to before the foundation of the world. Would you, Holy Spirit, help us this day to do exactly as our Lord has asked us to, commanded us to, imperatively, to draw near? Would you speak to our hearts? Would you encourage us? Would you enable us to walk in a manner that is worthy of the calling to which we've been called? Bless us with hearts that love our Lord. Bless us with the zeal not to just love internally, but to share externally with all those whom you bring across our path. Would you do these things in this church? Would you do these things in our heart? And would you do all to the praise of your own glory, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Everyone have a wonderful night of sleeping. Don't be too loud. Like they said, Dorothy, we can't act the fool. Thank you all. Good night. Say again? Yes, ma'am. Okay.