And the person that's doing the uh sketch with the elephant and the giraffe, I need to see you right away. Good morning everyone. I hope everyone's had a good night's sleep and we're ready for uh Brother Dean to uh to teach us some more. And I'm looking forward to hearing more, especially maybe even uh uh some of the uh was it the cultural things that uh that are outside of our reach. Oh no, no, I'm getting I'm getting this. Yeah, yeah, uh just a little bit, yeah. Let's uh let's go ahead and uh um and open up uh in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this gorgeous, beautiful day. And we thank you that we can gather this morning and that we can learn. We thank you that we're able to take some time off of our normal uh lives and the various things that we do uh together and to uh take some time to uh to draw closer to you. We pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit would be with us and especially Brother Dean as he teaches us that we would be focused upon uh your word and um also to to apply uh the things that we have learned in our lives, uh whether it is to um uh to turn away uh from certain things or if it is to to turn towards you uh or both, that uh you would guide us and that you uh would indeed draw us closer to you as we turn to you uh to rely upon your promises for you're a God who keeps his word uh that if we draw to you, you will draw to us. And we pray that you would help us to get closer to you, that we would um uh learn to um uh to be in your bosom more and more and to find our ultimate satisfaction in you and not to have our uh Heads turned by the things of this world, the things of our flesh, and of course Satan himself. And we ask that you would help us to do this doing that. We can't by ourselves. And so we ask your spirit to do that within us. And we ask this all for your glory. And in Jesus' name, Amen. All right. Amen. Well, good morning again, everyone. So uh glad to be here with you. Um yeah, we did have a good time last night. But if you weren't here, the overarching theme of uh this weekend is draw near to God. And so yesterday we looked at uh the topic of drawing near to God in a retreating culture, but then I sort of made a unilateral decision that I would just deal with drawing near to God only and then save the retreating culture part of that and then uh conflate that, put that together with the worldly descractions from an abiding hope. Now when the word hope is used in the Bible, it's a little bit different than the hope that we have in our in today's language. Hope in the Bible is the absolute sure thing. It's not saying you hope. You know, like when I was in high school, quite frankly, in my high school days, I was a piece of work and it literally took me until like the last week of high school to know or learn that I was actually going to graduate from high school. I had to wait for a list to be put up with my name on it. And so I like to tell people that some people in my high school graduated Magna cum laudi, others graduated Summa cum laudi. I graduated. Thank you, Lottie. And so that was a different hope than the hope that you see in Scripture. When we hear of abiding hope, We're talking about a Lord that has saved us to the utmost and is keeping us. And so yesterday we heard that that God, Jesus, the Father, the Holy Spirit, that they have said that we are to draw near. uh through James, draw near to God, we heard, and he will draw near to you. Right? So invariably if that is the case, If it is God's will for certain things to happen, guess what the enemy is going to do from that? He's going to do the opposite. To fight against that. And so we're going to talk about some of that, the worldly distractions from that abiding hope that we talked about. But I want to start off by asking you have you ever found yourself distracted? by something small, only to realize uh that it pulled your attention from something much more important. Uh you sit down with the attention of fake uh finishing a major report in your office. And before you know it, you see this little pop-up with an email. Then you open that email. You're just, I'm just gonna open this one email, see what it's about. And before you know it, you've opened a second email and a third email and I think And then the next thing you know, the deadline for the project is almost right upon you. Have you ever planned a birthday party and spent hours choosing? You decided that you wanted to do the invitation on your own. But then you started doing an invitation and the font looks a little bit this way or that way. And so you get caught up in dealing with the font size and before you know it, you forgot to book the venue. Right? In Ephesians 6. 12, we're told, oh rather, here's mine. Let me back up. Here's mine. I love to play Spider Solitaire. How many of you know what Spider Spider is? Okay, I love to play Spider Solitaire, right? So I get in the situation where And and then with the one that I play i it's like it's very hard. It's the highest p uh level and so you can fail. And then you can like start it over the same exact game and you can play it again and play it again until you finally figure out how to win, right? And so I'll say, you know what? It's lunchtime. I'm just gonna do this for a downtime or I get home and I'll say, you know, let me play Spot of Solitaire for for a downtime and things like that so I can relax my mind, right? And then I lose the game. And I was like, nope, I gotta try that again. And I tried again, and then I tried again, and then I tried again, and two hours is gone And I'm like, whoa. Don't you don't go back and tell the church I said this again. Whoa, I just messed up on my sermon prep time or or whatever else I was supposed to be. You know, don't uh and it's but it's a distraction. It starts out as something that seems good and it's in a distraction. Well Christians as Christians we face all sorts of distractions. things that seem harmless or even appealing, but in reality, they can steal our affection. We're called to draw near to God. to place our focus on him, but these particular things can draw us away. Now in Ephesians 6. 12, we're told that we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. but against the rulers and cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. 2 Corinthians 4. 4 refers to Satan as the God of this age, of this world. And so now think about that's what I was saying in the beginning. Think about that for a second. We're being told to draw near to God, right? We're being told to focus and to reflect on God, to recognize who he is, as we talked about last night. Who is this God Who is he? Perfect in all his ways, able to accomplish all things. And when we focus on God, it's like we come to a place where we're like, wow, it's like doxological praise. recognizing who God is. And in that moment we're equipped more and more to do exactly what we'll be created for. That is to glorify him And to enjoy him, right? And so what then would happen with the spiritual powers and darkness and the cosmic forces and the God of his age? Do they want us Doing that. Draw near to God in that way. No, they do not. So what do they use? Distractions. Now, C. S. Lewis, one of the greatest satirical and imaginative take on this spiritual warfare, can be found in his book, Screw Tape Letters. How many of you know Screw Tape Letters? In this book, and I'm just going to allude to it, right, he talks about these sorts of distractions for Christians, the mundane and the ordinary. Ordinary life is one of the greatest distractions. All you got to do is get a person caught up in ordinary life. And listen, in our households, this can be things as simple as arguing over little petty stuff and making those petty things like huge mountains in our household. And then before you know it, you're all mad with you. The Bible says, don't go to sleep, you know, don't don't let go to sleep with the anger and stuff. And you but you going to sleep and the smoke coming out of this ear, oh money, and the smoke coming out of this ear You're supposed to do devotions together and what you're doing is something other than devotions or whatever the case may be. You're Sunab, here's the opportunity for you to To grab hands, hold hands and draw near together, and instead you're walking around like locomotives. Okay, right. Little things draw us away and those things, that's our flesh sometimes, and pride and everything else. But the fact of the matter is we're drawn away So C. S. Lewis wrote, It is funny how mortals always picture us as taking things into their minds, in reality, as putting things into our minds rather. In reality, our best work is done by keeping things. out, keeping out the knowledge of God and causing you to instead reflect on the little petty things in life. Noise and sensory overload. We have media now like we've never had before. I mean you can click all over anytime, anywhere. You got your phone, you can't do g leave home without it. You know, it's like whatever the case may be and if your phone is missing, it's like your whole half of your life is missing. Like you'll look for your phone all day. I saw a skit that says, what if we treated our Bibles like our phones? We'd be all up in our phones. We'll be anything that happened, let me bible it. Not Google it. Let me bible it. You know what I mean? We if we treated our phones, our Bibles the same way we treat our phones We would literally living out what we are called to in terms of drawing near to God, being able to, when we have thoughts about things, being able to say, here, what does the word of God say about this? You think of Psalm 1, don't walk in the counsel of the ungodly, don't stand in the way of the sitter. Don't sit in the seat of scornful. But what does that person do? They meditate on the Word of God day and night. So that even if you don't have a Bible in your hand, you know the Word of God. You're drawing near to God through the knowledge and understanding of His Word. How many of us do that as a matter of course? Or are we drawn away constantly by the things of this world? Are we distracted by the noise by media? He said hell is described as a kingdom of noise. A grand strategy to drown out the voice of God. The news and current events. Oh, let me tell you, if I watch news, you know what nowadays, if you watch news long enough You will be walking around with smoke coming off of the top of your head. It is I mean it's just vitriolic. It's like everyone Is putting out there to draw us more and more into a polarized environment, right? We're more polarized now than we've ever been in society. And guess what? That is extended into the church. The church is supposed to be unified under the doctrine of God and the love of God is supposed to be emanating through the people of Christ, for the people of Christ, but that is not what you see. We're separated in all sorts of different ways and manner. And when you look on Facebook or wherever, any sort of media It's actually posting this and then posting that and people are hiding because they're not face to face, they can say things as vitriolic against each other. and people are dugging into their echo chambers and things of that nature. Do you really think that's something that we initiated? It's the God of this age that's doing that. that's drawing us away from God Himself and from the people who have been created in God's image for his purpose and for his glory. The future. We're distracted by the future, so concerned about the future. And then some of us are so bogged down in our past. Oh, Satan loves to use our past against us. Loves to have you thinking, oh man, I did this, I did that, da-da-da-da. You know what? That stuff is covered, right? By the blood of Christ. It's in the past, but yet we dwell on it. And then we're always, the world has us anxious about everything. But listen to what the word of God says. Do not be anxious about anything But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known to God. But yet we walk around anxious about every little thing. Am I going to be able to do this? Does this person like me? Does that, this, does that, this? How many things? Think about how many things you yourselves are anxious about. Think about it. Even bad relationships, our children are acting in ways that we don't consider that don't consider to be great or whatever the case may be, and we're anxious as to whether or not things are going to turn themselves around. But if I'm looking at this, it says, don't be anxious about what? Anything. Anything. Right? But by prayer and supplication with Thanksgiving, let your request be known to God. Listen to what it says. And this is what I alluded to yesterday when we are drawing near to God. What happens? Our circumstances doesn't matter. What happens? And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, people will not understand it. You yourself will not understand it. Will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Now let me read that again. Which surpasses all understanding perhaps might There's a chance might. No, it says will. Will. It's a what again? A promise of God that you don't have to be anxious. He will guard your heart. Now the way that this is phrased, guess what God recognizes? I could sit here to you and say to you now, don't be anxious, don't be anxious, don't be anxious. And then you'll walk out the door and guess what you'll do? Be anxious. And so this is a constant reminder to us to walk in what God is saying here. Constantly. We need to hear it. Time and time again, we need to encourage one another with these words. We need to encourage one another with the things that we see in Scripture. However, you need to be perfectly aware that this is the sort of stuff That Satan will use to draw you away. And then there's all sorts of twisted pleasure. And I'll talk about that in a few, okay? But let's move on for a second. So we have those sort of dis Now at this point I want to read the text that I want to deal with for the rest of our time together, okay? And it's 1 John 2, 15 through 17. Because we're talking about worldly distractions again from an abiding hope, right? And all of us live in this particular world. This world that the God of this age is controlling because God has allowed him to do so, however God is still calling his electoral himself. The church is still being built through it all. God is still being glorified in it all. However, we as Christians need to be able to recognize that we are in a spiritual warfare. We need to be able to discern the things that are going on around us. And in the midst of that, we need to be doing exactly what God has called us to. Well, we need to start with this. drawing near to God. It is when we do that we'll experience the things that I talked about last night, but then we will also be able to discern and walk in the midst of a dark and dying world as salt and light. If we don't know these things, if we don't understand these things, if we don't start off by drawing near to God, We will be sucked into the world. And right now I can tell you the church is one foot in and one foot out. Because they're not doing, we're not doing the exact same things that I'm saying. And I'm not saying the church. I don't mean CRPC. I mean the church as a whole in the United States of America, okay? I mean, and you might say that some of them are not real, but if you have two men in a pulpit pastoring and they're married to each other, something is wrong. And I could say a whole lot more going down that direction, but that's the culture seeping into the church. And we used to live in a culture that was or a society that was marked by Judeo-Christian principles. And that's why I was talking about a retreating culture. We cannot say that anymore. We cannot say that we live in an environment where we have Judeo-Christian principles at the forefront. I walked up here yesterday when we first checked in and we walked into our room and I was like, wow, this is pretty cool. You know why I said that? Because there was no lock on the door. Go do that where I grew up at and see what happens. A retreat in culture, but there used to be a time when that was something younger folks, you don't you might not notice But there was a time when that was the norm in the United States where you could leave your door open. Where you better not act bad down the street because your neighbor down the street can spank you. And then bring you to the house and then you get sp and then you get spanked again from your your parents. Now Now we put your hands on somebody's child, always big fight. And the child could be dead wrong. A child could walk into a house, robbing the house, get shot, and they trying to sue you. We live in a world that is walk all of these things are the fruit of walking away from the principles that God has said. Now notice I didn't say that we have to be a Christian nation or any of that sort of stuff. I am just simply saying. that God is the Lord of all. And when the principles of God are in place, the people prosper through common grace and everything else. Okay? And we are the ones. And God is still going to win his people through all of that. However, we do not live anymore. We no longer live in an environment where the Judeo-Christian principles are afoot. That's a fact, okay? And so I want to read this because We're talking about our affections towards God. This is 1 John 2, 15 through 17. All right? Do not love the world. Or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world The desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life is not from the Father, but it is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. Now I'm going to flush this out as I would if I was doing a sermon in under three headings, right? First we're going to look at the command. There's three things that you see here. There's a command to not love the world. Okay? There's a command to not love the world. And then you see flushed out some counterfeit, the counterfeit loves, if you will. And then there's a temporal, there's a contrast between the temporal and the eternal. So there's a counterfeit loves, there's counterfeit loves. The command to do not love the world, and then there is the contrast between the temporal and the eternal. Okay? Now it's important to note that John, as he's speaking in this text, he isn't forbidding the enjoyment of creation itself, right? After God finished creating the world. He said that everything he said is good is good is good and then when he finished on the sixth day it was like it's very good Everything that God created was great, was awesome, okay? And then he put the man in the garden to tend it and to keep it, right? And that garden was great. And he had to develop it and things of that nature. And then in Genesis 1. 28 he said, go fru be fruitful and and and multiply, have dominion over the earth. That's the entire earth. Now I want you to think about that for a second. Just think about that for a second, right? Let me see. Can we see a tree out here? Oh, this little bush out here. So look at that little bush out here. Now think about the you just the United States of America. Then go broader to the rest of the world, right? Adam had all the entire world. And all he had to do was not eat from that tree. Think about the scope of that. When people try to say that God is very restrictive, And how he tries to keep us, think about it, that was restrictive. Right? He had everything to enjoy to the absolute fullest, including God himself. God would meet with them in the cool of the evening, the perfect existing God, communing with them in perfection, in total love Everything. I mean you just think of the best possible experience that you've ever had in your life and quadruple by that by a million and you will know what it felt like for Adam to be with God in the garden. And that's been lost. And that is what Christ is recovering for us. That is what we will have again when we're in the new heaven and the new earth. But that is what uh we were drawn or taken away from. And so now we live in an environment that's broken again And Christ again is trying, is restored, not trying, he's already done it successfully, restored that, but in the meantime Folks, do you understand that we do not live in a vacuum in society? You're either going to see the world through one set of eyes or through another. You're going to either see the world through God's perspective, from God's perspective, or you're going to see it through another. And the question is, which ones are you going to see it through? And the thing is, in the church, if you don't know God's word, you won't know what you're seeing. You won't understand what's happening to you. Okay? And so I wanted to sort of walk us through looking at some of those particular things. And R. C. Spro does a great job in a book called Worldview. I would recommend, strongly recommend that to you, okay? We live in a world where we're being made to see things in ways that are unbiblical. And again, sometimes we don't even recognize it Here's what Romans 12. 2 tells us. And remember it in light of what the scripture is that we read. Do not love the world. Okay? This first part, do not love the world. So we're looking at this command not to love the world, okay? Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That by testing, by testing, is that because I'm speaking too loud? By testing, you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. If something is good and acceptable in God's eyes, that means that there are things that are absolutely terrible in God's eyes. Can we say that? We live in a binary existence. The reason that you know that I'm short is because you know people who are tall. The reason you know what hot water is is because you know what cold water is. And so the reason you know what God, the holiness of God and everything else that he's revealed about himself is because you have the opposite things in existence. Now we are called to be able to discern those things that please God and that as ambassadors of Christ we are to know so that we can live the way we should for his glory and for his purposes. If that makes sense. But we are in a world that's fighting for the hearts of our children. That's fighting for our hearts. We are in a world where our colleges are not bastions of learning, but for the most part they're bastions of indoctrination. Okay? This is a fact Okay? And so the question becomes, what are they indoctrinating folks with? What should we be learning in the midst of all this? What are the worldviews that are out there is what I'm getting at. What are the worldviews? How do we interpret the world? And so what we have is all sorts of different worldviews at play in the United States of America. And yet in the midst of that, we are being told do not be conform to this world. Don't conform to these things is what we're being told. Conform to what? How do I even know what those things are? Here are some of them. Moral relativism. Moral relativism says that truth and morality are not absolute, but vary based on culture, society, or personal preference. So in if if you live in an environment where it's moral relativism at foot, my truth isn't your truth. So if I say that Jesus is the only way to heaven, and you say, well, I don't believe that. I believe if I just do whatever I want to do over here, then that's just as equally true as what you're saying. You follow me? That's just as equally true as what you're saying. So every truth is the same. So I should say to people like that, well, brother, can you do me a favor? I believe that gravity works that if you jump off a building, you're gonna say splat. You believe that it's moral, it's relative. So can you just go on the roof? And jump off, but put on a parachute just for the experiment, right? And what's gonna happen if a person goes up there? They're always gonna fall. What's going to happen if a person believes that the sun rises in the west but then comes sets in the east? They're always going to be wrong You know why? Because there is absolute truth, and absolute truth is grounded in God. He is the one that set all the principles that are afoot in the universe. So there is no moral relativism. And so you cannot say, and so out of moral relativism, hey, you know what? If a man wants to be a woman, guess what? That's his world. That's his truth. Is it? Anything that you think about when a person, well, you I understand that you can believe that, but I believe this, and what I believe then is equally true, that's moral relativism. Can a Christian live that way? And the answer is no. And neither can a Christian compromise to say, well, brother. I I I'm I'm there with you. Therefore, what happens when a person say to you, listen, my pronoun is them they. I know I was born with my birds that kid fits in his gym. But you need to call me Jill, and if you don't call me Jill, you're not respecting me. Do you then call that person Jill? See, this is the real-life rubber hit-the-roll thing. Do you then call this person Jill when God created them as Bill? And if you start calling them Jill, have you compromised what God has called you to? Pragmatism. Truth is determined by what works or produces results. There was a church down the road where I was in South Florida. Big old church, church by the glades. So I had to look at the video when I heard about this. You know, this the live stream or whatever. Sure enough, the pastor was coming out of the raptors dressed as Spider-Man to do his sermon. And I'm like, wow, right? And then during election season, another thing, a big old elephant in the sanctuary and a donkey on the other side. And I'm looking at these things and I'm like, you have got to be kidding me. And in all the seeker sensitive uh things where people are saying, oh, you know, you need to just do whatever people on the outside want. in order for them to come in on the inside. Listen, whatever you save people with, or you're going to have to sit keep them with. You hear me? Whatever you use to bring people into the church. Whatever you use to get into your friendship with your folks and everything of that nature, whatever you use to enjoin people to provide opportunities for you to share the gospel, that is what they're going to have to be kept with. For you to think in your mind, oh, you know, I could just do these things pragmatically, whatever the case may be, whatever works so that we can get to this desire and if it does not match itself up with God's word. You are literally doing what the scripture says. There's a way that seems right to a man, but the end thereof is destruction We stay with God's word no matter what. Even if it seems like, oh, this is what it seems the best thing to do pragmatically. Positivism. The only meaningful statements are those that can be empirically verified. This sounds so it's anthetical to Christianity. How? Because it rejects metaphysical and theological claims. So it when you talk about positivism, right, that you see it so sad. You have pastors and pulpits across America who are nothing more than motivational speakers. And that's what this is. Their church is being influenced by positivism. You have one of, oh, the force that is in you. And he has like 40,000 people in his congregation in Texas. I'm not even going to tell you that I'm talking about Joel Osteen, because some of you guys get mad if I do that. You know, T D Jakes. You know, uh he just retired, but you know, same thing again, congregation filled with people. Yet he's a modalist. I don't know if you guys know what a modalist is. Someone who believes that the Father turns into the Son, turns into the Holy Spirit, and there's only one God like that, and that there's not three persons in the Godhead. And he's a motivational speaker, great motivational speaker, produced all these things, but it's an evidence, it's another example of positivism in the church being used and pushed as preaching. And teaching and the gospel. And it's not. So if you're upset with me for talking about TD Jakes, we can run a race after, and then whoever wins wins or whatever. I don't know. But it's the truth. Existentialism emphasizes individual freedom. How often do we see this in our society? Everybody's free. You do what you want. There is nothing that holds you down. Individual choice and subjective experience in a meaningless or absurd world. This is where Cain is able to say, am I my brother's keeper? Well yes, Cain, you are. You were. You had a responsibility to take care of this person who was created in God's image, not kill them. Because you felt a certain way. Hedonism, the pursuit of pleasure and avoidance of pain is the highest good. You have people all over America in the church also. That's what it's all about. And if the and look how look look let me show you one way that hedonism affects the church also, right? I come to a church and I choose that church Let me back it up and say it this way. The first thing that I would do if I'm starting a church is I'm going to get whoever is starting that church with me. to come to an agreement on who the primary consumer of our worship will be. Because if it is God It's correct. But if it's man, then the worship service is going to look like something that caters to you and not to God. You get it? And that sort of stuff, hedonism, so then you have that sort of stuff seep into the church and person comes to church and it's what they want and they have to feel a certain way and things of that nature, and so when they're convicted of sin. They hide under the veneer of something else and they peoun to a different church and to a different church and to a different church because they're seeking internal pleasure rather than serving the true God. And so the things that they're looked for in that environment will be different than what you should look for in a true church, which has as one of its chief tenets, discipline. You get it? And so in life, same thing. Everyone is pursuing all the great things and anything that we are called to that has any kind of pain, we can't be in it. But listen, Scripture calls us. for self-denial, right? Holiness and obedience to God. Hedonism produces or promotes rather self-indulgence that are often at odds with the moral responsibility that we have before God. We live in America, United States of America, but do you know when the church flourishes the most? When it's being persecuted And so if we now live in this anomaly where we're experiencing all these great things, we're blessed beyond belief and things of that nature. But let's say that something happens. And now we're being made to leave the blessings that we have. Our homes are going to be taken away from us. Are you going to be able to say The Lord give it and the Lord take it, blessed be the name of the Lord, or are you going to compromise because you want to feel good? The spirit of hedonism, Marxism, history is driven by class struggle, aim for classless, stateless society. In this you have the plural tarot and the bourgeoisie, and there's always the oppressor and the oppressed, right? Now listen. Is there historically the existence of oppressive forces and those who are being oppressed? You better believe it. Scripture clearly says it, right? But remember what I said in Christian, a Christian worldview. It's a redemptive timeline where Jesus, where things got broken and Jesus is taking that which was upside down and making it right side up, right? And so if you had a situation of the oppressor and the oppressive What happens is you get to Galatians 3. 28. There is no longer Jew, Gentile, slave, free That is the end goal, right? But when you deal with Marxism and particularly cultural Marxism, that is not the end goal. It always represents, they're always the oppressor and the oppressed. And the only way that flips is when the oppressed fights against the oppressor and they become the So it's a cyclical thing of the oppressor versus the oppressed. That is not biblical. Christians should not submit to that sort of stuff. Because again, it's one of those things that seems right But it is not right in God's economy when you're operating through a Christian worldview. You know what the Christian worldview is? All of us get into heaven. Every gender, every you know, man, male, female. Every ethnic orientation, all of us in Revelation 7, every tribe, every nation, every tongue, glorifying God together. And when you have that now, you have a taste of heaven right now on earth. And what's being pushed in our society right now is not bringing us this together this way to do that, to move towards Revelation 7. What it's doing is keeping us Polarized as the God of this age works in and through the forces of this world to keep us together. I mean to keep us apart. And it's getting worse and it's getting worse and it smells like smoke. And so we are not to be conformed to this world, but we are to be able to discern these things so that we can know. Now, let me just point this out before I move on. Right? Do you know what keeps all these worldviews together? There should have been a common thread that you recognize. What keeps all these worldviews together, they're under one big umbrella, and that umbrella is secularism. And you know what secularism holds? There is no God. That's what holds all these worldviews together. Man is the measure of all things. There is no need, therefore, for a God. Human reasoning and science are sufficient for understanding and shaping reality. It's antithetical to Christianity. It denies divine revelation. It denies the authority of scripture and the need for redemption. There is no redemption in these worldviews. It's man-centered. And I'm telling you, young folks, you're in here, and you might not keep remember the labels that I gave these things, but if you draw near to God, which is what God is calling you to, you will be able to see these things. You will be able to recognize these things happening around you. You'll be able to recognize when your friends are trying to draw you in to these ways of thinking and living, and you will be different. If you draw near to God, you won't have any choice in this world but to be different. That is the way it is. Each of these worldviews distort reality because they reject God's sovereignty, his revelation, and moral order. And if we are to submit ourselves to God's command in Romans 12. 2, then we have to develop a coherent and biblically grounded worldview that can both critique these false ideologies and then we need to be able to offer we need to be able to recognize these worldviews and then be able to talk folks through our Christian worldview in a loving manner that will get them to see what or to understand what the gospel of Jesus Christ You know, when I was in seminary, one of the most pivotal things that a seminary teacher ever told me was this. He said, before you argue with anyone about what they believe. Make sure you understand what they believe just as much as they do. If you don't understand what they believe just as much as they do, then how are you arguing how are you even saying anything to them? And how can you know how to answer them? Where we are in society right now, when you see a person is grounded in a certain set of beliefs, they didn't just arrive there overnight. It started with one set of input, another set of input, another set of input, another set of input, and it is framed who they have become And so that's why you hear Romans 12. 2 say, but be transformed. Because all of us at one point if we weren't Christians, we're in the world, following the course of the world, all of us were shaped and molded that way. And when you become a Christian, then you're called to be reformed. To be transformed, metamorphosis, like a butterfly in a cocoon, and it becomes a beautiful butterfly. And what end was that again? So that we could understand, so that we could know God's word, God's purposes. What is right in his eyes, we're told. Right? So the question at hand is, do you recognize the influence of any of these worldviews in your own life? Do you recognize them? I can sit up here and tell you that I fully aware of these things. My doctoral thesis is in some of these things. And yet I still recognize some of these things in my life. We're bathed in these things. We're bathed in these things. And so we're told time and time again to come out of these things. things. And so if we're going to draw near to God, it's not just going to be, there's God and here's my thinking and I'm just going to go right there. No, there's a mindfield. If there's spiritual warfare that we're involved in, then there's going to be all sorts of things in front of you in the path bef between you and God. And you have to be able to negotiate those things. And I'm don't hear me wrong in saying that when you pray God is not close to you or anything of that. Or it's your obedience or only what you walk, you get close to God. God is here. God is with us. God is close to us. But I'm saying when we when it's time for us to walk in our neighborhoods. to share the gospel, to do all these different things. There is a spiritual warfare that we're going to be engaged in because the enemy does not want us to achieve the ends that God has purposed for us before the foundation of the world. And we have to be discerned and we have to know these things. We have to know that so that we can know how to pray. We have to know that so we can know how to minister to the people that we're around. We have to know those things. Okay? And so the second thing, so let me ask you again. What's competing for your affection for God? What's competing for your affection for God? And everything that you just heard me say If I was supposed to open your checkbook, this is this telling you how old I am. People don't even use checkbook anymore. I don't. But the proverbial, if I was supposed to be able to see your ledger. What would I be able to say moves you the most? What would I be able to say takes up your time the most? What would God be able to say? Because you know, for often we like we we try to be one thing in front of each other. But then we don't recognize that we're supposed to be living corumdeo, that's Latin for before the face of God at all times. Right? And so who we are in private is who we should be in public. And so if that is the case, what has your heart in private and in public? How are you seeing the world? Are you drawing near to God and are you doing so while being able to discern the things that will keep you from drawing near to God? John identifies three categories that pull us away from God here. And he says one is the desires of the flesh. And some of these are you heard me talk about in these worldviews. the desires of the flesh, indulging in sinful appetites and cravings, comfort, pleasure, self-gratification here in the United States. We have anything that we want we can have at the to at the tip of our finger. And when, especially when you're in a social, a high to middle socioeconomic environment. We have everything at the tip of our fingers And are we being drawn away by those things, by the desires of the flesh? Our flesh, when we hear flesh, we're talking about our human nature. And it is our human nature to want things. That's how Eve got pulled aside, right? Did God really say? And then she saw that fruit, and I think that thing looked good. Man, that car looks good. Man, that whatever you name it looks so good to me, and I want that particular thing. Now remember what I said? There's absolutely nothing wrong with getting the good things that God has given us in this life. But if that thing got you, that's the problem. You're not going to draw near to God because that thing will have you instead. The affections of your heart. Turning to entertainment, sports. I hate to step on people's feet, but you know, on the Sabbath On days when people should be doing certain things, they're instead engrossed in sports for either themselves or their children. Are we there? It's not wrong to be engaged in anything, but when that thing has you and it is your God, you are guilty. of running after the desire of your flesh more than you are drawing close to God. I want to keep stressing, don't hear me saying you have to give up this. And in order to get God. Okay? That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying God first, everything else, enjoy under. And be asking the question, is this the order that I have, Lord? And if it's not, reorient me for you, please. Desires of the eyes, coveting what we see. Using the car again, you know Watching what other people have, wanting what other people have. You know, there's a dynamic where I've seen a neighborhood where um folks We're living in $20,000 homes, but they had a $40,000 car in the driveway. Now the home is an investment, a car is not. What do I tell you? They saw, neighbored with this, neighbor with that, other things, and their lives becomes like this. Why? Because their eyes are not on God first. We oriented in a way where things will be right and in order. That can happen in any level of our lives. The lure of materialism and comparison, comparing what other people have and warning what other people have. Envy stirred by social media. You notice in the car commercial and everything else nowadays like You deserve this. Not looking, you can't really get that because you have to say for your children. You have to whatever. No, you deserve this. And so it's about you, you, you, you, you indulge in it, and everyone around you suffers. Because you what Didn't get your fulfillment in God first and then reorient your things according to that. The pride of life, boasting in achievements, possessions, or status. Finding identity in your career, recognition rather than in Christ. Any of us guilty of that? These are the same, by the way, three temptations that Eve dealt with in Genesis 3. 6. And you know how that ended. But guess what? These are the same three temptations that Jesus fell to. I mean Jesus fell to. Don't go tell the church I said that okay. That Jesus was sub that's uh was tempted with in Matthew 4, 1 through 11 It's the same age-old trap that we are being faced with now. And how did Jesus overcome? By the word of God. In every instance, Jesus knew God's word and gave Satan God's word. And what happened? Satan left. Scripture tells us that if we resist the devil, he will flee. But first you have to know his techniques. You have to recognize those things that are in our culture, that are antithetical to being drawn near to our God. Thereby being able to accomplish the works of our Lord, you have to be able to discern those things and then walk away from those things quickly. Wow. The contrast, the temporal versus the eternal, right? We remind ourselves that the world and its desires, and that's what he says here. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God remains forever. So we have this contrast. We have what we have now. And it might feel good, it might look good, but think about this. How much more will everything look in a new heaven and a new earth than what it looks like now? Think about that for a second. There will be no sin. All of us will be at the top, the peak of whatever age we should be. Some of you like in here like Bird will finally be able to dunk a basketball. You know? I mean, it just a perfect world, a perfect existence, and we would give up that. For this, that's what happens. That's the way we're distracted into thinking and being And so our reflection and our gaze needs to be placed on the God who created us, as I said yesterday, and then all these things will reorient themselves in ways that please God and are right. and decent in his sight. Any questions about any of this? I was told yesterday that sometimes is A time open for questions and things of that nature. It's 1024. I think I should go till 10. Any questions about anything? No? No questions? I see a lot of southern looking face around here, you know. I I don't I don't avoid um hearing tough things. So If your face is a little bit sullen and you're questioning anything that I said, I would love to be able to sort of give a stab at it. And if I can't answer it correctly, I have some vodka in my room. I can give it to you later. No. Oh yes ma'am. So we have a lot of friends and um and family that part and in the trans culture. And it's hard for those of us that are watching this to know how to engage that we're way. Um and um so one of the one of the ways that I I scientists think that's true. Um not um Not to agree with their deception of their sex change. I wouldn't call it him or her or something. But um there's a lot of examples in scripture where people change their names, even God has changed people's names. And so I have felt like that's not necessarily unbiblical to use there Okay. So she says that there's times when God has change. Uh so she mentioned the fact that she has friends that are in the associated highly strongly in the transgender uh movements and things of that nature and and you know it's It's kind of difficult, if I could just say that, to sort of engage that situation. And so in her situation, she just said that there's times in Scripture when God has changed people's names. For instance, when he changed Jacob's names to Israel and things of that nature. Um and so she doesn't think that, you know, calling In that sense, then the one-to-one correlation is that means that we should we could call Bill Jill. The the difference that I would say there is that when God called a change a person's name, it was still consistent with his nature and his principles that he's established in the earth. So when he changed Jacob to Israel It wasn't changing Israel to something that was against the things that he established and believed. So if God has created man to be man, then God is not going to then turn around and label a man as a woman. And so when you look in the Old Testament and for instance, even in you when it talks about Let the things that pertain to men, like let men dress as men, let women dress as women. And you see that consistently where there is that dichotomy. that there's a recognition that male and female are who they are, that God created them that way. So God would never, I believe, sh label or recognize a a man. doing something that is re literally rebelling against him. But nays are kind of fungible. I mean we have Michael in the Bible so many woman, so is Noah. So um it it seems to me a little different. Well sh what she just said is that you can have names in the Bible uh or names that are are unisex. Your person can be male or female, they can have that same