The power and the glory forever. Amen. I would like to ask our speaker for this year and our preacher for this Lord's Day of Worship, Reverend Dean Williams, to come up. And to deliver the word to us, we are ever so thankful that he and his wife Dorothy have traveled all this way from the great state. As you'll discover, um, I know they've only been there for about six months, uh, they've been moved from uh for three months uh from Mississippi to Texas. that is also known as the great uh sometimes country of Texas. Uh and we are so thankful they've come all this uh long way and um that you have ministered the work to us. So brother please come up and continue to do so if we can preach you. Good morning and thank you. Now whenever I hear uh Reverend attached to my name, I kind of like feel like, oh, please know. One of the reasons that I continue to share my Don't tell the church story was because I want people to know that I'm dirt and what God has brought me from uh to where I am so that he would get the glory uh from taking a person who was raised in a home of a single uh female who dropped out of school in the sixth grade and now he's working on his doctoral thesis. Only God can do that, folks. Only God can take a man, a young man that graduated from high school, the way I told you, and bring him before you and preach the word of God. uh and only be about God knowing that he is nothing but God is all things. And so this weekend we've had the opportunity to hear God Say, come to me. Come near to me. And if you come near to me, then I will come near to you. Draw near to me and I will draw near to you. And we heard that when that happens, sometimes you heard me say that if we come near to God, that there's going to be things that are going to come in our way. We talked about the fact, and this is in Route 48, that it's not a matter of if the storm comes, but when the storm comes. We came out here this weekend and we're having a time of rested and refreshing and renewing. But the reality of the situation and some of the things that we've left home are troubling our hearts. Some of the things that we've experienced in our life have impacted us greatly. And some of the things that are coming are going to impact us greatly. And so the question is, when those things come, how do we deal with them? How do we handle them? How do we draw near to God? How do we? What do we do? This morning, with that in mind, I have the heading of this passage, and it's Psalm 142, verses 1 through 7. If you have a Bible, turn to it. So if you have a your phone, whatever you use, it's Psalm 142, verses 1 through 7. And I'll title this, Praying in the Midst of Trouble. Praying in the Midst of Trouble. It is a masculine song of David when he was in the cave. I'll talk about that as we go forward. It's a prayer. Is what it is, O David. So hear these words of God alone. I believe it is your custom to stand So let's stand in the presence of our God as we prepare to hear the preach word of our God. This is God's only and errant word, so let us give careful attention to it. As it is being read, the word of our God. With my voice I cry out to the Lord. With my voice I plead for mercy to the Lord. I pour out my complaint before him. I tell my trouble before him. When my spirit faints within me, you know my way. In the path where I walk, they have hidden a trap for me. Look to the right and see, there is none who takes notice of me. No refuge remains to me. No one cares for my soul. I cry to you, O Lord. I say you are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. Attend to my cry, for I am brought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are too strong for me. Bring me out of prison, that I may give thanks to your name. The righteous will surround me, for you will deal bountifully with me. This is the word of our God. Amen. Please be seated. A gracious heavenly Father. This is the means of grace that you've given us, by which you intend to grow us into the image of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And so it is to that end that we ask that your spirit will even now enable us to hear that which you would have us to hear. to see that which you would have us to see, to discern the very things that you have given us so that we might be molded and shaped into the image of Allah. So that we might be equipped to go into the highways and bowleys and to accomplish those works that you purposed for us before the foundation of the world. Grant us the audience of your presence now. Speak to our hearts, we pray. And as always, do all to the praise of your own Lord In Jesus' name. Amen. I will refer to you as brothers and sisters and beloved, because that is what we are in Christ. And so brothers and sisters, have you ever felt like you were on top of the world? But then what seemed like one felt swoop, everything just seemed to fall apart. Perhaps you've had like one of the greatest days, and a great day turned into a great week, and a great week turned into a great month. And that month turned into a great year, one great experience after another. All seem to be going so well at work, at home. And then in what seemed to be in a twinkling of an eye, everything changed, physical sickness, strife. brokenness, broken friendships and strained familial relationships. You fill in the blank. Because you know better than anyone else in this room what you've experienced, what you're dealing with now, what you're currently experiencing. Typically in Christendom, whenever we reflect on this sort of dynamic, we're often led to the book of Job for you see Job had it all, great wealth and possessions. Ten loving children whom he constantly interceded for, not because they had done anything particularly wrong, but it was just in case they had. God himself referred to Job as brainless and an upright man. Yes, Job. was preferred to be on top of the world in the sight of both man and God. And then it would have seemed to be a very brief moment In time, everything in his life was turned upside down. All his children, all ten of them were killed. His wealth was taken away. His own wife. bathe him in the rocks of ungodly counsel, telling him, why don't you just curse God and die? And his best friend wrongly blamed him for his predicament, leveling the charge that his situation was a consequence of sin in his life. He had nothing. No one has seen was in his corner. Have you ever felt like that? Like no one is with you. Like no one truly understands. Like no one truly knows. You know something? There's someone who felt that exact same way. The psalmist David. King David Here in our passage, we find David in supreme anguish, and he is made to endure some of the pains associated with being in a fallen world. His pain was not so much as physical as Job's was. He didn't have any loafs of sores and there were itches and scratches and things of that nature covering his body. But I can assure you that it was principally in the same realm of spiritual anguish that he was experiencing. For you see here in our passage, he is in the cave of Adon, on a mountain which overlooked the valley of Elah. And why is that significant, you ask? It is significant because the valley of Elah is where he slew Goliath. And so for a moment of time he was at the height of heights. He was a hero before all of Israel. He was the man. He was at the height, I can imagine him saying, oh look, as he looked down at that valley, oh look, how far falleth the graces of men I prayed, played music in the courts of the most powerful man on the planet. Saul. Aiden's table. His sons were my best, was my best friend. His daughter was given to me in marriage. I had a close-mith family. So much so that even when we were no longer able to eat together, as a consequence of a war, I was made to take food to them. In battle. Yes, I was well connected to the covenant community, and the covenant community was well connected to me. Oh, I had favor with one and all they were saying or thinking. I was anointed by the greatest prophet of our day, Samuel. And I had great favor among all the people, so much so that they sung, Saul has killed his thousands, but I have killed my ten thousands. I was sought after. I was in the courts and now here I am, look where I am now, despised by the greatest political figure in the entire world, sought out like a common criminal. And what have I done wrong? Except, sir, with a willing and sincere heart. Yes. I can imagine David thinking along these lines, which gives rise to some of some relevant questions. Such as having experienced all the negative things that he did, all that brought him to this point of hiding in despair, in a being in the spirit, how did he respond? to all that he was dealing with at this point in his life. And what can we, what can we learn from his response? Well brothers and sisters, before I endeavor to have us look at our text to answer those questions, let me submit to you that I believe it is very important. for us to first reflect on not what David did, but what David did not do. I believe it's very important for us to figure that out. You see, unlike us In so many cases that we are so often prone to doing, David did not resort to being guided by his own heart, his fallen will and emotions He had every right to be angry, even ragingly so. He had done nothing wrong that we know of, nothing to deserve what he was now being subjected to. So I could have his life taken away. And so, yes indeed, he had every reason to be mad. But as the apostle James so aptly reminds us in James chapter 1 verse 20, the anger of man does not produce anger The righteousness of God. The anger of a husband that causes him not to love his wife the way Christ loves the church. Does not promote a path for her spiritual growth as Christ did for us. The anger of a wife that moves her out of proper submission to her husband neither glorifies God or promotes the peace that properly tends to the discipline and nurture of the children in the home. You might remember that David had a chance to kill Saul in the same cave, but he did not, reasoning that it was not his place to touch God's anointing. He was guided by God and his word. That brothers and sisters is a picture of a person who is not being governed by or turned into anger as their chief resource. David also did not seek out worldly counsel as we think of Psalm 1. Do not walk in the counsel of the ungodly. He did not seek out worldly counsel. That is only an invariably concern with me, myself, and I. And he did not open himself to being deceived by Satan. So in this instance, David did not fall prey to any of the three greatest hindrances to a God-honoring life His fallen human nature, the ways and counsel of the world or the devil. We heard some of this in the days that we just passed. Instead, he guarded his heart and he took his complaint and concerns to the one whose shoulder was broad enough, big enough, and good enough to shoulder it all. The one who knows every inch of our being, all the intricacies of our situation, and the one who is always ready and willing and able. To come to our aim. With that being said, this morning I'm endeavoring to show you Some actions that David took that absolutely honored and brought glory to God in the midst of his circumstances. I want you to see four things. First, his address is made solely to God. His address is made solely to God. Secondly, his complaint is humbly laid before God. Thirdly, his trust is placed in God. And fourthly, his petition is God honoring. So first I want you to see that his initially addressed is made solely to Yahweh, to the covenant God and him alone. He goes to God first and foremost. That was I mentioned in my intro. In this passage we find that David did not in any way, shape, or form act in a manner that might have dishonored God. He does not seek out someone from the dead. If you might remember the scriptures, Saul went and sought someone from the dead. He sought Samuel. He didn't do something like that. It was against God's word to do that. No idol. He didn't have an idol in his pocket that he pulled out and start, you know, speaking in tongues to or whatever the case might be. He didn't do any of that and no root of bitterness was allowed to crop up in his heart that would later cause him to kill Saul as Cain did to Abel. as sin encroached in his heart and caused him to do opposite of what God would have wanted. No instead he immediately went about the business Of unburdening his heart to the one true God, the God of the covenant. He poured out his heart to him and to him alone. Look at verses one and two. They read, Wait my voice. I cry out to the Lord. With my voice I plead for mercy to the Lord. I pour out my complaint before Him. I tell my trouble before Him. It is four cries of deep emotions that build an increasing intensity. Commenting on this, Derek Kidna wrote The present strain of being hated and haunted is almost too much. And faith is that full stretch. Listen, it's helpful to know that the word complaint in verse 2 can rightly be understood to mean my troubled thoughts. There's a whole lot going on in his mind. And here he gets specific about some of them. And in his getting specific about those things, that he does another one of those God-honoring actions that I talked about. Look at verses 3 and 4 they read, when my spirit faints within me, you know my way. In the path where I walk, they've hidden a trap for me. Look to the right and see. There is none who takes notice of me. No refuge remains to me. No one cares for my soul. Now I started by saying that David humbly went about laying out his complaint before God. And why did I say that? Look at this acknowledgement of the beginning of this complaint that I just read in verse 3. It reads, When my spirit faints within me, you know my way. Here I'm reminded of what David wrote in Psalm 139 where he said, Oh Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and by lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it All together. When my spirit faints, therefore, you know my way. You made it all. You stand above it all. You're the sovereign creator. We are the created, you know the end from the beginning, and you alone have the ultimate power to change my situation. Only God can ultimately change our situation. It is God that's keeping us in the belly of the good things that we experience. All of it is by God. And so in line with that. I just said, listen to what John Calvin wrote concerning the words, you know my way. He wrote, God knew the way to deliver them. While his own mind was distracted by a variety of thoughts, none of which could conceive of any plan of escape. He couldn't figure out, he couldn't think about it. But brothers and sisters, through humility, recognizes that we again cannot change our circumstances. But God can Hence we hear Paul saying, do not, and you heard this yesterday, if we know that only God can change our circumstances, And that we are in his hand and nothing can happen to us unless he allows it to. Then this really does apply. We should be able to hear. Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known to God. We cannot change our circumstances, but we can sure enough bring them to God. That's what he wants. And that's what David did. God, my enemies have set a trap for me, he says. They're conspiring against me. There is none on my side. There is no place for me to be comforted. No one cares for my soul. Remember, our enemies can be ourselves, the flesh. the world or the devil even we can be betraying ourselves and need god to keep us from that the world everything else the devil Satan is out there seeking home. He can devour us. We're not strong enough. Wise enough. As we draw near and walk the path of holiness and righteousness, we're not strong enough to do those things on our own. And so we have to turn to the God who is. Interesting wording the fact that David mentions the Lord in the third person in the first two verses The statement, no one cares for my soul, you see, expresses the reason he did that. It was to express the utter loneliness and abandonment that he felt. Do you ever feel like that? Like you're in a room that you're gathered with a whole bunch of folk, but no one really knows or understands you at that point. And what you're dealing with. Do you ever feel like that? Do you ever feel abandoned when I know someone who did? For three years, Jesus walked intimately around with an entourage of force. Twelve were in his very inner circle. But in the night he was betrayed, everyone left him. No one showed up to plead on his behalf at any of his hearings. The one who purported to be the bravest, Peter, denied him three times. As a consequence, they all did of their fear. This inner circle did not even show up to his burial. Not a flower, not a prayer. They were hiding to protect themselves Can you understand why he's sitting on the right-hand side of the Father interceding for them, for us, as to why he would go back to Peter and tell Peter the thing? Can you understand why that is such a precious? and glorious thing that all of us, oh even worse and none, even worse than these disciples did We deny him all the time in public, even right now. We're afraid to even witness to our friends about him. We don't turn to him when we go through things. We try to do it on our own. We do it all the time and yes. He loves us. And even while we were yet sinners in the belly, didn't care two cents for God, he died for us. Abandon and still he did what he did for us. Now David might not have seen the risen order. But he knew him as a pre-incarnate, as a God who keeps covenant with those who love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations. And that's why he stood boldly against the liar. And why now in the midst of this storm he could still assert his faith in God. That's the next graphic measure I want you to see here. And that is David's trust is placed in God. Don't miss the singularity of mine and purchase here. In this passion is David and his God. Everything is God first. Doesn't mean we can't share with others. It doesn't mean we can't share. It doesn't mean we can't walk with accountability partners. It doesn't Any old strains But we should always first and foremost take our prayers and our cries to God. I look at verse 5 and reads, I cry to you, O Lord. I say, you are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. Lord, do my enemies surround me. No trouts fall on me like an avalanche. In the midst of my pain and sorrow, you are my safe place. You are my shelter. You are my comforter in the midst of my loneliness and abandonment. I have the greatest friend that I anyone could ever have. It is in you whom I trust. Brothers and sisters, is when we arrive at this point When we decide to truly trust the Lord, or as Proverbs 3. 5 says, trust in the Lord with all your heart, not some of your heart. Now sometimes, trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him in what he will Now he might. Now he could. He will make your paths straight. It is when we decide ride that we decide to ride or die. That's how it's going to be with us. That we're going to be with the Lord. It is then that we will truly experience what the Apostle Paul referred to. As the peace that surpasses all understanding and guards our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus in whatever circumstances we might face. I said that on yesterday and it is worth reiterating every single day. The peace that passes all understanding. Is ours in Christ Jesus when we draw near to God Let me tell you, I've come to understand that that does not mean that things will always go well with you physically. It doesn't mean that your pockets will be full with plenty. It doesn't mean all that prosperity or how can you do be well or whatever. It doesn't mean any of that sort of stuff Case in point, the Apostle Paul trusted God with all his heart. You see the things that he went through He acknowledged God in all his ways so that door was shut one way and open the other and he was well aware of it and he was able to do exactly what God wanted And you know what happened to him and the apostles that did the same thing? They all suffered and died for the sake of the gospel. Paul had a thorn in his side and he prayed three times that God might remove it. Do you have a thorn? Do you have something that is just bothering you? Do you have children that are just wayward? Ace your heart. Do you have something else that's going on with you that just drives you and bothers you and is just there and you're praying that God would remove it, but he has not Your Apostle Paul went through the same thing. And at the end of it all, he heard. Hey, I'm not taking that for you. My grace is sufficient for you. And that peace that surpasses all understanding accompanies that grace. What question? Does that mean that we should consign ourselves to staying in trouble waters? Oh Dean, I heard you today, so I'm just going to buy you hook into the trouble. I'm just gonna spend all my money so I can be broken in depth so I can say Lord help me, you know? Does that mean that we should just consign ourselves to that sort of stuff? The answer is absolutely not. But our commitment should be to have God be the one seeing us out. Not pragmatism, not any of the other things that you heard, but we should be looking for God to be the one seeing us out. And that's the next thing I want you to see here. It is David's God-honoring petition. Look at verses 6 through the first sentence in verse 7. It reads, attend to my cry. For I am bought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are too strong for me, as I've said already. Bring me out of prison, that I may give thanks to your name. David, like we should. Recognizing as I've already said that the forces around him are too strong for him. His prison could have been the cave that he was in or the mental anguish that he was in. Sometimes Our external experiences are great, but internally our mind, we're going through things and we're anguished by it. And so in either case here, it is only God who can deliver him, and he knows it. And so he cries out for deliverance. Now what I want you to see here is reason, however, for asking for that deliverance. It's not so that he could be comfortable in life. It's not so that he can have things to himself. Look what he says. That I may give thanks to your name. Every part of us, we should become worshipers of God. Not just on Sunday morning, but our lives should be so dedicated. We should be so sacrificial in the way that we're living for the Lord. that every opportunity that we have to deal with our circumstances and seeing our way out of them, everything should be another opportunity so that when you come here on Sunday or when you're in front of your children or when you're at work and people see the smile on your face or the serene look that you have even knowing the bad things that you're experiencing, they can understand. It is because by God. And it's another reason for you to be able to say, Lord, thank you. I think maybe one of the let's thank you, Lord, he will allow me to be here and understand that. Lord, again, you are the father Thank you that I make thanks to your name. God, I'm not only playing, I'm not playing quid for quote here. But nonetheless, if you deliver me from this situation, it'll be one more reason that I have to sing your praises. One more item that I'll have to reflect on when I see you face to face. Lord, you are the potterer and I am the clay. Could it be Then I will tell the story of when I was broken and you spun the wheel and made me whole again. Brothers and sisters, David's faith was tested and tried. But when all was said and done, in the midst of his anguish after bringing his concerns and complaints to the only one who can perfectly hear and address them, after affirming his trust in the midst of Islam, and after raising his petitions before the Lord. David closes by asserting his hope in the Lord. Look at verse 7. It reads, The righteous will surround thee. For you will deal bountifully with me. Are you able in the worst possible situation that you're in to say that it will indeed work out for my good because God said all things work together for good? For those who love him are called according to the purpose. Are you able to do that? This is what David is doing. And I want you to notice the word will again. Always notice will in the promises of God. In both sentence. It doesn't say the righteous might surround me. It doesn't say for you might be about to keep with me. It says you will. And let me can I just say this to you that God in the midst of anything that we're going through that's absolutely horrendous on this side of life, and let's just say that we end up Not making it through it, but instead we succumb to whatever it is and we even pass away. It seems somewhere, that I read somewhere, that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And then I read something that said there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. And it says that all tears will be wiped away. And it just seems to me that at the end of the path The end of the story is always wonderful for a person who is truly safe. So that no matter what they're dealing with on this side of life. They can look forward with the hope that I said is not the way we say hope today, but a sure thing that they will see Jesus, they will understand all things by and by, and guess what The worse you experience the other side, the more you'll have to go away within the next time, in the next age. Now don't go out and get into bad situations so you can feel yourself. Earlier I mentioned that he is the perfect intercessor. That is Jesus. Because he too was ostracized and left alone. Well guess what? It goes even further than that. We see our Lord is suffering just about every degree of anguish that David did that's mentioned in this text. For there was much, much more. He suffered for every sin that every one of us who are his elect will ever, ever commit. Every little blight, sin, white, lie, everything, because God is so infinite in His holiness He talked about that perfection. He's perfect. So that means everything to this nth degree, to an infinite degree. So those things that people think are just a little small, this or whatever, that has to be punished to the nth degree. Which means, and if the wages of sin is death, that means that no matter how small it might seem, in our mind, it is an infinite affront to a twice holy perfect God and thus, if he is just, must be punished. Therefore, everyone is going to hell unless Jesus Christ is theirs. And then, so now you back that up and you think through this and you say, wait a minute, wait a minute here. The anguish that Jesus therefore suffered Is infinitely greater than anything David felt here. Anything that you feel in the way of anguish Jesus suffered it and felt it. In the Garden of Gethsemane, he was in such great anguish that it said that his sweat were as drops of tears of blood. That's how much of anguish he was in. And who and then you know what he said? He cried to the Lord and he said, Lord, if it is possible. Take this cup away from me. He didn't look to anyone else. He spoke to his father and he said, it is possible, take it away from me. It is so much greater than anything, the type of shadow of who I am felt. And the reality of the anguish now at the degree that I'm now healing. Take it away from me if there's any possible way. And then he said, nevertheless, not my will, but yours. And then the word of God tells us it was for the joy that was set before him. Then he went ahead and endured the cross. He stayed connected to God's purposes. He took it towards empty grief. And because of what he did, we are here today reconciled to the God who loves us and has now opened the door for us to come to him. The same way Jesus did. And David did. He too, our Lord, was brought out of prison and craven. And he too petitioned the Father. And he's doing that even now on the right hand side of the Father. If you are here this morning and you have not professed Jesus Christ to be your Lord and Savior, you cannot do this. You can pray, and I hate to say it, but you can pray all day, but the prayer that will matter is the one of confession. The one that acknowledges that you are a sinner, justly deserving the wrath of God. And the one that says, I am placing my faith in Christ alone. For salvation. When you have done that, you will have a God who will hold you and keep you and move you. Impacts of righteousness for his name's sake. And no matter what you experience on this side of God. You can do so knowing that you have the God who hears, is keeping you, and will one day bring you home to And knowing these things, how can we turn to anyone else but this God that is not drawn near to the world Let us not draw near to all the things that the world has to offer. God gave us the world to enjoy it. But let us first and foremost draw near to him in prayer, confession, and praise. Amen? Amen. Let's pray. Our glorious Heavenly Father, we thank you again for your word. We thank you for the example that David has set, where he turned to you even in the midst of his greatest trial. And we pray, Lord, that we would not only turn to you in the midst of our greatest trial, for that is sort of human nature what we would do. He's only turned to you when things are out of control, when we're at a wit's end. But give us the mind to turn to you for everything and all times. acknowledging you as your word tells us not to trust in our in ourselves But trust in you with all our hearts and acknowledge you and allow you to direct our path. We're begging upon your mercies this morning that you would enable us to have that sort of zeal. A zeal that desires to know you, to grow in the knowledge of who you are, and to turn to you with and in all things. Not so that we might be good, feel good, or do good. But so that we might do that which you have purposed, and that we might experience a communion with you.