Good morning, everybody. Thank you for a warm welcome, which I always receive when I come, and I'm grateful for it. I I don't get around uh as many churches as I'd like it, but I and I often don't get back to churches, so it's great to come back and see smiling faces and people that I love and I love Skip and Bonnie and certainly praying for them today um as he ministers. It's a as you guess uh and know, it's a very difficult thing he has to do today. So we need to pray for him. Okay, so now I want to call your attention to the Word of God. I want to read from Psalm 18. Psalm 18 is quite lengthy, probably longer than many texts of Scripture that we would read at one public reading So let me make a comment or two about the structure of it. So it'll help you to follow in your mind as you hear. If you think of the psalm as being in verses, like a song, and this is a song. The first stanza, verses one through three, and the very last stanza, verses forty-six to fifty Correspond to each other. So they say pretty much the same thing. Verses 1 through 3, David is singing thanksgiving to the Lord, his rock. And then at the end, thanksgiving to the Lord Israel's rock. Then the middle two, and these are the lengthiest stanzas, David's ordeal and Exodus. Verses four through nineteen. So David describes the struggles as a kind of being pulled down under the sea. And the Lord bringing him out. That corresponds to verses 31 to 45. And in verses 31 to 45, David describes how the Lord exalted him. How the Lord put him on high as his anointed, as his Messiah. And then right in the middle is the that's the good part, if I can put it that way. It's it's kind of the the sandwich. It's the it's the corned beef in the middle of the sandwich. And you can tell, oftentimes uh texts, especially poetic texts, will be structured this way. The A sections And the B sections correspond, and then right in the center is the heart of all of it. The faithful God's reward. Verses 20 to 30 So let's pray together, and I will read after I pray, I will read the Word of God. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you that you speak to us, and that your words are. Yours. And we pray, our God, that you'd enable us to hear, to believe, to obey, and to praise as you are worthy. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Now beginning to read with the title, which is uh part of the Psalm, part of the Word of God, and we'll read the whole Of the psalm, to the choir master, a psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who addressed the words of this psalm to the Lord on the day when the Lord rescued him. From the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said, I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God. my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. I call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. The cords of death encompassed me, the torrents of destruction assailed me, the cords of Sheol entangled me, the snares of death confronted me. In my distress I called upon the Lord. To my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ear Then the earth reeled and rocked. The foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth, glowing coals of flame flamed forth from him. He bowed the heavens and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet. He rode on a cherub and flew. He came swiftly on the wings of the wind. He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him, thick clouds dark with water. Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds. The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, hailstones, and coals of fire. And he sent out his arrows and scattered them, he flashed forth lightnings. And routed them. Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils. He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters. He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me. Me, for they were too mighty for me. They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my support. He brought me out into a broad place. He rescued me because he delighted in me. The Lord dealt with me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands, he rewarded me. For I have kept the ways of the Lord, and have not wickedly departed from my life. God, for all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me. I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt. So the Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. With the merciful, you show yourself merciful. With the blameless man, you show yourself blameless With the pure, you show yourself pure, and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous, for you save a humble people But the haughty eyes you bring down. For it is you who light my lamp. The Lord my God lightens my darkness. For by you I can run against a troop. And by my God, I can leap over a wall. This God, His way, is perfect. The word of the Lord proves true. He is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. Him. For who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except our God? The God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless? He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights. He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. You have given me the shield of your salvation. and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great. You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip. I pursued my enemies and overtook them and did not turn back till they were consumed. I thrust them through so that they were not able to rise. They fell under my feet. For you equipped me with strength for the battle. You made those who rise against me sink under me. You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed. They cried for help, but there was none to save. They cried to the Lord, but he did not answer them. I beat them as fine as dust before the wind. I cast them out like the mire of the streets You delivered me from strife with the people. You made me the head of the nations. People whom I had not known served me. As soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me. Foreigners came cringing to me. Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses. The Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation. the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me, who delivered me from my enemies. Yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me. You rescued me from the man of violence. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name. Great salvation he brings to his kingdom And shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his offspring forever. The word of the living God. Psalm eighteen is quite remarkable, as you've already s noticed as you listen to. David singing. It's appropriate and fitting in the providence of God that we have been considering Psalm 2 this morning. Psalm 2 is a coronation psalm, a psalm about the exaltation, the ascendancy. Of the king to rule in God's name over his people. And Psalm 2, verse 8, the Lord says to his son his king, ask of me, and I will grant you the nations for your inheritance. And of course we're quite familiar with that because Jesus Christ on his ascension to glory, all of which was typified and pictured, you know Ask the Father, and the Father has granted him the nations for his inheritance. The Father has answered the prayer of his son, his anointed king. Exalted on high. Well, if you were an Israelite who read the Psalter and you read Psalm 2 and you were thinking carefully as you read along and you read to Psalm 18, you'd have said, this is it. The Lord is fulfilling what he promised in Psalm 2 to his son, his Messiah, David his king. The Lord exalted David and caused the nations to submit to him. See that context? Sometimes we don't read the Psalms in the context of the whole Psalter, and it's challenging to do it because it's such a big book. But in the Lord's providence, that's a wonderful providence today, because I had no idea that Psalm 2 would be part of our worship service today. But it fits together in the Word of God so beautifully. Well, Psalm 18 is a text to song that David wrote. It's also found in 2 Samuel chapter 22. The whole of 2 Samuel 22 is the same as Psalm 18 And there it has the same heading. And there's a kind of, it's a kind of coda at the end of 2 Samuel to the books of Samuel. David wrote the psalm, the song, almost certainly just after the events in 2 Samuel chapters 8. Now remember David's story. We learn that story in 1 Samuel, chosen to be Israel's king. David found himself in great danger, mortal danger from Saul, running for his life. Saved by a Philistine raid in 1 Samuel 23, saved by the wildness of the terrain in 1 Samuel 24. Uh in chapters twenty-four and twenty-six, saved by Saul's fits of conscience. Remember, they're so poignant. And then his own flight from the land, chapter twenty-seven. Not very promising for an anointed king, in fact, quite humiliating. But then God brought Saul down in judgment by the hand of the Philistines. God appears to David in chapter 7, 2 Samuel 7, and made a covenant with him and promised him a royal house, and then in chapters 8, 9, 10, gave David a series of victories over the enemy nations. Philistines, Ammonites, etc. And in this song, David sings to the Lord about the Lord. And so it's almost certain that he wrote Psalm 18. just after that point where God had exalted him. Of course, when you come in 2 Samuel to the point that we're all aware of, chapter 11, then David starts to descend again. Not from his official position, but because he committed And the the Israelites, you know, are supposed to get the message from these prophetic books that this is the Lord's anointed. Whom he gives victory. But then, when he does those terrible things with Bathsheba and then Uriah, and you remember the story, Israel is in no doubt. This is not the one who will save her. Great as he was, exalted as he was, he's only a picture. A beautiful picture in many, many ways, but no more than a picture of the true Savior, Jesus Christ. Well, David in this song describes that struggle, the whole of that struggle, probably not one specific event. And he does it by piling up these images, these pictures, images that convey both the greatness of God and his own. Very tender and intimate relationship with God. And the Holy Spirit in this text of Scripture gives us powerful, evocative images of God and the relationship of God and his people. And images, these images in Scripture are efficient They convey God's character so mightily. Rock, fortress, deliverer. We'll look at them as we go, but not every single one, but we'll look as we go. But these images are very powerful, and they convey so much in just a word or two. The unchangingness of God, the might of God. And we need to look at the psalm and consider it, interpret it from two angles. And this is always true for Old Testament texts. First, David is like us. God has made a covenant of grace with his church. Psalm 18 captures this, it captures the intimacy. The power, the stability of the Lord in the covenant relationship with us The God who saved David and exalted David on high is our God. And who is that God? He's the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So David is like us, and we are like him. We're in covenant with God. But then, second, David is unlike us. David is God's anointed king, God's Messiah. David saves Israel from her enemies. David is, in a certain sense, their redeemer. And as Redeemer, David pictures Jesus Christ, the true Redeemer. We call that a type, of course. In Psalm 18, like the whole of Scripture, teaches us of Jesus Christ. The Savior of the world. So we want to look at both of these aspects as we work our way through. David stings of how God brought him from the years of humiliation to exalt him as king over God's people. We love a story like this, a rags to riches story, from humiliation to exaltation. But whose history does that call to mind? The Father brought Jesus Christ out of humiliation and death by raising him up to the place of highest glory at his right hand. From humiliation to exaltation. And the song, this song is a beautiful picture as God revealed it in David's life of the sufferings and the glory of Jesus Christ. John Calvin wrote this. He said, we profit from the Psalm when we're led by thinking about the shadow David, to Christ, who is the substance. And the Apostle Paul tells us in Romans chapter 15 that the resurrected Christ Christ our Lord now sings God's praises among the Gentiles in the very words David sang. He quotes Psalm 18, verse 49 in Romans. Romans chapter 15. So let's look at the Psalm. In the beginning, David sings thanksgiving to his rock. In the middle, David testifies that the Lord accepted and rewarded his obedience. In the end, the end is that the Lord is not just David's rock, but the rock of all God's people. So beloved, this is the one thing to learn. Praise the strong covenant-keeping. God. That's the thrust. Praise the strong covenant-keeping God. Verses 1 through 3. David sings his thanksgiving to his rock, and he calls God's people to join in the song. And he puts side by side the power of God and the intimacy of his relationship with him. The images are all strong and they're all majestic. David's reflecting on how God intervened in his life God is my crag, literally, my fortress. The word is used elsewhere in scripture as the place where the eagle nests. Uh we're completely safe. My deliverer, my shield, my rock, my stronghold. Beautiful. Now I want you to notice something else beautiful about this. Eight times David says the word my strength, my rock, my fortress, eight times David calls God mine. I have special titles for my Jackie. Don't worry, my lips are sealed. Uh I won't tell you what they are. But if you've ever been in love, you know that you've spoken to your beloved in this way. Mine, your mind. You have special words that you say, and they're just between the two of you. Well, the Lord and David have this intimacy of relationship. Sings to the Lord about the Lord. Lovers do that. I don't know anyone else who does that. That tells us something beautiful about the covenant relationship. Eight times he calls the Lord mine. So there's a tenderness in his words to the Lord and They're very striking in the first verse. He uses the word Racham. It's never used in Scripture anywhere else about a human being's love for God. It's always used elsewhere in Scripture. Of God's strong love for his needy people. God's love is stronger than a mother's love for her child. God's love. But here it's David who says, I love you, O Lord, my strength. And this Psalm 18 differs from 2 Samuel 22 because this first verse is not found in 2 Samuel 22. I think David almost certainly went back and added this first line. Later, I love you, O Lord, my strength. See, in all his troubles, God had shown himself to be David's rock, to be his savior. To be David's protector. God had persuaded him of his trustworthiness. Sometimes it takes a long time for us to believe God's love for us personally. Sometimes that takes a long time in our lives, but this is the faith that God leads his children to confess. How does he put it? He rescued me because he delighted in me. It's very beautiful, isn't it? I hope you can say that. See, that's what faith in God's electing love looks like. He rescued me because he loved me. That's David's faith. He's mine. And all I need is in him. In fifteen thirty-eight, John Calvin wrote a catechism for the people of Geneva And at the very, very beginning of that, he asks this question. It's very characteristic of the Reformed churches to put things this way. It's very beautiful. What is the right way of honoring God? And here's the answer: to put all our trust in Him, to acknowledge Him with heart and mouth, to be the only author of All good things. How do you honor the Lord? How do you honor Him? Well, you start by trusting Him Trusting him, praise God, and recognizing all the good things you have, he gave them to you. What is there in life after that? If you can praise God and love God and thank God. You can go through anything, can't you? You can. Well, that's what David wants us to do. Verse 3: I call upon the Lord, he says, who is worthy to be praised. And I am saved from my enemies. He knows he can call on the Lord. He knows the Lord will answer. But notice this: it's not just seeking, begging, it's also giving thanks to the Lord for the Lord's goodness to us. The Lord is worthy of praise. We know this. Trust grows slowly, but thanksgiving builds Trust. So may I put it this way to you? Do call out to the Lord. Always call out to the Lord for what you need. But don't just do what m maybe some of us were tempted to do a couple days ago on Christmas, you know. Oh, oh, thanks. What else? You know? Oh yeah, that's good. Now give me more. Yeah? Yeah? Now see, ask the Lord with that zeal, but thank him too. Thank him too. And respond to Him. Praise is faith responding to the words and works of God. That's what praise is. It's faith responding to the words and works of God. Well the song continues and we learn that David was really desperate. He describes his struggle as being dragged underwater. And you know, desperation is a great motivation to pray. God save me, he cries out. See, God doesn't despise desperate crying. He doesn't despise that. He wants us to come to him And so in the days of his flesh, we read about Jesus Christ. He offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. To him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Well, let's go on and say, how can we be be built up in our faith and in order to pray this way. What's the source of David's words? What's the source of David's faith? Well he thinks And he speaks or writes in terms of the words of the covenant of grace. In other words, he's been meditating on Holy Scripture. Holy Scripture that tells of God's bond to his people. And David gathers up, as we see in this psalm, he gathers up all the titles of God. In redemptive history. And he uses these titles to describe the Lord, to call to the Lord. He calls the Lord my shield. My shield. That was God's self name to Abram after his battle with the kings and the blessing by Melchizedek. Blessed be Abram of God most high. In Genesis fifteen one, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a Vision. Fear not, Abram. I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. David says, my rock, blessed be my rock. And that was an old title for God from the Song of Moses, Deuteronomy 32 three. For this or sorry, for I will proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God, the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness. And without iniquity, just and upright is He. And David just about quotes those words in verses 30 and 31. This God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord proves true. He is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. For who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except our God? You see? God never changes. God is stable. God's word is trustworthy. And David thinks of God as the God of Abraham and the God of Moses. And he thinks of his own struggle in terms of God's commitment to his people. He describes his combat with Saul as being plunged into the depths of the sea. Now, what does that evoke? Being plunged into the depths of the sea, being dragged into the water, into death by a strong enemy, caught in cords. He prayed and God heard from his temple and came down like a warrior riding on the clouds. God brought him out with great wonders: earthquake, thunder, lightning, mighty wind, parting of waters. It's the God of the Exodus. It's the God of Sinai, the Lord who brought judgments on Egypt, the covenant-keeping God of the Red Sea. He came to rescue. Then the God of all power over creation gave him his own exodus. All that history of revelation was David's history. Beloved, all that history of revelation is your history. history. It's my history in Jesus Christ. Because we're the people of God. It all belongs to us. It's not back there. It's true. All for us. Every word of it. For us. All these names that God gave himself had become David's. See, the promises and the fulfillment of the promises are the basis of his praise, and that solid foundation Is the same for you and for me. God's bound himself to us with these faithful words, and in all our struggle, the Father of Jesus Christ, he will be our Rock. When we trust in the Word of God, we trust God Himself. When we trust in the Word, let me say that again. When we trust in the Word, we trust God. Because God's word is God's word. And we find God to be a shield and to be a stronghold. For us. And so David sings to his rock. And so, beloved, sing. Sing to your rock. Love him. The absolutely faithful God. The God who cannot lie. Call on him. And he will answer you. Obey him, and you will find him faithful. The Lord was David's strength through his providence, whether it was remarkable providence, like an earthquake or something more normal. And God's control of events included the gifts that he gave David and the actions that David took. Just quickly now, I can't say much about these B sections like I I'd like to, but the psalm describes David's rescue as God's great acts in the first B section. Look at this later on. If you have a minute. Later today, in the Sabbath day. David is passive. God brings them up. But in the second B section, verses 31 to 45, remember they're parallel to each other. David describes the same events now as David going into action, equipped with God's strength, equipped with integrity. He can leap a wall. He can bend a bow of bronze. But it's the Lord who did it, see? Your right hand supported me. Your gentleness made me. Great. God bowed down and held David in his hand. And God is the one who acts. But often he works through our choices as his instruments. So that's the first part. Let's look at the second. The Lord was faithful to David. The Lord accepted David's obedience and rewarded him. Verses 22 The Lord dealt with me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands, he rewarded me. For I have kept the ways of the Lord, and not wickedly departed from my God. For all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me. I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt. So the Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness. according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. Now anybody a little uncomfortable with David at this point? I know you wouldn't respond that way to the word of God, or at least you wouldn't do it. verbally. But maybe this is a problem passage for you. I I doubt that many of us are inclined to pray like this. I really do. As a matter of fact, in the Trinity Hymnal, which is wonderful, it has a wonderful Psalter selection, they leave this section of Psalm 18 out. Of our own church hymnal. But see, we don't have to fear that David has become self-righteous here. We don't need to fear that David has become a Pharisee, glorying in works righteousness. He's not an Old Testament Pelagian, to use the theological word. For one thing, he wrote the song in the midst of accusations that he'd stolen the throne from Saul, which he did not do. And David is vindicating his own integrity before the Lord. But what's more, look at verse 23. In 23, he says: I was blameless before him, I kept myself from my guilt. Now, the term that's translated blameless in the Old Testament means to abstain from sin. It does not mean to be free from sin. It's important to make that distinction, or you'll have a theological problem with texts in the Old Testament, but you don't need to have that problem. This is talking about the integrity of a person in Christ. That's what it's talking about. And the way the Lord rewards that. Here's how theologian Herman Bavink puts it about this. He says the earmark of God's people. Is not that they are free of sin, but rather that in the midst of oppression, they put their trust in the Lord. And seek salvation in him alone. And clearly that's the case with David. But still, we might ask, how can God accept and reward David's righteousness? Don't we preach against this? Yes, in a way we do, but remember we have to look at this, and I urge you to do this, from two different angles. In terms of the unfolding history of redemption, that is, the way David is unlike us. In terms of the accomplishment of our redemption, David was God's Messiah. And God raised him up in history as a picture of his obedient son Jesus Christ. David was a model, and he's revealing what Jesus Christ would do. See, there is one who offered a righteousness to God that was truly and completely sinless. Jesus Christ, David's son. David's Lord. He offered that righteousness as a substitute for us. He served the Father in heart and soul perfectly throughout his life. And that righteousness is counted ours through faith. And it was counted David's through faith as well. But here Dr. Edmund Clowney's rendering of Psalm 18. And I made a little criticism of our Trinity Hymnal. Now I'm going to praise it because this is number 620 in our Trinity Hymnal. It's entitled, I love you, O Lord, my shield. This is Dr. Clowney's rendering of Psalm 18. Listen to that. This. Oh Lord, I love you, my shield, my tower, my stronghold, my rock, my saving power. I worship you, bless your holy name, what unceasing praise your mercies claim. Hordes of death had bound my heart with fear, tidal waves of Satan crested near. God, my God, I cried, hear from your throne, save me from the depths, make mercy known. Saving might brought answer, Lord Most High. Dark your path, your storm clouds swept the sky. Lightning flashed, deep thunder spoke your word, waters parted, death your summons heard. You came down, Almighty Lord, my stay, drew me up, and drove my foes away. Your right hand put Satan's host to flight, then clasped me, embraced in your delight. Now, among all nations, I would sing, praising our anointed Lord, our King. Hear his cry of triumph from the grave. See him leap the wall of death. To save. His the righteousness that claims reward. His the saving coming of the Lord. Hail him, victor in that deadly strife. Jesus is our rock, our prince of life. You see? You see, that's what the Lord is revealing through David for you and for me, beloved. Jesus Christ, the righteous one. In the obedience of David, God is revealing the righteousness accomplished for us by Jesus Christ. He was obedient to the point of That. Even death on a cross. God reached down and raised him from the dead. And as we read earlier today, therefore God highly exalted him. Him and gave him a name above every name that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, because by his obedience he secured eschatological life for the whole of the church. But now the other angle. And this is too true as well, and true in its own way, just as importantly. We must also approach the passage from the angle of the application of Christ to us. See, like David, we depend on God's grace and we believe in God's coming. Covenant promises, to the promise to forgive our sins in Christ. And like David, we are united to our Savior Jesus And like David, we have an alien righteousness credited to us. And here's the wonderful truth: when God accepts us in Christ, And counts his perfect righteousness as ours, he also accepts our service to him, and he rewards it. Despite all its flaws, despite all its stains. We had a forum at the seminary um c a month or two ago. The different profs sat up in the front and students asked us questions about our family lives and stuff, and it was a really great Great event, really joyful event. And one of our greatest guys, uh Chad Van Dixorn, uh, who teaches church history for us, was asked about his failures in the ministry. So you can tell it was a good give and take because the students were relaxed enough to ask a question like that. like that. And just like this, off just like falling off a log. It was so easy for him to say it. Chad said, when God accepted me, he accepted all my failures too. That's his faith. You know what that is? That's the faith of a justified person. That's a faith of a person who knows he's in union with Jesus Christ. That God has accepted him, and that God accepts his service. Beloved, God accepted David's service. God rewarded David's service, and God rewards yours. See, it's not just we who are accepted, it is also our works. And again, John Calvin, our reformer, in his chapter on justification. Is dealing with passages like Psalm 18 and the Institutes, chapter 3, Book 3, Chapter 17. He says: a work begins to be acceptable only when it is undertaken with pardon. Now, where does this pardon arise except that God contemplates us and our all in Christ? Therefore, as we ourselves, when we have been engrafted into Christ, are righteous in God's sight because our iniquities are covered. So our works are righteous and are thus regarded, because whatever fault is otherwise in them is buried in Christ's purity. And is not charged to our account. By faith alone, not only we ourselves, but our works as well are justified. There's reason for praise here. There's reason for peace of mind here. There's reason for joy and zeal in the service of God here. Because God doesn't despise the love of his children Well, let me hurry on. In his own way, I think David knew that. And God wants us to see it. He says in verses twenty-five and following, with the merciful, you show yourself merciful. With the blameless man, you show yourself blameless. With the pure, you show yourself pure. With the perverse, you show yourself perverse, is what it says literally. For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down. See, we serve a father who accepts our service. Rewards it. Remember Jesus' statement in the Sermon on the Mount? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God with the pure. You show yourself pure. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. You save a humble people. But then there's also a warning. If we're crooked with the Lord, then he will show himself devious with us. In other words, beloved, we can't fool him. Now sometimes we think we can. Sometimes we think we can act a certain way, and everybody will see that, and the Lord won't see, but of course we know better. The Lord does see. And so David is urging integrity. For the humble people. Well, pressing on now and finishing. The Lord is Israel's rock. The Lord is our rock. David finishes this song of thanks with With words we sometimes sing. The Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, verse 46. And exalted be the God of my salvation. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name, verse 49. Great salvation he brings to his King and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his offspring forever. David sings to the Lord. But did you know that Jesus sings these words to He does. God promised Abraham that his son would bring blessing to the whole world. In your seed, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. David took his part in fulfilling that promise by praising God in the midst of the Gentiles. He was a kind of evangelist, you know. As you read the books of Samuel, you can notice this. All the Gentiles that David enlists in the service of the Lord. And notice that in the Psalms, David is constantly praising the Lord where unbelievers can overhear. But David also saw that the blessing would come forever. He says, through his offspring. And today the Lord has fulfilled David's praises Paul writes to the Romans about the gospel of God, of the seed of David, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord. And in chapter 15, Verses 8 and 9, he says that God has fulfilled David's promise. I say that Christ has become a servant of the circumcision. For the sake of the truth of God, in order to confirm the promises made to the fathers, and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for the sake of his mercy. Even as it is written, because of this I will praise you among the Gentiles, and in your name I will sing praises. See, around the globe, Gentiles are praising God their Savior in Jesus Christ today. Around the globe. God has shown faithfulness to his Messiah. God has brought the Gentiles into submission to David's offspring, Jesus Christ. And as David sang God's praise, so Jesus sings God's praise amongst us. I love you, O Lord, my strength. Beloved, David's rock is our rock. God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us give thanks to him. Let's pray. We love you, O Lord, our strength, our rock, our fortress, our deliverer. Oh Lord, how trustworthy you are. Praise your name. How we thank you that we can praise you with David and with Jesus Christ. Christ. We pray in his name. Amen. Chr