Well it's great to be with you and uh it is a privilege to come and to worship our Lord and uh to spend uh this much time in regards to our uh our focus upon the Lord. I um I just want to mention quickly, if I may, what it is that I do. Many people don't uh don't know what it means when someone Stands and says, well, this guy is the director, uh executive director for ministry to state. I work under Mission to North America, which is of course part of the Presbyterian Church in America. And it's my job under Mission to North America to develop ministry to people and government. Not it has nothing to do with policy, but it has everything to do with the person And so just like my brother Chris spends time at the University of Maryland developing relationships for the purpose of the gospel, for encouraging people to come to know Christ and those who do know Christ to develop and grow in their faith. We do the same thing within Minnesota State. And we do it within of course it's in Washington, D. C. , places like Capitol Hill and Agencies, etc. We also do some work in certain state capitals, and that's where it really began for Debbie and I when I was pastoring in Oklahoma City. And then there is some emphasis in the international realm. So basically ministry to state is a ministry to people and government for the sake of the gospel, but it's all about relationships and the individual, it's not about policy. Anyway, I'd like to encourage you to turn with me to the book of Psalms, Psalm 57. We're going to be looking at this particular Psalm. It's a psalm that I've spent a little bit of time thinking about this past summer. Uh really I found it to be a encouragement personally in terms of what we're experiencing in our uh well we should say at least the last almost six months or so So if you will, read with me Psalms 57. I'll be reading from the New International Version. It begins with for the director of music for the tune of Do Not Destroy of David when he had fled from Saul in the cave. In verse 1 Have mercy on me, my God, have mercy on me, for in you I take refuge. I will take refuge in the shadow of your wings until the disaster has passed. I cry out to God most high, to God who vindicates me. He sends from heaven and saves me, rebuking those who hotly pursue me. God sends forth his love and his faithfulness. I'm in the midst of lions. I'm forced to dwell among ravenous beasts, men whose teeth are spears. and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. They spread a net for my feet, was bowed down in distress. They dug a pit in my path, but they have fallen into it themselves. My heart, O God, is steadfast. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and make music. Awake, my soul. Awake, harp and lyre. I will awaken the dawn. I will praise you, Lord, among the nations, and I will sing of you among the peoples. For great is your love. Reaching to the heavens, your faithfulness reaches to the skies. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over the earth. Will you please pray with me? Father in heaven, we thank you that we have the privilege this morning To come before your presence and to seek your grace and your love and your mercy, to sing hymns to you. And these are difficult times for us. Times in which we're not quite sure when they're going to end. But we know that in the midst of all this, you have your purpose, you have your plan. And we pray that this morning we might be able to better understand how we are to respond to that which is happening within our lives, within the lives of our family members, even here within the church in our community. And we pray that to all of us that you would be honored and glorified. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now there's no question that we're in interesting times. And I know also that as a particular congregation that uh you've gone through some challenging uh months in uh previous. But I think it's fair to say that even as a world, when I uh hear from friends that live in different parts uh of the world that is almost all the same. You know, what is it you know, what is this thing about COVID nineteen gonna end? What what are we going to be done? When can we do the normal things that we would like to do? And our lives just seem to be totally consumed with the question of when will the vaccine take place? And when it does, what is that going to mean? I mean will we all be able to take it at the same time basically and and everything will go back to normal or will there be just months and months and months of sort of this gray transition? What about all the protests? and the conflicts that are going on within our country in different cities. What do you think about things like Black Lives Matter and racial inequality and justice and right white uh privilege and the removal of statues and defunding the police, right? And I don't mean just to bring all these things here this morning because I'm sure to some degree as you came here you were thinking, ah, I'm gonna have at least a season within my day, within my week, where I'm not being confronted with all these points of tensions. But if you will allow me to surface all this just for a few moments and go on because there's other things, right? There's issues like the economy And then we've got the election coming up, right? I mean the list goes on and on and on. And then besides all those things There's the personal, just the basic personal issues that we face every day. Maybe our own health. maybe issues with our children. Maybe we have found that now that there is something called school That's happened or is happening. It's really a different definition. So the bottom line is that as you kind of look at the whole landscape and the scope of things, it really becomes quite weighty And that's why I think that for us as believers to come to the Psalms, especially during the season within our lives, is really quite refreshing. And I find that someone like David, especially, who understood what it meant to live in turmoil, that we ought to benefit from this. person who lived some 3,000 years ago. And maybe in some regards you find it a little bit depressing to think that 3,000 years ago there was such turmoil within the the nation of Israel, within David's personal life, and things haven't really changed that much. Three thousand years you would think, oh, somehow life would really be different for us, for the people of God. But we have to admit that it's not quite the case, right? And you know, when you think about, when I think personally about my own growth and maturity in the faith and uh my understanding of the gospel, I realize that there are certain uh certain groups so to speak uh of life that really minister to me. For example, the people of God And when I look back on my own coming to faith and understanding the scriptures and et cetera, I realize that God has placed in my life certain individuals that really mean a lot and have benef that I benefited from significantly. I also understand that the circumstances that God places me in Are very beneficial. None of those things are outside of his sovereign will, of his love for me. And then I think about the word and and worship and I I think about prayer and how all these these means, so to speak, God is constantly using within my life. And the reason why I bring all that up It's because when you go into the Psalms, it's almost as if you're giving all those elements, or you're receiving all those elements at once. We're having fellowship this morning with David. We're reminded of the circumstances in his own life. We're reminded of his love for the Lord's word and prayer and all those things are kind of oozing out of this particular part of God's word. Not that they won't in other parts, but especially here in Psalm 57. And so as you think about this particular Psalm, I want you to be reminded that when God speaks to us He speaks to us through really dynamic means. I mean, if you think about the Psalms themselves, Here you've got this Hebrew poetry that is in a form of parallelism, meaning that the second line is referring or is giving you a little bit more detail of what the first line uh in that stanza was. When you think about Hebrew poetry you're you're reminded that in some cases it's it's speaking about praise and adoration, in other cases uh the the particular lines are are speaking about laments or sorrows or things like David here talking about circumstances and just how hard life is. But then all of a sudden you realize that no it there's there's music and there's praise and there's adoration and all those things are combined. Uh one theologian said that in essence when you think about the Psalms Uh you're in essence given the whole Bible. The whole Bible within a particular psalm. That's maybe a little bit of an exaggeration, but it's all there. We're given theology and And just so much within the Psalms. And then within this particular Psalm, Psalm 57, we are given what I'll call today a formula for dealing with stress. A formula for dealing with survival almost. It's like a survival formula, you might say. It's a It's just this very, in a way, basic but critical understanding of how we are to think about difficult times. And really, David is just a wonderful and perfect person to go to. So as we look at this particular psalm this morning, I. I want us to just go back, if we may, to a bit of the background of David at this particular time. I don't need to rehearse a lot of these things because you're familiar with them, but you know that that David Grew up as a as a shepherd. He grew up in a relatively large family. He was basically looked upon as being, well, yeah, there's there's David, but here's here are the real sons Right, of Jesse. And you recall that when when Samuel came and uh asked about David that, you know, oh yeah, well we do have this one other son, he's out there as a shepherd, right? So he was never really looked upon as being somebody that's going to be significant. But if you look at 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse 18, it says this. I have seen a son of Jesse of Bethlehem who knows how to play the harp. He is a brave man and a warrior. He speaks well. And is a fine-looking man. And most important, the verse goes on, and the Lord is with him. And you recall that for David, That here he finds himself eventually, and I'm speeding through a bit of his biography, but he finds himself in the court of Saul. Why? Because he was the guy that was used by the Lord to slay Goliath. He did it in a really fantastic way, very unconventional, wasn't the normal way that you would go about uh fighting And yet, while he's in that court, and his own fame and presence begins to expand, and people begin to recognize him, Saul is a bit upset with the fact that the attention and the spotlight is not going to himself and it ought to be going to him because he's the king But instead it's going to this guy that was known as a shepherd out in the field by the name of David. And Saul's jealousy and his dislike for David continues to grow and grow and grow to the point where Saul has one basic aim and goal in life And it's not to deal with the Philistines or the Edomites or other nations or deal with their own economy and issues, etc. Or maybe think about, well, maybe we ought to be building the temple, right? None of those kinds of things. The one purpose that Saul had was to kill David. And so we find that David is on the run and his life is really turned upside down. And I'm sure that David had seasons while he was running from Saul. Where he said to himself, I just wish I was a shepherd again. I just I I j I wish I could have my old life back. Do you ever find yourself Thinking that, especially during these days, you ask yourself the question, boy, what would it be like if it was just a year ago? Right? What was Labor Day weekend like? In 2019. Where did you go? Did you have a mask on? Right? No. I mean life was so much better then. And I'm sure David had that same kind of of thought. And and I think there another way in which some of us at least uh deal with difficult times, times where we're just kind of surviving, is that we just in some cases we just s we just try to suppress it. Just push it down, ignore it, it will somehow go away. But I suspect that for most of us today, after what, some six months of dealing with COVID-19 that the suppression option doesn't work very well. In some cases, we just find ourselves totally consumed by fear or maybe just a dislike for what is taking place within our lives. So I don't think I need to go through any more details in terms of Davis life. Except to say this, let's look at two basic means that David follows in regards to dealing or surviving through these difficulties, through these challenging times. And the first the first thing that he goes for, I believe, if you if you examine this Psalm is that he has understood what it means and the significance of what it means to cry out to God To realize that there is no other option to deal with the circumstances that he's being confronted with except to cry out to God In verse 3, you read about how hotly he's being pursued. In verse 4, he's in the midst of lions. He's experiencing the arrows and the the sharp tongues and the sword the uh just every in every way david is experiencing the confrontation and the dislike so to speak And then you see the way in which he responds when he talks about, in essence, what it means to cry out. And so he says in verse 1, have mercy On me, my God. Have mercy on me. For in you I take refuge. I will take refuge in the shadow of your wings until the disaster has passed. I cry out to God. most high. So let me ask you this basic and simple question, what does it take for you to actually get to a point where you're not just trying to go through Another day, sort of a stiff upper lip, suppress the issues that are confronting you. And as I mentioned, it's a mountain of them now. It's a mountain of things, right? Well, maybe there's other ways that I haven't even mentioned that you've used, other means that you try to use to get through the difficulties, but when have you just simply gone before God? And you cried out. Lord help me. It is interesting to note in the Gospels, right, what's the most what is one of the most significant parts of each of the four Gospels? Except when our Savior is on the cross and he's crying out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And we understand that what's taking place there is that our Savior is taking upon himself all the sins that belong that that are ours And the wrath of God, the anger of God, the fury of God that belongs to us, and he's taken it upon himself. That's why when he's in the garden And he says to the Father, May this cup pass from me. What cup is he talking about? He's talking about the cup of God's wrath. And so it in some ways, in terms of redemptive history, it is a fascinating thing to see our Savior. Cry out. So how much more then do we need to be under do we need to be in that posture Where we cry out to God, basically saying, Lord, I have no answer. I'm stent. I'm tired of wearing the mask. I'm tired of trying to get my kids through school when they're trying to study online or whatever the case may be. We do things and we try things and it doesn't work and we're, I mean life just always is this way. This is a time for us to cry out. When was the last time? Maybe just in normal life, you just cried out My family, my mom and dad, my siblings, Chris is by the way, Chris is my youngest brother. Occasionally People will ask me about my son, and then I'll say, Chris. No, he's not my son. Um I know I look pretty old, but actually his father is quite a bit older than I am, and but I am his brother. And so we grew up about maybe 30, 40 minutes from here, uh in the Randallstown, granite area. You may be familiar with that And my father and mother at one point in their lives had quite a bit of property, and my father was what I call a gentleman's farmer. And a gentleman farmer is someone who has uh who does farming, but that's not really his occupation. And for a season of my father's life, I I think he really enjoyed that. So he had farm equipment and a barn and property, et cetera. And so he finally got to a point in his life some years ago where he was going to disperse all of it and get rid of the equipment. And he had one old Matthew Ferguson tractor left. And he had it sold. And so I volunteered to go over with him and to help close the deal. And there were some other things on the property that needed to be taken care of. And so this tractor was sitting there and I knew that there was a part of the of the field that probably should be cut maybe one more time before the tractor was going to be picked up and the the new owner of the tractor was coming only in a couple of hours. But It was a pretty spring day and it just looked like to me that oh we could just quickly uh make a a run or two uh on this part of the field and it'll be done. So I suggested to my father that uh I'll take the tractor over there and with the brush hog and cut that piece of of uh of the field and Be done and and then we'll be ready for the new owner to come and pick up his old tractor. And so I hopped on this tractor and got and went over the knoll. And just as I went over the know that where my father and others couldn't see me, I began to smell a little bit of smoke. And, you know, this is an old tractor and it'd been sitting there over the winter and I began to think, what you know, why why am I smelling smoke? And then I noticed that underneath the hood of the of this tractor, you know, there was actually not just some smoke, but there were some flames. And so quickly I stopped the tractor and threw up in the hood and and uh I realized I didn't have anything. I had nothing to address this smoke and fire with. And or at least I didn't think I had. And so uh next thing I know uh the the fire that is that is now developing on the on the uh uh the top of this motor is starting to drop grease and oil onto the field. And the field now is starting to catch on fire. And I'm stamping it out as quickly as I can. And next thing I know is that the fire on top of the engine is now underneath the gas tank. The gas tank on this tractor is on top of the engine. And basically it's now boiling, it's cooking the gas on this. on this tractor. And the field now is not just a little bit on fire, but it's getting out of control. And next thing I know, I'm in a situation where I am totally totally befuddled. I have like I have nothing to address this fire with. It's the field now is getting out of control. The fire is developing on this tractor and and I and I'm thinking any moment now it's going to explode because of of this uh of of the of the heat underneath the gas tank and I realized I only had one option. And that was, at the top of my voice, as loud as I could possibly yell, I said one word, help. Help. Help! And I just yelled as loud as I could because I I I mean I'm really feeling like I'm being consumed by this fire. Eventually a lady from some distant house Comes out and she says, do you want me to call the fire department? And I thought, yes, that would be a great idea, especially now that the field is is on fire and this tractor is about to explode and et cetera. Anyway, it was just one of those humiliating times. But really I think That that's where all of us need to find ourselves. And if we have a true picture of our lives and our circumstances, maybe it doesn't feel quite as desperate as that which I just described to you. And eventually the fire department did come, but not until that fire or that tractor was uh was totally burned up and the field had really expanded in terms of the fire. But Eventually it was all dealt with. But I think in our own lives, what we try to do is we we try to analyze the fire in our lives. You know, if only this or if only that or maybe, you know, maybe if I could just get this to happen or whatever the case may be. But I tend to think that our present circumstances Or such where really the only option we have is to say, Lord, I just feel totally spent. I have no options. I have no means to deal with the issues of my life. And then as I begin to think of my own sin and my own circumstances, I realize that anything that I have is because of the Lord, and I belong totally to the Lord. He's the only one, he's the only one that is going to hear my cry for help and help me. And that's exactly what David understood here. I or have mercy on me, my God. Have mercy on me, for in you I take refuge. Now secondly, The other thing that we need to understand about the psalmist here, about what David is saying under these circumstances, as he is trying to survive this constant pressure and pursuit from Saul. is that he understood the nature of God. Yesterday, Debbie and I had the privilege of being with our one daughter. We have four children. Our second child, oldest daughter, doesn't live too far, and we had an opportunity to go swimming with with uh with Katie and Tony and their three kids. And I've noticed that when we swim, and they're small, their Aria is five, and minus is four, no. Four and average of six, but five, four, and then two and a half. Okay, so I need to make sure I get my numbers right. But point is they're young And uh the two older ones are more a bit more comfortable in in the water, but they love now to to play games, etc. , and they love to jump, and they love to swim to you. And then hang on to you, right? And then then they go back maybe to the side of the pool or whatever. But they are very, very oriented towards either their parents or their grandparents. Why? Because they fundamentally understand, even as children, that there is safety in that adult, that that adult is big enough and strong enough. And able enough to care for them when they jump off that side. Otherwise, right, their lives are going to be full of fear. I mean they are looking to you for help, but they understand your fundamental character. And when we cry out to God We're not just crying out to a government or a system or some other kind of something out there that we hope might help us. We're crying out to the living God I cry out to God, David says, Most high, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. We we've talked about things were from from Abraham, etc. , and and and God's faithfulness. He sends from heaven and saves me, rebuking those who hotly pursue me. He protects me. God sends his love and his faithfulness. Think about all those different characteristics, those different categories of the nature of God. And I think one of the things that will benefit us more than anything else within our lives at this point is to be reminded of the nature of God. That's why whether it be our catechisms or other forms of ways of understanding our theology are so important for us. Because it reminds us over and over again That we worship an incredible, amazing God. And when David here talks about his love and his faithfulness, were reminded, of course, of the history that David would have been familiar with. David, again, lives about 900 years before the birth of Christ. That's roughly four to five hundred years after the Pentateuch was given through Moses, right? So you think about Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. You think about all the theology, all the incredible stories that are in those first five books of the Bible. David would have been very familiar with all of those. and therefore understood uh the uh had a had a very clear understanding of of theology, of the nature of God, of who he was, who he is, how he works, how he doesn't work. He would have understood, even though he didn't have the New Testament, even though he didn't have the gospel. He would have understood many of the things that are there. Like for example, he would have understood Ephesians 3 when Paul says For this reason I kneel before the Father from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches He may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, and notice what he says here, may have power together through. with all the Lord's holy people to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, David would have been able to have, in a sense, written the same. He knew about the love of God. You think about other psalms, other portions of the Psalms, and where David speaks about how significant it is for him. To pursue God, to be under the care of God, to be under the love of God. Surely goodness and love and mercy are in some of the translations, will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Every just so much rich theology that we have within this Psalm and other places as well But I do find it interesting that, in a sense, David understood the significance of receiving the care of God. I will take refuge in the shadow of your wings until the disaster has passed. Not I will take refuge And my ability to get myself through this, and my ability to somehow find the resources I need, to get through this time. You know, in other words, just just leave me alone and I can somehow get through this. No. No. David says, no, it's it's going to be, I will take refuge in the shadow. of your wings. Some of you uh I'm sh well, not everyone, but some some of you will recall uh what we went through in Oklahoma City back in 1995. uh when Timothy McVeigh had brought up the rider truck in front of the Murrah building and set it off, uh creating an enormous amount of destruction with the what we call the Oklahoma City bombing. We were we lived in Oklahoma City during that period of time and uh our children when had gone to school in the the southeast part of the city and I driven them there, drove through the downtown. uh part of the city around 8 30, went home, was studying for a sermon, and was sitting in my home when I heard the blast And uh it was so loud and we lived about ten miles as the crow flies from the Murrah building, but it was so incredibly loud that I went to the floor thinking that uh the ex explosion had to be much, much closer. But after the explosion and things began to uh uh go through that is the city and of course the country began to go through the the time of trying to reconcile what had taken place. I became involved with other pastors in regards to the people who who had lost loved ones and they had created this family center where If you either were in that vicinity or you had lost loved ones, but you weren't sure, obviously, what their circumstances were, you went to this particular church And so they had pastors who would sit with these families, and I for maybe three weeks went down to the family center and I would sit with these families who just didn't know what had happened to their their spouses, their mothers, their parents, their children, etc. And I remember this one particular family that I sat with Uh that were Native Americans. As you know, Oklahoma was Oklahoma's uh end of the trail cheers and so it's not unusual for there to be uh friends or people who who have Native American blood and this one particular family I don't remember that they're tried, but uh often you would just go to their table and there were maybe half a dozen or more of the family members sitting there. uh just waiting to hear. In this case, the husband and wife had gone into the Murrah building that morning. He went back into the inner part of the building. uh to find out some information about his social security. His wife was sitting in the waiting room when the bomb went off, which meant then that she uh she got the the uh uh the basic thrust of the of the bomb where he was back in the inner part of the of the uh building and so he survived So he's sitting at this table, I'm across from him, and then there's relatives, etc. , sitting around. And everyone that sits in that waiting room is going to hear the same news which is they're taken to the uh the what basically what we refer to as the death notification floor and then they sit down with the coroner and other officials, etc. , and then explain that they re have found the remains of your loved one and they are dead. And when you go through that over and over again, you realize that it's a really som very somber time. And this family, without really knowing it, was waiting for that call, waiting for that visit, so to speak. So I'm sitting there with them, but I notice something on the table every time I'm there. And what I notice on the table is this really large feather. It's a feather of an eagle. And a lot of our Native American friends believe in feather comfort. And so this family, believing in feather comfort, that is the comfort that comes from the feather of an eagle, a large eagle, was just in essence depending upon the comfort that that feather would would give them. In an interesting way, David says, right, I will take refuge not in Not in the shadow of an eagle feather, but he does say, in the shadow of your wings, until the disaster has passed. Meaning that David, David understood that the only comfort he could receive for his soul and all the things that he was experiencing would be from from the wings, so to speak, of the Lord. And of course, uh it's a metaphor, it's a way of us of thinking about something on this side of heaven, but uh provides for a spiritual and true truth, that we receive our comfort from the Lord. And I believe at times like this, this is why the body of Christ in terms of COVID-19 are so incredibly important It's so important that we stay connected to each other, that we realize that, yes, our Lord, like it says in 2 Corinthians is the one who gives us the comfort. But then Paul goes on in 2 Corinthians and he says, why are you receiving the comfort from the Lord? From his spirit, from the comforter. He goes on, he says, because you, in essence, will be an agent of comfort. That's one of the means that God gives to us. And I believe that as Christians, especially today, that it's so critical for us to understand how important it is for us to cry out to God and to be a recipient of all the the the things that the gospel gives to us, not just so that we can be okay or our family can be okay, but so that we can be in a better position to comfort others and to bring them the ministry. that is so needed. The gospel has been given to us, right? By God's grace, by his mercy, by his love. And we as recipients of the gospel understand that every day of our lives, right, God is treating us far beyond what we might ever deserve. I believe David understood that. And as you go through this psalm, again we've only taken a cursory look at it, but you see the way in which he receives God's grace. And I believe for us, through Christ, through the comfort of the Spirit, that we can go through challenging times Right? Because of what the Lord is constantly doing and how much he cares for us. And he never puts us in circumstances That are beyond what we can handle. But always, always puts us and takes us through circumstances that we can handle, but not by ourselves, not on our own But through him, through his grace, to his love. That's why he sent his only son, Christ, to die for us. May God work in our lives. As we depend upon him. Pray with me. Father in heaven, as we come before you, we thank you for giving us this time of worship and pray that we would benefit all the more. From your word, from the Psalms, from fellowship with people like David. Please watch over us and protect us. Please guide us and direct us. Please remind us of what it means to in essence cry out to the living God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.