Before I start, before I ask you to rise for the reading of God's Word, I I woke up this morning at about 3 o'clock a. m. And uh As I started to contemplate my speaking here tonight, I started to weep. And uh it was for two reasons. One was I thought, what incredible blessing. To have a second opportunity to hear the word of God, to hear the words of life, uh, particularly on a day when uh, in a sense, thousands make a wretched choice and rather starve than come as they're abusing. Absorbed in the passing glory of football. And of all the places that we could be, this is the best place. It might be relatively small, but we're not to despise the day of small things. It's an incredible blessing that we have here. The second thing that made me weep was to think that the covenant children here, all of you covenant children. How God has blessed you with incredible riches as He has put you in families, whether by natural birth or adoption. We just read from the Heidelberg about adoption. We were adopted into the body of Christ. Whether here by natural birth or by adoption, God has placed you in a family where, in a sense, He's forcing Himself upon you in a wonderful way. Where you hear the word, where your parents bring the word. You that there's nothing that compares. The glory of the football games that is going to go on today is going to fade. Even the people who are so enthralled with it, they're going to forget it. But this glory that God calls us to, to share in his glory, will last forever. And so rejoice in God's goodness. I'm glad that you all had this evening worship service, as by God's grace our church does as well. So please stand for the reading of God's Word. Reading from Romans 6, starting with verse 1, what shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who die to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead, by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin, once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin, and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, to make you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin. Sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace. Here ends the reading of God's word. Please stand. I mean please sit. I'm sorry, please sit. I'd like to start off with a quote that kind of sets the background for uh Paul's uh Words here in Romans 6. It's a quote from John Murray, and it's related to union with Christ. And uh this is a glorious reality that we have in Christ. Uh that it's the most comprehensive uh saving or soteriological category uh in which we should view our salvation. It's the most encompassing. And uh I heard this quote recently, I think this is a wonderful quote, so here it is from John Murray. What is it that binds past, present, and future together in the life of faith and in the hope of glory? Why does the believer entertain the thought of God's determinant counsel with such joy? Why can he have patience in the perplexities and adversities of the present? Why can he have confident assurance with reference to the future? And rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. It is because he cannot think of past, present, or future apart from union with Christ It is union with Christ now in the virtue of his death and the power of his resurrection that certifies him, certifies to him the reality of his election in Christ before the foundation of the world. He is blessed by the Father with all spiritual blessings in the heavenlies in Christ, just as he was chosen in Christ from eternal ages. And he is the seal of an eternal inheritance, because it is in Christ that he is sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, as the earnest of his inheritance unto the redemption of the purchased possession. Apart from union with Christ, we cannot view past, present, or future with anything but dismay and Christeless dread. By union with Christ, the whole complexion of time and eternity is changed, and the people of God may rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Isn't it a wonderful thought? That everything that we have in terms of salvation is under union with Christ. And just to kind of give some bullet points, our union with Christ includes our election in Christ, chosen before the foundation of the world, as we see in Ephesians. Are being represented in his death and resurrection, or being in Christ in our life history when we actually come into the full possession of that as believing. And also our being in Christ in glorification. We see this in Romans 8, I believe it's verse 30, where it talks from being predestinated to glorification. All in Christ. Now, as we think about that, there might be a little couple speed bumps. But first of all, I want to say this is all one hole It's all one hole. Now, uh I did talk to my brother Mark, we had breakfast and he says you all like to watch movies. Um Am I right? Okay And uh or or maybe you've watched certain television shows. Uh our family watched the show Lost uh over a period of time. And uh we didn't start off when it began, we just kind of picked it up in the middle somewhere. And uh I'm sure you can get a whole collection of of the series Lost. And you really don't know Lust unless you start from the beginning and go to the end. It's all one story. Although at the end of that last that last episode of Lost, I was lost. I did not know what was going on. And I was a little disappointed. But My point is that it's all one whole, and that all the riches that we have of our salvation in Christ is one whole, but then there is a certain sense that we can delineate different parts. I've always kind of wondered what does it mean that we were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world? We were represented by Christ. We were thought of as in Christ, even though we hadn't really uh come into full possession of it until we were united by faith in Christ, in which all of his blessings flowed to us and our sins were were uh forgiven in Christ And just as an aside, think about this. You know, I'm sure some of the men here shop at Joseph A. Banks. And if you go to Joseph A. Banks, there's a sign that says Joseph A. Banks, EST, period, 1905. Meaning it was established in nineteen oh five. And and sometimes when a company does it, they want to show credibility or longevity. But I I think it's helpful for us to consider that We were chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. Do you ever reflect on that? That our salvation was long ago thought of. Even we didn't even know Christ. You know, covenant children, when I made that comment earlier about the glories of you being here, the great blessing that it is here for you to be here. Not all people have that. I didn't grow up with that. I grew up in a very kind home. My father was a very loving father, humanly speaking. But I rarely ever heard the word of God. It wasn't until I was in high school I even knew who Jesus Christ was. But Jesus Christ thought of me way before I knew of him. And that's true for all believers, that we were considered in Christ representatively uh before even the foundation of the world. Even though we still were children of wrath by nature, until we came to be united to him by faith, in which we were our sins were forgiven and we were given new life. But it's this this this idea of union with Christ is it encompasses all that we have, all the riches that we have in Christ. Even our sanctification, and this is what this passage addresses. In a major way. So just something to think about, something to reflect on as you go to bed tonight, maybe, that I've been chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. That God's good purpose for you was not just when you first believed, but had been established long ago before the foundation of the world. Now, as we look at this passage, I want to talk about the immediate context here, to begin, and we'll go to the outline. In Romans 5, Paul is talking about Christ and his grace and Adam and his fall, and the results of his fall. As he talks about Adam's fall, he talks about sin and death in Adam, that he was our head and representative, and that as Adam fell, all humanity fell. If you remember the last time I was here, I spoke about the Romans 118 to, I believe it's Romans 3. 20 passage that Paul gives a diagnosis of the world. That of the corruption of the world, the prevalence of sin, the universality of sin, that everybody is affected by this, as they are children of Adam and in Adam. We see also that we see later in other Paul's writings, he says, For by as a man came death. For as in Adam all died. So as Adam is our original federal head, we're all fallen, and we're all under sin and death. And this is ultimately why humanity is unsanctified. Because we're all children of the fallen Adam. And that's by what we are by nature. That's how we come into the world. And we see this again in Romans 1, 18 through 320. Paul finishes up that section. He says, none is righteous, no not one. And he talks about how sin reigned during that time in death. Sin reigned. This is really important because that's what he's going to get at this passage. Paul speaks of sin in a way in Romans 5 and 6, in a personified way, as a power, or as a ruler, or being in a realm, the realm of sin. where sin is the master or the king. And he says that everybody's under this. In verse 21, I'm sorry, in verse 521 and 612, he refers to sin as a type of king. In Romans 6. 14, he talks about it as a master. And he he uses uh he talks about how uh uh in verse uh 613 he says uh do not present your members to sin as instruments of uh for unrighteousness as though he's like a general who takes these these instruments and uses them for his own purposes And so sin is thought of as a master, as a Lord. And by nature, sin is our Lord. That is apart from Christ. And so, but then Paul develops it what Christ has done, where sin abounded, grace abounded even more. And so, and we see this here, it says in verse 21, in verse in 521, so that as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Or going back, stepping back there to verse 20. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. And so then it raises a question: well, if sin is an occasion for God's grace, what shall we say then? In verse 6:1: Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? And Paul answers with a, by no means, or God forbid. And he goes on, he says. How can you who died to sin still live in it? How can you who have died to sin still live in it? And the question is: how do we die? How do we die to sin? And he goes on in the following verses to explain this. If you look at verse 3, do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. And when he's talking about baptism here, I think he's talking about water baptism. But not uh b uh water baptism as being regenerational, but how it points to our engrafting in Christ, of the reality of our engrafting in Christ when we come to think. faith in Christ, that as we've been united to Christ in baptism, we get all of his benefits. The work, the major work of Christ is his death and resurrection. His death to death and sin, and his resurrection to new life. And so if we were engrafted into Christ, United to him by baptism, we are reminded that we have been engrafted to Christ. In such a way that the chap of the blessings of Christ are given to us. They are all given to us in our union with Christ. Now, Christ died to sin once for all. Okay? He who knew no sin became sin for us. The writer to the Hebrews says this, consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself. So that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not resisted to the point of shedding your blood. That Jesus, in his obedience to the Father, went to the cross. Submitting to the Father in all things, never succumbing to sin, and so thereby in his sinlessness And his perfect righteousness, he underwent death for a time for us. He died to sin, he died to death. When I say he died to sin, I don't mean he died to sin because he had sins. He died to sin for our sake. He who knew no sin became sinful. For us. And so when Jesus died on the cross, he died to death, he died to sin. But then he was vindicated to show that yes, he was righteous and he was risen from the dead, so that his death was death to sin and death. And his resurrection was to newness of life to God. And as we are united to Christ, his death becomes our death. Not in a superficial or just word way. When we're united to Christ by faith, we actually become alive. That was part of the purpose of the passage I preached from the last time in John 5, 25, where Jesus says, A time is coming, is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and will live. That the the uh the riches that we have in Christ, in his death and resurrection People will hear this. The living Lord will call, and they'll be brought in and engrafted into Christ as they have faith in Christ and united to Christ. And so his point is, is that, how did we die? As we were baptized into Christ, as we are united to Christ, we were baptized into his death. He died to death, he died to sin, now we are dead to sin. And and we are done. We are dead to death. By the grace of God, we shall live forever in eternity. Okay? And so it's it's his work, it's his death. But it's our union with him that gives that to us. That it's ours. Calvin says he is not stated to have died to sin for the purpose of ceasing to commit sin. As we must say in our own case, but because he died on account of sin, so that by constituting himself a ransom, he might annihilate its power and authority. So as Christ underwent this for our sakes, he overcame sin and death and was raised to newness of life. And as we're united to him, we died with him. Its reigning power has been dethroned. And Christ's lordship has been raised up. So that we hear the voice of Christ. We want to obey Christ. We have this new nature. He gives us ears and eyes that receive the gospel and love the gospel and want to obey Him. And so, as we have been united to Christ, this working of his mighty power, his resurrection power becomes ours. And we're dead to sin. Now the thing that's important here is, although of course Jesus took the penalty for our sin, when Paul's talking about here, he's talking about realms. He's talking about the realm of sin as a slave and the realm of grace or Christ as a slave. a master. And we were transferred from that one kingdom, the kingdom of darkness, as Colossians says, to the kingdom of his glorious Son. That's what happened to us as we were united to Christ by faith. Now When I was younger, we lived in a new subdivision. And my screen had not been finished. And one day I walked down the street and I found this plant. Now I wasn't a believer, and I picked up this plant and I dragged it home to my dad. And it was, it looked dead to me. Drag this home. My dad plants it. It was a persistia. Okay? It grew to be at least as tall as that. 10, 15 feet high. Why? Because it had life in it. We could have watered it and watered it and watered it, but if it didn't have any life, it wasn't going to go anywhere. Okay? But the people of God have been engrafted into Christ so that his life is a part of our life now. So we're no longer under the reign, the dominion of sin in such a way as that it is our ruler. Because of Christ. And we are under the lordship of Christ, under his uh this resurrected power, it is ours, even in these humble bodies, which are decaying. Because of Christ. It's all of Christ. Now it's important to note that this uh This life manifests itself in a certain way. If you'll turn with me to first John. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning, I'm sorry, I'm starting in verse 4 of chapter 3. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was To destroy the works of the devil. Now that's not to say sinless perfection on our part, or as the people of God. But it's to say that there is this movement There's this movement of the grace of God, of this new life in the Christian, which is always moving towards holiness. Which is growing, it's moving more and more in conformity to Christ, in conformity to the Father's commands. Because the grace of God is alive. And so it's important to remember that, that this work that God has begun in us and that He will finish in us, it has a movement towards holiness. It has a movement towards obedience. It's not dormant. It's not to say that there are slow times of growth or quick times of growth, but it's always moving forward. Because Christ came to destroy sin. And one day it will be altogether destroyed. Now When I was here last, I gave an illustration of death. Skip wasn't here, but I I said that my grandparents, when I was very young, were killed in a car accident. Illinois. When I was six years old, my mother died. And then uh about sixteen years ago, a mutual friend of Marx and I, his dad died, and within four days, my father died. But there was one illustration I didn't use, and my dear wife gave me feedback, and that was my grandfather. When I was a senior in high school, we had gone down for our winter break to Florida. They lived in Florida. And we went to Disney World and we had a great time. And I can remember walking down Main Street and Disney World. It's hard to believe Disney World's been around for 30 years. It was been 39 years since past about a week ago that my grandfather passed away. So we had a wonderful time and I and I was a believer at that time and rejoiced at the family time that we had. And uh one Thursday night we were getting ready, my my mom and my grandmother were packing, getting ready for us to take our trip the next morning. And I'm sitting on a couch looking at a magazine, the television's on, my dad's over here, my grandfather's over here, my dad asked my grandfather a question. And he didn't answer. So I look up, my grandfather's going into a seizure of some sort. I said, Dad. And my dad happened to know CPR, and my dad may have spoken to my grandfather, no response. Performed CPR, no response. And uh my grandmother was there, she was very upset, and my dad asked me to ride in the ambulance. And I it I it hadn't dawned on me all that had happened. I'm riding in the ambulance, I'm thinking, why aren't the sirens on? And I look back and the sheets over my grandfather's head, it was obvious to me. My grandfather had passed. The reason I say this is when my father did CPR, spoke to my grandfather, my grandfather was dead. There was no response. That is how we are before God in terms of the life of God until by his resurrected power he calls us to life We hear the voice of Christ and we're made new creatures in Christ by that resurrected power. The power that raised Jesus from the dead is the same power that brings us to Christ. Christ. And for a time we have it in these lowly bodies. It's not obvious. There's indications, you can tell by people's actions and their interests. Something's different. Something's different. But it's internal. It's not external so much. But there's going to be a time when we're going to get new resurrected bodies. We're going to have the completion of this treasure that we have in Christ. The last episodes of our salvation in Christ are going to be played out when Christ comes again. And we're going to be vindicated as his people. I heard once that uh you know sanctification, we talk about it being already not yet. And there's a certain sense in which this realm in which we've been transferred from death to life. We've died to sin in a monumental way. It's no longer our reign, but we confess we still sin, don't we? We still sin. 1 John says, 1 John 1 says, if we say we have no sin, we're lying. Okay? So it's not that we don't sin. It's that we have been transferred. We're not under its realm anymore. It's not our master. It's a monumental change from death to life. We've been raised from death to life. And I think sometimes we don't appreciate that reality. There's a certain sense we need to think more that way as the people of God. I think sometimes we focus on our sin and we want to be honest about our sin. But we have been absolutely changed from one dominion, one kingdom to another by the power of God. We didn't raise ourselves to this. It was the power of God. It was what Christ had purchased for us in his death and resurrection. We are new creatures. Now, when I think of new creatures, I think of aliens or something. I don't know. It's just it's so hard to wrap our mind around in some sense, but we're we're m uh uh metaphysically or something, we're different because of the grace of God and its work in our lives. We're different people. I've noticed that sometimes, you know, I'll be with a coworker or something, and we're, you know, I'm trying to do the right thing and Not that I always do it like I should, but you know, I'm trying to do the right thing, and I think we get to a point, it's like my co-workers just being pragmatic. They don't really care about what's right. But by the grace of God, the people of God do. Because there's such a transformation that we are we're different people. Okay? We're different people. We've been made new in Christ. Now, pastorally, I know that raises a big problem, but you have to start thinking, okay, well What does that mean? How do we deal with that if we're if we're new creatures? Calvin and Sinclair Ferguson have some words on this. Calvin says this, if you are a Christian, you must show yourself a sign of your communion in the death of Christ. And the fruit of this is that your flesh will be crucified together with all its desires. There's this ongoing process in which it's already, but not yet. Okay? Do not assume, however, that this communion is not a real one if you find traces of the flesh still existing in you. But you are continually to study to increase your communion and the death of Christ until you arrive at your goal. Okay, so there's this steady increase. Now I said earlier as far as our justification I I'm sorry. I was talking about our uh Our salvation, it's already not yet. Okay? There's been a definitive break, but there's a progressive continuation. But there's a sense in which even our justification Is already not yet. Now, those are your red flags have got to go up on that one in some ways. Not in the finished once-for-all-ness of justification. But in the vindication that we are going to be declared to the world is Christ. Our justification, in that sense, it hasn't been declared and made known to the world, and it won't be done until Christ comes again. where he will claim us as his own that we truly are justified by by Christ. And so only in that sense is there an already not yet to that in our justification. But Christ has already been vindicated. He's already been raised from the dead. He's already been shown to be righteous in his resurrection. Okay? But then he shares that what he's earned with us, he gives it to us. So we might might share in his his glory. So then we go on and I'll finish briefly here. We're to consider ourselves dead to sin because we really are dead. are. We really are. That we have been transformed from one one realm to the other by the power of God And now we're to consider ourselves dead to sin. We're to be about the work of the mortification of the flesh by the power of the Spirit. By the means of grace, to to see our union with Christ more and more, where it affects us, where it changes our hearts. You know, one of the benefits of the Lord's Supper is we keep seeing This before our eyes over and over again. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to Christ. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to Christ. On the Lord's Day, we have this constant reminder over the course of our lives, particularly in the Lord's. Supper, but also in the preaching of the word, where we see this reality put before us in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. And then finally in verse 14, Paul says, we are under grace for Christ's lordship, not under the law of sin and death. Okay, because of the work of Christ, we no longer are under the lordship of sin. Do we sin? Yes, we do But we are the cr we are the we are the lords. As we said earlier, as we heard in the Heidelberg, we're the Lords. And we're going to continue to grow in that by the grace of God. We're going to be conformed more and more to the image of God by his grace. From one degree of glory to another. Because of the work of Christ. His work will continue on. He will complete the work that he has begun in us. Let's pray. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have given us your word to to cause us to understand your great love for us in Christ and and what this work involves. Father, we ask, first of all, we praise you and thank you for your love for us in Christ. We thank you that you have begun this good work as your people. We thank you, Father, that the foundations of this work did not begin when we first believed or first heard about the name of Christ, but before the foundation of the world. We ask that you would enlarge our thoughts about the glory of the salvation that we have, as Paul wanted his hearers to know the depth and the breadth of the love that we have in Christ. That we too would have this as well. And Father, we confess that we continue to sin, and we ask that you would cause that finished work of Christ to be worked out in us more and more. That by your grace we might be conformed to the image of your Son until one day in glory we will be made perfect. We ask and pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.