I don't know if uh you all have had an opportunity to take a quick uh sneak peek of the title of the sermon this morning. Uh the title of the sermon is Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. I am curious, as I normally am, with just a show of hands, how many of you have seen uh the movie Dirty Rotten Scoundrels who just raise your hands? Uh have an idea. of uh how much to uh share and not share uh regarding the uh description of the movie. Uh In 1988, there was a movie indeed that was released, and there were two famous film stars that some of you may know, Steve Martin and Michael Cain. uh who are the basically two con men. Um they were competing to swindle uh a wealthy tourist out of fifty thousand dollars Lawrence Jameson is a sophisticated and affluent British con artist. uh played by Michael Cain. Uh he conducts his con jobs, if you will, on the French Riviera, where he seduces wealthy women and cons them for big sums of money. by posing as an exiled prince who needs to raise money for his country's freedom fighters. While returning from a trip from Zurich, he encounters this young man, Freddie Benson, Steve Martin. An unsophisticated American hustler who brags of conning women himself. Lawrence, unwilling to share his territory with Freddie So the pair agree to a bet. The first the con $50,000 from a selected victim wins and the other one has to leave town. They choose a newly arrived tourist, a naive United States soap queen, Janet Colgate. Now, please note that this film was a comedy. And so the twist is that they both, spoiler alert. The twist is that they both get swindled by this Janet Colgate, who herself is a con artist as well. Sorry, guys. I suppose it can only be palatable as a comedy when you consider the deceptive Low down dirty things that these men do to trick people out of their possessions and their money. Men who are wealth, as this movie is entitled, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. a fitting title for the story. But may I also add that the writers took the very high road in selecting this title. In fact, they could have chosen many titles more suited for their behavior, but they were trying to maintain a rating of PG. Now, as we look at 2 Peter chapter 2 of 2 Peter, it would be fair to say that the Apostle instead is not holding back. He is writing about false teachers to the churches, from which he has heard some very disturbing things and some very disturbing behavior. He warned the church that these dirty, rotten scoundrels would arise from within the church. And it was not a unique thing that would occur in the first century. For as long as the church would be around, so would they. Wolves in shepherds' clothing. They, he tells us, are driven by their passions. They are bold and arrogant without any fear. This morning, we shall continue to learn more about these false teachers, what they have in common, their motives. how to identify them, and how they practically impact the lives of individual followers. How toxic they are, how devastating they can be to the unsuspecting. If you haven't already turned your Bibles to 2 Peter chapter 2, would you please do so now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? Would you please rise? This is from 2 Peter chapter 2, and I will begin reading in verse 12 all the way to verse 16. But these, like irrational animals, creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed. blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction, suffering wrong as the wage for their wrongdoing. They give it pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are blots and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions, while they feast with you. They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin, they entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed, accursed children, forsaking the right way they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Daor, who loved gain from wrongdoing, but was rebuked for his own transgression. A speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained the prophet's madness. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And join me now in prayer. Holy Spirit, empower us now, we pray, to understand and apply the Word of God to our minds and our hearts. Move us to not only understand, but to obey the word of God where obedience is needed, and find comfort and rest in the promises of God as found in His Word And we pray this in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. It seems to me that it's gotten a little bit more difficult to speak the truth these days. For when you do, you could be labeled by some as narrow-minded. Some would say perhaps you're pushing a narrative that others may see differently. And if the truth seems to bite, you may be called what is much more common these days as a hater. The reality is that if you are going to speak truth, objective, verifiable, logical, as in rational truth, You will face these types of responses. These responses, these labels are designed, in my opinion, to shut down the conversation. If in fact the conversation has ever begun in the first place, these days it takes a great deal of boldness and courage to stand up to accusations like this which in some of the cases can cause you to lose your job or perhaps even be jailed for being, quote-unquote, a hater. This is especially difficult in circumstances when you are trying to protect people from folks that have ill will and bad intentions. Peter finds himself in just this kind of situation. So the first thing that we have to keep in mind when we approach this text is that Peter is not writing to the false teachers. This is not a letter to them. In fact, based upon what he's already said about them, that their destruction is already certain. I just can't see how they would receive Peter's letter warmly. They would probably tear it up and put it right into the fire. This is a letter that he is writing to the family of God, the church, back then, today, and throughout all of eternity until Jesus comes back. I think that his concern is pastoral. As a shepherd of the broader church, he is concerned to warn them of the reality of their that false teachers are amongst them. And not only are they in the midst, but they are to be and can be identified by their false teaching, their character, their motives. Ungodly and unbiblical lifestyles. It seems to me that a message like this today Would find it hard to make its way into the ears of even many professing Christians who are being deceived daily by false teachers. Later on, I want to return to this notion of responses by some within the church, as well as the impact that these false teachers make, the fallout, if you will. Now Peter, right off the bat here in this chapter, is launching out in a full-scale attack on these false teachers. Having established that they, being far from possessing, and care to exercise the restraint angels have demonstrated He now calls it as he sees it. They are like irrational animals, creatures of instinct They have set aside their rationality. It's like he's saying, and in the Greek, by the way, this is the word that he uses, they've gone mad. They're crazy. You see, the comparison is that before they act, animals don't think Animals don't think things like, you know, if I do this, will I be violating the law of non-contradiction? No. They just do whatever makes them feel good or whatever it is that they want. They are creatures of instinct and do according to their nature. Now Peter is saying, if they are genuine Christians, this is not what they should be doing. Certainly, we can expect this type of behavior from the unbeliever, but not regularly from Christian teachers. Okay, Peter continues, if this is the case, then their end will be like animals, caught and destroyed. Peter states that they will be destroyed, and he says, destroyed ironically by their own greedy passions. When I first entered into seminary, there was an introductory class that I had to take. Really, it was designed for men to help them to consider the calling that they believed that they had to become ministers. I remember that one of the things that was said is that, you know, don't go into the ministry if there is anything else in the world that you would rather do. You need to do that as opposed to going into the ministry. It was discussed that, you know, also in this class that a a minister can make a decent um and average living being in the ministry. However, it's also possible that a minister can make a lot of money uh as well. And it is true that some ministers, although I'll say a small percentage, make a good deal of money by uh by being invited to speak at other churches or conferences regularly. Or they're or perhaps that they write books or produce learning series videos on very important topics to the church. Uh as we continue to have this discussion, it was said that all of this is good and okay. But as we continue to discuss this, what makes all of this good and okay is that it's got to be filtered through something first. The first is that whatever it is that they are teaching, it must be coming from Scripture And the second thing was that the motivation must be checked. Why are you doing these conferences? Why are you writing all these books? Is it a desire to serve and teach for the good of the recipients, the church, or is it greed? Like so many areas of ethics, the motivation of the heart is so important. Peter is pointing out That in our passage this morning, he says openly in verse 14 Clearly, they have their hearts trained on greed. Perhaps another way to understand this would be is if you're familiar with what a sniper is, that once they have their target, they've got on there, they are trained on it, and there's nothing that's going to stop them from getting their target. They have their hearts trained right on greed. He says that you, the church, should not tolerate them. Even the unbeliever sees it and you don't. It's so true, isn't it, sometimes that an outside observer can look at a situation in our lives and see things that we can't. So here are these false teachers amongst them, taking advantage of them, and they are a blemish, a stain upon their reputation. The unbelieving community can see that they are being taken advantage of, but they, well, they need a letter from that apostle to see it. In these situations, not only are they a stain upon their reputation, but ultimately they are a stain upon the reputation of Christ. These Christians, the unbelievers would say, are shysters talking to one another. They take advantage of one another They seem to feed upon each other. They prey upon each other. And they want me to come join them These false teachers, Peter tells us, revel openly about this. They revel in it. They don't have shame in what they are doing is wrong They openly live out a lifestyle that is based upon greed, gratifying their desires. You know, the 1980s was known for this. Greed was advocated as good The more openly greedy you are, the better. The more people are greedy, the better it is for society. It was advocated. Greed is good, was the motto. Greed is a sin, and it encourages more sin. One of the problems of sin, in general, is that it just doesn't ultimately satisfy the soul. Sin's solution for this is that once you're entangled in it, it creates an insatiable appetite for either more or something else. And it could potentially encourage others to sin. When you're looking at a person who is experiencing the pleasure that comes from sin, You may think, oh, I want some of that. That looks good. Why can't I have some of that? That looks fun. That looks that looks satisfying when in fact it's empty and hollow inside. It's looking for the next hit, if you will. They are not, Peter is telling us, to be tolerated These false teachers themselves are unsteady in their own souls, and when they come into contact with other unsteady souls, they can influence those young. immature, recent converts who simply don't know the difference They follow their passions. Now, I can't let that pass. We uh let's take a look at that statement about following your passions. I think mankind intuitively knows this, right? Philosophers will affirm that this is a genuine reality. Ethicists will also affirm this. What? That our passions have the ability to destroy us. Our passions can deceive us, and our passions can be manipulated by others. But it seems to me that our society is advocating this type of lifestyle. Pursue your passions. Do what your heart desires. Now let's let's be fair here, right? We're not saying that society is saying go do drugs or or go go become a serial killer, right? That's not what society is saying here But but there is to uh immature, to the young, the uneducated, the unstable members of our society, a potential danger if they are not uh being guided. First, where do we hear this type of language the most in our culture? Well, without naming names or corporations We see these things or we see this philosophy in animated movies. We see it in cartoons. We see it in sitcoms. We see it in magazines. This is just proliferated throughout our society. Here are some of the common mantras that you will hear. I'll quote some of them for us. They've become so powerful in our society. But sadly, it has infected the church as well. I hear this in the church. I'm sure you have heard this in the church, either here or other places as well. Just follow your heart. Discover your true self. Another way of saying this is let it go. Declare your authentic self rather than hiding your true desires to please others. Or fulfill your destiny. Follow the voice inside. You know, there really are many more, right? The problem is that on the surface, these seem like good and innocuous pieces of wisdom, don't they? But is that how Christians are supposed to be? Is this the way that we're supposed to roll? Are we to listen to that voice inside? Are we just to let it go and do whatever makes us feel good? Are we just to give in to our perceived wants and lusts? Are we just to consult our desires and go whole hog to go get it no matter what, to reach our destiny? Or are we to listen to the voice that comes from the Scripture to make decisions in life? Are we to just do it because it feels good? Or should we be praying about things ahead of time? And as I mentioned to you earlier, I want to talk to you about the responses, the fallout associated with these false teachers. Well, some responses today by the church, those within the church, who um has again been infected. As well by these worldly definitions and the worldly definition of truth itself, would say things like the following. Who do you think you are attacking? Who do you think you are attacking my pastor that way? Why don't you mind your own business? Don't you have things to do like minister to your own flock? Here's some more typical responses. These are quotes, by the way. He is God's anointed messenger. Everything he says is from God himself. You think you know better than God? You're just jealous of his charisma and his power. The devil uses people like you to sow discord and doubt. These are quotes from people who follow the false teachers. Another one. You are following false propaganda. The only reason people speak against our leaders that you are misguided and resent The truth. Paying close attention to the responses, I think we can see that they are, these people are duped. They deny and are hostile to any attacks against their leaders. You know, I can't help but wonder I mean if there was such a thing back then. Once this letter arrived at the church, or the people that he's sending it to, If some folks read this and they knew they knew who Peter was talking about. If they went to their home, their home office and opened up their laptop and went ahead and wrote an email directly right back to Peter and say Who do you think you are, Peter? You who denied the Lord three times. Bam! Talking so badly against. You don't know the truth. Right? Perhaps some of them picked up their cell phone. They couldn't wait to go back to their office. And they pick up the phone and call Peter. Peter didn't have a cell phone back then, so he didn't get that call. But you know what I'm saying? I can't help but wonder if he had some of these responses. The apostle himself would have gotten some of these responses. To do so, to point this out, requires courage, boldness, to stand up against what's so popular. And one of the things that is popular are teachings. Peter has this in there that play to our senses, our sensuality. That's popular. That's fun. I mean, when you think about it, one of the most potent and successful package of enticements. For any human who is concerned about one, their eternity, to have their eternal salvation, and two, to continue to live a Life that is catered to their sins. Well, that's exactly what these false teachers appeal to. Our sinful desires. You can have a version of Jesus that allows you to call him your Savior and yet pursue your sinful passions. You know, today the church is facing false teachers who teach a type of gospel, which frankly is not the gospel. Called the Word of Faith and the Health and Wealth Gospel. This is more formally and historically known as the prosperity theology. It emerged in the mid-20th century. It is known as the Health and Wealth Gospel. Because it states. That God guarantees physical healing in this life for those who have sufficient faith. As well as the belief that financial blessing and material prosperity are a guaranteed outcome of faith. And you guessed it, donations. The focus is on the now It is not on the future. Instead of saving up your riches in a place where it cannot be stolen, or moth can come to destroy your stuff. It's a year and now. Hmm. Instead of Christianity, which was well known For from the beginning all along, for people that carried their cross and suffered for their faith, they can instead now have health and well-being. Well, the only people who are living a financially prosperous life are the false teachers. As they make merchandise of their followers who want what? To have their fleshly desires met. Well, they now have a theology that allows them To think they are okay with God and that God will reward them financially and with good health if they only have faith and make donations. For those whose eyes have been opened to these dirty, rotten scoundrels, and they're taking advantage of them, the fallout is the following. There are four things, categories that I want to point out. The first one is disillusionment and anger. And we're talking about people who figured it out, who have seen it for what it is. Disillusionment and anger. When the promised health and wealth fail to materialize, former followers often experience a crisis of faith. And feel deep anger toward the leaders who exploited their hope. Here are some of the quotes from former followers of these false teachers. I was so deceived. I used to cry. I felt betrayed. Another quote: How could God let this happen? I exercised tremendous faith. When fervent prayer and tithing don't prevent loss, the prosperity's gospel teachings lead directly to do what? Blame God for failing on his promises. Here's another. The prosperity gospel is just capitalism in a preacher's suit Again, these are statements for people who've come out. Many come to see the movement as a corrupt, manipulative system where only the top leadership truly prospers. Number two, in addition to disillusionment and anger, another is financial ruin. Financial ruin. To sow a seed giving model leaves many financially devastated. One former member observed that the system only blesses the preacher who gets rich, while the followers remain poor and in debt. Quotes, God never paid my rent. The emphasis on financial giving for greater reward often leads people to neglect their presence. Financial realities and responsibilities. The stark contrast between the pastor's extravagant lifestyle and the congregation's poverty. Exposes the hypocrisy of this movement. Number three, in addition to disillusionment and anger and financial harm, we also have spiritual despair. Spiritual despair The teaching creates a works-based view of faith where suffering is seen as Of all things, a sign of spiritual weakness rather than a normal part of life. Think about this. Suffering is seen as a sign of spiritual weakness. I hope this gives you a picture of how effective these charismatic and convincing these false teachers can be. Did not Jesus suffer? You would think that Jesus must have had very little faith in his father to have suffered so much. When tragedy strikes, the person thinks their faith is unable to move the providential hands of God. This breeds shame and guilt, with individuals blaming now themselves for not having enough faith to move God to do what they needed him to do. So I hope you see that in this theology we see that God is the servant. That is to be manipulated by faith and giving money to his false teachers to do one's bidding. Not that we are the servants, but God is the servant. Quote, my entire Christian life up until that point was based on false teaching. Again, these are people who've come out, who've seen the reality. For some realizing the gospel they believed was false. Forces them to question the foundation of their entire spiritual life and whether they were ever truly converted. For if the gospel is real, they're lost, not knowing what to trust. There is hope, however. When the scales come off, some of them come into the truth of Scripture. Here's a positive quote The kind of joy Jesus talks about doesn't come from the outside. Those who escape the false teachers realize true fulfillment that is found in Christ, not in material possessions or avoiding hardship It is having joy in the midst and through the hardship that the true gospel shines. I think we'll end where Peter ends in this passage. With Balaam. Now, for those of you who haven't studied or read through this section of scripture, Peter is referencing the false prophet. Makes sense? Let's talk about false prophets, false teachers. Balaam, who is found in the book of Numbers, and the story, if you'd like to read, you can read later, is in Numbers chapter 22 to 24. Balaam was a guy who made money in the religion trade. He pronounced curses and he pronounced blessings on people For hire. He was hired by a man called Balak to curse the Israelites. Now Balaam was initially forbidden by God to curse the Israelites. However, Balak. sent more distinguished messengers with even a bigger check. And what happened with what happens with these false prophets? Well Balaam's greed surfaced. He went back to God to ask for permission again. And this time God allowed him to go, but warned him to speak only the words that God would give him. Now, as it relates to the donkey and the story, because that's in the passage referenced here, as Balaam was traveling with the Moabite officials, God was angered by his intentions and sent an angel to block his path. Now Balaam's donkey saw the angel uh three times, but but Balaam could not at that point, and each time the donkey veered away from the angel, and Balaam beat her for her disobedience. And after the third time, God miraculously gave the monkey uh the donkey the ability to speak. And she questioned Balaam for his cruelty. Why are you beating me? At this point, God opened Balaam's eyes, and he saw the angel with a drawn sword, who confirmed that the donkey had saved his life. Now, when they arrived at this place where they're supposed to pronounce the curse, Balaam met with the king. who took him to three different locations, overlooking the Israelite camp. Each time Balak instructed Balaam to curse Israel, but Balaam could only speak the words God put in his mouth. Which were blessings. While Balaam was forced by God to bless Israel, we see that his heart was never truly repentant. seeking to still get a payday. He later advised the Moabites on how to weaken the Israelites. What was his plan? His plan was for the Moabite women to entice Israelite men into idolatry and sexual immorality. causing God to curse his own people. The plan was carried out, and the plague killed 24,000 Israelites. False teachers. Man, do they know how to move people All the way back then he was appealing to the lusts and sensualities. And it's no different today. You can be healthy and you can be wealthy. All you gotta do is Well, Balaam's treachery eventually led to his own downfall. He was killed by an Israelite in battle against the Midianites. His greed got the best of him. He got his payday, but he didn't get to cash it. That's what Peter is saying here. They're going to be destroyed by their own lusts. And if it doesn't happen in our time, it's going to happen in God's time. So what's the point? First is There's no point in trying to have the false teachers cease and desist. Their greed is way too potent, and their condemnation has already been pronounced. What else? Balaam symbolizes a false teacher whose greed leads him to betray God's people. That's what false teachers do. They betray God's people for their own good. And finally, the story is also a powerful testament to God's ultimate control and his faithfulness. to bless his covenant people, even in the face of schemes from the wicked. Praise the Lord. Be comforted by that. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for your word, for your glorious word, for it does speak to us. We don't need to find a voice inside. We have your voice speaking to us in your word. Let us turn to it. Heavenly Father, help us to not go after our lusts and our desires, but rather turn to you in prayer To see if these are things or whatever the decision that we have to face is your will. So we pray, Father, that you would continue. to protect us, that you would continue to grow us in Christ, so that we may glorify you. And that the church itself would have less and less blemishes amongst her midst. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.