It's always great to know we have another uh sister church planted by Wallace so close, just up the road. So it's a delight for me to be here with you. Uh I do enjoy getting to see your pastor, Skip Dusenberry, on uh pretty regular occasion when we meet for Presbytery, and uh I really enjoy uh the friendship I've struck with him over the last few years. Uh he's uh A neat man, godly man, uh good pastor, at at least from our perspective. And so uh I know it's big shoes to fill as I get up here this morning, and yet um I h I will do my best and uh we'll look for you'll look forward to having your pastor with you. in the weeks to come. Our sermon text this morning is Genesis 45. In our church we've been preaching through the life of Joseph, the gospel according to Joseph. And this is one of the chapters that comes sort of in the middle of that. If you turn with me in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 45, we'll begin reading with verse 1 and read through the whole chapter. Hear now the reading of God's Word. Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, Make everyone go out for me. So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. And so Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, please. And they came near, and he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Hurry, and go up to my father, and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph. God has made me Lord o' of all Egypt. Come down to me, do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children, and your children's children, and your flocks, and your herds, and all that you have. There I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household and all that you have do not come to poverty And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speaks to you. You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. Hurry, and bring my father down here. Then he fell upon his brother at Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck, and he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that, his brothers talked with him. When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, Joseph's brothers have come, it pleased Pharaoh and his servants. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to your brothers, Do this, load your beasts, and go back to the land of Canaan, and take your father and your households. And come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you shall eat of the fat of the land. And you, Joseph, are commanded to say, Do this. Take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father and come. Have no concern for your goods, for the best of the land of Egypt is yours. The sons of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them wagons. according to the command of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for the journey. To each and all of them he gave a change of clothes, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred shekels of silver and five changes of clothes. To his father he sent as follows ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and provisions for his father on the journey. Then he sent his brothers on their way, and as they departed he said to them, Do not quarrel on the way. So they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob. And they told him, Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt. And his heart became numb, for he did not believe them. But when they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them, And when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived, and Israel said, It is enough. Joseph, my son, is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. Here ends the reading of God's Word. Let's go before Him in prayer and ask His blessing on it. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you have given us in your Word nourishment to nourish us in our faith, to call us to faith. To show us our sin and our need for a Savior and also to show us the glories of Jesus Christ. And we ask that we might see those things this morning, that you might take this word, plant it deep in our hearts, and cause it to bear fruit that is fitting with the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, I don't know if you all have ever done this. Have you ever walked in on a movie or maybe it at the climax? Or maybe picked up a book and started reading the last chapter or the last couple chapters? If you have, this is a sort of a jarring experience, if not a sort of comical. Especially when you pick up a movie at the climax, you sort of wonder, why all the drama? Why are people weeping? What's all this going on here? It seems a bit odd. An example of that in my life was years ago, right after I was first married to my wife Rachel, we went out and visited a couple that was friends of ours in California. And uh we were there a few few days and one evening the women decided it was a nice for them to pick the movie we would watch. And they p picked the movie Beaches. Anyone seen Beaches? All right, a few people. A few guys actually. All right. Now normally when I when I ask that, it's it's it's the women. I'll tell you why. It's it's a movie that's a a very touching movie about female friendship, right? And and uh uh the sort of the the joys and the sadness of that. Well, we turned on the movie and I promptly did what uh new husbands sometimes will do during chick flicks with their wife. I fell asleep. And I didn't wake up until the very end, the last about five minutes. And I woke up and I saw on the screen uh you know these women that were this sort of main characters of the movie crying and weeping and hugging and this and I sort of chuckled like what's going on here? And then I looked over at the two women I was with and they were crying and weeping and sort of hugging and and uh a and I did what I shouldn't have done and I sort of chuckled and said, What in the world's going on? Uh what's so uh what's there to cry about? It's because I had stepped in uh on the climax of that movie and it didn't make sense to me. I really needed the context to understand why there would be this great emotion. And that's a little of what we're doing today as we look at Genesis 45. We're really jumping into this long story of the life of Joseph. We're jumping in right at the climax And so as you saw as we read it, people are weeping. They're falling over each other. And it can almost look funny to us if we jump in like that. But if we read it in context, in the context of the whole Joseph story, it becomes a very powerful, eye-opening and comforting passage. for us as as God's people, because this passage teaches us about forgiveness. Teaches us about forgiveness, biblical forgiveness. And it's a wonderful picture of what biblical forgiveness looks like and why it's so important for us as Christ's people. And as we look at this passage, we're going to see three things about forgiveness. One, we're going to see the character of biblical forgiveness. Second of all, we're going to see the consequences of biblical forgiveness, and third, the call of biblical forgiveness. I want to do that briefly with you here this morning. Now again, I mentioned we're jumping into this in the middle of the story as it's uh happened already, and so it might be worth a stepping back and getting a little bit of that context here, especially since We haven't been going through the whole story here at this church. Many of you know the story of Joseph. You know, he uh he was uh beloved son of his father, the eleventh son of twelve uh sons of Jacob. Jacob loved him, and he was his favorite. He gave him this cloak to show his favoritism for him, and therefore his brothers hated him. They were jealous of him. And they finally decided to just get rid of him altogether. They were going to kill him and instead they thought, no, you know what, we can we can make some money if we sell him instead. And so they sold him off to slavery in Egypt. And Joseph went there. He suffered many years, and yet he eventually rose to the top. He was the vice pharaoh, if you will, the second in command. And he had uh told Pharaoh, God had shown him as a sort of prophet, uh, of this famine that was to come. So they s he he oversaw storing up the grain for seven years, so that they would have seven years of provision during the famine there in Egypt. And yet the famine stretched further from Egypt. It went from Egypt all the way up to Canaan, and so eventually it hit Jacob and his family and Joseph's brothers up there, and so they did uh finally run out of food and they said we've got to go to Egypt, that's where the food is and they headed down. And they appeared before guess who? Their brother Joseph, who is now vice pharaoh in the land, and uh they didn't recognize him. He was all shaved, he was older, and yet he recognized them. And so this tension started to build as Joseph recognizes them, they don't recognize him. And yet he noticed that someone was missing, Benjamin was missing, and so he gave them grain, and he said, You know what, your other brother, bring him back down with you next time, so that you'll prove that you aren't spies spying out the land. They went back up and said, they had to leave Simeon down there. They went back up and said to Jacob, hey, we've got to take Benjamin down or we can't get any more grain. Jacob said no, but then the rain ran out and finally he said yes. And the way reason he said yes is because Judah said to him, look, I'll be the surety. My life for his if he doesn't come back. They came back. Joseph lavished his kindness on his brothers, had this feast for them, and they're all feeling pretty good about themselves. He gives them all this grain. to take back to their father and returns their silver, doesn't even take money for it. And yet as they begin to leave Egypt, they get a messenger from Joseph. And he says, you know, there's a cup that's been stolen from Joseph, and they look around and the cup's found in Benjamin, the youngest's bag. So Benjamin is found out to be guilty before this Vice Pharaoh before Joseph. And and they all come before him again. And then at the end of chapter 44, right before our passage, Judah gives this long monologue, the longest monologue in Genesis, where he basically says, Look, if I don't If Benjamin doesn't come back, my father's going to die. Take me instead. I'll be your slave. I'll be your servant. Just let Benjamin go. And as he does this, he not only confesses that Benjamin is guilty for having this cup, but he actually confesses his own sin and repents of it. He says, look, we We've sinned against God and against our brother, selling him, I don't deserve to go back. Take me instead. He offers himself as a substitute in verse thirty-three of chapter forty-four, please let me stay here and be a slave and let the boy Benjamin go. And that then brings us to our passage. That's what Jud Judah has just said. They're right at the end of chapter 44. And at that point, Joseph can't keep it together anymore. And so in verse 1 it says, he couldn't control himself before all those who stood by me. He cried, make everyone go out for me. So that no one stayed when he made himself known to his brothers, and he wept aloud so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. Joseph's brothers thought that God was bringing in the consequences of their sin back on him with Benjamin getting caught with the cup. They thought they were sort of getting found out. That's what they say when they he the cup is found, they say, Woe is us, God's bringing judgment on us for what we've done. And just when they thought it couldn't get worse, you know, you're going to go back to this pharaoh guy, you've got the cup, what can you do? It does. Because the Egyptian ruler who has them sort of under his thumbs makes their darkest nightmare come true, as he says, You know what? I'm Joseph, your brother. Look at what he says in verse 3. I'm Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. Yes, the Joseph, the one you were going to kill, but then decide you just sell off and make some money for. And they're terrified. It says in verse 3, his brothers couldn't answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. I think of dismayed as sort of a mild word. Ah, mildly dismayed. The word that's translated this made here is much more powerful. It means terrified, horrified. It's the emotion that would come over you when you're faced with an overwhelming enemy that you have no hope against. This is the dismay of Joseph's brothers. They're standing before a mighty, powerful judge who can enslave them or even kill them if he so chooses, and they're standing there guilty, and suddenly they're face to face. with the debt that they owe. The debt for their greatest crime, their greatest shame, the most d burdensome sin that they've been carrying for twenty years, that sin of uh selling their brother off, of giving up his life. And not only are they exposed before this Pharaoh, but they're fully known by him because he knew exactly what they had done. He knew exactly what they had done to him. He has every right here to throw the book at them. And as his brothers stand before him, they're confronted then with being in the presence of a righteous judge against whom You've committed the severest crimes against whom you've incurred the greatest debt, against whom you owe your very life. That's their situation. Imagine if you were to drive through one of your neighborhoods near your own home and you're driving along, maybe going a little too fast, and you hit a dog. Right? And it's a pet dog. And it's you stop the car, you look at this dog, and it's dead. The the the owner of the dog comes running out of his house. And obviously he's saddened. He's angry at you. He's calling the police. And so the police show up and you're uh told to go to court and you walk into the courtroom that one day to receive the verdict, and who's sitting there in the judge's seat but that dog owner. whose dog you ran over. That's the sort of situation that Joseph's brothers find themselves in here. And they're undone. They're dismayed. They're terrified. They're not you know they're saying to themselves, it's all over, we're dead. And you can sort of hear the wheels turning. He says, I'm Joseph, and they're thinking All those trips back and forth to Egypt and Canaan, asking for Benjamin, he's been torturing us for months. What is he going to do now? But then he calls them close, he says, come close, and as he sort of speaks to them kindly, they might be thinking, all right, maybe he's forgotten. Maybe he doesn't remember all that we've done to him, and then what does he say there in verse 4? He makes it very clear he remembers. He says, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into slavery. And they're speechless. What can they say? Their guilt has found them out. They're like Isaiah, who standing before the presence of Almighty, Holy God, says, Woe is me, for I am lost. For I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. And yet throughout this study that we've done down in our congregation of the gospel according to Joseph, we've seen time and time again, and if you read the story of Joseph, you begin to see this how For Joseph, as he slowly endures this suffering and is patient through it and rises to glory in a sense. He's a picture. Of Jesus Christ. He's a type of Jesus Christ. And once again, we see that here because as Joseph's brothers stand before Joseph, who's acting as their ruler, acting as their judge and king over them. So the Bible also says that one day we will stand before Jesus as our ruler, as our judge, as our king. 2 Corinthians 5. 10 says We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And when we do, friends, we'll be exposed, like the brothers here. Our sin will be fully known. Because Christ sees not only what we do on the outside, but he sees to our very hearts. And we'll finally understand that all our sin is not just sin against people, but ultimately every sin is against God. Against him, it's a betrayal of his law. It's a treasonous act against the king of the universe. As David, when he's confronted with his sin in Psalm 51, says, Against you, God. And you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight so that you are justified in your words and blameless in your judgment against me. What a picture of the justice and the righteousness of God and of Christ's presence as a dismaying reality here. Friends, don't be deceived. The presence of Jesus, his coming, is not good news because Jesus is good. Jesus coming in power to judge, that's bad news for a lot of people. Behold, I am coming soon, he says at the end of Revelation. But if you read on, you realize this is an ominous warning. Behold, I am coming soon to bring recompense with me, to repay everyone what he has done. This presence of Christ is a dismaying presence. Don't get that confused as the Reform distinguished between law and gospel. This is a message of law. We ought to be undone. And the reason it is, is not because Jesus is somehow bad. Not because somehow God's law is bad, but because we are bad. We are in our sin, and so when we come before a holy, righteous God, when we come into his presence, it ought to be a dismaying presence to us as sinners, as we have broken his law. And yet, then what does all this have to do with forgiveness? This is bad news. Where is the forgiveness here? And friends, uh The reason it's important to see the bad news is because it's only in the bad news, in the context of the bad news, that the good news is so good. That the good news of biblical forgiveness makes any sense Because there's only where there's a debt that has to be paid that that forgiveness of debt being paid makes any sense at all And that's what Joseph does. He's preached law to them, right? He's preached the bad news when he says, I'm Joseph. You're in my presence. I'm the Joseph who you sold into slavery. But then he doesn't stop there. He goes on to preach the good news of forgiveness. And he does that in verses 5 to 8. And now he says, Do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you sending here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and ruler over the land of Egypt. Joseph gives them a little lesson here in the providence of God, even though they had sold him into Egypt. God had actually had sent him into Egypt. Joseph had learned this the hard way over twenty years of labor, of sweat, of toil, of pain, having to be patient, patient. He had learned that perplexing and yet comforting truth of God's sovereign hand of providence, that while we are morally responsible for our actions, Nothing we do is outside of God's control, and ultimately it's working together for his glory and for his glorious good plan for our lives. But while ultimately Joseph's life served God's providential purposes, that didn't mean that his brothers were just off the hook. That didn't mean that they were just okay. There was a very real guilt incurred by them here, very real sin committed. And just because God had used that for their good and for Joseph's good doesn't mean that their sin just goes away. And the brothers knew that, which is why they carried the shame for 20 years. Someone had to bear the penalty for their sin. Someone had to bear the penalty. They had taken life, Joseph's. They had stolen it from him. By selling him into slavery, and as God's law says, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life, they knew they owed their lives. They deserved to die for their brother and for their murderous act against him. And we see that knowledge in Judah's offering of himself. He realizes he's guilty. He owes his whole life. But then Joseph preaches the good news of forgiveness here. And he does it really in those two little phrases I read there in verse 5. And now don't be distressed. He says, don't grieve, don't beat yourself up or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. And in that little word, in that little sentence, they realize they're forgiven. He's forgiven them. In that little sentence, Joseph showers the sweet rain of forgiveness on their burning wounds of sin. And what he makes clear is that he doesn't want you to do a life of slavery and repayment for their debt because he's already paid their debt by his twenty years of slavery. that they had uh sent him to. And he shows that he's absorbed their debt in himself, in his own suffering, because he's forgiven them. And that's the character of biblical forgiveness. Biblical forgiveness is simply absorbing debt. It it comes in places where there is debt incurred by other people sinning against us. And there's a debt that needs to be absorbed. And so who's going to absorb it? Well, forgiveness says, you know what, I'm not going to make you pay it. I'll pay it for you. And Joseph shows here that he's forgiven that. They don't need to carry their shame and guilt anymore because their debt is not owed anymore. He's already paid it. He's already suffered for 20 years on their behalf. And so once again, what a powerful picture. Foreshadowing the greatest forgiveness, the greatest debt absorbed in Jesus Christ. Who didn't just absorb the debt of one act, like their one act here. He absorbed the debt of every single sinful thought. and word and deed that you or I have ever committed if we're trusting in Christ. Like Joseph, he too absorbed the debt by suffering, by becoming a servant, washing his disciples' feet. And then by dying and giving his very life on the cross for you and for me, if we're trusting in him. Colossians 2 says, and you who are once dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all. our trespasses. By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands, this he set aside, nailing it to the cross. Friends, that is biblical forgiveness. And that is at the heart of Christianity, of the Christian faith, because it's at the heart of the gospel. of Jesus Christ. In the gospel, the good news we have, Jesus cancels our debt by absorbing it in our place. By absorbing it in himself in our place. And that's the character of biblical forgiveness. What about the consequences? of biblical forgiveness. We see that here as the passage goes on. The consequence of biblical forgiveness is grace. It's promised blessings and rewards, and we see that pictured in Joseph's gifts to his brothers, right? He's saying more than, oh, just don't don't beat yourself up over it. It's okay. I've gotten this back to uh paid off your debt. I've gotten this back to zero He actually goes on to give countless blessings and rewards. He's not like a judge who goes well, this is your final warning. If you do it one more time, it'll be bad. No, he gives them both mercy. And grace. And there's a difference. Mercy is not giving punishment that is deserved. Grace is giving reward when punishment is actually what is deserved. Like a child, if a child disobeys a parent and the parent finds them and they realize they must discipline that child. Well, if they just say, you know what, I'm not going to discipline you this time, that's mercy. But if they say to the child, you know, I'm going to buy you that toy you've been wanting, instead of punishing you, that's grace. Or being pulled over on on the uh for speeding. I'm not a great driver, although I don't get speeding uses all the time. But if you're pulled over for speeding and the officer comes up and he says, you know what, this time I'm going to give you a warning. That's mercy, right? But if he comes up and he writes you a $500 check, it says, there, go cash it and have a great day. That's grace. That's grace. And it does make us laugh. It's odd in our ears. And yet biblical forgiveness begins with mercy But it ends in grace, displaying grace, surprising grace. And that's what we see here in verses 9 to 13 as it recounts And Joseph says, Hurry, go up to your father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all of Egypt, come down to me, don't tarry, you shall dwell in the land of Goshen, you shall be near me, you and your children, your children's children, your flocks, and your herds. And all that you have, there I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household and all that you have do not come to poverty. Joseph says, I'm going to share what I have. I'm going to give you the rewards that I've earned, even though you have actually deserved the exact opposite. And that's grace. And that's the consequence of biblical forgiveness. And don't miss the significance of Pharaoh's response there in verses 16 to 20 is And sort of Pharaoh hears that Joseph's brother is there, and then he actually adds to what Joseph was going to give, right? He says, No, yeah, send wagons down with them. And you know what? I'll give you this land of Goshen. This is the best of my land. I'm going to give that to you. Come on down. He sort of furthers those rewards that Joseph was offering and tells Joseph, You better give them all this that I have. And and and you know, sort of we were reading it in the story, it sort of seems repetitive. Why does Pharaoh have to get involved here? But There's a key thing going on here, and that's that the reason Pharaoh is willing to give so much is not because the brothers have earned it, not because they deserve it, but because Joseph has earned it. Joseph has been a wise, faithful servant to Pharaoh. Pharaoh is showering these gifts that he would give to Joseph, and he says, you know, I'm going to give these to your brothers too, because you've been so great to me. Because you have earned it. You have merited that. And the rest of the passage sort of recounts these incredible riches and blessings and rewards that Joseph gave them then at the command of Pharaoh. So we see that the consequence of biblical forgiveness is this grace of rewards that aren't even earned. In fact, rewards where the exact opposite is earned. And there's also another consequence we see here, and that is that regrets are removed. Regrets are removed And that's actually i i in the in those verses there as well that speak of these gifts and rewards. See, he sends all these gifts, but but he says there he sends Not only his brothers with changes of clothes and silver for Benjamin, and gave them possessions and supplies for their journey. But then he said, in verse 23, to his father he sent as follows, ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt. Ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread and provisions for his father on their journey. And what Joseph's doing here is he's covering the shame of his brothers He's saying as you go to your father, I realize you still have to confess your sin to him. You still have to tell him, you know what, Joseph, you've been mourning him for 20 years. It's our fault. We sold him into slavery. And yet Joseph gives them supplies so they can bring them as a peace offering to their father and say, you know what, and yet he's forgiven us. Please forgive us as well. Right? He covers their shame. He removes their regret in this gift. And once again, what a picture in Joseph of the gospel of Jesus Christ, right? And the grace that we have in the gospel, because in the gospel, Jesus doesn't just cancel our sin, cancel the debt of sin we owe, and bring us back to sort of a zero balance. He gives forgiveness and he follows up mercy with grace. He gives great rewards, an eternal inheritance to his people. The gospel of forgiveness is not just mercy, but it goes one step further and follows that mercy up with grace. And when Jesus forgives us by his death on the cross, by his resurrection in glory, he doesn't just cancel our death. He gives us that promise of eternal life because of his faithful obedience, because of how he has earned that on our behalf. Just like Joseph with his brothers. And 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says it so well. It says, For our sake, God made Jesus, who knew no sin, to be sin, that in him we might become the righteousness. Jesus doesn't just take away our guilt and give good gifts. He covers our shame and he removes our regrets. In Romans 5, 3 through 5 says, more than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that our suffering produces endurance. Endurance produces character. Character produces hope. And hope does not what? It does not put us to shame. Why? Because God's love has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. The Holy Spirit, friends, is our shame shield, if you will. And why? Well, it's because the Holy Spirit, first of all, dwells in us and with us. If he's not ashamed to be in us and with us, why are we ashamed of ourselves? And yet why else? It's because he also clothes us with the righteousness of Christ. And he also begins that cleansing work of Christ's blood in our lives as he cleanses our consciences. And as he renews us after the image of Christ, so that more and more we become to look more and more like Christ, with his purity, his holiness, his beauty, as his righteousness covers us like a robe. Titus 3, 4 through 6 says, God our Savior saved us not because of works done by us, but according to his own mercy by the washing and regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. Whom He poured out on us richly in Jesus Christ our Savior. So we see here the biblical, the character of biblical forgiveness, the consequences. of biblical forgiveness. And finally, and we'll close with this, the call of biblical forgiveness. And this is where we want to think through a couple points of application as we conclude. What do we do with this dismaying grace of God displayed for us in the forgiveness of Jesus Christ? Having been forgiven in Jesus Christ, surprised by his grace, what do we do with it? Well, friends, the answer comes again from our passage. First of all, we receive it gratefully. We receive it gratefully. Imagine after all this, Joseph has lavished these gifts on his brothers. He's lavished forgiveness upon them. Imagine if they responded saying, yeah, that's great, Joseph, that's great. But I think we could take it from here. We'll find our own supplies for the trip back to Canaan. And you know, don't worry, we're not going to come back here. We're not going to be a burden to you. You know, I really think we can take care of our own debt ourselves. Thanks for forgiving you. But you know, we really would like to be slaves. We really would like to pay that debt off ourselves. Now you don't want to slap them upside the head. What are you thinking? Just receive the forgiveness gratefully, right? And from Joseph's perspective, think about that. He would be incensed. You think that you spending the waning years of your life as my slave would make up for me spending the best years of my life, starting when I was 17 until I was 37, as a slave? Come on. That's almost defensive. It would be like saying that the debt that Joseph absorbed for 20 years is worthless. His payment of their debt wasn't good enough. And yet that's exactly what we Christians often try to do when we hear the gospel, and then we say, all right, Jesus, thank you for setting me up for success, but now I'm going to go try to pursue it on my own. I'm going to try to make it on my own. Now I'm going to approach you and I'm going to approach God on the basis of what I can do for you. I'm going to try to please God and be good so I can appease God with the way I do things. But Jesus comes to us through his word and says in Galatians 2. 16, we know that a person is not justified by works of the Lord. So we also have believed in Jesus Christ in order to be justified by faith in Christ, not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. And looking at Genesis 45, it's clear that the only response that the brothers ought to give, the only response we can give when we're faced with dismay and grace of biblical forgiveness is to say thank you. To say thank you. And so if you're not a believer here this morning, this is the call upon your life to see your sin, acknowledge your need for forgiveness, repent of your sin, confess it to God. And receive Christ by faith, trusting in him and his death on your behalf, believing in him, trusting in him, and resting in that forgiveness that he brings. But then don't stop with that. Don't stop with simply receiving Christ by faith. Get to know him better. Understand him more and more. And so look for someone who can come alongside you and teach you. you more and more about this Christ whom you've been called to know and love and worship. First call of biblical forgiveness, God's forgiveness, is to receive it gratefully. Second of all, to rest in that grace joyfully. Not just hearing it, affirming it, nodding to it, but letting it rewrite who we are, redefine who we are. Up to this point in Genesis, Joseph's brothers' view of themselves, their whole world view, was filtered through their guilt. Through their sin. And every time, if you read through it, every time something bad happens, then they say, you know what, God's out to get us for what we did. That's the way they saw their whole lives. God's getting us back for our crime. Their sin weighed heavily on them. They were defined by it. And so then when Joseph suddenly dismays them with this grace and forgives them and takes away all their debt and absorbs it in himself, they have to relearn. their new identity. They have to relearn who they are. We see that because even all the way back at the very end of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 50, after Jacob dies. His brothers see his dead and they say, you know what? Maybe Joseph's going to hate us now. Maybe he's going to pay us back now. And they send Joseph this message, probably not a true message. They say, you know, while Dad was alive, he said, say to Joseph, please forgive the transgression of your brothers in their sin because they did evil to you. And so now please do forgive us. You know what Joseph's response is to that? He weeps. He weeps when they spoke to him. He wept because they still didn't believe him. They still hadn't believed the dismaying grace that he had given. The forgiveness that He had given, they still hadn't been fully rewritten by it and resting rested in it. And so the call biblical forgiveness, what we do with it, first we receive it gratefully, second of all, we rest in it joyfully, and then finally, and we'll close with this, finally we pass it on. We pass it on. We become reconciled reconcilers. We see this call of biblical forgiveness right there in verse 24 as Joseph sends them on their way back to Canaan, and he says to them, Don't quarrel along the way. Sort of an odd message to send with wisdom, it would seem. And yet if you've read so far, you know his brothers. You know their character. Joseph knew them. He knew their character. And he knew that they would be driven to that, quarreling, infighting, not forgiving each other, even though they had been forgiven so much. And so he says, don't quarrel on the way. You've been forgiven much. Don't insist on your rights. with each other. You received grace, pass it on to each other. I've reconciled you to myself. Now be reconciled with each other. That's the call of biblical forgiveness, being forgiven by God Almighty through the death, life, and resurrection of Jesus Christ his Son. The call is then for us to be forgivers of others. As we pray in the Lord's Prayer, right? Father, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. The call is to be reconciled, reconcilers. And so if we've been forgiven much by God, how could we not forgive other people as they sin against us? Like the unforgiving servant in Matthew 18, who's been forgiven trillions of dollars. And yet he goes, and for a couple thousand, he chokes his fellow servant, right? The call of biblical forgiveness is to pass it on. How can we not forgive other people's sin against us? But it's not easy, friends. I realize that. We're to forgive debts against us as God forgives our debts. Well, how has He forgiven our debts? He gave His very own Son. It cost His Son His very life. For Joseph, it was 20 years of suffering. For Joseph, it was painful. It hurt. Absorbing debt is costly to us. Yet it's not based on how good they are or how much we like the person. Joseph probably didn't like his brothers too much at this point. And yet in Christ we're called to forgive not only those who are our friends, but our enemies, because he forgave us while we were still enemies of God. Friends, that's the character of biblical forgiveness. It's debt absorption. The consequences of biblical forgiveness are grace, future rewards, and present removal of guilt, removal of regrets. And then the call upon us is to receive that forgiveness gratefully, to rest in it, and to pass it on. May we who have been forgiven much Through the precious work of our Savior Jesus Christ, may we be those who not only know the character and consequences of forgiveness, but who also hear the calling of it, and who do rest in it, who do rejoice in it, and who do pass it on to others. Let me close this in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you once again for this reminder from your word of the truth of the gospel, that we are sinners. Saved only by grace, that that grace is a wonderful grace of forgiveness, of removal of debt, and yet also of credit. Of credit to us of the righteousness of your Son Jesus Christ who died on our behalf. Lord, we thank you for that great message of grace. We thank you for it. And we ask that you would enable us to be rewritten by it. That we would be reconciled, reconcilers, who go into the world forgiving others, even as we have been forgiven so much more than we could ever be owed We thank you for this and ask that you do this in us and through us for your glory and for our good. In Jesus' name. Amen.