Now uh for those of you who uh were in attendance last week, um and perhaps maybe um uh were watching online if you are not in attendance. Um you will notice as you open up your bulletin uh this morning we are going to be Uh studying through uh 1 Peter chapter 3, 18 to 22. Uh you may remember that this was exactly the same set of passages that we studied last week. I'm here to tell you that uh Uh uh I'm getting older, but uh I this is not an act of dementia. Um we are taking a a second crack at this. Except of course if maybe I do have dementia and I've forgotten that I do have dementia. But we are not going to be uh repeating the sermon that we did last Sunday. But rather I did mention uh that uh there's a lot more here in this passage, and I wanted to take at least one more Sunday. To go through some of the statements that Peter makes here and to give us perhaps a little bit more clarity on what he was trying to communicate to us So having said that, let me go ahead and ask you, if you haven't already done so, to turn your Bibles to our passage this morning. Which is from 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 18 to 22. And I'd like you all to please rise now. As we together read and also hear God's holy and precious word. The following is from 1 Peter 3, 18-22. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous. That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh and made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison. Because they formerly did not obey when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared. in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you As not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God. God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we continue in our worship with the reading and the preaching of the Word of God. Open our spiritual eyes to see, and our spiritual ears to hear the beauty and the mercy of our Savior, both in generations past, even now, and generations to come. Come. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As I mentioned previously, more specifically last week. This passage has many different interpretations with a lot of variation that can be very difficult to sort through. So what I've done for us this morning Is to sort sort of start from describing the main five views that are out there and working my way back to this text this morning. So beginning with the first view, which of course we will call view number one, this states that Noah was building the Ark. Christ in spirit was in Noah, preaching repentance and righteousness. Through him to unbelievers who are on the earth then, but now are spirits in prison as in people in hell. That is view number one. View number two states, after Christ died, he went and preached to people in hell, offering them a second chance of salvation. View number three states: after Christ died, he went and preached to people in hell. Proclaiming to them that he had triumphed over them, and their condemnation was final. View number four. After Christ died, he proclaimed release to people who had repented just before they died in the flood. And let them out of their imprisonment into heaven. View, finally, view number five And when I say finally, please keep in mind that there are many more views that are out there, but I chose to go with the top five that are popular today. View number five. After Christ died, or after he rose, but before he ascended into heaven. He traveled to hell and proclaimed triumph over the fallen angels who had sinned by marrying human women before the flood. Okay. So there's a quite a bit of diversity in thought in the way that this is being interpreted. I think I mentioned to you last Sunday that there's about a good 120 different variations and permutations of the way that this passage is looked at. Now, I do have to tell you that some of these ideas come from a come from perhaps well literally from extra-biblical documents. And some biblical scholars assume that Peter's recipients, the original people that were receiving the letter, would have understood the allusions that he was referring to. For example, the book of 1 Enoch, which is referred to here quite often in some of these explanations Is one of those documents. And it is extra-biblical. It is not a canonical book. Now I have my doubts regarding this assumption That as the community that he was writing to, which was a mixture of Jews and Gentiles, that these Gentiles who would have not read 1 Enoch in general, I believe that they didn't, and most probably did not. And I have my doubts that the average Jewish person read even the canonical books altogether. To make an assumption that they read extra biblical books is a little bit st Specious to me. Now, I will have to let you know that I hold to the first view that I described. That is, Christ In spirit, when Noah was building the ark, preached through Noah repentance and righteousness To the unbelievers who were on earth then, but are now spirits in prison, that is, people who are in hell. At that time and currently. Having said that, let us now dive into the text itself and see if I can try to clarify a little bit of what it is that I mean. But before we do that, let us not lose sight of what I mentioned last Sunday. That in the end, we have to make sure that we continue to understand the flow. Of what Peter is telling us and not get bogged down into these uh the minutiae of what this can potentially mean or what that can potentially mean, but rather not lose sight of the fact. that he's writing to a group of believers, churches in Asia that are going on experiencing suffering. And how it is that they as sojourners on this earth are to behave when they are under authority, how they are to interact. With those whom God has placed over them. And ultimately we see that there's a theme that comes through in each one of the situations where he talks about the suffering that is says perhaps, you know, possibly through your suffering, that these people might come to Christ. And of course now he gives us some examples of even Jesus himself. As the one who suffered, and because of his suffering, that they themselves came, as he says in the first verse of our passage this morning, that he brought us to God. So you never know that even in your suffering, being persecuted for your faith, that's what we're talking about here, that God might use that. That when you return good for evil, that God might use use that to bring other people to himself. So having said that, let's now get into some of the minutiae if you will. Alright, so what we first have to do is sort of define our terms, because that would be greatly helpful to us. The first here is in the flesh and in the spirit. Now, in the scripture, these terms can have several meanings. And it is of prime importance to use context to help us ascertain the author's meaning or the author's intent. For example, flesh. The word flesh can mean skin. It can mean being or thinking sinfully, being in the flesh. It can mean the human body. It can also mean being alive. It can often contrast to being in the spirit, being in the flesh or being in the spirit. And that gets to our second word here in the Spirit. It can mean, the word itself can mean the Holy Spirit. It can mean other human spirit. It can also mean human beings in general. And it could also mean beings in the spiritual realm or being in the spiritual realm, as in I was in the spiritual realm. Paul makes mention of that. It can also mean angels, either obedient or fallen spirits. This is uh obviously the fallen spirits are commonly known as angels. as demons. So then, with this task ahead of us, let us put our minds to understanding Peter's intent here. So let me begin by stating that I, of course, believe in the first view. In the flesh is to be understood as in the body. And in the world that you and I see. In the Spirit was either understood as his soul Or his divinity in union with his human soul, then in the flesh is meant as Christ in his human sphere of existence Considered as a man amongst men, the world that you and I see. And by spirit is meant Christ in his heavenly Spiritual sphere of existence, considered as divine spirit, and this does not necessarily exist exclude his bodily nature. Since arisen from the dead, after the resurrection, it is his body even glorified. So when he was resurrected, Christ as a man Was done to death. He was done to death. He was finished with death, but regarded as eternal spirit. The same Christ in the fullness of his being His body, of course, included, had been restored to life by God's power. Indeed, it is in that he is a risen and glorified that he, of course, brings us to And that's what he says in the first verse. Having established this, Peter presses the pause button on this momentarily. And he'll later return to this thought of his resurrection. But what he does do is press forward with something that he wants us or he wants to bring up and for us to understand. Again, he's making reference to the spiritual realm. Verse 19 takes us to this new thought, but it's connected with what he just said. He begins with in verse 19, in which. You gotta see that in verse 19. And this is undoubtedly making reference to the antecedent. In the spirit, in the spirit realm. This means that in the spirit realm, the heavenly realm, the world that you and I don't currently see. He wants to bring out yet another activity that Christ did in the Spirit that is relevant to his train of thought and that he wants us to consider. So in verse 19 we move from one example to another It is, of course, in bringing up Noah. Now, when we think of Noah, we see him as being a man justified by God, and that's good and that is correct. I believe I pointed out that last week that it is an encouragement to us because God is the same God then, now, and forever. If God vindicated Noah, who suffered, he will vindicate us when we suffer for our faith. But I digress. But I think that we can note that Peter has in mind, in his example of Noah, an additional thing that we don't normally consider. That of witnessing while under persecution. Now, this would fit nicely with what he has been pointing out when we obey God while suffering. Again, in verse 19, he begins with, in which. And I believe that this is again referring back into the spirit realm in verse 19. So it can be read the following way. In which realm, namely the spiritual realm. It does not necessarily have to refer to him having a resurrected body. And this is where we can stumble when we read it straight through that way Just because he has referred to Jesus being resurrected and in the spirit spiritual realm It doesn't mean that the thought he is about to express has to mean with his resurrected body. For when we make that assumption, we are now locked into a specific time frame. Peter is stating that at this point At another time, within the spiritual realm, there is some sort of activity that the Son of God did. The verbiage then tells us in which also he went. This is introducing us to a new subject A thing that Jesus did in the spiritual realm and not with a resurrected body. Y'all follow? The verbiage then tells us that he went without a resurrected body. First, let's take a look at the notion of Jesus in the Spirit at the time of Noah preaching through him, because that's part of the understanding. We know that Noah did preach righteousness. We have that in 2 Peter 2. 5. Which basically states that he was a herald of righteousness. He proclaimed repentance. And we know that the Spirit of Christ, verbiage here, was active in the Old Testament prophets and teachers. Now we we've already studied this in 1 Peter, the book that we are on right now in verse 11, chapter 1 in verse 11, where it says of them, the prophets and the teachers. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ In them was indicating when the predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. Did you guys catch that? That in this passage we have an example of how Christ in the Spirit has worked in the prophets of the Old Testament. So we have the Christ in the spiritual realm working within the prophets and speaking through them to call people to repentance. And so this is what Peter is referring to here as in the time when the Spirit of Christ. Here it is. In which also proclaimed to the spirits. I'm getting timing down here So let's get to that. When did this happen? Before we get there, we're told that he preached to the spirits in prison. And the meaning of this is much disputed. And thus the many permutations or explanations that I've made reference to. So, what are some of these permutations? That fall into the five main categories that I've already given to you. Well, they fall into three subcategories, and they have their headings. I think the best way to understand them is in question form. Who are the spirits in prison? Are they unbelievers who have died? B Old Testament believers, who have died, or C fallen angels, which we call demons. Now that's the who question. Then there's the second question, which is, what did he preach? A, was it a second chance at repentance? B, was it that he preached or proclaimed the completion of his redemptive work? Or see final condemnation. These are the different permutations that fall into the different ways people come up with what they understand. Now there's the third question. We talked at who, what, and now when. When did he do this preaching? Was it in the days of Noah? Was it between his death and resurrection? Or C after his resurrection? Now, you have to understand that I'm very deeply indebted to Dr. Wayne Grudum, who really has provided so much of this information. For me. And I happen to obviously hold to the same view that he has, and many other scholars do. But please keep in mind that what I spoke about last week as well the whole issue of plausibility um and the idea of also known as good arguments and not just good arguments but also good and necessary arguments We are in those waters at this point. We should be careful to not insist That our view is the only correct view, and any other is necessarily wrong, and they must change their minds, or are they going to be living in sin. this point. So we have to be careful to make a distinction between plausible arguments and good and necessary arguments. arguments. Now whenever we come to these forks in the road, we have to take a step back and ask ourselves, is this teaching what is under consideration attacking the vitals of our doctrines of our faith. Now, this is not a situation where we are debating the doctrines of the Trinity. The doctrines of Christology or of soteriology, that is, of salvation. These are all important doctrines that does require the church us to insist on specific biblical understanding because what is at stake if we get those things wrong Is our eternal salvation. So there are doctrines that we must insist upon and argue vociferously for its correctness as is taught in the Bible. But when we get into situations like where in this text right now, where we have a lot of good, plausible arguments, and they are not good and necessary arguments. to insist that this is required and that if the other person doesn't leave it, that we have to part ways or not have to have communion with. So I I want us to always keep that in mind. These are not those doctrines that are attack the vitals of our Christian faith. Having said that, I've already stated my position. But it does not mean that you also, uh, if you hold a different position, that you are not a Christian. And that we cannot. This is when we have to exercise, I think, a proper biblical definition of tolerance. Tolerance means that we can disagree with one another on a topic and still love and be respectful towards each other. So let's take a look at these different statements. Taken by itself, the statement about spirits in prison could mean either human spirits in hell or fallen angels. In hell. 2 Peter 2, 4 and Jude 6 speak of sinful angels being imprisoned and punished. 2 Peter 2. 9 speaks of unbelievers who have died and are being punished in a place of punishment. Now, when we move to verse 20, we're told that the spirits in prison are those who formerly did not obey. Really, it's disobeyed, having an active disobedience. And this was happening in the days of Noah. When God's patience waited in the days of Noah during the building of the ark I think when you read through the relevant section, that is in Genesis chapter 6, verses 5 through 13, we see that there is no reference to any disobedient angels. Rather, only disobedient human beings. Thus, spirits here in this text I believe it is making reference to human beings and not angels, fallen angels Furthermore, I think it is humans because God was being patient for mankind to repent while the ark was being built. Throughout Scripture, fallen angels are not mentioned as being given a second chance to repent. Repentance is only offered to humanity. So, a question can be raised as to why Peter is using spirits to sinful men who also at that time possessed bodies as well. I think the key to understanding is word choice, at least in part. Is that we should understand it as the spirits who are now in prison. What I'm saying is that at the time that Peter was writing. He is saying of those who were disobedient, those same persons who are now in prison, they were at the time of Noah, people like you and I who had spirituality. And bodies. But now their spirit in prison. Now, if you look at the NASV, the New American Standard, a trusted and well-respected translation, it states in their passage. It supplies that helpful word. It says, the spirit's now in prison to help us understand better what the context is. We see this again, the usage of this again in 1 Peter 4 and verse 6, which states, For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead. That's what it says. It means the gospel was preached even to those who are dead now, but were alive when the gospel was preached to them. Do you see? We use this type of language all the time, right? For example, we can say something like: President Trump worked in his family real estate business as a young man. What we're saying is that Trump, who is president now, not back then, worked for his family business as a young man. We use this type of language So then he is saying that those Noah's generation who were being disobedient, whose spirits are now in prison because they did not heed the call to repent. And this gets us to our preaching, which was a call to repentance, as given by Noah, but it was Christ. In spirit, speaking through him. Now for those who would hold on to the second view that I described. This fits well, except for the timing. The second view held that Jesus did this in the spiritual realm. agreed and that it was for the generation that was disobedient at the flood who were held in some sort of prison since then. And now at the time of the resurrection. in between. Between his death and resurrection, Jesus went and preached to them a second time. The emphasis is on second. The first was through Noah. What this says going forward is that, if this was true, is that even after his suffering and Jesus went and still proclaimed the gospel. This should be an encouragement for us and to Peter's readers to continue to proclaim the gospel even under persecution for ourselves. But yet on the other hand, if we're told that even the worst of sinners, the generation of the flood, were given another chance to repent after they died, what need would there be for believers to suffer That is, endure suffering now. If those who refuse to become Christians because of the cost is too high, or whatever the reason might be, can do so after death. This doesn't fit well with, I think, human psychology. And I think more importantly, the broader tenor of the Bible's teaching. Is this really what I what happened? I think that for me, the fact that Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 27, which tells us the following And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment. It would seem to me that this passage would be at odds with the second chance. Theology for people who are already in hell. For this reason, I have fallen into the first category. Now, in summary form, we can state this in the following manner. In the spiritual realm of existence, Christ went and preached through Noah to those who are now spirits in prison in hell. This happened when they formerly disobeyed, when the patience of God was waiting in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. Now, we have to stop here and ask that important question. What does this have to do with us? Right? We talked about that last week. Well, I think that it's a great encouragement. It's a great encouragement for us to boldly bear witness. Amongst unbelievers who are unkind or even hostile to us I think in those situations, our continued gospel proclamation should come from a heart of mercy. Not just necessarily knowing that we will be vindicated one day, although that is important. Number two, our boldness should be buttressed by the fact that even when we think ourselves to be few And sometimes we see ourselves that way, don't we? When perhaps we're the only person in a family. That is saved, and everyone else in your family is and are unbelievers. Sometimes we may live in a town that is very anti-Christian. And we are very few. Sometimes we may live in a part of the world where Christians are desperately small percentage. I mean, if any of you who have come for, I would say what, maybe a half a dozen or a dozen times to our prayer, uh Our time of prayer in the evenings. Uh we pray for uh countries every Sunday night that we gather. And you'll have noticed that in those situations it has a description of what percentage of Christians there are in that country. Many of them that we we pray for, they represent maybe a half of 1%, or maybe 1%, or even much less than that. Imagine being in those parts of the world. This is a very, very relevant passage and a reality for us to understand. We should have great boldness in the way that we continue to proclaim Christ in the face of suffering. When we're being persecuted for our faith, in the end, on the other side of the recreated earth, we will be like Noah. Saved. Saved from God's judgment. Now we have certainty that that judgment will come. Noah didn't build the ark after he was told to do so, and then waited for a judgment that did not come. We are living in a time, a time of redemptive history that is waiting for the next and final step, Judgment Day. The final thought that Peter returns to us is Jesus' current estate. He is seated at the right hand of God, the King of Kings. The King of Kings is in session, ruling over all. All that is left is for the Father to say, It's time, my son. Go and put an end to my long suffering. And call out your bride and prepare them for the wedding. feast. We have that to look forward to. And Peter wants you to be emboldened To proclaim Christ, especially when you are suffering for your faith. To be like Him, to return good for you. Evil, for you may never know that God may use you, my that God may use your good works to bring that person unto Christ. An undeserving sinner may get grace just like ourselves. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives, and that indeed you have sent your Son so that we may Be brought to you, and we have been brought to you by the work of the Holy Spirit. We pray now that especially those that either here in this congregation. Or in this town, or in this country, or in this world. Those that our brothers and sisters, those that are suffering persecution for their. Faith, by those whom you have put in authority over them, that you would be with them, that you would remind them of Christ's example And you would remind them that you are a God who keeps his promises. That you would help them to proclaim Christ. That you would help them to have an explanation for the faith and the hope that they have in your son. With gentleness and respectfulness and with clarity, so that you may be pleased to use it in the form or fashion that you wish. But we pray, Father, for those spirits. We pray, Father, that you would save them. So that they may know you, and that they may call you Father, as we call you Father. But most importantly, So that there would be yet another soul that would know you and proclaim the praises of your name. And we ask this in Jesus' name.