Lord willing, um Marg and I will be leaving on Friday to go on a vacation in Booth Bay Harbor, Maine. We uh Booth Bay is one of our favorite places that we've ever traveled. It's a quaint New England fishing town full of rugged main seascapes. And you don't need a car to get around. You can walk to the bakery or most of the places and all those Fun things. When we go there, we have the privilege of staying at a waterside condo owned by Lee and Kitt, who are members of our congregation in Massachusetts Now you might remember that we made a quick trip to Booth Bay, where we drove. Lord willing, we're flying Friday, but we drove and it was about 15 hours or so. And uh we went up on a Friday and came back on a Monday. So it was pretty tiring. It was for a memorial service for one of those people, the wife, Kit, very dear loved lady. And one of the special things that happened at her memorial service that I was able to lead and preach at is they had a non-Christian contractor. Who said, I want to speak at her service. It was really special because he was a non-Christian, but he noticed something remarkably different about her and her ministry. uh to the people in the community. And he says, I have to speak to that. And uh m wouldn't that be a wondrous thing if that happened uh for our own funeral And memorial services, right? If the world would have seen something different. Tonight we'll begin by hearing All of God's people in Israel testify to the fact of Samuel's faithful ministry as a judge. and a prophet and a priest. Now he hasn't died yet, but what's happening is he is giving his last speech as the transition The King Saul is coming. The story really is going to be about King Saul as we continue, Lord willing, in the book of Samuel. But much like uh Moses at the end of his life, Joshua, the leaders of God's church, often spoke one last time to the people. And that's what we're going to find here. And we're going to find the people of Israel testifying, especially in this first part, of Samuel's faithful witness And I trust that'll be true of each of us. But as we continue through this story tonight, you need to not just think of uh their faithful witness, but But what about your own life? The way you live? People seeing how you live, people seeing who you trust, what bothers you, what causes you to be anxious. So this really needs to be, Lord willing, a lesson to ourselves too. So let's stand together. I'll pray and then read a portion of God's word, and we'll be reading portions throughout. So let us first pray. Our Father and God, we don't often probably enough Because it's morbid or hard to think of. Think about our own death, but uh unless Christ returns, it will happen for each of us. And we must wonder what others would say of us, or as we come to the end of our lives, what kind of testimony even the church would have about us. And so as we look at Samuel this evening, as this transition is happening in your church with your people, may you have it Cause us even to examine ourselves and where our hope lies. We thank you that you do that through your word. Would you do it tonight with us for Christ's sake and with us? Glory. Amen. Reading from 1 Samuel chapter 12 and verses 1 through 5 as we begin here. 1 Samuel chapter 12. And Samuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have obeyed your voice and all that you've said to me, and have made a king over you. And now, behold, the king walks before you. And I am old and gray, and behold, my sons are with you. I have walked before you from my youth until this day. Here I am. Testify against me before the Lord and before the anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whom hand have I taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it? Testify against me, and I will restore it to you. And they said, You have not defrauded or oppressed us or taken anything from any man's hand. And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness. The word of the Lord. You may be seated. One of the reasons that Samuel does this, I believe, is that to remind us that Eli went before him. And Eli had his wicked sons that led Israel into great sin. And Samuel is saying, I have not done that. There's nothing. that I've taken from you. God's leader sh shouldn't take from you and fleece you. And what he's doing here is giving them also a comparison of what's going to happen. because they have desired a king to rule over them rather than the Lord. You might remember when we read from 1 Samuel 8, and I'll just read you as some of the things remember here we've said Over and over again. Did you hear it? Did I take anything from you? Did I take your ox? Did I take anything from you? And they all, with a witness, said, no, you haven't. But if you remember in 1 Samuel 8, when they heard about a king, they found out that a king was going to be one who would take And take and take, but that's still what they wanted. 1 Samuel 8 says this the king will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and to be his horsemen and to run before his chariots. The king will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers. The king will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants. The king will take the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants. The king will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men and your donkeys and put them to his work. The king will take a tenth of your flocks. And you shall be his slaves. You see, Samuel is he's going to give now a message to the people as this transition is happening, He wants them, even though he's helped and he's done what God said he should do, and he's anointed Saul, he is wanting the people to repent, which they've never done yet, for Taking God off the throne and seeking to put men there instead. They followed their own desires to be like the world. And that's exactly what Samuel is going to bring to us. So if we follow in 1 Samuel chapter 12 and read verses 6 to 11, you can follow along, that we must learn from those who have gone before us. 1 Samuel chapter 12, starting in verse 6, and going through, excuse me, verse 11. And Samuel said to the people, The Lord is witness who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt. Now, therefore, stand still that I might plead with you before the Lord, concerning all the righteous deeds of the Lord that He performed for you and for your fathers. When Jacob went into Egypt, the Egyptians oppressed them. Then your fathers cried out to the Lord, and the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place. But they forgot the Lord their God, and he sold them into the hand of Caesarea, the commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of King of Moab And they fought against them, and they cried out to the Lord, We have sinned because we've forsaken the Lord, and we've served the Baals and the Asterisk, but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies. that we might serve you. And the Lord sent Jerubal and Barak and Jepfoth and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and you lived in safety. What Samuel's doing here is reminding them that every time the people were in need, God provided. God took care of them. They didn't need a king. And when they got into difficulty, God would raise up someone. But the people wanted the king. First Samuel 12 and 12, which we'll see in a minute, when you saw that Nahash the king of the Amorites came against you. Do you remember that story? He said in that to that town, all of you men, if you don't uh if you if you submit to me, uh the only thing you'll have to do is pluck out your right eye. And that no one wanted to do that. And instead of calling on God, they called on a man for help. Let's continue the scripture. 1 Samuel 12, verses 12 to 18. Now he's going to bring home the truth of what happened in their wanting to be like the world. And what we want to see here is some of the descriptions. That he uses here. He's going to convict the people. Even though Samuel is ending here, he's ending like with a bang. He's not letting the people off so they'll remember him. Like wasn't Samuel. Samuel nice. And when we listened to Samuel, we could just hear the violins in the background and you know, everything was going ta da da da da da da da da da da da Uh-huh. You know, it was just nice. No, Sandra wasn't particularly nice, but he was truthful and he brought people what they needed to hear. And uh that's the rough part about Samuel times, and sometimes a pastor or a prophet, as they bring the word of God, it's often what we don't want to hear. First Samuel chapter twelve, starting in Verse 12. And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the Amorites, came against you, you said to me, No, but a king shall reign over us. When the Lord your God was king. And now, behold, the king whom you've chosen, for whom you've asked, behold, the Lord has set a king over you. If you fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, and if both you and the king who rules over you will follow the Lord your God, it will be well. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you and your king. Now, Pastors can't do this today. They don't have the miraculous power that Samuel had. Well, some pastors can be talking about the birds of the field and windows, and birds will hit the windows. But not but not all pastors have uh this kind of miraculous uh kind of things going on. But Samuel here, um but Samuel notice what happens. He's told them and he he's He's wanting to uh to to show them how serious this is. If you follow God, you'll be blessed, but if you don't, you're in trouble. Now look what happens in verse Verse 16. Now therefore, stand still and see this great thing that the Lord will do before your eyes Is it not the wheat harvest today? I will call upon the Lord that he might send thunder and rain And you shall know and see the wickedness is great in which you've done in the sight of the Lord in asking for yourselves for a king. And so the people have never repented from throwing God off the throne, from not feeling willing to submit to Him. And so Samuel's bringing it home now, and it's during the wheat harvest. And one of the things is the reason they harvested the wheat then, it was a time when it didn't rain. Uh they needed the wheat to be dry so you could cut it and harvest it so it wouldn't mildew. And so it was during the dry part of the year when they harvested it. And it was at this very time that Samuel then says in verse 18: So Samuel called upon the Lord. And the Lord sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. Now, we can't um do that, um, but God did it. It was the very same thing he did to destroy the Philistines one time. He sent a huge storm. And so here the people of Israel finally get the message. They're they're they're really ready to repent because God has literally opened up the heavens with the thunder and lightning and rain. And a deluge. And now he's going to say, not just that you've turned aside to a king, because we could say. And as we've said repeatedly, they wanted a king rather than God to rule over them as king. They wanted someone they could touch and talk to and feel, rather than the living God who had always provided for them for them. They wanted to live by sight rather than by faith. Now we understand that. Those very same struggles we have here. But now he's going to lay out more of directed by God what's going on in their hearts. We when you and I We can sort of guess what goes on in people's hearts or what people's motives are. When when your wife says something to you or a husband says something to the wife, we probably think inside, I know why they say We really don't know why they said it, but we think we do. But directed by God, he's saying what goes on here when we want to be like the world. When when we want our own way rather than God's way. When we want to live by by sight, by what we can touch and feel, by by going into trouble with a large bank account rather than having to live. God. And so here's the picture that He's going to put before us. And this is really the central part where we need to think about this evening for our own lives. 1 Samuel chapter 12, verses 19. And what he's really saying is that you've turned aside after empty things. It's really the picture of all of the book of the Song of Solomon. Do you remember what Solomon kept? Not the Song of Solomon. Excuse me, Ecclesiastes. What he kept saying, right? He said, all is what? Vain. Vanity. The word vain means light and airy and blowing away. And we wanna we wanna trust in these things that blow away. Now we just moved to a great house. I hope you'll all come out to it and you'll get to it. It's a nice house. But it's not gonna be there in another hundred, hundred It's gonna blow away. I mean, uh I'm sure that next week, I mean I've already you know, they had it's a nice house, the owners were before it, but I've already fixed four or five things, right? There's sinks that are leaking already. They know that they moved out and got to leave a couple leaky sinks, right? And that's the way it is in this world. You know, these things that we want to hold on and tighten to they pass, even a beloved loved one. Even as much as a Christian husband and wife can love each other, And one might pass or might might die or one might leave, right? We can be undone. And so what you need to think about is what would you be undone if you lost it? Right? And it might be a good thing, like a husband or a child, but if you're undone if you lose it, I can't go on if I lose it, right? Then it's taking the place of God, and it ends up being an empty So let's follow what God is saying to the church and Israel, but let's think about our own hearts as we worship this evening. 1 Samuel chapter 12, starting in verse 19. And all of the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, that we may not die. For we've added to all our sins this evil to ask for ourselves a king. And Samuel said to the people, Don't be afraid that you've done all this evil. Yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great namesake, because it has pleased the Lord to make a people for himself. Now there's some amazing things as we read this, but the one thing he says in verses 20 and 21, yet don't turn aside from following the Lord. the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart, and don't turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty Empty. Matthew Henry says it this way: if you turn aside from God, whatever you turn aside to, you will find it is a vain thing that can never answer your expectations. It will certainly deceive you if you trust to it because it's a broken reed and a broken cistern. Beloved, there are great good gifts that God gives us. Mostly in the church, we're not going to turn around under empty things and go uh And and and go start a porn website. Right? I mean you know we're not gonna just go out there and rob and kill and pillage. Right? Anybody rob, killed, or pillaged this week? Right? I mean we're just not going to do those kind of things. But our sins that we might do, right? It might be the homeschool mothers. I don't have all my my books yet. And and my kids my kids are g they're not all in yet and my kids are gonna have to start without their n Saxon math and and they're gonna be ruined for their life, you know. Uh You you know how that happens, right? And and I hope there's Saxon Math. I don't even know. I think I heard that one time, you know But you know or you know whatever it is, right? And it and is Saxon math I think it is. I think it's a great math program from all I've ever heard from homeschooling math Others, right? But we we turn aside and we I don't have this, right? Or you know you're having dinner, right? You know, and you have some guests over and you're gonna love them for Christ's sake. right, because they're God's people or even uh non Christians that are visiting, right? And you want to care for them and love them, right? And and you're cooking and you know, and the meat burned and you're going, Oh no, the meat burn You know, throw the meat in the trash and get out some Lebanon bologna or some, you know, something else. It's that you're gonna love the people But you see how, I mean, you know, we we think of these awful things, but these little things capture us that are vain and they ruin our day. Right? And they ruin our testimony. Now, this is a big thing, a king, but we just get so captured. All these things. It says, do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty. Let's go to Jeremiah 17. I'd like you to just look at this passage a second. Jeremiah 17, verses 5 and 6. And we tend to trust in these things. I'll be a good provider if I do this. I'll be a good wife if I do this. If I only can do these things. And Jeremiah 17, 5 and 6. Thus says the Lord, cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength. whose heart turns away from the Lord. He's like a shrub in the desert and shall not see any good come. He shall dwell in the parched places in the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land. You can follow up later with the with the difference here of this blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord. It's like song. Well, let me just ask you, what are those things that capture your heart? I'd only be happy if I had this. You know, you go around glum because you know your husband isn't like this. Your wife. If only I had a child like this, if only I had parents like his parents. Right? And you and you lose all your joy because you're seeking these empty things. Rick Phillips says Whenever we turn aside to our own schemes and plans, or the world's schemes and plans opposed to God's, we're heading for trouble. Such an aband abandonment of the Lord is seldom explicit. It's not merely that we're drawn by some worldly strategy or approach to ministry or personal growth. But also that we lose confidence in God's word and the methods taught there. Whenever this happens, we're headed for disaster because God's way is true and right And also because God actively punishes the unbelief and disobedience of his people. Now, here, what has happened? God has been their king and ruler, and they have turned their nose to the living God. They said, we don't want you to rule. We want a king like the world. Well, I don't think I have too many aspirations to be God, but I thought, what would I do if I were God? And my people do that. I mean I have enough trouble when my daughter was growing up and she didn't obey me, right? Because on one and on on one Sunday it would be Father's Day and she'd give me this nice card I love you daddy. Oh daddy, you're number one dad. You know. And then the you know that by that afternoon I asked her to take out the trash or do something You know, she didn't do it. She's like the rest of us. Right? In my heart, you know, I had a trouble as a parent because, you know, oh, this is Father's Day. I'm loved, and she won't take out the trash. Right? The two things didn't come together, and I had trouble at times loving her the way I should. And so I'm thinking if I were God and people didn't follow me, I'd wipe them out. It wouldn't there wouldn't be any question. But did you read the response here to this whole nation of God's people who want another king? him. Did you hear this? Did you read it? It's unbelievably. It says this. It says, For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great namesake. Because it has pleased the people to make you a people for himself. Samuel said to the people: Don't be afraid of all the evil that you have done. Have you ever heard in the someone say that Old Testament, that God of the Old Testament, he's just full of wrath and hatred? Well, if that God of the Old Testament was only full of wrath and hatred, these nation of Israel would have been destroyed right here. But did you see that again? Look at it. Verse Verse 19. And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord that we may not die, for we have added to our sins this evil to ask for ourselves again. King. And Samuel said to the people, Don't be afraid of all this evil that you have done. For the Lord, verse 22, will not forsake his people for his great namesake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you a people for himself. Sometimes we can read over this so quickly and miss it. This is the Old Testament. This is that God of the Old Testament who just thunders. And he did thunder But he thundered to get their attention, and then he loves them. John Piper says it this way. We should learn from this how amazing grace for sinners like us flows from God's supreme allegiance to his own name in the midst of sin. The people are terrified of the spectacular sin they've committed against God. They say in verse 19, Pray for your servants to the Lord that we may not die, for we've added to all our sins this evil to ask ourselves for the king. And the words that follow this are a picture of the free gospel of grace to sinners. Samuel said to the people in verse 20: Don't be afraid of this evil you've done. Are you amazed? Sometimes when I read this, I think it's a misprint. Because I certainly wouldn't have done anything like that. But it says, don't be afraid you've done all this evil. It's pure grace. God treats us not the way we deserve. But better than we deserve. Don't be afraid that you have done all this evil. How can this be? It's that the gospel of grace was at work in the old test. And comes to fruition in the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for our sake, He God made Jesus To be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Well, before we come to the conclusion, and we're coming there quickly, so hold on. But where is it that your heart is yearning for empty things That you've missed the joy of being a child of God and His ruling over you as king and father. Father. Because you say if I don't get this, I won't be happy. But you're acting like Israel and committing a great evil and a great wickedness. Tonight is the time to hear God's thundering. Our pastor told us this morning, in the sense that the goal of Harvey is a thunder for the world. You know, it used to be years and years ago when Galveston on the coast was flooded in 1900, thousands upon thousands were killed. Because they didn't hear the story, they didn't know that the storm was coming, they weren't prepared for it. But here we see everything on TV in living moment, you know, story by story and all it has and this picture is much bigger. The world can see how big God is and how powerful and the judgment that is coming and we all desire. Deserve. Well, in that storm, don't just say it's those Houstonians, but we all deserve that hurricane for the way we go after light things rather than The question you ask yourself is tonight is where am I trusting in empty things that cannot profit or deliver for my joy? Joy rather than Jesus to be my treasure and pleasure. We all have them. God has written this thing about all of the Israelites for us that we would consider his thundering tonight. And then the amazing thing happens in the picture at the end, the last three verses. There's a warning and also the gospel. Three verses, first Samuel chapter nineteen, and starting in verse twenty-three. Moreover, as for me, far far be it that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray. Pray for you, and I will instruct you in the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart, for consider what great things he has done for you But if you still do wickedly, you shall be swept away, both you and your king. There was a serious warning. You can't miss it there, that if they don't follow after God, his judgment's coming. Not going to be patient forever. Israel's real threat was not external. It was internal. Their hearts that needed to be dealt with. But notice what Samuel says, and it's another picture of the gospel. Samuel, and and not only, do you remember what happened when because Samuel was the judge? And the people said, Samuel, we don't want you or any other judge to rule over us. We want a king. And God said to Samuel, Samuel, they're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me But if I stood at the prophet at that time, I would have thought, they're rejecting me too. I can't I can't separate myself from that. Right? You know, when people reject you, they reject you. Now ultimately they're rejecting God, but they also said, Samuel, we don't want you anymore either. And you know, my heart is so hard that I think I would have said, well, see if I pray for you anymore. Right? But notice, did you see what he said? It's a picture of our Lord, he says there. Verse twenty-three more as for me, far be it that I should sin against the Lord Lord, by ceasing to pray for you, and I will instruct you in the good and the right way. God has given us so many pictures in the Old Testament of our Savior Jesus, And he never stops praying for you and me right now. He intercedes for us. Continually lives to intercede for us. He's the perfect Samuel. Samuel was an imperfect prophet, but the Lord Jesus stealed. You remember what it says in Romans eight thirty-four? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, indeed is interceding for us. Even as we need to figure out tonight what might be those light and airy things where we're looking for a happy Happiness. If God gives them to them as gifts, they're great. But we tend to want those gifts rather than God the giver. And Jesus is interceding for us this evening that we would be able to Able to examine our own hearts and repent and say, Lord, I want you. And then in Hebrews 7 and 25, Jesus is able to save to the uttermost Those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives, to make intercession for Jesus is praying for you and me right now. That we would l give up those vain things. He'll give them back to us as he chooses as gifts. But let us worship our God rather than his gifts. Let's look to him Our Father and God, sometimes you may have to thunder and lightning and have floods to get our attention. I pray that you wouldn't have to do that with us. But I confess, Lord, whether it's the new house we have or something I'm watching on television, some commercial that comes across, or something a friend Or a neighbor might have, I think that I'm not satisfied in you, and I thought, if only I had that, I'd be happy. And so I thank you that you show us how much we're like Israel. And that as we turn back and say, Lord, I need you, you are ready to receive us. And in fact, even now, you're interceding for us that you might Capture our hearts. Would you do that? Would you have us turn from those things and return to you for Christ's sake and glory and for our good? Amen.