To prepare some of the word, we'd read from John seventeen. For I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them. Have come to know the truth that I came from you, and they have believed that you have sent me. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. In verse 17, also they are not of the world, just as I, excuse me, um, sanctify them in truth. Your word is truth. So we're thankful to have the Word of God, which is truth, and I normally start with an introduction, but I'm not going to tonight. So let's stand again and uh look at start with 1 John Uh let's turn there and you can as we read it, 1 John chapter 2 and verses 15 to 17. Let's stand together. Do not love the world Or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, and the pride and possessions, is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. Whatever does the will of God abides forever. Thus the Word of God may be seated. Since I do not preach regularly, I am not working through a book. And there are different reasons why I picked the portions of scripture that I do. This one came in my own yearly reading plan. Which in reality I think is a year and a half reading plan right now. Uh not having gotten it done in a year. But I came to this portion of Scripture, and I haven't preached in 1 John in a long time. I think it was one of the first books I preached in 35 years ago. So if you would ask me to find the notes or what I preached on, I wouldn't know anything except it was first John. And the thing I always remembered, and if you're a pastor, you tend to try to do this because you always think And I've had to go to different presbyteries that, you know, if I ever have a test again about the scripture, always thinking, what's that book about in case I'm asked? And so Sterling pay attention, you know, just say But uh our pastor read the the the verse today from uh the middle of 1 John where he says the purpose is to assure you and the believers there of their salvation, but As I read this scripture, I wasn't too assured because I know my own heart. I know my own desires. And I also was trying to think, well, what's the world? I'm told not to love this world, but John also said in John 3. 16, right? For God so loved the world that he begave his only begotten son that whoever believeth in him would not perish but have everlasting life. So God loved the world. I'm one of his children. Shouldn't I love the world? So there was kind of a conundrum going on also with me in trying to figure this out. So that's why I came to the passage and bring them to you, because inquiring minds want to know. And uh I needed to know for my own uh salvation and sake. And so um that's why uh particularly uh I'm coming there this evening. So as we come to this, the answer to trying to figure out what's going on is what does world mean? In the Greek, not that you need to know that, but the word is cosmos. And it's talking about uh an actually an ornament that's ordered or a planet or planets that are ordered together generally. Uh that's what the word means, but as it's word used in scripture, and particularly in John. The first thing when John speaks about the world, you find it in John the Gospel, in John 1. 10, Jesus says, Jesus was in the world, and the world was made through him. And so the first way that John talks about the world is about this created earth and universe. And what do we know from Genesis about it? When God created, what do we know about it? It was good, right? God created it, and He created it good. And so now we're thinking, oh, well, if I'm not supposed to love this world, but it's good, what's going on here? That's the first way to think about world, and John uses it that way when Jesus came into this world. The second way that John speaks of the world is the humans that are in the world, mankind. For God so loved the world, right? Not the world he created particularly there, but those uh elects from every tribe and nation, those people, mankind. That's the second way. that John in his writings talks about the world. But it's this third way that really is what John is talking about this evening. The world means the earthly system of people controlled by the power of the evil one, the devil. That is hostile to God. This worldly system. In John 5. 19, he says this, we know that we Christians are from God. But the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. So this whole anti-Christ. anti-God system in this world that won't bow before God and either is a God unto themselves or makes other gods that they will worship The Apostle Paul talks about how all of us, you and me, before we came to Christ, were a part of that system. Listen to Ephesians chapter 2 as the Apostle Paul talks about us before Christ. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you once walked, following the course of this world. following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. That was us following the power of the one who has this world for this time. This world system is put in the hands of the devil. So when the Apostle John speaks of the world, and we're given this first command, and the outline tonight just follows the three verses. It's outlined itself. What it says, the first is the command. You So he's talking about you and it's written to a church and it's we're here tonight. Who is he talking to? Us, right? Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now, this is not talking about And we use the word love in a much too loose way, but you're allowed to enjoy the arts. You're allowed to enjoy your family that's in this world. You're allowed to enjoy things that aren't sinful that God created. You're allowed to enjoy God's creation. It's not talking about that world, don't love the world or enjoy it. It's talking about this world system. What we're talking about is worldliness. Taking on this world's ideas and loves. and loving them more and instead of God and his kingdom. James says it this way in James 4. 4, you adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world, this world system, is enmity to God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. And that's the way the prophets talked. They talked about the Israelites whoring after Baal. On every mountaintop, they made an idol and they gave themselves Loving these idols rather than God. And it's talking about how you and I can love this world system more than God himself. The danger is the love of the world captures and pushes out our love for the Father Matthew 6, 24, Jesus says it this way, no one can serve two masters. He'll either hate one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. If money takes that place and you love it instead of a gift from God that you can use to purchase things, but you set your heart on it and you worship it and love it and serve it. It be takes the place of God. So something is not sinful in itself when it becomes inordinate. becomes a part of that world system. Matthew Henry talks about our hearts and why we can't love this world. It's not allowed to take that priority. He says it this way. The heart of man is narrow and cannot contain both loves. The world draws down the heart from God, so that more and more love of the world prevails, the more and more the love of God dwindles and decays. The love of the world system and Jesus system are the opposite. The world system is to be number one, to get all you can get. To head others, to lead. And that's why the Sermon on the Mount and other places in Scripture, Jesus turns all of that upside down. And we, as we're in this world, have to be turning it upside down too in our own thoughts. Not being captured by it and its loves, but loving God. Now Thankfully, God doesn't just say, don't do it. Right? Because I've explained it to some But what's it really talking about here? So he'll give us categories now of love of the world. God is being very clear for us, very, very helpful, as in the next verse, the next point. is the world, he gives us categories of the world, of this world and the things that you and I are not to love. It goes on in verse 16. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life. is in the pride of possessions or the pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. Well, what are these desires of the flesh? John Piper says it this way, the lust of the flesh is a slavish kind of relentless gratification. of all desire outside of God's limits or exceeding God's limits, oblivious to what is good and reasonable and righteous. Now, one of the things I've struggled with all my life is my own weight and my own eating. Sometimes I want to find my satisfaction from food rather than God. And we all have those places where we'll run to safety and we'll do it. Some men use pornography, some of us would use drugs or drink, some of us use Too much television, some women might use romantic novels, and on and on and on and on it goes. It's innumerous the places that we'll go to seek our refuge and safety. rather than God. It's the things of the world. And many of them are the desires of the flesh or lust of the flesh. I know that as I age, one of the things I'm dealing with is loving my comfort more than my creator. You know, I as I get older, things are harder to have the energy to drive here. 40 miles now is much harder. It's not just, oh, I'll go to church. It's like, I gotta church, you know, and other things that I know I should be doing, reaching out to a neighbor or something like that. It's not as easy to make a meal. It's not as easy to clean up the house. It's not as easy. You know, it used to be I could work from morning to evening and I knew exactly where I was And my mind was crisp, and now if I try to work on the evening, my mind is mush. After eight o'clock, you might as well not call me or talk to me unless it's an emergency. You know, it's over. You know, it's just like there there's nothing left there for me anymore. All right. But um That's the way our flesh is. And I want to live for my comfort rather than fighting through that to serve God at times. The phrase here of the lust of the flesh is referring to any and every desire of man in rebellion against God of the things of this world. all that panders to my desires and to my appetites. And sometimes they're just those sinful desires we know. Galatians Uh chapter 5 lists the deeds of the flesh, right? Immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes dissensions, factions, envy, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these. There's lots of things like those. But desires of our flesh are not only this Almost gross list of things that we can find ourselves struggling with. But if you love your family too much If all you can think about is your children or your grandchildren, you're not having your devotions and prayer time and loving God and serving Him That great thing of family has morphed into the lust of your flesh. It can be anything that is good. Golf isn't bad But if you're a young man and need to have time with your family and you're out golfing on the weekend and spending seven hours on the links and your family's left alone, it becomes can become a sinful thing. Or you you put in the list. Because our flesh desires them, and we find good good desires, fleshly desires can be run amuth, the desire to be married. And so a young lady or a young man would Marry a non-Christian rather than in the Lord, a Christian. Or a desire to have children, and you'll do it so much that you might even have a child out of wedlock. Desires of the flesh. He goes on. The next category is the category is the desire of our eyes What's really talking about here is what we see and what we want, the covetousness. Psalm 10. 3 says this, for the wicked boast of the desires of his souls, and the one greedy for gain curses or announces the Lord. Let's look to Psalm 73, where it we see a brother, the psalmist, turn to Psalm 73. I would commend the whole psalm to you. It is a gracious and good psalm. It's one of those psalms uh along with uh Psalm 37 and the only reason I can still remember it is I can reverse them. Um so it's Psalm 73 or Psalm 37, but they talk about When we get frustrated because we're not getting what we see and what we want, we see others getting ahead, or we see them w uh getting the raise and we don't get the raise or we see their children getting into a good school and maybe our kids don't get into a good school. You know, all those different things. They bought a new house, but where is our house? They have a new car, but we still have The clunker. Maybe we've been given the clunker. No. So anyhow, Psalm 73. Psalm of Asaph. And he's talking to believers here. Look what this believer is struggling with here. Truly, God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. And ASAP is one of those, but he's talking about his own struggle here with the desire of his eyes. For I was envious, he says, but verse 2, but as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped, for I was envious of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For they have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in troubles as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore pride is their necklace. Violence covers them as with a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness, their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens. And their s tongue struts through the earth. And it just goes on until I'll commend it to you, we don't have time for it. But you see here that God has put this in here is because this is a struggle for us as believers. We get covetous of what others have. We start to doubt God's goodness. Our faith becomes weak. because we think that we need to have it. James Montgomery Boyce says it this way when he talks about it. He says, this must be understood in a broader sense than a desire merely to possess thing, the lust of his eyes. certainly refers to the desire to keep up with the Joneses in regard to the appearance of a home, a second car, a vacation cottage, and other material considerations. But it also refers to desire to keep up with the Joneses in terms of the husband's status at work, the wife's position in the women's association. the social acceptability of children and all other such non-material but nevertheless worldly values. The pride of our flesh, the desire of our flesh, the desire of our eyes. And lastly, I think uh ESV, does it say the pride in possessions? Yeah. But it really is much more than the pride of our possessions. Anything that we'll take pride on. So many of the reform, the Puritans have said, pride is like our underwear. It's the first thing we put on in the morning and the last thing we take off at night. You know, it's such a part of us. It is such a part of who we are. John Piper says it this way, this in part, the pride of life, the disease of the ear, it must be flattered with admiration and praise. So I'll be ready when I'm done preaching tonight. I'll come down, my ear will be ready. Pastor, did you do a I do a good job? No, I'm not saying don't ever say anything good, but I could live instead of to please God to live to see, get any comments tonight? You see how that is, right? I'm supposed to preach to please God. And it's okay for other people to encourage us. But we can live and turn that very good thing into something else. Let's turn to Luke 18, verses 9 to 14. Luke chapter 18. And here you're familiar with a familiar parable, Gospel of Luke. Luke eighteen, starting in verse nine. The Pharisee and the tax collector. He also told this parable, that is Jesus, to some who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous and treated others with contempt. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed, Thus God, I thank you that I'm not like other men. Extortioner is unjust. adulterers or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all I get. But the tax collector Standing far off would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, Be merciful to me, a sinner, and the Greek really is the sinner. That we have to see ourselves as the sinner rather than the one who needs to be proud about our faith. And it says that it was that one who didn't look around with all that he had. Stand in the congregation and said people should look at me, but the one who said, I have no hope, except in Jesus. And it says, Jesus says, that man who was humbled is the one who went away and was saved. The pride of life is finding and taking your security and pride in your name, what you own, your job, your gifts, your health. your abilities or any other created thing rather than your creator. You love God's gifts that you've amounted rather than the God who gave them to you 1 Corinthians in chapter 1 and chapter 4, if I put these verses together, says it this way. As it's written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord What do you have that you did not receive? If you then received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? And all we have is from God. We can't boast and say, it was really my gifting and my great abilities that have amassed whatever you amass. Right? We've all amassed those things. And it's a tendency and easy to think, I've done it, and I've done it well. Gotten to know our neighbors. Uh we have two sets right across from us and I'm watching them and thinking them and and and and trying to serve them if something breaks at their place or help shovel out or if their lawnmower breaks help mow and do all those things, but there's a part of me inside when someone mower might break that I'm saying, mine didn't break. I've had mine maintained. you know, or something else might break and I part of me said, well I've been keeping up with my house and this roof is such a good thing. I've got a hole in my dining room and water just keeps pouring in. Right. And I can't get anybody to come fix it. Now, Lord willing, we finally do have a an estimate, and someone will be out someday, I believe, and it might get fixed But there's a whole the way I keep my yard, the way, you know, I I've been cutting mine every five days so there's not all this extra stuff killing your grass. I mean what is that? Right? And I can just go around my neighborhood and look and see how many people have really long grass laying on their on their yard, right? Because they didn't get in before the rain and they didn't keep up with it. And I'm making these crazy judgments about people's grass. It's gonna burn! Right? It's not gonna matter. But we find ourselves that way, right? And we we're just caught up in what the world is thinking and all the rest and oh my how wicked this is because we take pride in it then and say oh look how good I am rather than the A sinner who beat his breast before God and said, Lord, you're my only hope And my only righteousness. And then God is not just says, don't love the world. He didn't just give us categories of things not to love in this world, but he gives us the reason. Why we shouldn't love it. He gives us the futility of your loving the world and the things of the world because they're passing away. They're not going to last What happened to that new you bought? Right? And he went, ooh, new car smell. He looked around at all the latest gadgets and what happened five years and ten years from now, you can't really get wait to get rid of that car. So that you can get a new one. 1 John 3. 17. The world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. Once again, John Piper, the world and this world system of sinful thought is passing away To set your heart on it is only asking for heartache and ministry and misery in the end. If you love the world, it will pass away and take you with it. Jesus says it this way, do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal, but lay up yourself treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. I was reminded again this week, hearing someone that I was listening to, that when your hearse taking you to the graveyard From the funeral home or the church where your service was, it was U-Haul behind it. As things are passing away. What happened to all those things in Egypt, those great tombs with the pharaohs, you know, as they were mummified and put in their little casket things, you know, the golden c what happened to all those things? And all the stuff they went to take with them to the afterlife, you know? Their their gold and their jewels and Where is that stuff? It's all been robbed. It's in museums or it's passed, you know, across national boundaries, and it's all gone. Because they couldn't take it with them. The one who was given to us in the scripture to show is that one is all about this that it won't take it with you and it's not going to last. was King Solomon, the one who was given that great gift of wisdom. And he was able to amass so many things because he had the wisdom, but then he lived for it. Instead of having one wife, he had hundreds of wives. Instead of having living little gold, he had fortresses filled with gold. Instead of having horses and chariots, he had Horses and chariot cities. He had all the things that God in his wisdom told him that won't last. He built his life on that. He amassed it all, and at the end he says this At the beginning of the book he starts off talking in Ecclesiastes, he says, I have seen everything that is done under the sun. Behold, it's all vanity and striving after wind. It's all going to blow away. And finally at the end he says this, the end of the matter, all that has been heard, fear God and keep his commandments For this is the whole duty of man. And what are we told in verse 17? Did you see it? It's not only that the world is passing away with its desires But whoever does the will of God abides forever. So we're going to be doing the will of God and not loving these things, but loving him and his kingdom. How many of you do that perfectly? Raise your hand. I didn't think I'd see any raised hands, and if there were, I'd have to call you a liar. Because we live in this world. We breathe in this world. We smell and touch this world. And the world is set so that their things are put before us on television. You know, how have you ever seen a commercial on TV and it could be even a goofy commercial and you just said to yourself, I have to have that. It just grabs you. I remember once in Texas that we had to do a lot of watering to our yard, it was dry, and this commercial came out, it was an infomercial about a flat hose. Flat hose, this was flat, it didn't weigh much, you could roll it up easy and all that. And I just said, Mark, I've got to have a flat hose And you know, what do you want for Father's Day? A flat hose. What do you want for Christmas? A flat hose. What do you want, you know? She finally got me the flat hose. And I ended up sending it back. I wasn't happy when I got the flat hose. Right? I mean it's just That's just the way our hearts are. And when I read this, I'm overwhelmed because here I've been a Christian. But 40, 45 years, right? And I read this stuff about don't love the world or the things of the world. And I. Thankfully I'm not just caught and I don't worship them, but I find my heart, you know, it's I find my heart in living in this world with the things that pop up before my eyes, like that whack-a-mole game. You ever played it at Chuck E. Cheese? Right? You hit one mole, whack, another one pops up here, you go hit that one, whack, another one passes up here, right? That's how my desires, my eyes are, my heart. Right? Okay, Lord, I understand. I'm not gonna follow after that one. WHACK! You know. Whoop. Oh, yeah, that looks pretty good. What you know? In this side of heaven it's like whack-mo. You know, and if I've got to be perfect, what am I going to do? The one who does the will of God. You know, it says, you see that last verse, it says, um And the world is passing away with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. Well that's my desire, and I hope that after You've come here, you desire not to be captured by these desires, but by God. But I want to give you hope as we end this evening. Because there is one who has fought all of these and won. And he's fought and won for you and me if you are in Christ. At the beginning of Jesus' ministry, God sent him into the desert, where he was for 40 days and 40 nights. And God brought before him the lust of the flesh. The first thing he did is he brought him, he says, You hungry? Jesus says, Yeah, you know, make me a loaf of bread. Make a loaf of bread for yourself, right? Lost to the flesh, of course, after 40 days and 40 nights. But Jesus said, no, not going to do it. That's not what God would have me do. And then he takes them as one of the temptation. Satan takes them to all the top of all the kingdoms of the world. He says, fall down before me, and I'll give all of these to you. You can skip the cross. Says no to the desires of his eyes. And in the pride of life, he said, took him to the highest pinnacle in the temple and says, throw yourself down, and all these angels will serve you. And you can rule over them and all of the world. And he said no to the pride of life. And Jesus was victorious with all of those same temptations. And then went to the cross that his perfection in dealing them would be ours. Thankfully, John writes later in this book in John 4. 4, little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he who is in this world. As you and I continue to fight these desires, I don't believe they'll all be done until heaven. I believe we make progress, but I believe it's whack-a-mole But God is there to give you the strength to fight against them and to love him and to see his greaterness and to remind you that these things are passing away and he's the one who's eternal and good and loves you. What a joy. And even as we read the scripture, we're overwhelmed and we say, I'm done. I haven't been able to do it. Tomorrow I know it's wackable. But God says, I am with you. I've already done it, and I will help you. What a wondrous thing. That you can go with God not this week by yourself, but he's promised to help. He's promised to be there. And he's already overcome for you and for me. Let us pray. Father and God, how I thank you for the scriptures that show that you know us so well. And you would not only convict us of our sin, but you would promise to give us help, and you've already gave us the one who's victorious. And that we can come now before you because he has already passed all of these tests and won the victory for us. May we not rest in that victory, but may we be encouraged by it, and that you are with us to help us in each of these battles. And we pray that we would grow to be more like our Savior, for we pray in His name. Amen.