3 John verses 9 through 12. The Apostle John by the Holy Spirit says, I have written something to the church. But theatrophes, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome brothers and also stops those who want to, and he puts them out of the church. Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God, whoever does evil has not seen God. Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony. And you know that our testimony is true. Amen. Please be seated. Well, we're going to start in the middle, then go to the beginning and go to the end. But in the middle of the scripture, in verse Chapter 3 John 3, verse 11, it says, Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. We do imitate. Now the word in the Greek is is miamomai. Now some of you understand what that word is because you used to have purple fingers from something called a mimeograph. And with a mimeograph, you type it in, and when you print it out, you have imitated what you had printed in there. You have the words there for us. To imitate is to mimic, to behave in the same manner as someone else. For then you see their example and follow it. And this is indeed a command that God gives us to imitate. that which is good. And it's a continuous sense. And so it doesn't mean just imitate once, but continue this imitation. Now, this side of heaven will never perfectly imitate anyone, and especially Christ. And that's why we need him in the gospel. But we're s Constantly supposed to be setting our eyes upon him and what he says in the world and imitating that good behavior rather than evil behavior. You've heard it in the scriptures. Our pastor even said this morning, Ephesians 5. 1, therefore be imitators of God. As his beloved children. You who have come to Christ by faith have a heavenly Father, and we are to act as He acts, and love as He loves, we're to imitate God our Heavenly Father The book of Hebrews, as we've had those great heroes of the faith listed in chapter 11 and throughout that book, in Hebrews 13 and 7, it says, Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the Word of God. Consider the outcome of their life and imitate their faith. And that's why when you have the election of elders and deacons and your pastors, you have the responsibility that to elect good ones. Because you're called to imitate the way they act and behave and believe And this is the fruit that people see in the watching world, who we imitate, whether we imitate Christ or we imitate the latest, whatever star it is, whatever you're into Or we imitate God, or we imitate the world, or we imitate godly leaders, or we imitate um those that aren't And so out of that you see Colossians, and look at the next verse, the next part of 11, 3 John 11, B, it says, Whoever does good is from God Whoever does evil has not seen God, that you'll bear fruit in whom you imitate. And if you're imitating this world, you're going to have the fruit of the flesh of this world, the works of the flesh that you see in Galatians chapter 6 or 5. The works of the flesh, sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idulcery, sorcery, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, and orgies, and things like these. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, self-control. What are you imitating? What would your family say you're imitating? How do you behave at home? Well, don't imitate evil. Imitate good Well, God has given us examples here. The first example, and this is what got me when I read it, was this fellow you see in 3 John 9. His name is Diotrophes. Look what it says about him. I have written something to the church, but Diotrophes who likes to put himself first. What it really says there in the Greek, he loves to be first. That could be me. That should be my name. I love to be first. I mean, don't you? Uh no, of course not. No, I tell you. I love to be first. My wife reminds me of the story not only love to be first, but when I get to be first, I like to take it all. I think it was in seminary, but I'm not sure. I think it was before that. Not long after we married. We went to some potluck dinner. And somehow I got first and she had made a broccoli casserole with cheese and stuff. But on top You get those rich crackers with all the butter and they're and you know they're they're they're nicely browned and all that stuff. And so I'm first in line, I go through there, and I just scrape it all off, the whole thing. But I love those ribs crackers. And she was aghast, she'd be like, oh no, my husband Well, you know, I've learned not to do those things. But if I had the chance, I would And too often I do, right, in all of life, striving to have the highest rank or position, desiring to order others. You must recognize that this love of self, to be first, is the sin of Satan, and it is demonic. Remember Lucifer, the highest of the angels? God used him and blessed him to lead the angelic host, but it wasn't enough in Isaiah. 1414 he said, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, and I will make myself like the Most High. And that was his demonic sin. He had to be above even God. And when we go to put ourselves first, it's demonic We don't we wouldn't say that, would it? Oh, it's not kind, it's rude, it's not too bad That's the spirit of the devil. This year, as for the last six years, the Pez Candy Can Candy Company held an Easter egg hunt. This year, Pez Candy abruptly canceled its Easter egg hunt in Orange, Connecticut on Saturday morning after parents disobeyed the rules and turned the child-focused transition into a mess, the company said in a statement. Pez said it had over 9,000 eggs on three separate fields, each of was designated for a particular age group to start 15 minutes apart. But the parents rushed onto the fields before the posted times to start. They literally crushed kids into the ground as they were doing that. And so the first field went. It was supposed to be 15 minutes later that the next field went, but people didn't get enough there, so the parents ran up to the next field, cleaned it out, and then they went to the next one. Well we can see that demonic sin, can't we? Those people at that pez Easter egg, huh? Oh my. Remember the year we went to the beach We go to the beach, we have a timeshare, and you drive there and you get there all day and you gotta wait till four o'clock to get in, and then we always go and get our groceries for the whole week and I thought, man, I'd love to see the beach before it gets dark. And so I don't remember how old everybody was, but my wife and I were there with our our cart and the cart was full on our daughter. I don't know if she was six or eight. And you know, we I want to get to the beach before it's dark, and I s I could see the line and the cashier and an open space. And I said, let's go. And so, you know, I'm pulling my wife and the daughter. They don't really want to go like this, you know, but I'm saying, let's run. So I wanted to beat out this elderly lady. You know, so I could get to the beach. We can see it in others, but we don't see it in ourselves, do we? Diotrophy loves to be first. And when we follow that behavior, it is demonic and evil. It's the opposite of love. It went on to talk in 3 John verses 9 and 10 about how Theotrophes was even more than that. It says he does not acknowledge the authority of the Apostle John. He talks wicked nonsense against them. He had malicious slander and gossip. He refuses to welcome the brothers. He was inhospitable to missionaries who came. He also forces to stop others who wanted to be hospitable. And then he's put them out of the church if they were being hospitable. He had to have his own way. Well, did you ever see anybody say, I want a New Testament church? Right? That's a New Testament church. Christ died for the New Testament church. People like the ostrophes that had to have their own way and be first. And we all know, you've all been to congregational meetings. You've all been to times when stuff is like that, right? And you all know when you got mad and stormed out because your side didn't win. Because we all have that within our hearts. In 2 Timothy, it tells us what people will be like until the Lord returns. And until the Lord returns or the days that's now. From the time Christ first come until his second coming 2 Timothy says it this way. But understand this, that in the last day will come times of difficulty, for people will be lovers of self. Oh my. Lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents Disobedient to the parents? Are we still listening? Disobedient oh no. Your parents want they told me that I had to repeat that. So I just thought I would do that. Ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with Conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoids its people. And we have to ask ourselves, do I have the appearance of godliness on Sunday? Sometimes, but I really don't want God's way because I love my way. Did you ever hear someone say Well, I really can't, and it would really fit the s passages that our pastor's preaching on. Remember, we're told the moral law is to love God with all our heart. Mind and soul, and love of our neighbor as ourself. But the world has brought up its way. You know what the world says? You can't love God and you can't love your neighbor until you love what? You love yourself. That's satanic. We just saw that when you love yourself. The Bible never tells you to love yourself. Do you know why? You got it, Ben! We already do! We love ourselves and we have to battle against that. Exactly. That's what's easy to imitate. Because we're already there. We love ourselves. Deatrophes is no problem. But God says, don't imitate evil, imitate good. And He's given us In verse 12, Demetrius. Let's see what Demetrius is like. Verse 12. Demetrius has received a good testimony. It says in verse 12. It says he's got a good testimony from everyone. They knew Demetrius, he was amongst them, and he was one who loved and cared for. He had a good testimony with everyone in the church. And then it says he had a good testimony from the truth itself. What does that mean? How do you get testimony from the truth? Right? Well, I think what it's saying is we know that Jesus said, I am the truth, but his word is truth. And he was saying Demetrius is one who lived out the word. Right? So everybody in the church said Demetrius is a faithful, loving man. The word of God described him, and he lived that way. And then John himself says this. John the Apostle says, and we add our testimony that Demetrius is one who followed the truth. Well, what is the truth? What is it to be the opposite? What is the difference between loving ourselves? How do we change from following what is natural? How do we do the supernatural? Right? I mean I go through this, I can't tell you how many times. And by God's grace, over the years, I think my wife would tell you, I don't take all of the toppings anymore. Just as much as I can get without looking too selfish. But we we we found out we like this loaf of bread from uh Panera bread. It's called tomato basil bread. And when you get it sliced and toasted and put real butter on it, it is just mmm good And it generally works out great until we have the toast at the end of the loaf, because this loaf, for some reason, the end ones keep getting smaller and smaller. The middle ones are all the same size, but the end ones, you know, they start getting Smaller, then the next slice is a little smaller. Well, I've got to now butter these and give one to Marg and give one to me, and I always want the one that's just that little bigger. And believe it or not, it's in my mind, how can I slipper the smaller one without her noticing? Now can you believe that? I think you can. Right? We we know what that is. And that's why we just through the day we need to be dependent upon on Christ and look to him and what he does. The change here is the gospel and looking to our Savior. He's the one that gives the example. He is that example that Demetrius followed. So listen to Jesus teaching his disciples. In Matthew 16, 24 and 25, then Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. That's the kind of man that Demetrius was. He was one who was willing to die. to himself, to pick up the cross, to love others, to love God instead of himself The people in this day understood that Jesus was talking about capital punishment. He was talking about when you pick up a cross, you kill the criminal. So what he's saying is here, you must treat your sins of loving yourself, putting yourself first among all your sinful ways, your priorities and desire, like the criminal, you have to put him to death. Now, one of the wondrous things about the Word of God is it pictures us and it understands us. I have hope when I read the Bible because I'm seeing people that are made of the same stuff I am So I want you to open your Bibles and look at this passage because Jesus is talking to his own disciples. And they're going through this very, very same struggle. And he'll teach us through it, and he'll teach us tonight. Mark chapter 10, verses 34 and 35. This is before Jesus is going to the cross. Another passage tells us that the sons of thunder, James and John, had their mother intercede for themselves, but we just have them. asking here the question. But the question is, as they say, who can sit on your right and left, what are they saying? Who can be first? Right? And and and and and and they're there with the other disciples And the other they're all there. And they're coming up unto Jesus saying, hey, how do we become first the disciples? And so if you struggle with this, you don't have to be overwhelmed and say, Oh, I struggle with being. No, that's human. That's natural, right? And the disciples are going through this. Look at it. Mark 10, 35. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him. They came up to Jesus and said to him, Teacher, We want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. He said, what do you want me to do? That's a good question to ask when someone asks, you know, will you do anything? And they said to him, grant us to sit one on your right and one on your left in glory. For eternity we want to be number one. Not just for a few minutes. They wanted to be first among the disciples, and Jesus said to them, You don't know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I'm going to drink? Meaning he was going to drink the cup of God's wrath. Or to be baptized with the baptism with I'm going to be baptized. They said to him, Oh, we are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink You will drink, and with the baptism which I am baptized, you'll be baptized. He's talking about how all the disciples end up being suffering as he did. But to sit on my right hand and my left hand are not mine to grant, but it's for those who knows it's been prepared. And when the ten heard it, They prayed for these two brothers that were caught in this awful sin of desiring to be first. Is that what your sense? No, they were indignant. What does that mean? They were mad. They were ticked off. And why were they ticked off? They wanted to sit on the right hand. But how did you guys have the gall to ask and go up and be first asked? Right? It came out. It came out, was in their hearts. And if you've been sitting here to say and say, well, I don't want to really admit it, but I do want to be first. That's our natural state. And God is now doing the supernatural. Well we can get to say, oh God, that is where I am. Could you You help me be different. And he promises to come alongside when we call out for help. Not when we go down and say, Oh, I've got it knocked off. I don't need the Lord. I'm pretty spiritual. No, he says, we're in desperate need. And we all want to be first. But we must run to Jesus day by day and say, Lord, help me die to myself, because I love myself I want to love you. And I want to love others more. And Jesus says, but whoever would be great among you must be your servant. Whoever would be first must be the slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and give his life the ransom for many. The cure. The cure for your heart's sinful desire to be first, to be preeminent. For my heart to be first, to be preeminent. Is to preach the gospel to yourself, looking to Jesus, who gave himself and died for you. To pick up your cross. Why do you pick up your cross? Because Jesus went to the cross. And why do we have to die every day? Because we want to be first. We have to say, Lord, kill me. Lord, help me love you. And let me love my neighbor. Lord, let me love you and let me love my wife. Lord, let me love you and let me love my husband. Lord, let me let you and let me love my children. And that's when we do it more than just because we have to do it. But we're moved because we're loved by God. that we want to do it. The love of Christ, when we look to the cross, constrains us, it moves us, it drives us. Because I still if I go home tonight and I have bread I'm gonna go through that little ritual and it won't just be automatic. You know, I say, Lord, give me this blessed wife. Why do I want that big piece of bread? You know? And he'll kill me because I've said, Lord, here I am, it'll be my joy. I can't do it on my own. It's not natural. But praise God, it's supernatural. Let us look to our Lord. Our God and Father, we have uh much in this world that we see and watch. And we have a choice to make whether we will imitate evil, theotrophes, Lucifer, who had to be first. Or will imitate good Demetrius, and especially our Lord Savior, who gave himself To ransom us. Would you move us by the joy and the pleasure of the gospel, for we pray in our Savior's name. Amen.