Well, it's good to be back with you this morning on this beautiful day, a day so beautiful that even Interstate 95 was almost lost. Lovely. But it is uh good to be back. And I was thinking before the service and just now as Cliff was Speaking. We're thinking about the real beauty of the day. And it isn't so much what we see out the window, but what we see with the eyes of faith that we have a beautiful, glorious Savior who is seated at the right hand of God. It is w what is it that's so beautiful about this day? It's just what Cliff has said. That God is in the midst of his people. And that makes this the most glorious day of all. And we can be grateful for that Well, you can see in your bulletin this morning that we're going to be turning our attention to Acts chapter 16. Acts 16. And you can also see in your bulletin that we're going to be training our attention on just two verses in particular, verses 30 and 31, verses that are perhaps known to you. Very famous QA that goes on in those two verses. But I'm going to back up and read for us. uh the whole of the story. I want to back up to verse 16 so that we can get our bearings So here is Paul in the city of Philippi, Acts chapter 16, beginning at verse 16. As we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination and brought her owners much gain by fortune-telling. She followed Paul and us, crying out, These men are servants of the Most High God who proclaimed you the way of salvation. And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become greatly annoyed, turned and said to the Spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out. that very hour. But when her owners saw that their hope of gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, These men are Jews, and they are disturbing our city. They advocate customs that are not lawful for us as Romans to accept or practice The crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them with rods. And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely. Having received this order, he put them into the prison, into the inner prison, and fastened their feet. In the stocks. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bonds were unfastened. When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped But Paul cried with a loud voice, Do not harm yourself, for we are all here. And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas. Then he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him, and to all who were in his house, and he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God. Let me pray for us. Father, we rejoice in this story, the story of one who came to know you under such extraordinary circumstances. And we hear this story this morning not just as the record of something that happened a long time ago, but as your word to us today. For as we hear these words, you are speaking. You are addressing us. And so we pray that you would give us, even now, ears to hear your voice, that we might learn That we might trust, that we might obey. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in our denomination, in the Presbyterian Church in America and the PCA, Whenever a person gets up in front of the church to make a profession of their faith, there are five questions that they have to answer. When they get up to profess their faith, five questions that they have to answer. Questions about sin and salvation, questions about the Christian life and church life. Five questions, and the the answer is the same to every one of them. The answer is, I do. Because every question begins, do you? Here's the second of those five questions. Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and Savior of sinners? And do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in the gospel? That's the second of those five questions. And the answer is, I do. And I think we can all agree it's no small thing to answer that question by saying, I do. That's just two little words you're saying, but those two little words say quite a lot. It's like when you get married and you say, I do. It's even more powerful than answering the question with yes. To say, I do, says more. It's a way of saying, I mean this. I embrace this. I own this so much so that I'm willing to stand up in front of the church, in front of the world, and say it. I do. So it's a powerful answer. It's a powerful answer to an all-important question. Do you believe in Jesus? Well, precisely because it is such a big deal to ask and answer that question, we better have good reason to ask it. We better have biblical reason to ask that question about believing in Jesus, and the fact is we do. We have very good, very biblical reason for taking this issue of believing in Jesus and putting it front and center. And there are a number of Bible passages that rightly come to mind when you think about that. And one of them is the passage that we're looking at here, Acts chapter 16. The story of the Philippian jailer. So we're going to look at that story this morning. We're going to study this passage and we're going to learn from it We're going to learn from it about this issue of paramount importance, which is believing in Jesus, because there are a number of things here that are good for us to learn. So for our purposes this morning, the heart of the matter is in verses 30 and 31, as I said before, those two verses. But before we get there, let's get our bearings a bit. Let's get the context. Here's a story about something that happens in the city of Philippi in a jail in Philippi. Let's ask a few questions to get our bearings. First question. Who's in jail? Answer. Paul and Silas are in jail. This is Paul's second missionary journey. Silas is traveling and preaching with him. They've reached Philippi. Paul and Silas are in jail. Second question. Why are they in jail? Answer, they're in jail because they set a girl free. Now, admittedly, that's a somewhat simplistic way of answering the question. But that is the circumstance that set this whole thing in motion. They set a girl free from a demonic power. And that got some people fired up because it hit them in their wallets. And so they found a way to get the crowd fired up along with them. And then they also found a way to get the city magistrates on their side, and the next thing you know, Paul and Silas have been beaten with rods and tossed in jail because they set a girl free. It's a classic instance of the old saying, no good deed goes unpunished. It's a little bit like, well, it's a lot like when Jesus would heal people and his enemies would say, you know, we really should kill this man. This man who heals people. So Paul and Silas are in jail. Third question: what are they doing in jail? Answer: they're praying and singing hymns. Verse 25. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. No wonder they were listening. I mean, who are these people? That's what they're doing in jail. Fourth question: what happens when they're in jail? Answer: an earthquake happens when they're in jail. Verse 26: Suddenly there was a great earthquake. So that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's hands, or excuse me, bonds were unfastened. And that's why the jailer is going to kill himself. Because he figures that prisoners have escaped. It could be that he's planning to do to himself what he takes is the honorable thing now to do to himself as a Roman soldier. It could be that he's planning to do to himself what he knows is going to be done to him anyway. But Paul says, don't do it. Don't do it. We're all here. That's what happens. And then fifth and last question, and here we're really getting to the issue. What does he ask them? This jailer who was just about to kill himself, but he didn't do it, because Paul stopped him just in time, what does he ask them? Verse 30, he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Now we have to admit that we don't know everything that was going on in his mind when he asked that question. We don't even know what he'd heard about Christianity at this point. It could be that the only thing he's heard is what they were praying and singing. Or maybe he heard about the episode that led to these two guys being in jail, a voice crying out, these people are telling you the way of salvation. Maybe he'd heard about that too. All we know is that he knows enough to ask the question. All we know is that he wants to be saved and he wants to know how. And so he asks, What must I do to be saved? And now here's their answer. Verse 31. They said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your house. There's their answer. Now let's camp out with that answer and learn some lessons here about believing in Jesus You can see in your bulletin, I think there's an outline somewhere. Yes, on the back. Three lessons we're going to learn here about believing in Jesus. First of all, what do they tell him to do in their answer to the question? Well, they tell him to believe. Believe in the Lord Jesus. They don't tell him to pile up good works in such a way as to earn salvation. They don't tell him to get his act together and be the best jailer he can be. They tell him to believe. And what does it mean to believe? What would that have meant for him? What does it mean for us today? Well it certainly means believing in your mind that the gospel claims about Jesus are true. It includes that. But it includes more than that. There's more to it than that. It's not just persuasion in the mind, it's also a trust from the heart. It's trust in the Lord Jesus, the kind of trust in him that leads you to commit your life to him. Trust in the Lord Jesus. So think again about that do you question That we started with this morning. Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ? But then it goes on to say this: Do you receive and rest upon Him? I love that. Do you rest upon Him? Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Answer: Rest. Rest in Jesus. Jesus by faith. Rest upon him. As the one who did what you could never do for yourself, which was to live a life without sin and then die on the cross to pay for sin. Rest on So you see, this is very personal. This has to do with a person's relationship to the person that is Jesus. It is doctrinal. There are doctrines, there are propositions that you have to believe about Jesus, but it's not just doctrinal, it's also personal. It's a matter of trusting in, resting upon the person who's revealed to you in those doctrines. Trusting in a person to save you from sin. So that's the first thing that we notice here. What do they tell him to do? They tell him to believe. Now, here's a second lesson that we learn here. They tell him to believe in the Lord Jesus. In the Lord Jesus. In other words, not just any belief will do, not just any faith will do. And that needs to be stressed, I think. There's this idea around us in the world today that so long as you believe in something, anything, that'll do. That'll be enough. And to be sure, it might be enough, just believing in something, anything, it might be enough to make a real difference in your life. But let's be clear, it's not going to save you. And that's because ultimately, finally, it's not your believing that saves you in the first place. It's not just the generic fact that you're believing in something. It's the person that you're believing in that matters. Not any old faith will do. Believe in the Lord Jesus. And then we can take it a step further. Not any old Jesus will do. We need to get clear on that as well. There are a lot of people out there who believe a lot of different things about Jesus. But the question is, do you believe in the Jesus who actually is, who actually exists? Do you believe in the Jesus who's revealed to you in the Word of God? And this too you see reflected in our membership question, our do-you question. Listen to it again. Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and Savior of sinners? I mean, just to say I do to that much is to say a mouthful. Because you're saying, yes, I believe that he's Lord, right? That he reigns as Lord I'm saying, yes, I do believe that he is the Christ, the anointed one of God, the prophet, priest, and king from God. I believe that he's the Son of God, fully divine with the Father and the Spirit. I believe that He's the Savior of sinners. I believe in that Jesus The Jesus who is. And then the question goes on, do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation? And that's saying a lot as well. Because that's saying, yes, I do, I do believe that this Jesus is the only Savior of sinners. And to say that, especially these days, that's fighting words. And then the clincher, the way the question ends. Do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in the gospel? And I love the fact that the question ends that way. Do you believe in the Jesus who's offered to you in the gospel? The point is, you're not free to make up a Jesus that you want and then believe in that one. There's only one Jesus who's really available to you to believe in, and it's the Jesus who's revealed to you by the Bible. So this isn't a matter of pick and choose. This isn't personal preference. This isn't design your own. In other words, this isn't chipotle. You know, the Mexican restaurant where you step up to the counter and you design your own burrito. Now don't get me wrong, I love chipot. We've got one walking distance from our house. I won't say that we bought the house for that reason, but it's nice to have. I love stepping up to the counter and designing my own burrito. And usually what I'm designing, and add your amen if this is yours as well, steak burrito, white rice, mild salsa. Sour cream, cheese, guacamole if I'm in the mood. Amen. Yes. Amen. But that's just it. I don't have to. Next time I could make it a pork burrito with brown rice, hot salsa. Hold the glock. Just because I can. Just because I can pick and choose. Personal preference. Design your own. And maybe you're aware of this. It's not just chipotle anymore. This is the new thing. There was an article in the Washington Post a few weeks ago in the food section about how this is the rage. All sorts of restaurants now popping up that operate under the same principle. The article was focusing on a particular pizza shop. But the point is, this is the new thing in food service. In fact, um the term that was used in the article is um chipotlification. And I have to say it was so gratifying. I started to read the article, and the word that came into my mind was chipotlification And then I kept reading the article and the word was in there. I thought, oh, that made me feel so good. I thought I I could have been a journalist. I could have written for the food section. So they're describing this pizzeria, and they say this pizzeria is effectively D. C. 's Chipotle of pizza. And nearby District Taco is the Chipotle of Tacos. Mersey is the chipotle of Indian food. Kava Mezzagrill is the chipotle of Mediterranean food, and rice bar is the chipotle of Korean food. Chipotlefication. It's all the rage. And that's a great thing. I love chipotle. But the gospel is not like chipotle. Believing in Jesus doesn't work that way. You don't step up to the counter and start picking and choosing the things that you want in your Jesus and that you do not want. A heaping of moral teacher, a dash of political revolutionary, sprinkling of mild physical healer, wrapped in a soft shell of moral example. But no thanks, no cross for me this time. Or hold the resurrection today, maybe next time, maybe never. You're not free to make up a Jesus that you want to believe in and then believe in that one. With a side of guak if you're in the mood. It doesn't work that way. Believe in the Lord Jesus. Believe in the Lord Jesus who is. That's what Paul and Silas are telling this man to do. So, first lesson was believe. Second lesson was, believe in the Lord Jesus. Here's our third now. Believe in him, and you will be saved. That's what they told him as well. This is a matter of salvation. Because we need to be saved. And toitiate that Think again about those five questions that a person has to answer when they get up in front of the church and make a profession of their faith. I read for you earlier the second of those questions. Well, listen to the first one. Do you acknowledge yourself to be a sinner in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure, and without hope, save in his sovereign mercy? Do you acknowledge yourself to be a sinner in the sight of God? Justly deserving his displeasure. Justly. And without hope. Save in his sovereign mercy. We need to be saved from that. The person who says I do to that is very ready to say I do to the next question about believing in Jesus. We need to be saved. We need to be saved from the reality of God's just and holy anger. And the reason that you have to believe in the Jesus, the Jesus who actually is. is that he actually is the only one who has the forgiveness to offer that will save you. And the reason he's the only one who has that forgiveness to offer that will save you. Is that he's the only one who is the Son of God, who died on the cross, and who lived a life without sin in order to purchase that forgiveness for his people. So listen again to the way our membership question works. Do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation? That's the question. Not do you receive and rest upon him just for occasional guidance, or because you know that you need a moral compass in life. Or so that you can belong to a club that's safe to bring your kids to. Now it's certainly true that you need guidance and you need a sense of moral compass. And it's great to belong to the church so that you can bring your family. That's all true. But the point is the main reason, the ultimate reason that you believe in Jesus is that you need to be saved. You need to be rescued. You need to be rescued from the guilt and power of sin. Do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation? And notice how Paul and Silas put it in their answer to his question. They said to him, Believe in Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. And we can't overlook that. You will be saved, you and your household. Now what did they mean by that? We need to get clear on that. Here's what they did not mean They did not mean that if the jailer believes, then everybody else in his household will immediately be saved along with him by virtue of his believing. Even if they don't believe the gospel themselves, they don't mean that. They can't mean that. Because it doesn't work like that. There isn't that kind of relationship between one person's faith and the salvation of the people around him, even close to him. I cannot be saved by your believing. My wife and children can't be saved by my believing. It doesn't work like that. So what they do mean when they say this to him is that if the jailer believes, By virtue of the fact that he's the head of his household. If the jailer believes, now the word of God is going to dwell in that household in a new way It's going to become the curriculum of the family school. It's going to become the air that the family breathes. The truth that the family is governed by, the program that the children are trained in, it becomes the gospel for the household. And sure enough, the goal of that, the goal is that every single member of the household will come to believe. personally, individually, and be saved. That's the goal, that's the aim, that's the prayer, the gospel for the household, established in the household for every single member of the family. of the household. That's the way it's supposed to work. So that's what Paul and Silas are telling this man to do. Those are our three lessons here. First of all, believe. Second of all, believe in the Lord Jesus. And third of all, believe in him, and you will be saved. So those three lessons to glean here. So we've camped out with these two verses. Really, I suppose we've camped out just with one verse, verse 31, right? We've learned these lessons. From their answer in verse 31. But of course, the story of the Philippian jailer goes on. And this morning I kept reading past 31 and took us all the way to verse 34. It's what um it's what uh Paul Harvey would call the rest of the story. It's a great story. It has a great ending. It has a happy ending. It's a happy ending because really it's a new beginning It's not really the end. It's a brand new beginning for this man and for his household. They said to him, believe, and he believed. He believed in the Lord Jesus and he was saved. He was forgiven. He was accepted with God. In a sense, we can say that man said, I do. To the question, do you believe in this Jesus that we're proclaiming to you? Before the earthquake, had he been asked that question, the jailer might have said, What on earth are you talking about? Who is this Jesus? But now, now he knows. Now he gets it. Now it makes sense. Now he has a very different answer. Now his answer is two little words that speak volumes. I do. I do believe. And the reason that this story matters so much is that the issues are still the same. To this day, and they always will be, until the end of the age, every man, woman, and child needs to be saved Just like that jailer. And today, faith in Jesus is the great issue, just like it was then. Just like it was for that jailer and his household. Do you believe? Now I want to say this. I want to say this to any who might have joined us for our service this morning, who've come here this morning, not believing in Jesus. Obviously, I don't know how this message strikes you today. And it could be that it strikes you in any number of ways. This message about believing in a Jesus that you don't believe in. It could be that you're curious about it. It could be that you're amused by it. It could be that you're deeply offended by it. I don't know. I suppose it could be a mix of all of those. As of this morning, your answer to the question Do you believe in Jesus as he's offered in the gospel? Your answer is no, I don't. And it's good to be honest about that. And so I suppose for you the question changes slightly. For you, the question now isn't, do you believe in him? But will you? Will you believe in Jesus for salvation? Now I know very well that one sermon can only cover so much. And it could be That you're going to leave here this morning with more questions than you brought in. So if you are curious about this, if you've come today not believing in Jesus and you're curious about this, maybe even a little troubled by this. And let me say, in a sense, I hope you are. I hope you are troubled by this. I hope you're not just amused. Because this is way too important to be merely amused by it. Here's my challenge to you. Think of this sermon today as the beginning of a conversation. Because the leaders of this church, I'll sort of put them on the spot, the leaders of this church would be glad to talk to you and to listen to you and to hear your questions. To hear your objections, to hear your pains, and to do their best to answer the questions that you have. Think of this sermon today as a beginning. For that matter, even though I'm just a guest preacher today and I'm gonna get in my car and get back on 95 and drive back home. I'll stick around today after the service as long as you want. Whatever you do, don't let this be the end. The question to you today is, will you? Will you believe in this Jesus who's believed in here? Don't settle for no I won't as your final answer Because the stakes are just too high. Let me say this now to the children of your church. And let me say this especially to the children of the church who haven't yet made a profession of your faith. Getting up in front of the church and answering those five I do questions. Children, there are a lot of different people in your life who are teaching you about faith in Jesus. Your parents are doing that at home. Your elders are doing that here at church. If you go to a Christian school, maybe you've got teachers who are doing that for you at school. But here's what I want you to understand. Ultimately, the person in your life, children, who's teaching you about faith in Jesus is Jesus. How about that? And in fact, ultimately the one who's asking you the question, do you believe in Jesus? Is Jesus. Imagine that. Imagine Jesus looking you in the eyes and saying, Do you believe in me? Do you believe in me, the Son of God and Savior of sinners? It's one of my favorite stories in the whole of the Bible. It's in John 11, Jesus goes to where his friend, his dead friend, is buried, his friend Lazarus, and Lazarus' sister Martha. goes out to meet him, she says to Jesus, if you'd been here, he wouldn't have died And the conversation goes on, and finally he says, I am the resurrection and the life. And then he says a few more things, and then he says to her, Do you believe this? Children, can you imagine that moment? Can you imagine Jesus himself looking you in the eyes and saying, do you believe this? Do you believe what I'm telling you about myself? Well, in a sense, what I want to say to you children is that that's exactly what's going on in your life right now. Through the Bible, through your parents, through your elders, through your pastor, all the rest, it's Jesus who's asking you: do you believe this? Do you believe in me? So, children, as you think about what it would mean for you someday to get up in front of the church. And to answer those questions, to answer those questions that say, do you, just remember that Jesus is the one who's asking And let me tell you, it is just about the most wonderful thing in the world to be able to look him in the eyes with the eyes of faith, not with the eyes in your head, but with the eyes of faith, to be able to look him in the eyes Then say I do I do believe. I do believe in you. And to be able to stand up in front of the church and in a sense in front of the whole world and say it. So think about that. Now, lastly this. If you're somebody who has answered this question If you're somebody who has stood up in front of the church and answered that question by saying, Yes, I do, I do believe in Jesus, here's my question for you this morning. It's a do-you question. The question is this: Do you remember? Do you remember? Do you remember that these things are true? And do you remember that you once stood up and said so? Or have you forgotten Have you forgotten? Have you lost sight of these things in such a way that you're falling back upon a reliance upon your own good works to get you in the right with God? Put another way, have you stopped resting? You remember that language in the question, do you receive and rest? upon Christ for salvation. Have you stopped resting? Have you taken a faithful, peaceful resting in Jesus and traded it in? For a desperate, futile striving to pile up good works to get you in the right with God. If you have. Today's the day to remember. Today's the day to come back to the gospel, to come back to your senses, to come back home. Because that's what it is. Resting in Jesus for salvation is where the Christian belongs, its home. And isn't it hard to be away from a home? Don't stay away from a home. But come back, come back to resting in Christ, not in anything else, not in anyone else, including yourself. So today, let's come back to the gospel, all of us. Do you believe? Do you receive and rest? May it be so. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, we bow before you and say, We believe, help our unbelief. Help our forgetfulness, that we lose sight of the fact that these things are true and that we have owned them, that we have professed them. Forgive us. So we come back to you again today and say, we do believe. We believe in you. We believe in you for salvation. And we thank you that this belief, this faith, is well founded and shall never be put to shame. And we pray these things for your glory and for our good. Amen.