Well, good morning. It's a joy to see so many of you gathered and some of you I have not uh ever seen in person. before and we are delighted to have those of you who are with us virtually as well this morning. Christianity, as Cliff has said, stands or falls with the resurrection of Jesus Christ. If it didn't happen, then faith in Jesus is meaningless. But if it's true, then Jesus in his resurrection from the dead has unleashed healing and hope. and new life, and ultimately a transformation that will touch every part of reality. So that life as we know it now, where things are not the way they're supposed to be, will be set right. The evidences that we have that the resurrection took place are several, but it's primarily the eyewitness accounts. This is John's this morning. If you would, would you stand as I read from John 20 this morning Let's pray. Father, may you be pleased to grant that the words of John's gospel would have the full effect they are intended in our lives. Whether we're here is those who believe or who are skeptical or even indifferent. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, he saw the linen clothes lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. He saw the linen clothes there. and the face cloth which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with a linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in and saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. And then the disciples went back to their homes. You may be seated. The year is eighty ninety. And this is John's witness. Listen. Listen to what he would say. This is a day of celebration, a day to rejoice in. And I hope you'll let me tell you about my experiences, to take you back to those days. I rarely leave Ephesus now. I'm one of Zebedee's sons. My mother Salome was the sister of Mary, the mother of my Lord. That's right. I was Jesus' cousin. I grew up in Besseda, fish town in your language. We were fishermen. We worked hard. We knew our business well, and uh we prospered. We were very prosperous My mother was one of the women who provided for Jesus and his followers out of her considerable means. After all, even Jesus had to eat. Our lives were quite normal until he came. He called us to follow him, and James and I both left our father. He had to hire others to take our place. Oh, those were the days, the things we saw and heard. They would take your breath away. We were astonished by him. His life became a mirror in which we saw our lives. We were self-centered and brash. We tried to get Jesus to promise us the best places in his kingdom. We had fiery tempers Jesus gave us the name Sons of Thunders. In our zeal we got carried away more than once. Enough about me. Let me take you back to the place of the skull. It was there that he was crucified. One criminal on his left and one on his right. The sign that hung over his head that Pilate had written said, Jesus of Nazareth. the king of the Jews. The women were there, the three Marys, and my own mother. Jesus is the eldest son, as he hung from the cross looking at his mother, entrusted her care to me. It was hard to be there. Our hopes, our hopes had been so high The crowds cheered as we had come into the city, and I hoped that he would reveal his power and his glory, and that his kingdom would come. In the upper room he spoke words that caused us to grieve. He spoke of leaving us. We could not imagine what he meant Oh, he had told us again and again what would happen, but we couldn't accept it. We didn't want that. We couldn't imagine that our time with Jesus would ever come to an end. But it did. He cried, it was finished, and he was gone. And then my pain really began. It was hard to see him suffer. But I thought he'll come down from that cross as they taunted him. I had hoped, in fact I was sure that he would save himself, but he didn't And my hopes died that day. It was the day of preparation for the Sabbath. It was not an ordinary Sabbath. It was the Sabbath that came at the end of the feast of unleavened bread, of Passover. These men could not be left up on their crosses, for they were a defilement. Pilate did what the leaders requested. Pilate didn't want any more trouble as the city had swollen with pilgrims. And so he gave the orders. And the soldiers came to the first man and they broke his legs. He could no longer push himself up on the cross to catch his breath. And so he suffocated more quickly. And then they came to Jesus, and they found that he was dead already. Just to be sure, they pierced his side with a spear, and there was no movement. And a sudden flow of blood and water. I was there. I know this is true. I saw it with my own eyes. The spear had reached the sack around his heart, and Jesus had been dead long enough that the blood and the water had separated. Joseph boldly went to Pilate. Now it was after hours. The governor did not ordinarily see people at this hour, but Joseph was very wealthy and important. He was Well, he was the kind of man that politicians wouldn't ignore. And he was given permission to take the body and bury it. He and Nicodemus had to work quickly. They didn't really have enough time to do all they wanted to do before sunset. Joseph found a tomb nearby. Money was no object. The owner readily parted with it. They embalmed Jesus' body as was our custom, wrapping him in expensive linen with 75 pounds of spices, as you would weigh it. The next day was Sabbath. We were still, but our eyes were full of tears. Oh, how we wept! So bitter was our weeping. More than for my father's father. More than for my sister who died when she was young. We were bitter and despairing, and it was just hard for us to imagine that so many around us were feasting. And then on the first day of the week, some of the women, they left their homes before first light. Mary Magdalene, Mary the nut if she was known to us, the one who'd been freed from the demons. This Mary led the way. They wanted to further anoint the body. And there just hadn't been enough time before the Sabbath Now it was still more dark than light when they arrived at the tomb. And the stone cover had been removed. It hadn't been rolled down the groove. but rather it had been lifted up and sat flat on its side. Now it was really still too dark. for them to see well into the tomb. But Mary and the others knew that the grave had been robbed. Mary Magdalene ran to Peter and then to me. And she told us both the same thing. They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they've placed him. What she meant was this, that the enemies of Jesus have been busy. It wasn't enough that they murdered him. They had to add to their crimes by robbing his grave. Now not even his body is left to us. Peter and I, who had not slept, started for the tomb. I felt angry and anxious. What began as a walk grew to a run. I reached the tomb ahead of Peter, and I bent down and looked into the opening. of the tomb. And I saw the linen strips and I was alarmed, but I held off. I decided it would be better for me to wait and let Peter go in first. Mary was right. The body was gone. Then Peter entered the tomb and he looked around intently, taking everything in. And then I went in. Peter had a puzzled look on his face. Peter and I in silence listened as the grave close spoke. They told a story. It was clear that the tomb had not been robbed. The linens, the grave clothes, they were all there. No thief would have left them. Them and the spices, there's just too much money to be made. No thief would have left things so neat. And the more I looked, the more I uh perceived, as I looked at, that the handcloth was not where it should be It had been neatly taken and folded and set to the side. I was there. I know that this is true. I saw it with my own eyes. This had been done intentionally. He had left these things just this way on purpose. It was him. Jesus had done this. Then right there I knew that the only possible explanation was, and I was the first to believe that he was risen from the dead There in that tomb. But I wasn't the first to see him alive. Mary, nutty Mary, she would be the first. Now many people have misunderstood what I wrote when I said he saw and believed, for they still didn't understand from the scriptures. that Jesus had to rise from the dead. I tell you, then, before he met us in the upper room I believe that Jesus was risen bodily from the dead, that he really was the Messiah, the Lord of glory, the Son of God, the Lamb who takes away the sin of the world. My faith was real and it wasn't weak. Peter and I didn't talk on the way home. It was much too early to talk to Peter, for Peter had denied Jesus. Peter too later would say he was wondering. He did not yet believe, but he knew that something was up. It would only be later that I and the other disciples would grasp that all these things had been announced in the scriptures. Our understanding didn't come all at once. It was like the dawning of the day. It took weeks after he appeared and began to for us to make sense of all that he had told us. He opened our minds to understand the scriptures. He took us through the Tanakh, through the law and the prophets and the writings. You're skeptical. You may think I am a simpleton, a commoner, eager to believe that Jesus was alive. I have seen what you have not seen. But history and common sense tell you that the tomb really was empty. Jesus' enemies did not disappear after he was crucified. The chief priests and most of the Sanhedrin, they despised us Eventually they would throw out of the synagogue any Jew who confessed Jesus. This was not some casual thing. I can understand that you really don't appreciate how intense it was because you were not from the Middle East. But it was. Peter and I caused the authorities a lot of headaches. If they could have produced the body of Jesus, they would have to end it all, but they never did. Instead, they created a rumor that we had taken the body. But if you think about it, you know that cannot be true. Yes, maybe a single deceiving fanatic would die for a lie. But all eleven of us suffered. suffered greatly. Really? Eleven men suffer for a lie? I spent many years of my life on Patamos. It's not unlike your Fort Leavenworth. We quarried stone and broke rocks. only without enough food and a warm cell. They drove us like animals and worked many of us to death. Those were hard years. It was that Easter day that sustained me. That empty tomb meant that all that he had said was true, that he was and is the resurrection and the life. I had found life, eternal life, and I changed Many people have misunderstood what I've written. They think that I was Jesus' favorite, but I was not. I was selfish. I wanted to be honored. James and I both thought we were better than the other disciples. I was brash, hot-tempered, aggressive. After all, we were businessmen. James and I fed off each other. We were rich kids. ready to call the wrath of God down upon a village of simple Samaritan people. I was so out of sync with Jesus. Jesus changed me. He loved me. His love transformed me. His love touched the deepest parts of who I was. My insecurities, my pride, my fears, my need to control. I knew he loved me. And because he was alive, that love for me would never end. His love broke me. He made it possible for me, as unlikely as it is, to love others. And everywhere I go now, I tell his followers, love one another. Remember. I was there at the beginning when we were in the boats. I walked with him along the roads. into the villages and the towns and into Jerusalem. I was there at the cross, at the empty tomb, and yes, in the room. when he stood and showed Thomas his wounds. It was him. I saw him with my own eyes. And I'm telling you this so that you will believe. The master said, blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. My friend Paul has written that it is necessary to believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead and to confess him publicly as your Lord, to receive his rescue. to receive new life, to begin to experience all the healing that He has brought in His resurrection He is calling. Will you follow? He is calling. Will you follow? Let's pray. Most gracious Heavenly Father, may John's witness reach into the deepest parts of who we are. For those here who have yet to respond to that call, those who can hear my voice, may you be pleased to let them see the beauty of Jesus Draw them to him. Let today be the day that they believe and confess. And Father, we who are here in various states, some of us grieving, some of us troubled, some of us distracted, some of us have gotten distant from you. And others of us have done our best, as inadequate as it is to follow you. And we ask that our faith might be strengthened our resolve to walk after Christ, that as all the eleven in John suffered, that we too might have this Easter day so before us. that we would be gripped by it and able to walk through whatever you intend in our lives. For we pray in Christ's name.