It's a joy to be with you all this morning to bring God's word. And uh I would like to pray for our time before I read, and then I'll explain what I'm going to do. Let me pray. Our Heavenly Father, we read in your word by the Apostle Paul in his second letter to the Corinthians that he was weak. And he was willing to be weak that the power of Christ might rest upon him. And we confess, Father, that your speaker is weak. We confess that all of us are weak as hearers of your word. And yet, as Tom has said, you have given us the Holy Spirit for this very purpose. And so we ask now, Father, that you would cause your spirit to work in us, to hear clearly and to receive rightly and to respond to your word. All to the glory of your son Jesus Christ. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. In your bulletin, if you have a bulletin, it does say that I would be having the sermon text of John 5, 1 to 18, and I'm going to make a change, and that change, all the responsibility falls on me and on your elders. They already asked me. what my text would be. And I've preached through this passage before and um uh and in the subsequent parts of this passage and it seemed to me that it makes more sense to have it as one whole So I'm going to read the whole chapter of John, verse 5, and I'm not going to go any further than what seems reasonable in terms of time. But I think that it's it's one passage and that the main drift or the importance of this passage is seeing the whole context. So let us hear the word of God from John chapter 5. After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool, an Aramaic called Bethesda. which has five roofed colonades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take up your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed. He took up his bed and walked Now that day it was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, The man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your bed and walk? Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn as there was a crowd in the place. Afterward, Jesus found him at the temple and said to him, See you are well, sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him. Because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that He Himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son just as they honored the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you: whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but is passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I say to you: an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God And those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, and those who have done good. To the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will. But the will of him who sent me. If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not deemed true. There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his life. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you do not have his word abiding in you. For you do not believe the one he has sent. You search the scriptures because you think in them, and you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me. Yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. I do not receive glory from people, but I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? This is the word of the living God, true and inerrant. As I was with you recently last week and in the past, as we look at John's Gospel, and I'll make this brief We know what John is trying to do because he has told us in his word at the end of his gospel, his purpose in John 20, 30 to 31. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. That his purpose is not merely to fill our minds with Bible knowledge, but that we might reach out to Christ, that we might move towards Christ and seek him and find life in his name. To find life in his person and work. That is the goal of John's gospel. And we always need to keep that as the backdrop of everything that John says in his gospel. We said also that the prologue is sort of like the hidden pictures in the old in the magazine that has a key to let you know what's in that hidden picture. Although John is not trying to hide it, but he gives us a summary. It's like previews of a movie, that prologue from verses 1 to 18 in chapter 1. That is his goal, to give you a heads up, and then he'll flesh it out for us with particular eyewitness accounts that he had of what he heard Jesus say and what he heard Jesus do. And John had a job. He was given a task. He was giving a particular task to be an eyewitness. In John 15, 26 and 27, Jesus says, the Holy Spirit is going to witness, but you all are going to witness too, as he talks to the apostles, you will be eyewitnesses of what you have seen and heard. And so he had that. Responsibility placed upon him, and he fulfilled it in John's Gospel, and in 1 John, and in 2 John, and in 3 John, and even the book of Revelation. In the book of Revelation, we read the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John. Here's John, his His special calling, who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. And John and all of his writings that are a part of Scripture, he is fulfilling his calling. He has the authority of God behind him. When we read the book of John or any other part of Scripture, it's not just the human writers, but they've been given a task. John's gospel is flanked by the Gospel of Luke and Luke's other writing, the book of Acts. And they are the Word of God too, but Luke, dear Luke the physician, is not an apostle But they're still on the same level of the Word of God, different task, different assignment, same word of God, same authority, same binding effect of these words. In fact, John even suffered for the sake of the gospel as a witness. In chapter 9, it says, I, John, your brother and partner, in the tribulation and the kingdom, and the patient endurance that are in Jesus. Was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. That he was exiled there, that we don't know exactly who exiled him, as far as I understand, but The Romans use that as an island of exile, and so he was put away there. And yet there he was in the spirit and he receives this revelation from Jesus himself. No one can bind the power of Jesus when he is pleased to act. So John even suffered for this calling as God's people often suffer, as they serve the Lord. And so, as we look at this passage today, I want to I want to make one more point and I will get to the text. And the point I want to raise is that if you look at the book of John, uh And really any of the other gospels, if you think about how Jesus was always in control. He was in control of all the situations. Particularly in the book of John, it seems so obvious. He is here for a task that the Father gave him. Nobody was going to deter him. Nobody was going to thwart him. He would only do What the Father had told him. And that is it. He didn't stray to the left or to the right. He could have healed many more people, and he did, according to the end of John's gospel, but he didn't heal everybody. He didn't talk to everybody. He had a particular purpose and he stuck to it because he loved the Father and he wanted to obey him in everything, and he absolutely did. And so when you think about John's uh Jesus' work in the gospel, think of uh probably sidewalks that you've walked on before. Everybody likes a level sidewalk. I've as I played sports over the course of my younger life, I had problems with my ankles. I had broken ankle, I turned ankles all the time. And any uneven surface is kind of a danger for me. But often as you walk through an old neighborhood, you'll see the sidewalks that originally were flat and straight are all bent and twisted because the growth of a root has come slowly, slowly to displace it. And although you could take a piece of cement and you could put a scar into the tree, that root has broken up the cement, has broken up that pattern. It just constantly over time keeps wearing and wearing. And that is the way Jesus is. He keeps coming and coming and coming. Even to death on the cross, he's going to do the Father's will, and nobody will thwart him. Not Gentiles, not his own people, not the evil one. No one. And he did his task and he finished it. But I want you to see the sovereign power of Jesus, even in his suffering, that he did exactly what the Father wanted. And nobody thwarted him, praise God. Because if he hadn't finished his task, we would be in great danger. And yet he's come. He's come in the flesh. Died on the cross, he rose from the dead, and he ascended into heaven. And see, we talked today earlier. He sent the Holy Spirit to be a part of those who would believe in Christ. At one point the Holy Spirit was not standard equipment in a sense for the people of God. And yet in the history of redemption, in the history of John's life. It was God's good pleasure that the Holy Spirit would be sent. And we see that expansion of the Holy Spirit into different people groups as it's laid out in the book of Acts. You could say the book of Acts is a book of the works of the Holy Spirit. That would almost be A better title for that book of the Bible. But my point is that we do have the Holy Spirit as God's people now. Because Jesus did all of his work. And he's not finished yet, because as we've already said, that we wait for him. We're waiting for him to return. And so I will try to, as much as I can, I'm not going to hold you longer than I really should, but I would my thinking about this passage today, if I had an overall doctrine or or view, it would be a powerful authoritative voice. A powerful authoritative voice. And just three following points, and I may not get to them because I'm not going to go over a certain time limit. But the first one is Jesus' immediate power. Jesus' immediate power, the voice that was immediately exercised. And then there is the future power of that voice, what it will do in the future. That's the second point. And then finally the witness or the witnesses to the voice, voices authority. The witnesses to the voice's authority. And so first, as we look at this story, we have this invalid who has been an invalid for 38 years. He is with this group of people. I'm not going to go into all the unique details of this. Part of this scripture here, but he was waiting. He was seemingly waiting for some stirring of the water. If you have an ESV Bible, you see there's a footnote down below. And it says here, some manuscripts insert holier in part, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool. and stirred the water, whoever stepped in first after the stirring of the water was healed of whatever disease he had. And One of the thoughts is is this was inserted later to give an explanation of verse 7 where the man says, you know, when the water gets stirred up, no one I don't anybody to put me in. And that may be the case, but many manuscripts do not have this in there. And I don't think it's essential to the main force of what is being said here. So this man has been an invalid for 38 years. That is a long time. I would assume that many of our hearers, for many of our hearers, that's not even half of your life. I know that there are those who have had tragic injuries and do not have the use of their legs, dear brothers and sisters in Christ. And one year I had a minor knee operation and I lived for a year, and it took a lot of energy. And you you you come to be sympathetic to the difficulty of what this is. And it's not just this man, but these others who were there with other situations of other illnesses, lame, blind, paralyzed. And so this man had endured this for 38 years. And Jesus comes up to him and he says, Do you want to be healed? And it seems like an unusual question. If I go to the doctor and I'm in this, I'm just sitting in his waiting room. It would seem an odd question if he came out and said, do you want to be healed? I said, I want to say, why do you think I'm here? But Jesus is the ultimate teacher. He is the ultimate teacher in how he addresses every situation, and he's the ultimate teacher in his content. And he knows exactly what he's doing all the time, even with us. And so I wonder, I ponder, what is why did he ask him that question? And it could be that he wanted the man to focus on what he really was there for. Maybe he becomes he becomes a spondent. Maybe he thought it'll never happen. He was just sitting there. And Jesus helped him to focus on what he had really wanted. And in a short moment he would actually experience. But I think maybe it's more for us that he he knew somehow, he may have just known by word of mouth that he'd been there for 38 years. And what was he waiting for? He was waiting for this stirring of the water, and I assume these other people were too. And when I think about this, it's almost like people who play the lottery and really hope they're going to win. I mean when the when the Powerball gets to an extraordinary number, and a couple years ago this happened, and I'm thinking it's such It's such a small probability that you're going to do this and you're putting all your hope there. And yet I think, as often is the case in John's Gospel, these physical pictures we have are pointing to spiritual realities. It where people look for life is what I think this is pointing us to. This man was really waiting in vain in a sense for this stirring of the water. But Jesus is pointing that out to us. Where do we look for life? Where do we hope for hope? What is the source of our hope is the question. And so here's this man who was waiting, and he gives this explanation. I'm waiting for the stirring of the water. And on top of that, he had no one to put him down. It was like the odds were even against him in more greater difficulty. Because he had no one to put him in there, even if the waters were stirred. But it is at this point the powerful, sovereign voice of Jesus Speaks to him. Get up, take your bed and walk. Get up, take your bed and walk. And then it says, At once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked This man who had been there for 38 years. And in a moment, he received relief because Jesus had said those words. It's an amazing, amazing passage. Now, sometimes Jesus used processes, but not this time. It was just get up, take your bed, and walk. That was it. And what is so important here, what is so important, is that we hear one of these particular instances that reflects back to the prologue of John's Gospel. In John 1, he says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. How much that echoes the book of Genesis. It's so similar. And yet, what happens in the early part of Genesis? There is chaos, there's formlessness, it's a wasteland. And as we see these people here, they're a difficulty. The good limbs, the good bodily parts that God gave are in disorder Again, as I say, this is a picture of the spiritual world. If you turn on your radio, as I did yesterday, and you think this is a mad, mad world. And yet this is the world that Jesus comes into for the sake of saving a people for himself. And so we see out throughout the book of Genesis that in Genesis 1 there's a divine fiat, let there be, let there be, let there be, and every time, with no pushback, because God is sovereign. Because God is all powerful. And it was so. And it was so. And we see this divine attribute played out in Jesus' life here. Simply by the word of his power, as our shorter catechism 9 says, how God created the world, we see him restore this man. Fully in his walking ability. And what we're to take away from this is, what manner of man is this? Who simply speaks these words and this comes to pass? It's similar to his words over the storm in other parts of the Gospels. Or over the demoniac, or even later in John's book, over raising Lazarus from the dead. Come out. Lazarus come out, and he comes out. And what we need to take to heart, and take the heart deeply, is that Jesus is God. He is all powerful. Nobody stops him when he acts. Nobody will ever stop him when he executes whatever he is pleased to do. Now there's this problem about the Sabbath here, and the Pharisees are all riled up about this. This is the Sabbath. This is the Sabbath And you just wonder, look, this man was just healed. What are you thinking? What are you thinking? You know, there were sabbatical laws that restricted how much work you could do. But when God gave this good gift to us, as we sang about earlier, the gift of the Lord's Day for us now, as it's been transferred from the la last day of the week to the first, and all associated, I assume. Because of the resurrection of Christ, for the coming of Christ. We're in a new era now. We're waiting for the Lord to return. But it was a day of rest. A day of holy rest. And what did Jesus do for this man? Did he have anything to do with rest? He relieved him of this burden, this burden that he had 24-7, this burden that he had for 38 years, and by a sentence barely. He restores his walking. He lifts this burden from this man so that instead of the pallet having to carry the man, the man could carry his pallet. The tender mercies of our great God. What a glorious event. And yet the Pharisees, this is the Sabbath, this is the Sabbath. And John, as he is wont to do, says in verse 16, he says, and this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. This was the Father's will, the Father who created the Sabbath for man. And what does Jesus do? He only does what his father tells him. He never adds to his list. He never subtracts from the list. He does exactly what the Father wants him to do. And this healing of the paralytic was exactly what the Father wanted him to do. This glorious rest-giving mercy to this man. is exactly what the Father wanted. And instead of praise and rejoicing, there was harping and this is the Sabbath. And then after Jesus' words, he says, this is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Jesus, or to kill him, because he was not only breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father. Making himself equal with God. Now at that point, as John has wanted this, as we saw in his his thesis from John 20, He wants us to know that Jesus is the Son of God. And he states it right here. In chapter 4, the woman at the will, he verifies to her that he is the Messiah. Here he verifies, John himself verifies, Jesus said he was the Son of God, and we get silence from John on that matter. We get silence because he has no problem with that. He knows that is the case. And he wants us to sink that into our hearts. He wants that to be penetrating to us. He is the Son of God. And that's why they're persecuting him. And so we have this wonderful immediate power of Jesus, but that's not the only power we hear of in this text. We also have the future power of Jesus. Verses 22 to 29. The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but is passed from death to life Truly, truly, and here is this power that will be exerted at one day. I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear it will live. In a short while he would raise Lazarus from the dead in a physical sense. But there's more For as the Father has life in himself, and he has granted the Son also to have life in himself, and he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this. And here is a very sobering statement. For an hour is coming when all who are in the tomb will hear his voice and come out, just like Lazarus. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. Powerful, sobering words about the future execution of the same voice that just healed the paralytic. He will exercise his voice more throughout the book of John. And John at the end of his gospel says he did more things than these even. But that same voice that healed the paralytic will one day call forth all men, including you and I. There will be no escape, there will be no hiding, as other scriptures testify. And he is going to render judgment, a final verdict on our eternal destiny. There will be no appeals, there will be no mistake. Because the God of justice will have spoken. And all of that power has been given into Jesus' hands by the Father. We hear the words of Matthew 10, 28. And do not fear those who kill the body, but who cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Or in the book of Revelation, as we hear the judgment in chapter 20 of Revelation, to show how thorough this judgment day will be And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. You would think, oh, surely they're not going to be raised, but no. All of those who ever died in the course of history when Jesus comes, who died in the course of history in the water, you know, there's always searches going around the world looking for people who died in certain accidents. But every one of them, every single soul will be called forth by the mighty power of God. to judgment. And they will be assigned a place as a goat or a place as a sheep. It even says in Revelation 20, death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. There is a day of judgment. If I grieve about one or more things in the world or in the church, is the lack of sobriety. That there is a day of judgment coming. A day of judgment that we deserve. Because we are fallen in Adam and have rebelled against our good Creator. You can have all various kinds of diseases, but if you're in Christ, you will be with him forever. He will say, Come, beloved. But if you're outside of Christ and you've had perfect health in this world, you will perish. This is why the church has good news and we'll get to this. I'm going to close here. I won't go into the witnesses Jesus gives five witnesses in the remainder of this chapter. But I want to I'll finish here because I do not want to go over and weary you The church preaches good news because this Jesus, as we see at the end of the gospel, will go to the cross. And he will absolutely give a perfect payment for sins for all who will trust in him. There will be an impeccable righteousness that will be yours if you trust in Christ, because he had an impeccable punishment for our sins. And yet to dishonor the son is to dishonor the father, and we read terrible things Those who will not submit to the Lord Jesus Christ, who will not embrace him as the Savior of the world, that God has sent his beloved Son, in whom he's well pleased. My anniversary is May 8th is May 15th. We just had our 38th anniversary. And when I when I got married, I lived near I lived near Andrews Air Force Base and on uh Armed Forces Day is May 15th, and Andrews would have this incredible air show. It was totally packed at the At the base. And I couldn't go that year because I got married. The following year, my my sister-in-law Jean Horse got married that day. So I missed two days of this air show. But finally I got to the air show and I went there two years in a row. And you have these incredible planes, but in the hangars they have these displays. And um they have this one, and I don't know what the technical name of it is, it might be called the seat belt enforcer. And they have this contraption with a a car seat On a bar at an angle, and they crank it up, you get into the seat, they harness you in, and then they let it go. And you go And you you stop, a dead stop. And the first year I did it, I thought, huh, that's kind of interesting. The second year I did it again, I was like, I don't like that. That's not pleasant. I was kind of irritated. But that's the whole point. They're trying to drive it into you. If you ever are in a car accident, that's just five miles an hour, maybe ten. This is what will happen to you. You know, during prom time. I know we didn't have proms this year, but it's often the case, almost every fire department puts a wrecked vehicle on their lawn. And what is the purpose? Is to say, young people, do not drink and drive, or this may happen to you. And this lesson is not wasted on me. About two years ago, I received some family pictures, and my mother's parents were in uh Urbana, Illinois. And they were in a car wreck, and I think this was before seat belts. And the car was incredibly smashed. There was a picture like on the front page of the local newspaper. And they were killed. It was very sad. I think one of my earliest memories of my mom was her weeping at the door of our apartment. I think she had heard the news. And so, what is the purpose for putting those cars out there on the lawns? What is the purpose for this contraption? Is to say, look, we want to warn you ahead of time. And the church, in its main mission in some sense, is to say, there's a day of wrath coming. Be ready. We preach good news that Jesus has come to take our wrath. And if you will believe in him, you will receive his perfect righteousness You will be made a child of God. You will be filled with the Holy Spirit. You will inherit glory. Because all of these has done And that is what John is doing here. He's laying these things out before us to ponder them and to take them to heart. And I'll just finish with one more thing. It's been very sad. You know, as we listen to the news over the last two months, I'm sure at some point you have to turn the radio on. You've got to figure out what's the latest on the coronavirus, or you hear about what's happening in Minneapolis. But there's a subtle danger that goes on when we turn that radio on, in some sense. It's subtle in my own heart. I was made more aware of this. But we become outward looking, and we get all involved with the external news and we forget about the Word of God. Now, we pray for our officials for justice. We pray for our officials to have wisdom as they try to regulate the coronavirus as far as it lies within them. But in the end, it is the word of God that will stand. And the question is: are we paying close attention to what John has showed us in his gospel? God is holy. Jesus is all powerful. John tells us he bore our wrath on the cross. And so, as we finish, as John has told us, we finish, as we started in some sense, he's written these things for a reason. These are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. The Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, you've been so kind to mankind over the years, over the Since the creation of man, you gave him instructions, and our forefather Adam and Eve failed. He disobeyed your good word. In the midst of that perfect, beautiful place of Eden. And yet, Father, you did not wipe them out. But rather you were pleased to save a people for yourself. Sending your own Son in the likeness of flesh, that he might be the second Adam, the one who would perfectly fulfill every commandment, not merely in outward gestures, but in the heart. Who, even to the point of death on the cross, his only desire was to please you, and he did it And that we have this glorious, glorious Savior, Lord Jesus. May we take this to heart, whether we are your people already who need to hear this again. To need to rejoice in your great love for us, to restore our hope for the future as you give us this great day, the Lord's Day. Or maybe, Father, there are some of your elect who are hearing these things. And that you might be pleased to bring him out of death into life, out of darkness into your marvelous light. Father, have your way. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.