News happens all the time, and you wonder when news occurs locally What is it that causes that piece of news to take on a national level? I think that one of the things that does uh uh that fits into all of that is when the news event is some sort of a scandal. Whenever a news source is picked up from a local that seems to be scandalous in nature, it seems to like really ratchet up to unbelievable levels And when that happens, there is absolutely no way of escaping hearing about that information over and over and over again. through either blogs, podcasts, traditional news network, your personal newsfeed on Facebook uh obviously your trusted outlets for news and radio and even the internet all over the place. Long gone are the days when it was just the national news network and your believe it or not, newspaper. Many of you are thinking what that might be. I think our our society has changed quite a bit, hasn't it, over a period in a very short period of time. What hasn't changed is our society's appetite for a good scandal. What also seems long gone is what we consider scandals these days. Now, this may come to a surprise to some of you. But when I was a kid, now I'm not talking about like the sixteen hundreds. When I was a kid, people living together out of wedlock was considered somewhat of a scandal. When was the last time when we had a scandal that was covered nationally? Now, I took some time thinking back about this just in this century alone. And here are the last three scandals that fit into what I'm talking about. These were the type of scandals, the type of stuff that it was impossible to escape from, whether it was in print, over the airwaves, radio, internet. The first that came to my mind was Bernie Madoff, who you may know, perpetuated, perpetrated. A multi-billion dollar scam that defrauded investors around the world for decades until his arrest in December of 2010. Madoff's fraud led many to financial ruin, and his name is now synonymous with what many consider one of the largest Ponzi schemes in the history of our nation. When the news broke, there was no way that you are not going to hear about it. The second scandal that came to my mind was the one that came From Penn State. It was over the child sexual abuse committed by Jerry Sandusky, an assistant coach for the Penn State Nittany Lions football team Over a period of at least 15 years. Now, if you recall, the story broke out in 2011, and it was impossible to escape hearing what was going on in that event or that scandal. But two years prior to that event, there was another scandal that not only rivaled the notoriety of what happened at Penn State, but far exceeded it. If you're old enough, you may remember. It seemed you just couldn't take a breath without hearing about none other than Tiger Woods There was so much scandal surrounding the world's most famous golf player. It seems that with every passing Day, a new woman stepped up, claiming to have an adulterous affair with that with what many at that time coined the golf god. It seems that this sad, scandalous story, and a variety of twists it had taken would have no end any time soon. Do you all remember that? In fact, it's not forgotten today. Let me tell you about another scandalous story. We are going to have to go back, not just the 21st century, we're going to have to go back perhaps two millennia. It's actually contained in our passage this morning. In fact, I don't know if you're aware of this, but there was a great deal of scandal surrounding the birth of our Savior. the Lord Jesus. This scandal was not a private matter that was kept in his family, but it was a public thing That got out, and into the very ears of some of the most powerful men in the land. Although Tiger Woods scandal has waned tremendously The story of the scandal, so-called scandal, surrounding Jesus' birth has been around for quite some time. Let us now turn our focus to that so-called scandalous event If you haven't already done so, please open your Bibles to our passage this morning, which is from Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inherent world? Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way, when his mother Mary had been betrothed to Jesus Before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit, and her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but he but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Jesus. Amen. Please be seated. This is the Word of God. Please join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would be with us now As we consider your word, help us to see the truth, help us to understand the truth, and help us to Be changed by your will, by your power to conform to it. And we ask that you would grant us encouragement from your word, and we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Right from the beginning of our passage this morning, there seems to be some sort of confusion. There has been for quite some time. And that is regarding the status of Mary and Joseph's relationship. What I mean is that in verse 18, we're told that Mary was betrothed To Joseph. But in verse 19, we are told that Joseph was intent on divorcing her. Many ask, well, which was it? Were they engaged or were they married? Is this some sort of an error that we found in Scripture? Not really. Back then, betrothed had a different meaning than our understanding of an engagement today. For the Jews, it was a prenuptial agreement that gave the man certain legal rights that could only be ended by the By a divorce. The terms husband and wife may have been used by the couple, but the girl continued to live with her parents and no marital relations were permitted And if either one of the couple died before the actual wedding day ceremony and celebrations, the survivors were actually considered a widow or a widower. The betrothal was that ironclad. This is why our text uses both betrothed and divorced for the same relationship But why was Joseph looking to divorce his betrothed? Well, it was because Mary told him that she was pregnant before they had. Consummated the marriage. And by the way, she insisted that she was still a virgin. Joseph wasn't buying any of this. Although he didn't want to spend the rest of his life with her, his character was such that he didn't want her to go through public ridicule and shame. So he decided that he was going to divorce her quietly. Can you imagine being a young girl, thirteen to sixteen years of age? Having to tell your husband with whom you have not been with that you are pregnant. And it wasn't by any other man, but you were carrying God's son. Oftentimes, unsupported claims are made that Christianity is some sort of a made-up religion with fantasies and tales. But I think that if the apostles were making up a once-upon a time story, usually it would be followed with immediate belief, acceptance. acceptance and compliance. In this case, by the husband, that would be Joseph. But that's not what we have here. We have a husband who's not buying it. Not only is he not buying it, he wants out. I think we could relate to Joseph because it's not believable. I think we can give him props for not wanting to respond with a desire to drag her through the mud. Although many would say that if he did, that would be within his rights. If you were Joseph and you were asked to believe in this supernatural birth, what would you need to accept Mary's word? Well, just like Jesus' birth was supernatural, it would have taken something supernatural to convince Joseph. And that's exactly what happened. In verse 20, Matthew reports that an angel of the Lord came to Joseph and said, Son of David, take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. In this dream, Joseph was told that the child would be a male, he was to name it, and the name that he was going to give would be Jesus I think it's important for us to understand why he was instructed to name the child. In Judaic culture, if a man names a child, it is his. And all that comes along with the family name. Joseph's naming the child meant that Jesus would be engrafted into the house of God. David. This is why Matthew stresses the angels addressed to Joseph as being a son of David. When Joseph named the child, the child was considered legally from the house of David. And this is significant and crucial because the king and messiah Was prophesied to come from none other than the house of David. And of all the names that could have come directly from heaven's throne, he is to name him Jesus. Which means God saves. Finally, we're told that the purpose of this child's life it is to save his people from Their sins. This is significant because if you were a Jew living in the first century and you were waiting for the Messiah to come, you are expecting him to finally remove the They're not sure. them political and economic freedom and to eternally punish their enemies. This was the expectation for the advent of the Messiah. Right from the beginning, Matthew helps us to understand the initial purpose of the Messiah was a king. Yes. But his immediate purpose was not to save his people from other people's sins. It was to save his people from their own sins. Right from the beginning, the cross was not some sort of a divine plan B. The cross was always plan A. Matthew makes this very clear. The birth of Jesus is significant for many reasons. The Advent season reminds the church that we are currently in the inter Advent period. We are now awaiting for the return of the Lord. Lord, the second arrival. The first time he came, he brought freedom to us from our sin By dying on the cross. But when he comes back the second time, the expectations God's people had when he came in the first century will come to fruition. God will judge the wicked and reward the righteous. All those who have not accepted the free gift of forgiveness for their sins By faith and faith alone will have to answer to God. The righteous will spend an eternity in King Jesus' kingdom And the sinful will spend an eternal torment in hell paying off their sins. Where will you end up? Will you spend eternity in the loving embrace of Jesus, or will you spend it in hell? Jesus hasn't returned yet, but every Advent season should remind us all that He will return. And you should take the time, even now, to repent from your sinfulness and ask God to give you a new eternal residence. And all this. by faith. You know, it's not every day, even back then, that virgins miraculously got pregnant. This is an inconvenient, scandalous, doubt-instilling detail surrounding Jesus' conception and birth The circumstances surrounding the birth of Jesus, some would say a scandalous event, followed Jesus throughout his life On one occasion, in John chapter 8, Jesus was engaged in a dialogue with the authorities about their spiritual lineage. Meanwhile they were concerned with physical lineage, you may remember, in John eight, thirty eight. Jesus said, I speak of what I have seen with my father, and you do what you have heard from your father. And they answered him, Abraham is our father. And Jesus said to them, if you were Abraham's children, you would be doing what Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I have heard from God. This is not what Abraham did You are doing what your father did. And here it is. And they said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one father, even God. As I mentioned earlier, if you're supposedly making up some fairy tale for the purpose of creating a world religion And want to be taken seriously. You don't start with pregnant virgins. But when Matthew, our author, decided that he was going to report that fact, That Mary was a virgin. He saw its significance. And it becomes one of the cornerstones of understanding who Jesus is. is and his relationship to the Holy Scriptures of the Old Testament. And let us turn our attention to that now. The significance that Matthew saw in Jesus' concept Was prophetic fulfillment. Which Old Testament prophecy did Matthew see that caused him to begin this account of the gospel with this particular detail? Well, it's verse 23. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Matthew is quoting a prophecy that comes from From the book of Isaiah, chapter 7, and verse 14, a passage that we hear quite often at this time of year. We get lots of Christmas cards that actually have that passage on there The prophet Isaiah prophesied that a sign would be given, and this prophecy had included in it a virgin, a child, a significant and an a significant name given to it. I think it's important for us to understand what this sign or prophecy was in Isaiah's time, what it meant back then, and what it means to us today. First, the history. Matthew quoted his prophecy from a section of Isaiah that's commonly called the Book of Emmanuel. Well, which starts from chapter 7 of Isaiah and goes to chapter 12. The Isaiah passages are set in the context of God giving a sign To Israel for hope and salvation at a time when her enemies threatened to take Jerusalem. At this time, this prophecy was given. Jerusalem was being threatened by two kings who wanted to attack the city and presumably install their uh their puppet king. Prior to the battle, the people of God in Jerusalem were understandably frightened when two formidable armies were coming up against them. God sent Isaiah, his prophet, to assure his people that he was going to deliver them, that he would be with them. There was going to be a sign that would remind the people that God was with them. A virgin would conceive and bear a child whom she would call Emmanuel. Now, the word used for virgin in Isaiah can also refer to a young woman, a maiden, if you will, or newly married woman The point is that in Isaiah's time, it wasn't specifically referring to a miraculous birth, but a birth nonetheless that would be a sign for God's deliverance. The naming of the child would say it all. This was a prophecy that was designed to be fulfilled in both Isaiah's time and Isaiah's It was, as well as to be fulfilled at a future date. The prophecy's fulfillment in Isaiah's time was a foreshadowing Of God doing something greater at a future time. The main feature of the sign is that God would save His People. Now the word Emmanuel literally means God with us. In the context of Isaiah's time, The mother was to call the child Emmanuel. But at the birth of Christ, the child was not to be called Emmanuel, but Jesus. However, Matthew helps us to understand that due to the circumstances surrounding the Lord's birth, he is the fulfillment of the prophecy and sign that was given in Isaiah. Time. But we have to be careful not to miss the fact that although the Emmanuel prophecy is being fulfilled in Jesus, it is integrally wrapped up with Jesus being Emmanuel. It is his title and role. Emmanuel is one of the key messages of all of Scripture In summary form, it is best communicated to us when God makes covenants One of the key statements and promises of a covenant is when God says, I will be their God, and they will be my people. In covenant theology, this statement alone is what's called the Emmanuel theme. One brief example will help us to see when God was revealing his future covenant to Jeremiah, he said what? He said in Jeremiah 31, 33. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them and I will write it on their hearts. And here it is, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. What's the significance of God being with his people? The covenant that the living and true God makes with his people. people clearly has several implications, of which we will take a couple a look at a couple of them. The first one is from Deuteronomy 31. 6. Which states, Be strong and courageous, do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. The first implication is that God will not leave, abandon, or forsake his people. As a minister who has counseled many people over many years, I have encountered a recurring theme that affects many people: a fear of abandonment. This abandonment is an event that normally happens early in life. It doesn't have to be early, but usually it is, and it causes an enormous fear that grips People more precisely, I should say, imprisons people from doing things, accomplishing things. Where they perceive that a world that doesn't love or care for them. People who have experienced abandonment early in their development have enormous problems trusting people. But sadly, their greatest struggle is trusting God. So often many Christians don't want to get involved in the church or Church events and its various ministries, because they are afraid that they will be rejected by either the church or God Himself. So many of God's people are on the sidelines, not getting involved with the battle, of getting out the wonderful news of our Savior, either through evangelism or a myriad of opportunities and ministries that that await them for them to become Involved. We must be reminded that God is with us. God is with you, Christian. He will never leave you. Jesus will never abandon you. He will keep your soul safe from destruction and continue to love you forever. Have you been finding yourself wanting to get involved, but you have this fear? Let me challenge you this morning to be reminded that no matter What has happened in your past, God will never abandon you, forsake you, or leave you. The second thing that I would like to bring up this morning is from Romans chapter 5 and verse 10. Which reads, For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by His life. We were once enemies of God, not wanting to do things his way or even believe in him, but God sent his own son to make peace with his people. people. You see, Jesus is not a peacemaker. I'm sorry, a peacekeeper, but he is a peacemaker. The hostilities between us and God have ceased. We are reconciled to God because of Christ. Christ's love for us. But this peace does extend beyond just having the status of peace. It is a status of spiritual wholeness that extends to every area of Our lives. During this Advent season, we've already spoken about the peace of God. But suffice it to say that that hole in your soul has been filled. By Jesus Himself. But we sometimes take our eyes off of God and other things, worldly things. Are you there today? Have you taken your eyes off of God and are now living a life, pursuing things that seem fun or would give you a sense of peace? If this is so, return to God. God desires that you reestablish ties with Him and deepen your relationship with Him Once again. You see, when God is with us, He is always prepared to accept you back. Perhaps today's Day that you return to Him and rededicate your life and your service to Him. Now, the final aspect of Emmanuel I would like to look at this morning is the distinguishing mark. Between God and His people and the rest of mankind. Exodus 33, 16 This is Moses now saying this. How will anyone know that you are pleased with me and with your people unless you go with us? What else will distinguish me and your people from all other people on the face of this earth? This passage points out that God does have a people of his own. Both prior to the cross and after it. God has been seeking out a people for his own in every generation. And they have come to know him by faith and faith alone. The Old Testament church was a visible kingdom in the sense that it was in a physical land with physical cities and, of course, the temple. where you could go to worship Jehovah. In the New Testament era, the kingdom of God has no borders. It's the citizens that are throughout the entire world. They are all the believers in the kingdom of God. kingdom of God. And the temple, well, there's no need of a physical temple with physical stones because we are the stones, living stones. That are chosen by God to make up the temple where God is worshipped. The Apostle Peter clearly points this out in 1 Peter 2. 5, where he says This is us. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house, a temple, a place wherein which God will be worshipped. One of the features of God's unfolding of his redemptive plan in history is that prior to the cross, the nation of Israel rejected God. And he ultimately took action. This caused the people of God to wonder if God would be with them in their time of need. But with the advent of Christ and the sending of the Holy Spirit, we need no longer to fear any of that. Let us listen again to the words of our blessed Savior. And it's very interesting that Matthew chooses to end the gospel with the very same theme that he began the gospel. Matthew 28, 19. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you And here it is, what people have been waiting for quite some time. And then he says, And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Emmanuel, I'm not leaving you. I am back. God's people will always have her Lord and God. Jesus will never abandon you. He will keep you safe and even bring back all who are truly his There is a living hope, peace, joy, and love for all those who are Emmanuel's people. Are you one of them? If not, a day will come when Jesus will return. And if you are not in Emmanuel's camp, It will not go well for you. With implications that will last for an eternity From the fellowship with God that mankind enjoyed from Eden to the grace of Jesus, this Is Emmanuel. God seeking out his children and his dwelling with them. This is a prominent theme throughout the Bible Finally, the Apostle Paul brought out the reality of how scandalous the gospel was. I mean the whole Christian message was so far-fetched and scandalous that it was just unbelievable. It's the kind of stuff that you can't make up. He says in 1 Corinthians 1 23. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles. See, the word for stumbling block in the Greek is scandalon, which is the word that we get for scandal. In other words, it was scandalous for some to believe in a Messiah that was actually crucified on a tree, accursed by Mosaic Law standards. And foolishness to the Gentiles who expected that their leader would be a military leader, someone like Caesar or Alexander the Great. Not one who was born of an economically destitute virgin girl. Speaking of scandals, the one about Tiger Woods will probably fade away, but the scandal of the cross. will not. It's been a scandal for over two thousand years. But one day, when Jesus returns The scandal will no longer be a scandal because the truth will be plainly seen. If you see the truth today, Praise the Lord. Won't you accept Jesus into your life by faith and experience the peace of God being with you? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that indeed you did send your Son, Jesus. We thank you, Father, that you named him. A name that reminds us of what he would do and what he has done and that we have in him through faith and faith alone. Our salvation, the pardon for our sins, the forgiveness that we need, so that we may have fellowship with you. Through faith. We thank you, Father, and we pray that you would help us to be reminded of this, even every time that we say Jesus' name, that we may take Joy and comfort and to serve you with boldness and courage, knowing that you are always with us. And no matter how badly we think, we mess things up, you will never leave us because you love us.