First John, we'll be reading uh verses 13 through uh 15 will be our text, but let's start in verse 11 as we read in John's epistle. And this is the testimony that God gave us eternal life. And this life is in his son. Whoever has the Son has life, and whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. That you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. Thus ends the readings of God's holy and inerrant word. Please be seated. Who do men say that I am? This question was uh one that Christ asked his disciples, and just as the beginning of the book we we acknowledge that even in the time of Christ that there were false ideas about who he was and what he had come to do. You saw that as John opened his epistle to the churches. He opened it setting forth the person and the work of Jesus Christ, setting forth the deity of Christ, he who was from the beginning, that eternal word of life. But also the humanity of Christ, He who was made manifest, that which we have seen and heard, which our hands have handled John sets forth the person and work of Christ to a church who is confused about the gospel, who is confused about what it means to believe in Jesus Christ. And here as John begins to close his epistle, as he summarizes many of the things that he said in this letter, he again sets forth the person and work. of Jesus Christ, the very heart of the gospel. I realize many of you uh were not here uh uh during the fall of last last last year um of 2004 uh when we ha started this series and and did the bulk of the work of going through the book. Um but you've come at a good time because here as he closes the book John summarizes um what he's saying to the churches. And uh as we read our text we see that John writes that believers might know that they have eternal life in Jesus Christ. And that they might understand that that salvation, that status in Christ gives them confidence before the Father in prayer First of all, John writes that believers have eternal life in Jesus Christ. We see this in verse 13. He says, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. Now as we look at that summary, that uh statement that John sets forth as he's winding th things down, um notice what he doesn't say. He's been talking about the holiness in the life of the believer. He's been talking about the love that believers have one for another, the the status of believers as children. And as he's fighting what's commonly called antinomianism, as he's call fighting those false teachers who have have um said that the law has no bearing on on how Christians live their lives. Yet in summarizing the gospel and writing to this church that is beleaguered He does not set up anything additional for them, but belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, he does not mean this in an Arminian way. It's not a command. If you believe, then you will have eternal life. No, it's it's a state. He's writing to a group of believers. And he says, I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. These are people who are already believing, that you may know that you have eternal life. So John uh is not setting forth a a works doctrine there. Let us not underst misunderstand that. But what he does say, he's setting um forth the gospel, that great truth, that the gospel and salvation is by faith alone, sola fide, as the reformers had it. And um he uh sh sets forth that belief is the only prerequisite for salvation. As Paul said in Ephesians 2, that salvation from God is through faith, and this is not of ourselves, but it is the gift of God, not by works, so that none might boast. But it's And John does this to encourage the church. Church. Remember uh as we uh look back on the situation in which the book was written, a group of false teachers, um probably precursors of the Gnostics who were had a um a vague notion of spirituality, but um we're uh not uh receiving or teaching or propagating the teaching of the apostles And they had left the church and said, We believe in Christ, but we don't we didn't think we don't think that he was truly man. He was just some sort of spirit in our our larger spiritual world that's um that we have as a secret um knowledge. And so John writes to this church to encourage them with words about eternal life. We see this in 1 Thessalonians 4, when Paul writes to the Thessalonians. He writes to them and says, I don't want you to be ignorant about uh spiritual things and what happens after death. And as he unfolds um or words about eternal life, about heaven and about the afterlife. In verse 18, after he uh concludes his remarks to the Thessalonians, he says, encourage one another with these words. And the hope of eternal life is a great encouragement to the believer. Sunday is a wonderful day of rest and fellowship, but we all know that not every day of the week is like that. Tomorrow morning we'll get up early and go about the worldly work that God has called us to. Many going to jobs, uh others having duties around the home or at school. And uh that day is is not one of rest. That one that day is often not one of Christian fellowship. And in the world, there are many hardships, even for the believer. And yet, when we fix our eyes on Christ, when we realize The great gift that God has given us, we can fix our eyes on an eternal life with God the Father in heaven. That we might know, that we might know that we have eternal life in Jesus Christ. What a comfort it is to the believer. What a a joy set before us that we might live our lives, not working for the weekend. Not working to advance our material comfort or our comforter in this life, which is fleeting. Not working because we're we're forced to. But working, because we know we serve a good and a gracious God who has called us unto himself, who has given his own son to pay the penalty for our sins. That we might not perish, but that we might live and live eternally with Him in heaven John writes to these believers who are confused. He writes to these believers who have been the subject of false teaching. He writes to these believers that they may know that they have eternal life in Jesus Christ. Let me ask you tonight, do you know Jesus Christ? Do you have eternal life in him? And I make no apologies for asking this in a very conservative Reformed church. In an evening service, because an e being in a reformed church does not make you a Christian. Going to the evening service does not give you a relationship with Jesus Christ. But believing in the Son of God. And if you are believing in the Son of God tonight, if you are putting your hope and trust in him, then you have eternal life. But lest we talk about a vague knowledge of Christ, remember the three aspects of faith: a knowledge of a thing. Assent to that thing and a trust in that thing. And let me just ask you, do you know what the Bible says about Jesus Christ and about salvation? Are you familiar with the whole teaching of the Word of God? Is it your diligent practice to be studying to know what God has revealed in His Word? That's the first aspect. Just to know what the Bible says, just to know what it says about Christ, about who he was, and about what he has done. The second aspect is assent to that. If you have a knowledge of what the Bible says, but don't agree with it. It does you very little good. There are many unbelievers who study the Bible, who know it very well, and yet are enemies and strangers to God. Because they don't agree with it. They do not believe in the word of the Son of God. But the most common obstacle for people is not knowing what is in the Bible. That's a very straightforward book. Or not assenting to it, agreeing, oh, yeah, I I agree that that's true. But the biggest barrier to people is placing your hope and your trust in God and what he says in the Bible. John writes to believers, those who have believed in the Son of God, those who are actively hoping and trusting in Christ. And in nothing else, not in any secret knowledge, not in any works that they might do, but in Christ. And in Christ alone is their hope and trust. Children, as you came in the sanctuary and as your parents chose a row and decided for on a place to sit, you probably put your things down and began to sit down in one of these chairs. Now it's one thing to say, I I know that those folding chairs can can hold my weight. That's another thing to have seen it hold other people's weight. But the picture of faith and trust is one of placing all of your weight on the folding chair. Now if the folding chair was not sound, you would uh it would collapse and you would go straight to the ground and um would be uh hurt by that fall. But if the chair is sound, then it will support you all of your weight. And that is the picture of trust. And as a part of faith. That we put all of our weight upon God. That we uh as it were uh Put all of our uh all of who we are and all of everything that we do in his hands, trusting that he will not allow us to fall. that he will save us as his people unto himself. So John writes to the the church to encourage them with with these words, that they might know that they have eternal life in the Son of God. But he also writes to know that they might know that they have confidence through Jesus Christ in prayer, that they might enjoy this benefit of being a Christian, of being in relationship with God. that they might have confidence. And we find this in verse 14. This is the confidence which we have before him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Now, uh, the word confidence is often used in uh in our day and age in a way uh to describe sinful behavior, to describe arrogance or presumption. But that's not uh the way he uses it here. The confidence is is a truth, something that should encourage us. And spur us on to action. And he says, this is the confidence that we have before him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears Us. And believers do have a confidence in coming before the Father in prayer. We see this in Jesus' teaching on prayer. That as we get the parable of the persistent widow. She comes before the the unjust judge again and again and again and after he said no and after he's obviously become agitated and irritated with this widow, yet she continues to come and she continues to come and she continues to come. until the judge throws up his hand and says, All right, already. And he grants her justice. That's the picture that Jesus gives us. about prayer. How did the how did the widow didn't the widow get discouraged? No, she had confidence in coming and making her request known again and again. Again, uh another parable that Jesus gave about prayer was the friend at midnight, who though it was late, and though he should have been embarrassed not to have anything to feed his guest. Yet he went to his friend and asked him. And though his friend said, No, it's late. I I'm in bed with my children you know, no. Yet he continued to ask. And he continued to ask. in a almost a shameless way. But yet he asked because he knew he had that confidence that his friend would give to him. And then Jesus says, uh confirms that, that the friend will give him as much as he asks, because he continues to ask. That's the c the picture of confidence that Jesus gives us in prayer for the believer. But whereas and whereas the believer has this confidence before before God, the unbeliever does not. The psalmist clearly uh shows us that uh that God is far from the wicked. That's in Psalm 119. And Psalm 1 concludes by saying, the way of the wicked that God does not know. And the wicked do not have that confidence. Unbelievers have no confidence before God. There's the phrase, there's no atheist in foxholes. And the idea is that uh when people get in trouble, it then they can turn to God. Then they can uh switch their beliefs and pray to God. But beloved, if we do not know God through Jesus Christ, if we are not in a saving relationship with Him, God does not hear our prayers. But it's only in Christ and through faith in him that God hears us, that God takes account of our prayers Paul puts it this way at Ephesians 2. 18. For through him, meaning Christ, we both have our access in one spirit unto the Father. So we have access through Jesus Christ, through the Spirit, to the Father That in Jesus Christ we can go before the God of the universe, not just the ruler of the Washington, DC area. Not just the ruler of the United States of America or the planet Earth, not just of our solar system, but the God who created the heavens and the earth, all of the solar system, the universe. We can come before him in prayer because we are his children in Jesus Christ and through faith in him Him. God hears the prayer of the believer. And that should give us confidence. That confidence is that he hears our prayer. John says again at the end of verse 14, if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Prayer is a is a difficult discipline in the in the Christian life in some ways. Because as we as we seek God in prayer, as we ask for things, there's no immediate response like we often get in our culture. There's uh there's silence. God does not speak audibly to us as we're used to communicating with one another. And oftentimes as we see the s the circumstances of life um play out, uh Uh we look for gr instant gratification for it to happen instantaneously or quickly. But uh even as we read in Habakkuk chapter two, um God said to Habakkuk, the vision is yet for an appointed time, but wait for it, though it seems to tarry, though it lingers. In the end it will speak, and it will not lie, it will surely come, and it will not tarry. God is not slow in keeping his promises, as some account slowness to be. And yet as we pray and as we look for God's response, it's a difficult discipline. And yet, John writes that they that the believers might be confident because God hears our prayers. In Jesus Christ. And not only does he hear our prayers, but God in Christ works all things to the good of believers and to his We see this in verse 15. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the request which we have asked from him. Now you might be saying, well how can he say that? I mean I've had prayers that I've asked and God hasn't answered those prayers. They've turned out differently than I prayed. How can John say that we we know that we have the request which we've asked from him? Well God answers prayer in many different ways. Sometimes the answer is yes, and he answers our prayers positively. He answers them very specifically in a positive way. But sometimes the answer is no. And God, uh, especially when we ask for things that are inherent if we were to ask for things that are inherently sinful. Things that are destructive either to ourselves or to others, or that are not for the for the best of of the church or for God's glory, God would say no to those prayers, for our own good, for the good of others. For his own glory. And oftentimes God asks us to wait. As the psalmist says in Psalm 27, verse 14, wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. He shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say on the Lord. In closing that psalm, uh the psalmist says that we should wait on the Lord and He repeats it again almost as if to grab our lapels and say, wait on the Lord, because it's it's very hard to wait. As we're praying, as we're pouring out our heart, especially when we're in difficult times, in times of trial, in times of need, and we're crying out to the Lord. Oftentimes the Lord calls us to wait. And as his people, we need to recognize these different responses from God as answers to our prayers. As God's holy will for his church. And as God, again, working all things for his own glory and for the good of his people. The phrase in John's epistle in verse 14 is important to take into account. This is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will. He hears us. Now what does that mean as we think about the actions of God in relation to his people? Can God do all things? What's the answer to that question? God can do all his holy will. And so as we think about prayer, as we think about how God acts for the good of his people and for his own glory. How does he act? He does all his holy will. Well, how does how is his will shaped? What are you What how does his will interact into time and space? What has he decreed shall come to pass? Again, I think the catechism helps us. When we ask the question, what are uh God's eternal decrees? And we find that the decrees of God are his eternal purpose. according to the counsel of his will, whereby for his own glory he hath foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. And when we come before God and ask things, God does all his holy will to glorify himself according to his eternal decree. And so even though uh we might ask for one thing, if God's glory will be best served, he might say no to our prayers. He might say, wait to our prayers, or he might grant our prayers according to the counsel of his will for his own glory. So he works things for his own glory, but also for the good of his people. And uh Just as we read in the first chapter of 1 John, that John is writing to the church that they might have fellowship with each other and also with the Father. He says, and our fellowship is with him and with his son, Jesus Christ. That's the best thing that we could ever have from God is fellowship with him. If you have friends and relatives that you're praying for, that's the best thing that you can pray for them. That they may know God, that they may grow in their relationship with God. And just like a child might ask for cookies or candy when they're hungry, the parent knowing that they're hungry and knowing that's not the best thing for them. Might not always give them exactly the the specific thing that they ask for, but we'll always give them what is best for them In the same way, God always works for the good of his people, drawing them to himself, oftentimes weaning their hearts away from the material things and often material blessings in this world. But working for their ultimate blessing in this world and in the world to come. Because he loves his people. And because he has sent his son, Jesus Christ, to pay the penalty for rebellious sinners. While they were still sinners, he sent his son to die for them that they might become the righteousness of Christ. John writes these things to the churches. That they might know that they have eternal life in believing in Jesus Christ. That they might know the confidence that a believer has before God in prayer. And that they might know that God loves his people and works all things, all things, for his own glory and for the good of his people. At uh Greenville Seminary where I attend um there's it's not a very big building, it's not a very uh spacious or grand building, but there is an area where the students like to hang out. And uh it's a lounge area with a vending machine and uh and a couple of other things. And it's not uncommon um to see people getting a snack between classes. Um The vending machine is not the newest vending machine, and it's not the most reliable vending machine. And oftentimes you'll see students try to try to coax snacks out of the vending machine after they have put in the required amount of money. And so when uh they put in the money and they turn the uh crank and and the snack doesn't fall, oftentimes they'll they'll give it a little shake just to encourage it. Or they might uh actually try and uh move the vending machine a little bit, hoping that that will encourage it. And um Oftentimes trying patience, they'll become angry and violent with the vending machine, trying to get what they have ordered out of it. But believers, this is sometimes the way we treat God in prayer. We come to Him and we present our request to Him in prayer. We come to him uh again believing, knowing that he is all powerful and can do all things, and yet when we don't instantly get our requests, we believe Begin to to push back. We begin to become angry and violent even. We either tend towards um uh keeping our anger in and um or expressing it outwardly, uh our unbelief, then that's It's because God has not answered it in the way that I that I have imagined. Because God has not answered it in the way that I wanted into. Therefore Maybe there's something wrong. Maybe he doesn't love me. Maybe he's he's not able to fulfill this. As we've gone through the media coverage of Hurricane Katrina, we've seen this time and time again with those who are not Orthodox, those who do not believe in the Scriptures. And even some in evangelical circles who frame the question this way: Is God not good or is he not powerful? Brothers and sisters, John writes to the churches to encourage them that God is both good and he is powerful. And as we wrestle in prayer, we can wrestle in confidence. In confidence, knowing that God has all power. To accomplish his good and perfect purposes, to do all of his holy will according to his eternal decrees. And those decrees work all things for the good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose. What a great God we have. That God restrains our sinful desires. That He strengthens our righteous desires, though they are weak. That He trains us in the fruit of the Spirit. And that He chastens us. And love. From all eternity, God works to glorify Himself rightly and to shepherd a sinful and rebellious people, to be His people through the atoning death of Jesus Christ. He justifies his people by faith alone in the person work of Jesus Christ. He sanctified his people. And as he adopts them into his family and gives them rights and privileges, the promises of God He also sanctifies them through prayer, feeding our spiritual desires, restraining our sinful desires, and working all things to his good and to the good of his people.