Well, good morning, Church. Good to be with you this morning. I want to say thank you so much for having myself and my my wife and our children to come and be a part of your worship service this morning. Uh as Rick said I'm I'm Yancey and uh the Lord has blessed me over many years of giving me fruitful ministry. And so I'm I'm excited about what God is doing in your community after hearing from your pastor and about all the exciting things that are happening here and outreach that you all are doing in this community. So glad to be with you this morning. Glad to open God's word with you this morning. This is the word of life that God has given us. uh today friends. And to today we'll be looking at a familiar passage maybe to some, maybe popular to others, but very important in the mission and the movements that God makes in the world to bless his people everywhere. We'll be looking at Matthew chapter 9, verses 35 through 38. In this scripture, it's embedded in one of Matthew's discourses throughout the book. He writes about Jesus. And Matthew is communicating through this gospel that Jesus is the coming Messiah, the long-awaited Messiah. As we see in the genealogy through Matthew 1-1, that Jesus is the one who comes in the line of David, the great king, who was given the covenant that there would be a man on God's throne forever. Going back a bit further, Jesus is the one who comes in the line of Abraham, that offspring that Paul talks about in Galatians chapter 3. Like the the offspring of Abraham that was promised the blessing that would be a blessing to the nation is Jesus. So Matthew is communicating these things to the Israelite community of that time. So you want to see who the long awaited Messiah is where here he is. It's Jesus. And also Matthew is communicating to Other disciples of Jesus who are part of other nations as well, so that they would know that Jesus is the Lord and the King of the entire world. And so we come to this passage and we learn about his heart, the heart of God, a heart filled with compassion and mercy for his brokenness and his lost people. So Matthew here in this passage, Matthew 9, it serves a dual purpose. You know, it's like a transition passage. It summarizes the ministry of Jesus from the Sermon on the Mount in chapters 8 and 9 of Matthew. But secondly, these verses are an introduction to the mission that Jesus gives to his disciples. So Matthew helps us to look back at how Jesus brings about compassion to those in great need and looks forward to continuing his work through his disciples. So will you read with me right now the passage for today? Matthew 9, verses 35 through 38. And I want to invite you to stand for the reading of God's word. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues. and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless like sheep. without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest still. Friends, this is the word of God. Amen. Let's pray together. Father, oh our great God, who is Almighty, and there's none other. Would you be with us through the preaching of your word, through you sharing the words of Jesus? Your words, oh God. May your word fall upon our hearts as light As a lamp to our feet and light to our path. May your word fall upon our hearts, God, as a hammer that breaks rocks into pieces. And Lord, may your word fall upon our hearts to encourage us for the road ahead. So we thank you. We ask that you will be with us and bless your people now. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Compassion. Very important word here throughout the book of Matthew, but important to our lives. What gets in the way of our compassion at times? May it it may be something like we're down and have self-pity. It may be something like anger that blocks us from really thinking God's thoughts after him. Maybe it's it's apathy. We just don't want to help anyone. We back up and we give up and we're indifferent. No matter what it is, there are moments in our lives that we need compassion. There are moments in our lives that we need to show compassion to others. I think about the storms that have been raging in our nation. You know, a friend called me and my wife, Nikki, and she said with tears in her eyes, you know, the storm was brutal. It went through their city of Augusta, Georgia. And there she was with her husband. They were sleeping in their beds. And then their son got them up, woke them up because the sound of the wind and the trees, the clashing of the trees to the ground. was so loud that he woke up. Mommy, Daddy, what he it was just confusing to him. What was going on? And it was terrifying to them as well when they realized like this storm is raging. Like they'd never seen before. And so they went down to a safe place in their home. And there they were, crouched together. Bringing comfort to one another as they listen to the storm, as they hear all the loud sounds around them And so they got up after things had died down a bit, and they realized that a tree had fallen on their house. In God's providence, if God would not have awakened their son, they would not be with us today. They needed the compassion of God. They needed a God to protect them. They needed one to save them in this situation. And God delivered them out of this trouble. Though that was reckless to their home, God delivered them safely through the storm. Friends, it's like that in our lives, right? We have many storms that we go through. And so we need a God of compassion to come to us In our time of need, we need a God of compassion who sees us as we are, where we are downtrodden, where we are hurt, where we are deeply distressed. And we need a God who's able to save us out of all situations. And so Matthew brings us to this passage here to show us clearly. That Jesus is this compassionate Lord. The one who saves sinners from their wrongdoing. The one who's there to uplift the broken. From their broken situations. So even in Matthew chapter 1, verses 21, we see that Jesus' very name means Savior because he comes to save his people from their sin. Matthew doesn't waste time to show us that this Savior has a great pedigree, as we talked about earlier from a long line of kings. From along the lines of patriots who are faithful to the Word of God. But this one Jesus is also the one that God sent into the world to save his people from their sin. This Savior is the one who also comes. With the heart of God. Jesus being conceived by the Holy Spirit. Born of the Virgin Mary comes directly from the throne of God above. He was sent by God to show the character of God to his people. And that's why we we learned even through Exodus thirty four That when God revealed himself to Moses, this is what God said to Moses about what his name is and what he does in the world. Listen to this word. Then the Lord came down in the cloud and stood there with him, Moses, and proclaimed his name The Lord. And he passed in front of Moses, proclaiming the Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God. slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. Yet he does not leave thee guilty unpunished. He punishes the children and their children for the sin of the fathers to the third and the fourth generation. So it is God's heart That people would turn to him and see him and to know him as the God of compassion. That people would turn to him and see that he offers grace upon grace. So we have a Savior who comes in the spirit of this compassion, of his gracious God and Father to seek and save the lost. So through Jesus' evangelistic efforts, he shares the truth of God's word to those who believe, so that they may believe and receive Jesus, the gift of life. The one whom God sent as Savior in the world. In light of this truth, friends, how shall we then live? Well, this in this passage instructs us in three ways. We must share the word of Jesus with compassion to those in need. Right? We also must share the word of Jesus to protect the hopeless. And we must share the word of Jesus with compassion to complete the mission of Christ. Christ. So we must share this word with compassion to those in need. And we know this word need. And there are needs abounding. But according to Matthew in this passage, those that need this word of compassion are those who do not understand God's word. Those who do not believe God's word, and those who have suffered loss of health. So, how should we approach those who do not understand God's word? Well, we should teach them. We see in verse 35, and Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues. This was a common practice of Jesus in his ministry. To go wherever the people were Whether they were in the cities, whether they were in the the rural areas, whether they were in the ditches or on the highway, whether they were at the store, at the market, or whether they were in somebody's house. Jesus was showing up. He was going throughout these cities and villages and everywhere to refresh the hearts of the people, but to teach them God's word. And we will often find Jesus in the synagogue. On the Sabbath. Because that is where the Word of God was open for the people. And there is where that's where Jesus would go and teach them. the proper understanding of God's word and God's heart. So Jesus was instructing the people about the truth of God. You have heard it said as we review the summit of the mount, but Jesus said, but I tell you, here is someone who taught with authority And people recognize that. Jesus was instructing people to obey God's word, which is another way of loving God. So this synagogue was this place of meeting. It was a the assembly of the people of God in Israel. They met there for worship. They met there for prayer, but most importantly, they met there. To receive the instruction of God's word. Isn't this what God tells us through his word? Through the scripture? We see in Deuteronomy chapter 6. That God wants his people to know that he is indeed the Lord, the only one true God. He wants them to know that they should love him with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength. And these are the words that Was commanded to be upon our heart to teach them everywhere that we went, to teach them to our children, to teach them by the wayside, to teach them when we lie down, to teach them when we're out in our yards. To hold them in our hearts. And so this is what we see our Savior doing. He's modeling before us that no matter where we are, that we should look for the opportunity to instruct and to teach someone what you know about what his word says. And now we can't know that we can't plumb the depth of God's word, right? To understand all that is in it. But collectively, we can think about it. We can partner together. We can encourage each other towards it. But how should we approach those who do not believe God's word? Well, we should proclaim God's word to them. Teaching and proclaiming. And Jesus, as he went about, this is exactly what he was doing: proclaiming God's word, the gospel of the kingdom. You see, he wasn't just proclaiming any old gospel. He was proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. Because this word, youangelia, the word in Greek, is the word for gospel. For proclaiming the gospel. It's good news. And good news can come when you hear that someone indeed has been healed Good news can come when you've been provided for in a certain way. Good news can come when you hear from the doctor that you have a good bill of health. There are all kinds of good news that can come to us. But Jesus went about proclaiming and announcing to the people the gospel of the kingdom of God. The gospel of the kingdom of God. The good news that God has seen the hearts of his people and that God would move in. And to save them from their sin. Yes, the people need all sorts of things, but the main thing, the core thing, is that this good news will be believed upon in their hearts That God really does care for them. That God really does have a Messiah to come and deliver them. And we know this Messiah to be none other than Jesus, the one who's indeed proclaiming. And one thing that Jesus proclaimed for the people about this good news is that he was the one who was the would come to suffer and to die for their sins. He was the one who sh showed them that you got a sin problem. It's always been there since the beginning. When the first man sinned, our federal representative representative of Adam, he fell into sin. And ever since then, God's eye has been on his peace. to come and rescue them, to save them, to know their anguish of their hearts. And that's what he does through Jesus. He sends Jesus as a perfect lamb without spot of blemish to sacrifice himself on the cross. for his people. Jesus proclaimed this message to them so that they would know that when he died and when he was resurrection resurrected that he is the Christ. The coming one of God to save his people from their sins. That he is the way, the truth, and the life to God for the people. So Jesus makes this public declaration. He proclaims the good news of the kingdom through what he said and also what he did. How then should we approach those who suffer from the loss of health? Well, we should heal them. Right? Well you maybe you may be thinking, wait, how do we heal people? Is that a thing? You know, wasn't Jesus the only one who can lay hands on people to heal them? Well, Jesus is making it clear here that he went about indeed healing the people of all kinds of diseases and affliction. Whoever came to Jesus, he did not turn away. Even those who touched the hem of his garment by faith, Jesus healed them too. So whoever was brought to him, like the man who was paralyzed, His four friends brought him and put him before Jesus. Jesus healed him inwardly and outwardly. He healed his soul and he healed his body. And the key to their healing was the faith that they had in God, which is a gift itself. That God would give the gift of faith That belief would be known in their own hearts, that their eyes may be open, that Jesus is the Christ. These miracles, these healings pointed to the truth of God's word about who Jesus is, not just the miracles themselves. God was able to save, he wanted to save, he wanted to take care of his people and heal them from their sickness and disease, to heal them from their mental incapabilities, the to heal them from their issues of blood, to heal them from being paralyzed. All types of healing that Jesus did. And Jesus also gave this authority to his apostles so that their ministry may be validated, that it is a ministry of God and not a man. That no one could be doing these miracles, these healings, these acts of mercies, these miracles, unless they were sent by God. Well, we have one who is here who is God. And Jesus has given the responsibility to you and I to care for the needs of the people around us. Well, how do we do that? Well we open our homes to people, right? Show hospitality. How else do we do that? Well, we give to people as they have need out of maybe the abundance that we have, but indeed out of the poverty that we have. Right? We share our lives. through conversations, through being a friend, through opening ourselves to relationships with other people in our neighborhoods, our neighbors Right? It could be a bit uncomfortable. Any friendship that start off can be like are we doing this friendship thing? You know? But you the more and more you dive in there, you know, the more and more you spend time and have shared experiences. And then what comes up? A need comes up in your friend's life. How will you tell them that you would be there for them? How do you want them to be there for you as well? Well, as believers, we can show up in amazing ways. In people's lives, to bring ourselves at the salt and light in their lives. To be to sit with them when they're in the hospital, to be a comfort, a bomb to their soul. We can indeed pray that God will heal them. Bring the oil elders and put it laid on their heads and pray for them, right? As the Bible instructs us to do In that time, Jesus does give the gift of healing to his people through the land on hands. People have been healed from sickness and disease You know, there are many stories out there about people who've had some type of ailment, may it be cancer, or some other ailment, and the body of believers have come around them. Laid hands on them, wept with them, and just waited with them and then they go to the doctor and the doctor says, I I can't believe my eyes. I don't know what happened here, but it's gone And the thing that we can do at that point is praise God. Because we know that God sees our needs. We know He sees our need for healing. And so we see here that the Lord has his heart, compassionate heart, turned towards us to teach us his word, to instruct us in the way. To proclaim this good news to our hearts, that our hearts may be made alive through the victory that's in Jesus and also to heal us, to bring health to his people. This is our great need, church, as we begin to see how Jesus has come with a compassionate word to those in need. But also, he comes With a word of compassion to protect the helpless. Who are the helpless? Well, we see here they're the ones who are harassed and helpless. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. We see here the Jesus going about, seeing the crowds, seeing their true reality. Not their dressed up reality, right? He's seeing with extra-ray vision beyond their eyes. And he's seeing what they really need at their heart level And Jesus is moved with an eternal compassion. He is suffering with them He's also moved, as many scholars have said, by his guts to move in there, gut-wrenching. Heart-centered compassion to move towards him to do something about their needs And Jesus knows at this point as he looks over the crowds that ultimately, ultimately, he would have to go to the cross to show the ultimate view of compassion. But he sees here that they are being harassed. They're like sheep without a shepherd. And so what's going on here? What's going on in in Israel, is Israel that the people feel this Harassment and helplessness. Jesus says, like sheep without a shepherds. Weren't there leaders in the community? Weren't there people that were given the words of God, the truth of God, that were supposed to be in their utmost care? Had God not left any elders in the land? Oh, he did. And they were plentiful. They were misguided by their own lust. Jesus had words for them. He had words for them. At one point, Jesus had words of woe for the leaders in the day. Hear now God's word from Matthew 23. Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, the scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. So do and observe whatever they tell you, because what they're speaking is the word of God. But do not the works they do. Jesus is saying, hey, don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. The word of God is good. Listen to God's word. Follow his ways, but don't practice what these blind guys practice. Practice. They're leading the people astray. Jesus says they tie up heavy burdens on the people. And they are hard to bear. And they lay them on the people's shoulders. But they themselves are not willing to move not one finger to help them. They do all their deeds to be seen by others, Jesus says. For they make their phylacteries, their scripture memory boxes, broad and their fringes long. They love the places of honor at the feast and the best seats in the synagogue and greetings in the marketplace and being called rabbi by others. They want honor. And the Lord has made it clear that such leaders who live for such things, they have have their reward. But it's not eternal. It's only what their eyes can see. And so they are blocking the people of God from coming into the kingdom of God. With the way that they are acting, with the way that they are behaving. And they can't really see that the people need to hear a word from their heavenly father. They need to hear from the shepherd on high. And that's why Jesus said they're like a sheep without a shepherd. They're being thrown down. They're being Uh left to die. They they've been unprotected. The wolves come in and take advantage of the people of God. And so Jesus is saying that, hey, I'm here now. I'm here to come with compassion to protect the hopeless. I'm moving in to where my people are because they need me Because you see, Jesus did not just see when he was walking on earth that his people were harassed and helpless. Jesus saw from heaven, and that's why God sent him It reminds me of Exodus when Pharaoh was mistreating God's people, putting heavy loads on them. What did they do? They cried out to God And heaven heard their cry and came in and he provided a mediator through Moses who points to the ultimate mediator who is Christ. So God sees. So we must, friends, share this word of God with compassion with those who are in need. May we be so moved by this word that we move towards those who are in need. Like the Apostle Paul said in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, he shared not only the word of God with the people. people but his very life as well, given all that he had for the needs of the people. We must share his word to protect the hopeless. Because there is hopelessness in the church and outside of the church. So we must go and evangelize and share this hope. And we must share his word with compassion. To complete the work of Christ. That's the last thing we'll look at right now. We must share his word with compassion to complete the work of Christ. How does Jesus instruct his disciples to join him in completing the work? Well, by believing the reality of the harvest. And by praying to the Lord of the harvest, right? Looking back on this passage, you and I, we can rejoice. That Jesus looked and saw the reality and that he was teaching his disciples to see the reality of the harvest. Right? What must we believe We must believe the reality of it, right? He says then he said to his disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few The harvest is plentiful. So he's changed metaphors here to like a a field. So there are many in the harvest field of God that God wants to save and bring into his kingdom. There are many out there in the world that in every generation that God is sending his people out to share this good news with them. So that he would bring many sons and daughters to glory. And I say we can rejoice in this because we were once that harvest, right? We were out there. Without hope, without God in the world. And what did God do? He taught our parents or he taught a neighbor or he taught a friend. And they shared this word of hope with us. And God gave us the faith to believe, and our hearts were awakened, and we believed this good news, and we came into the fold, didn't we? We must believe that the harvest is plentiful. This is so exciting, friends. So exciting to know That through you and I, God wants to save people. He wants to use us to be a part of bringing people in to his church so that we all can be nurtured together. Worship together and be on mission together for God, but the labor is a few. This will be the same in every generation Right? The laborers a few. But this should not discourage us. This too should excite us to know that God is on the move. Things will not remain this way. But we need to believe in this reality because this means fruitful labor for us. And joy for us as well as God grows his church and brings in many sons and daughters. But we do become discouraged when we don't see the fruit, don't we? It's similar to if you have a garden, right? You have some hot days in the summer and the plants are looking sad, you can't water them enough. It's like, oh man, I'm I'm Not gonna have any fruit. I'm not gonna have any tomatoes. I'm not gonna have any peppers. And so we're watering though. We're trying to stay consistent. We're watering, right? And we're planting. And then there's a bud that comes. There's a flower that comes. Then there's fruit. You know? This past year we got our first tomato on the vine. We were excited. And my daughter Jay went and plucked it and ate it. She got the fresh fruit. It's so exciting, right? And so, church, we must believe in this reality because this is the true reality. And this can encourage our hearts when we feel like giving up. Anybody been in that place? You just feel like discouraged and tired. Like God, are you really doing anything in our neighborhood? Are people really coming to you? We turn on the news and we see the bad news, right? And it's like, oh It's so discouraging what's happening out there. You know? But God wants to use us. And this is how He instructs us. We must pray to the Lord of the harvest. Verse 2038. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest, to send out laborers into his harvest. The prayer is for hearts. So we're not praying about something that's not on the heart of God. You see, this prayer right here that Jesus gives us is almost like an if-then statement, right? As it's written. You know, it's like it's almost like it, you know, if you pray, then he might send out laborers into the harvest. So when we pray earnestly that the Lord of the harvest will send out laborers, I wonder if Jesus said he would do it. But see, it has to be an earnest prayer. Not a flippant prayer. Not a wishful prayer, but one that comes from our heart that's meaningful. One that's filled with belief that God is able to raise up laborers, that he is able to send them out. And what does God do? Who is this prayer for? It's for us who are praying the prayer. Because what God does in Matthew chapter 10, he sends the disciples out. That's what Jesus does. Immediately he sends them out, gives them authority to cast out demons and to heal. To show forth that the kingdom is breaking in. But it begins with prayer, earnest prayer from the heart of God, that he will send not laborers into the Harvest field. So when you pray this prayer, know that the first person who's going to be sent out is you. Because how can we believe that God wants to use us? Who are insignificant, right? Except through what Christ has done in our lives. Yes, as we are in the harvest With the people of God. Yes, Jesus, the head of us, wants to use the body, every single part of the body, to go out. And to bear fruit, to plant, and to water, to pray consistently. And our hearts are warmed and we know the Father's business then. Right? But without prayer, our hearts are not conditioned to be dependent upon God. Without prayer, our hearts are really distant from God. And we think, well, I need to figure this out on my own. But he says, pray. Pray that he would send out laborers. Starting with myself. Starting with my friends that know Jesus. Because what God has deposited within our hearts, friends, is the Spirit of God to lead us into places and to give us words. His word. That our hearts may move and overflow with compassion for those who are around us. So the Lord knows and sees what we need. He's bent on using us. You know, as a missionary, I was I had to leave my my mother. I was raised up in a single family household. I left my mom and my little sister, who's 14 years younger than me. Uh at the time I think she was around seven, I knew I would miss out on some very important milestones in my sister's life and in my mom's life as well. It was hard to move to South Africa. It was very hard for me as a single man. And so I moved there. But I remained constant in prayer that God would save my sister and my mom. And I went over there to a land not my own, being one who was sent out by God, not knowing how God would use me there. So when I got on the ground, lo and behold, God used everything about me to draw people to himself My accent. Oh, you're American. I didn't know. Uh why would you leave America and come here? Isn't that the promised land? All kinds of things that God would use. You know? That people may be alert to the words of God. I was just being a tool used in the hands of our Father. And friends, God wants to use you as well. He wants to fill your heart with compassion that you may overflow into what God has given you to do. That you may grow in the likeness of Christ as you are through this work. Yes, you may become tired. The temptation may be to become weary, but he has promised to lift you up, to build you up. And there's no other way than to do this through the church. Together as we are on mission for God. Leading the charge in our neighborhoods, daring to open our mouths to share who we really are in Christ. And at church, that's where we learn how to do that, right? We learn strategically how to pray, how to move in, and have conversations with people so that we would bear fruit for Jesus. Friends, the Lord is serious about saving the souls of Dan. Thanks be to God. We have the privilege. We have the front row seat because we've seen how He saved us. And so let us be encouraged to move out with this word with compassion to those who really need it. May we share his word so that there can be protection for the people of God, that they be may be nurtured, but that we will share with the lost those who don't know this word, so that they would know the hope of God. So may we share this word with compassion to complete the work God has given us to do. That we would hand it down to other disciples that would come after us. So that one day at the return of our great and gracious King, we all may rejoice around the throne room together. Let's praise God. Together. Holy Father, we thank you for your majesty and your love. Lord, without you moving in our hearts, God, there's no movement to be had. So, Father, we come now to a time where we are prepared to feast with you. As we, Father, reflect upon this word, even, God. God, help us to know that our Redeemer lives. He lives in our hearts. He lives in our community. And we are moving out with Him to share His amazing grace with our neighbors. We pray this in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit.