There was a a book that was published several years ago. Actually, it was published in 2003. It is one of the best-selling mystery thriller novels of all time. The author was Dan Brown Three years later, it was made into a movie, directed by none other than Opie, Ron Howard. And the lead actor was Tom Hanks. Anybody guess which book I'm making reference to? Just raise your hand if you think you know it is. Yeah. Okay. I've got a handful of you all. It was called The Da Vinci Code. Perhaps maybe some of you will remember that book. For those of you who are not familiar with the storyline, The novel explores an alternate religious history. It provoked a popular interest in the speculation concerning the Holy Grail. Mary Magdalene's role in the history of Christianity. The book has, however, been extensively been denounced by many Christian denominations. As an attack on Roman Catholic faith and consistently criticized for its historical and scientific inaccuracies. This book sold 80 million copies. And then when the movie came out, an additional 77 million people saw it in theaters just in America alone. Do you think that maybe some folks within the church might have bought the book? Eighty million? Perhaps maybe even saw the movie. Yeah, I think so. I remember when it was released. I was living in uh and ministering in in South Florida at the time I was, frankly, when it came out, the book came out, I was inundated with questions from both members of the church and believe it or not, people who knew me to be in the ministry. From outside the church, asking tantalizing questions about is this true or how does this work itself out and and so forth So when the phenomenon swept through our nation, so much time was invested by ministers, dealing with the utter fantasy and errors of this fanciful Da Vinci code. So much time was spent by churches explaining and refuting questions from folks again from within and without. And then as soon as it all died down by about 2006, the movie was released, and it was round two of the very same questions. This, as you could well imagine, took away from the energy and time of the church from doing what it was called to do. Which is just yet another example of what the Apostle Paul warned against and told Timothy to put a stop to, so that the church would not be distracted from her mission. Now, I've broken up our text this morning into three sections, but really it's really focused on on two areas. The first section, verses three to four. Pick up a major concern that motivates the occasion for the letter. It is to combat those in the church that are taking their eyes off the goal of the church with Bad teaching, false teaching. And then the apostle returns to this theme in the third section, verses six and seven. However, sandwiched in between these two sections is Paul's description of what motivates the Christian life as well as what should motivate the church in accomplishing her bridegroom's aims I repeat that. It is about what motivates, what should motivate the Christian life as well as the church in accomplishing her bridegroom's aims. If you opened your Bibles, would you please rise now as we read through our passage this morning? Which is from 1 Timothy 1, verses 3 through 7. Here now the reading of God's Word. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach. any different doctrine, nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies, which promote speculation rather than the stewardship from God, that is by faith. The aim of our charge is love. That issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Certain persons by swerving from these have wandered away into vain discussion, desiring to be teachers of the law without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we study the Word, as we worship our great God, even through the studying and the preaching and the learning that comes from it from the Word of God. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would open our eyes, our ears, our hearts, and be receptive to the truth. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would convict us where conviction is needed, and that you would give us the grace that we need to turn away from it. And to turn towards our wonderful, our glorious Savior who has given us life and light. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So at some point in the Apostle Paul's missionary journey, perhaps on his way to Macedonia, He and Timothy must have had discussions regarding the state of the church in Ephesus. This letter is a follow-up encouragement to Timothy, Paul's son in the faith, to stay in Ephesus and combat the potentially disastrous efforts. of these false teachers. As Paul made it very clear in his letter to Galatia, there is only one true gospel. There is no acceptable alternative. If at any point the gospel is modified, it is no longer the gospel. And the history of the church has sadly been littered by the adulteration or admixture of the gospel. When I have had occasion to ask Christians who I believed had a good grasp of church history, I would ask them a hypothetical question. Which era or time period would you have preferred to live in if that was within your power? Now, what seemed to consistently come up were the first two centuries of the church. They wanted to be around what they perceived was As the explosive growth of the church. But what they wanted to experience the most was the unity and the love of the brethren. What they didn't want were the numerous false doctrines, false teachers, and seemingly endless fractures and fissures found. in times after that, the first couple of centuries, of course. Now, I'm here to tell you that One need not take a seminary course in church history to be disillusioned by those idealistic and romantic notions. No, you don't need to take any courses or listen to any podcasts. Just read the New Testament. And you will see that just about every church was dealing with either false teachings, disunity, and infighting. What I think is truly miraculous is that despite all of that, the church still grew. In fact, when you consider all that it had going against it, persecution from the outside. and false teaching from the inside, you would think that its founders, the apostles, would have never gotten off the ground. But that continues to vindicate Christ's teaching that the gates of hell will not prevail against Christ and his bride. So the gospel is the primary concern that Paul has. He realizes that if anything comes in, no matter how biblical sounding, or how moral the teaching is, or how motivational and uplifting the message is, if it is not the gospel, there can be no new life. And neither will there be genuine growth in the life of the believer. Anything other than the gospel are seeds of spiritual death. that for a season may produce fruit that appears to be tasty, but eventually will be poisonous for the soul. So the instruction to Paul's young protege, Timothy, is to not allow certain persons to teach any doctrines that is different than the gospel. Now we discover from the text that in Ephesus these very same men were themselves preoccupied or addicted to myths and genealogies. Timothy is instructed to not only tell these men to stop teaching these things, but they themselves are to stop wasting their own time in these subjects Neither of these topics could be further from the serious business of the gospel. Although they are not directly identified, Is believed that Paul is referring to Jewish teachers, who may be leaders of the church, who placed an emphasis on genealogies and collected myths from Hebrew tradition. Which had no basis in truth. Now, in the final analysis, these myths and genealogies had no productive or positive impact on God's redemptive plan, which is based upon faith. And Timothy is told to put an end to it. All they do is promote more and more, Perhaps endless speculations about things that simply just don't matter, distract believers, or lead people astray. From the Middle Ages, many concerns and many corners of the church were engrossed with pointless and out-of-touch debates. which was summed up by Protestant critics as figuring out things like how many angels can dance on the head of a pen Well, you may ask, what does that have to do with the gospel? Well, really nothing. The church has dealt with The Da Vinci Code, only two decades ago, which I mentioned just now, that really had no impact upon the church. It was just a distraction. The reason that Paul has had an issue with all of this silliness is that we are told in verse 4, it diverts us from the administration. or stewardship of God, which comes to us and is empowered by faith. Now the word for administration or stewardship is the same Greek word that is used for household or household administration. The point being that the stewardship of the body of Christ is comprised. The effectiveness of the local church is compromised. when something really anything other than the gospel is motivating believers to do what God calls us to do. Now, this calls us all personally and collectively to examine our motivations, why we do things. What causes us to be obedient to Christ and the mission that He has called us to? For example, why do good works? Why do we evangelize? Is it to gain favor in the eyes of others? Perhaps other congregants, your shepherding elder, myself, colleagues at work, your neighbor, people in the community This should call us to ask the same questions of ourselves, not only on the personal level, but again, as the body of Christ. Why are we doing or getting involved with perhaps other churches in the community or other ministries in the area? What is the motivation? What are we attempting to accomplish? Doesn't fit in with what the Bible calls us to do. Now this includes doing good things, for example. But it doesn't accomplish the goal. When it doesn't accomplish the goal, there are good things that we can do, and it could ultimately be distracting us from the mission. We have to ask ourselves, what is the goal? Is what I'm doing accomplishing the mission, or am I concerned about genealogies or traditions? And I think this gets at the heart of what Paul is concerned about. And which brings us to our second point. It begins with but. But indicates a contrast. So whatever it is that the goal and aim of the church's opponents are, It is in direct contrast to Paul's. What is Paul's motivation and aim? Paul tells us in verse 5: the aim is nothing less. Than love. It is agape love. It is motivated by love. Agape love It is a love that offers itself freely to someone who does not deserve it. In fact, it is a love that does not seek to possess or control the intended recipient. If we do something for someone out of love, it should have no desire to control or expect anything back in return. This is, after all, what we got from God. That is a reflection of what Christ has given to us, after all, isn't it Now this love, Paul continues, is derived from three things. He says first a pure heart, number two, a good conscience, and number three, a sincere faith. Love, Paul says, comes from a heart that is cleansed from sin, a conscience that is clear of guilt, and faith that is empty of hypocrisy. Paul is not providing an exhaustive teaching on agape love. He is focused on the aspects Associated with a false agape that results from the false teachings of the false teachers. Now let's take a brief look at each one of these in turn. The word katharas, which means clean, this by the way is the word that we get for cathartic. So one of the associations of this word comes to us from the Old Testament. It's the concept of ceremonial cleansing, specifically in the preparation for God's service. It was commonly believed that the heart was the source of a person's intellectual, emotional, and spiritual powers. It was believed to be the point of contact between God and man. In order to have proper gospel love, your heart has to be cleansed. It has to be renewed. It has to be pure. In essence, your soul has to be changed from what it was, sinful. Full of deceit and self-serving to one that is morally cleansed and now not self-loving, but looking to love your neighbor. It's a heart that seeks to love those that don't deserve love. How can the church reflect her Savior when it is only inward-looking? when it is concerned about her own happiness, her own comfort, and her own pleasures. How can a Christian reflect his or her own Savior when he is only inward looking? or when she is concerned about her own happiness, or his own comfort, or her own pleasures. Secondly, the love produced by Paul's gospel was from a conscience that was clear. Clear of what? Guilt. The contents is that universal faculty found in human beings that commends or condemns right or wrong behavior. Genuine love comes from a conscience that is clear from guilt. Do you find it difficult to love when your conscience is bothering you? In fact, when you have a conscience that is not clear, it is so because your heart is condemning your behavior or your thoughts. Whatever it may be, your conscience tells you that you are wrong. Your conscience tells you that you have to make things right. In fact, people are unaccepting of your love as genuine when they perceive that you're doing it out of a guilty conscience. You know when this is the case, when they say something like, why are you being so nice to me? Timothy is encouraged to keep a clear conscience, for whom the opponents of fall seem to have rejected In fact, we're told in 1 Timothy 4. 2a, later on in the book, that the deacons are to hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. In order to minister properly and effectively. Although all humans have a conscience, it is not the ultimate and objective arbiter of right and wrong. But serves only as a guide, since it can be in some cases seared by sin. How can we encourage others to do the right thing, the loving thing, when we ourselves are guilty of the same act We must have a clear conscience that comes from a consistently repentant and repenting heart. This is possible. This is made possible to us because we have a consistently and prepared God who is prepared to forgive us. And this leads us to our third part. Love should flow from a sincere, genuine, unhypocritical faith A sincere faith stresses the integrity and authenticity of your trust in God's work in your life. What does a life that doesn't have consistent integrity and authenticity to God look like? An interest in other things like sin, intellectual pursuits, worldliness, And so forth. The opponents have so seared their conscience within this text that they are hypocritical. that they teach from and for the insincere motive of making money. First Timothy 6, 5, and 10 makes that very clear as he lines it out later in the book. I'll read that for us. And he says, of them. and constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and depraved of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. There it is, gain. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. In this context, asseered faith leads to insincerity for those who are deceiving themselves, others, or both. A pure heart, a clear conscience, and sincerity of faith leads to a motivation of love, resulting from the presence of the gospel. Now, the work of love, genuine love, found and demonstrated upon a cross, given freely and received by faith alone, will regenerate. A new and pure heart whose soul will be cleansed, creating a clear conscience and create sincerity of motivation. These things have been given to us, and it is our responsibility to live out our lives with a motivation that is from agape love. To give love where love is not earned or expected, to offer love with no expectation of reciprocity. You see, when we act in love towards one another, now I'm speaking in the context of the church. But the household of God, within the household of God, which is what he points young Timothy toward, can be managed effectively, efficiently, and productively. When we do stuff, it must be motivated by love. And its purpose is to deliver love. And I think the highest love that we can give to anyone is Christ Himself. Anything less than Christ is just comfort, similar to comforting a convict in prison waiting for his day of execution Anything less than Christ. This gets us to our third point. Or shall I say, gets us back to our first point. Now, in the case of myths and concerns for endless genealogies, has caused the local church in Ephesus to wander away from the goal. The term Paul uses here was also used by the ancients and most famously used by Plato as a term denouncing certain stories not simply as false. but also deceptive. For the purpose of lending credence to for the purpose of lending credence to immoral behavior or practice by linking these stories to the ancient stories about the gods, small gs, who, by the way, were very immoral. So the point is that Paul uses a well-known common saying, of course, of his time, to identify these false teachers. as not only teaching something that is plainly untrue, but also leads others to destructive behavior. This common saying obviously is no longer in vogue, but it is still a truism. You see, false teaching, lies, if believed, also can lead to destructive outcomes. Those to whom Paul has referred to in verse 3 have undoubtedly swerved from this biblical goal of love. Instead, they have entered into vain or fruitless study that can become destructive. This church exists today. This building exists today, along with everything else that's in it. We have purely gotten from the gospel. It is the gospel that burst us into a body of believers. known as the church. And it is because of the gospel that we continue to exist. This didn't happen. Because someone did good works and wanted to build a building for good works. Our liturgy Does not focus on worshiping the act of doing good works. We worship Christ, the one who gave us salvation. The truth of the matter is that as long as we make first things first, we shall continue to be useful to God. But when we get bogged down with other endeavors and focus on them as the primary thing to do, we make continue to exist. But we will have strayed from our mission, and as odd as this sounds, we will have lost our light. The history of the church is littered with this type of behavior and outcome. We don't have to look far, nor do we have to look too long back in history, just in our own denomination. In the 20th century, many quarters abounded the gospel, and instead of opted for a social gospel, it was to do good So that society can be transformed by the good deeds. Doing good makes you friends. But it doesn't necessarily transform a society. The gospel is meant to transform a person. The church was not called to transform society. It was called to proclaim the gospel of Christ. and make disciples of those whom God saves, teaching them all that they should do. Yes, there are still so-called churches around Almost a hundred years later, they are still around, but they are only shells of themselves. Gathering on Sundays with perhaps three to ten people to receive a message that isn't the gospel. These so-called churches continue to decline, combining congregations in order to stay afloat. Not looking anything like what the Bible defines a church. Perhaps you know of them. Perhaps you've come from one of them. But that's what happens when you no longer proclaim the gospel, the good news of Christ. Because if you don't, you've got nothing good to proclaim. There's no reason. You know, we are not immune to that. Both on the corporate as well as the individual level. Isn't it true? That the more gospel, Christ-focused you are, the more productive and satisfied you are in your walk with Christ. The opposite is true as well. The more you are focused upon worldly things, the less you are productive and satisfied with Christ, the gospel. What this means for us is that we must become biblically literate, more and more, understanding the gospel. We must understand and embrace the intricacies and the beauty of the gospel. We must do the business of the church out of a pure heart that is filled with the love of our Savior. Which in turn pours itself out into each other and to our neighbor This means that we must not lose our focus as individuals and as a church to proclaim Christ. We must, for example, not make good works the end goal, as we shall be lost to that same social gospel. Which of course is not the gospel. But instead, let us do good, meanwhile proclaiming Christ. To a lost and broken world who is in desperate need of reconciliation with the true and living God, just like we needed it. And we're to continue to be transformed by it. And we must do this. So that we can proclaim the excellencies of Him who called us out of darkness into His marvelous light. To the one who has shown us true love A love that satisfies the soul to know it to the one that has given us his love, which is an eternal love A love that can never be separated by neither time, space, or even death. We are forever embraced by a wonderful God who loves us eternally. Let's love him back and let us love our neighbor the way that he loved us with a pure love that is guiltless and a clear conscience. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, there is no way. There is no way that we can love you back. Unless your spirit is working within us. Unless your spirit is directing us to love you back. We thank you that you are a God who embraces us through your Son and the work of the Holy Spirit. You have shown us what is true love. What this world has to offer us are just echoes of it, symbols, but you have given us True love. Help us this day to remember that. Help us this day to be refreshed by that Help us this day to be satisfied in that For there is no substitute. Despite the fact that we in our sinfulness think that there is. Remind us. Search our hearts, O Lord. Reveal to us in our blindness Where we think that we can be satisfied in other things, so that we may come into and live in the joy of Christ. And the joy of having communion and fellowship with you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.