I trust that there are some of you who pray for our pastor regularly as he brings God's word to us. It is not an easy thing to preach the way our pastor does as he goes consecutively through the books of the Bible. Because there are often passages that are hard for us or not easy to preach on. But he just continually works through them and has a new one to do every week. Sunday's always coming. And so we need to pray for our pastor as he preaches most of the time in morning and evening. I have it easy. I have a barrel of sermons. I have thirty-five years of sermons. And I'm bringing them all tonight. Watch out. No, I'm not. Um and so often I will bring you a blast from the past. that I can work on and get better. But tonight I am cherry picking. I am going in that cherry tree and getting one of those ripe fruits That's ripe right now. It's one I've been thinking about for a while. It's one that Charles Spurgeon has preached on. He is Written in morning and evening and face checkbook and other places. He's commented on it. And probably 75% of what I'm going to be reading tonight or saying is from Charles Spurgeon So I'm just telling you that right now, because he's the prince of preachers. And so I get to at least follow him by reading his stuff. Um but it's good stuff. And uh I'm bringing this verse because it's helpful. It's one of the many warm consolations in God's word for his dear children when they become fearful. This side of heaven. I need to know and have it as a pastor when I'm called to shepherd you who sometimes are his timid and fearful sheep. But I also need it for myself when buffeted by the trials of this life, and I find myself afraid. One of the reasons that I love the scriptures and trust them is the way that God does not sugarcoat them for us. One of the times that we see that is in 2 Corinthians 7, verse 5, when the Apostle Paul in Macedonia said this. He said, Our bodies had no rest. But we were afflicted at every turn, fighting without, and fears within. That doesn't sound much like health and wealth, does it? Afflicted at every turn, fightings without and fears within. Thankfully, Paul then went on to express how he was comforted by one of God's people in the next verse, 2 Corinthians 7. 6. When Titus came to him and he told him of God's good work through his first letter to the Corinthian church How upon receiving the letter and hearing God's word, they began to repent and trust God. Thankfully, I can also tell you of many times in my life when I found comfort through God's people, the body of Christ, his church to help in the midst of many various struggles. Yet the truth is, God's people are not always available. And sometimes they're not faithful during some of the times that you face and I face. When we are and understand Paul's words, when it seems like, at least, we are afflicted at every turn. Fightings without. And fears within. Therefore, I rejoice that we always have God's presence and his promises to look to and trust. To find his comfort. So turn with me now to Isaiah chapter 41, where we'll look together specifically to one of his promises tonight. Now I want you to understand as you look to Isaiah 41, we're going to be reading a bigger section, 41. 8 through 14, but it's 41. 10, that specific promise that we're going to be looking at. Albert Barnes reminds us that the specific promise in history came to the nation of Israel during their long captivity in Babylon. But because they were God's chosen people, they were selected by Him to be His beloved. that he would give them his presence and his comfort, no matter about the afflictions at every turn, the fightings without And their fears within. But that promise is also addressed to all of God's people at all times. In similar circumstances, as true now as it was then, those whom God has chosen, called to himself as his children, have nothing to fear. This is a passage that a few weeks ago I began to chew on like a dog does a bone. I wanted to get all of what I could get out of it, to suck on the marrow, to taste those sweet juices inside, to be encouraged in my own heart and spirit. Now, as you look at the whole passage we're going to be looking at tonight, 41, 8 to 14, if you or I should meet with anything that's gracious and comfortable here for us here, It's not because of our merit. So you don't have to look at the scripture and say, this is for me if I'm really good. If I've got my act together, if I had my devotions, if I didn't kick the dog, if whatever it is These promises come to God's people because he has chosen you to be his child. It's ours, not because you've chosen Christ, but because he has chosen you. Happy are you, my soul, if divine grace has inscribed your name in God's eternal book. You may come to this text like a child to his father's own table And you may draw from it all matter of comfort to sustain your period, your spirit. Now in Isaiah 41:10, there's five times where God says, you He's talking to his children. You understand as we come to the scripture tonight, if you are one of the new Israel, God's chosen people, trusting Christ. Five times God is going to speak to you this evening. And when he speaks to you, he's going to say that I am enough. Your God has come to meet each of your needs. Whatever there may be of you, There shall be as much of God. Whatever there may be of your weakness, there shall be as much of God's strength. Whatever there may be of their sin, there shall be as much of God's mercy to meet it all. May the Holy Spirit reveal all the fullness of these wonderful verses to your hearts this evening. Let us stand and read God's holy word. Let me pray. Our Father and God, as we come to your word, we thank you that you have not only preserved it for us. But by your Holy Spirit you may enlighten it to us and speak to our own particular situations. Would you be tonight that Baum and Gilead to heal our sin-sick souls? That we might find the comfort that you have promised and be strengthened to rejoice and enjoy the privilege of being your children this side of heaven. As you lead us there. For we pray in Jesus our Savior's name. Amen. Isaiah chapter 41, starting in verse 8. Going to verse 14. But you, O Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen. The offspring of Abraham, my friend. Yum, whom I took from the ends of the earth and called from its farthest corners Saying to you, You are my servant. I have chosen you and not cast you off. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed For I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you I will uphold you with my righteous right hand Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded. Those who strive against you shall be as nothing and shall perish. You shall seek those who contend with you, but you shall not find them. Those who war against you shall be as nothing at all. For the Lord your God, hold your right hand. It is I who say to you, fear not. I am the one who helps you. Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel. I am the one who helps you, declares the Lord. Your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel. The Word of God. Amen. He may be seated. As God's child, you need not give in to your fears You who are here this evening and know Christ have become adopted by your Heavenly Father by faith. You need not give in to your fears. Isaiah 41. 10, the first section. Fear not. In the Hebrew, it is Yahreh. To be frightened, that is, to be in a state of feeling of great distress and deep concern. Of pain or of unfavorable circumstances. As God's child, you need not fear But one of the reasons that this is in here is because we do fear. We fear a lot We don't always tell everybody, but we're uncertain about the future and what it has and the pain or the suffering or the difficulties that might come to us or our loved ones, and we do fear. Fearing itself is not sinful. Psalm 103 reminds us that God says that he remembers that we are but dust. I gave you a handout this evening. At least there's one that was on the table, and you can get it, and I hope to send it out later. But the handout Tells us 33 times that the Lord calls you or his people not to fear. Why do you think he says that 33 times? Because we fear. He knows us. Fearing is not sinful, but if we stay there, it becomes sinful. If we don't use the faith that God believes us, gives us, and instead live in unbelief. Spurgeon reminds us that it's usually sinful to be afraid and dismayed because such a state of mind almost always results from unbelief. Not the beginning of there, but if we stay there, don't Stay there. Come to God's promise this evening. Mark this in the Bible. Memorize it. So that you have a place when your own mind and heart is going in all those places and you consider all those things. and you start getting this ball of fear that starts like a little seed, but then just starts to grow and overwhelm you. Have this promises of God where he speaks to you five times about your own fears. And he says, fear not. But he just doesn't say, fear not. There's a reason he says fear not. Do you see what it is? He says, fear not, for I am with you. Martin Luther says, God says, I will strengthen you because I am with you. I am your strength. Your strength amounts to nothing, it will easily evaporate. John Calvinist said, the prophet Isaiah doesn't mean that believers stand so boldly as altogether be free and void of all fear. But though they are distressed in mind and in various ways are tempted to distrust. They resist with such steadfastness as to secure God's promised victory. When we think that God is absent or doubt whether or not He's willing to assist us, we are agitated by fear, tossed about amidst all the many storms of distrust. But if we remember God's promise and trust it, we will stand firm on this foundation. We shall not be overwhelmed by any assaults or tempests. And of course, since I told you I'd mostly tell you about Charles Spurgeon this evening, he said, Be thankful, believer, that you are not alone. Because the Father is with you. The Son is with you. The Holy Spirit is with you. What does that mean? It means that God in all of this omnipotence is with you to be your strength Secondly, the promise goes on. As God's child, you need not be dismayed. As God's child, you don't have to look around you everywhere else for help. Be not dismayed in the Hebrew Satta Often in the Bible, being dismayed is really a synonym for fear. So in one sense, God is saying, do not fear, stop worrying, don't fear, don't be dismayed. Deuteronomy 31. 8, listen to how it's put together, fear and dismayed as synonyms. It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you. He will not leave or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed. How wondrous of God to say, don't fear. Don't fear. Don't be dismayed. Joshua 1. 9. Have I not commanded you, be strong and courageous? Don't be frightened, and do not be dismayed. For the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Therefore, to be dismayed is to be in a state of great alarm. What am I going to do? How am I going to get over this? Ah! And we find ourselves, we might not ever do that outwardly, but inwardly we can know of the fear and worry that starts off small. just begins to take us over. We can't sleep, we can't eat, or we eat too much, or you know how it goes, whatever it is, when you get overwhelmed by those difficulties of life. Jeremiah 46, 5 talks about that. They are dismayed and have turned backward We get overwhelmed by fear and its synonym of being dismayed. They are dismayed. They have turned backwards. It's not going towards God. It's falling back. Their warriors are beaten down. And have fled in haste. They do not look back. Terror on every side, declares the Lord. And it's not that Christians will not fear. Will not be dismayed, but we have the antidote for that. We have the remedy for it. Why do you have the remedy? God has said it here. Why? Don't you have to look around for help everywhere else in the world? Look what it says in God's word. Look at his promise to you. Memorize this promise to you. For I am your God. God is there to meet your cares. Your goods may go, but God will not. Ezekiel 34, 30 and 31. They shall know that I am the Lord, their God is with them. And they shall, and they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord. You are my sheep, the human sheep of my pasture. Psalm 23. The Lord is our shepherd. He is with us. He leads us to the green grass and the still waters. Amen. Hallelujah. But he also leads us through the valley of the shadow of death. And yet in the presence of our enemies spreads a table, before us. Those around you may rob you of your present comfort. But invest your capital in your God, who cannot be taken from you. Third thing we see in this passage is in the third part of Isaiah 41:10. We have three more promises given to us. As if it wasn't enough. If it wasn't enough that we do not have to fear. If it wasn't enough that we don't have to fear because God is with us, and that we don't have to be dismayed. Because he is our God. But now he goes on to give us three more promises. And notice they're not built upon humans in our strength. But they're from our good God and who He is. Look at these three promises with me. God says, I will strengthen you. So the first thing is understanding is that we don't have the strength. You don't have to gump it up. You don't have to be a little train. I think I can, I think I can, I hope I can You don't have to do that. Look to your God. He says, I will strengthen you, my child. When called to serve, Or to suffer, we take stock of our strength, and we find it to be less than we thought and less than we need. But let not your heart sink While you have such a word as this to fall back on, for God guarantees all that you will possibly need. God is omnipotent and has the strength and he can communicate, he can give it to you, and his promise is that he will do so. I will strengthen you. Philippians 4, 12 and 13. I know how to be brought low, I know how to abound, and in every and any circumstance I've learned the sacred of facing plenty and hunger and abundance and need, because I think I can. Is that what it is? I hope you don't for a moment think that We can face this because I can do all these things through him who strengthens me. He will be the food for your soul and the health of your heart, and he will give you strength. When divine strength comes, human weakness is no more a hindrance. My own weaknesses make me shrink, but God's promises make me brave. Lord, strengthen me according to thy word. Should be your prayer. And God has promised to answer it. I will strengthen you. The second promise, look at it, beloved. Gnaw on it like a bone. God says, I will help you. God can raise up allies for our warfare if it seems so good in his sight. And even if he does not send us human assistance, he himself will be at our side, and this is better still. Psalm 46, 1. God is our refuge and our strength, and ever And ever present help in trouble. His help is very wise. He knows how to give each man help fit for him. His help is most effectual. when the help of man is not. His help is more than help, for he bears all the burden and supplies all the need The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me. If one promise was not enough, God said, I will strengthen you. If two is not enough, God says, I will help you. He has given you a third. Where he says, I will uphold you. I will uphold you by my righteous right hand Of course, we're afraid of falling. We should be in our own strength. But God, throughout his word, has promised to uphold you because you are his child Psalm 37, verses 23 and 24. The steps of a man, of a woman, of a boy, or a girl are established by the Lord. When he delights in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the Lord upholds his hand. I can't be that for you, even as your pastor who might want to be your friend and your spiritual director and come to your aid. I can't be everywhere. But I can point you back to your father who will always hold your hand and uphold you because he is your God who is with you and strengthening you and promised to uphold you Your parents know that. You make promise to your children, and you cannot fulfill them But our Heavenly Father is not finite like we are, and he does. I remember my poor daughter. One summer we were at the beach and we're coming in from the waves and she's looking behind and saying, Oh daddy, there's big waves. I said, Oh sweetie, don't worry. Uh uh I I've got your hand. We'll be okay. And she's trying to look back the waves. I said Katie, don't look back at the waves anymore. Just hold my hand. So we're walking in, the waves are hitting, and we're almost to the edge of the shore, and next thing I know we got hit by a wave. And we're both eating sand. You know, and she knew that she might love me and that I can keep my promises sometimes But I am not the father who can hold her hand and always keep her. But I can entrust her to that one as I can entrust you. That hand that God uses to maintain his holiness and to execute his royal sentences, this shall be stretched out to hold you, his trusting ones. It's dangerous when we are fearful. But in trust is our security. Weak may be our feet, but Almighty is God's right hand. Rough may be the road, but omnipotence is our upholding. Can you believe all that we've seen tonight in this one little verse from Almighty God Himself to you? Five times he has spoken to you in different ways, saying, fear not. Don't be dismayed. Don't be anxious. Don't worry. Don't let your cares overwhelm you. And the answer has always been the same. I am your God. I am with you. I will never leave or forsake you. That would be enough, wouldn't it? But wait, there's more. Did you see it tonight as we looked at it, as the scripture ended in verses 13 and 14? God knows how poor of memories we have. Isaiah 41, 10 is not enough. And just a few verses later. Twice he repeats the same thing because he knows his children how quick we are for to get. He knows how frail we are and how easily we become overwhelmed. And so our Heavenly Father comes to us and says it again. That he is enough and he loves us. And that we don't have to be afraid or be dismayed. Look, read it with me. Read more. Read promise upon promise, blessing upon blessing. Isaiah chapter 41, verses 13 and 14. For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand. It is I who say to you, fear not. I am the one who helps you. Isaiah 41, 14, the next verse, fear not you worm Jacob. We hate to think that we're worms, don't we? But be created in God's image as wonderfully as we are, sharing his knowledge and righteousness and holiness. We're weak and frail. We're like a worm. We don't have a backbone on our own to do enough. We would be squished by it all. Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel. I am the one who helps you, declares the Lord. Your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel. Dear Church, let me read to you how Charles Spurgeon ended his sermon on Isaiah 41 to his own 10 to his own congregation. He said this, and I say it to you this evening. Dear friends, I give you the words of the text to take away with you. Have you wafers made with honey, such as Israel fed on the wilderness? Here you have angels' food. No, you have the very bread of life itself lies within these choice words. The only fear I have is lest you should miss them through unbelief. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Do not merely see that he is good as you read the text, but taste this text. Take it home with you. Put it in your Bible. Put it on the wall. Memorize it. Put it where you will see it when you are overcome with your own fears and being dismayed. Taste this text. Let it lie on the palate of your soul. Absorb it into your very nature. Try to know that it's true and true to you, though you are the very least of God's people in your own estimation and the most unworthy sinner this side of hell. Remember it again. Listen. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Go home and take the text with you and your hand of faith. And it shall prove to you like the widow's barrel of meal and cruise of oil. It shall not fail you to the day when the Lord shall bring you out of this land of famine. To eat bread in his kingdom with his dear son. Dear congregation, I want to end with one more thing, and it was the last promise that Jesus gave to you, his church. As he was ascending into heaven where he prays for you even now and is ready always to come to your aid. Matthew 28, verses 18 and 20. And Jesus came and said to them and says to you this evening, all authority on heaven and earth is given to me. And behold, I am with you always. Always. Always. Even to the end of the age Amen. Let us pray. And Father and God, would you help your congregation? Would you help us taste and see? That you are good. Amen