Greetings in the name of our Savior. What a privilege to come and share God's word with His people. If you will take your Bible and turn to my text, the text is uh beginning of The Apostle John's first letter That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon and have touched with our hands concerning the word of life. The life was made manifest, and we have seen it and testified to it and proclaimed to you the eternal life. which was with the Father and was made manifest to us. That which we have seen and heard We proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son. Jesus Christ. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please help me uh to explain this complex passage to your people here in Laurel at Christ Presbyterian Church. Please bless the words that you gave to your apostle John, to our hearts and minds. And may we grow in our love for our Savior through them even now, this morning. In the name of Jesus we come. So It was a kind of a snowy day that canceled everything major going on in northern New Jersey. some years ago and down the hill from where our house was was a little Italian restaurant, Duo Michi. And I don't know why, because we rarely do something like that. We decided to go there walking in the snow. And when we got there I was listening to this conversation, perhaps with the uh proprietor or maybe with one of the waiters or something about their friends who had moved to Florida. And we're sitting on the beach or in the sunshine, and one of them said, Now that's real living. what is real living. I think that avid snowboard boarders or downhill skiers would take an exception as to whether or not Missing the snow and the cold was real living. No. But the question that's posed there, what is real living is a really significant question. And I would suggest to you that this text is about what real living was meant to be and how it can come to be. This text has as a major theme life Life that is granted and results in something something special which in my title of my I think you have my outline here right um Oh, it's on the back. Okay. Um I've called uh Fellowship with God. The word communion is used there. Now, this text, if you didn't quite follow it, As I was reading, please don't be disturbed. Even Calvin said this was a kind of abrupt and confused And others have been less uh kind, suggesting uh one of them even suggesting that it was infuriatingly abstractor. So uh there's a a very good um evangelical commentator that I d uh it's not in my bookshelf. I got it out of the Wallace library, uh Robert Yarbull. And he has sort of changed it it Change the text around a little bit to try to make the meaning a little clearer. Now you have to listen because it's not in front of you. But I'm going to read what he wrote, which I think is fairly true to the meaning. With this letter, we report to you that we what we have seen and heard so that you may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. We report what was from the beginning, something we heard and saw with our eyes, something we beheld and our hands felt concerning the word that bestows life. And this life was revealed. And we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life that was with the Father and revealed to us. These things we write to you so that your joy may be complete. An advantage of the way that he wrote that is that it puts front and center the main purpose of my text. We report to you so that you may have fellowship with us and our fellowship is with the triune God. I think that's the heart. I think that's the sumum bonum. I think that's real living. I think that's the chief end of man. What's the chief end of man? So Have you ever wondered about being on that committee of the Westminster Confession there? And they came up with that. Answer to glorify God. Well, I have. Might I have Spoken up timidly and said, Is that enough? Don't the angels do that? Don't we get to do more? Don't we get to know God? Don't we get to have fellowship with God in the way that as far as we know, the angels don't enter into? Fellowship with God. But that's my fourth point. My first point is What the Apostle is ex uh giving you as what he's experienced. But He doesn't start with his experience. One of the disadvantages of Phil uh of Robert Yarborough's uh uh reordering of what John wrote is that it takes away that wonderful parallel with John's own gospel in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God or the parallel with Genesis 1. In the beginning God created That's gone. One of the other disadvantages of the uh simplified r structure that I just read to you from Yarborough, is that it sort of takes away the wonder, the amazement that the apostle is trying to communicate. To his readers, that he, together with the other disciples, actually had the privilege of hearing Seeing and touching that which was from the beginning, from before time that in the beginning, from the beginning, it's often used in the Old Testament. It actually shows up in in in uh Micah 5. 2 about the one to be born in Bethlehem, whose origin was from the beginning. And so what the apostle is doing now is he's saying, we had the wonderful privilege of actually Hearing, seeing, and touching. Now let's think about that. What's going on as he talks that way? Can you imagine hearing? He heard one who spoke with authority, not as the scribes and Pharisees So the people were astounded. They were amazed with the way that he spoke. You have heard that it was said, but I say to you. And he did it with a kind of authority. That just wasn't passed off by people as an egomaniac The profundity of the words that they heard, out of the heart the mouth speak. It's not what goes in, it's what comes out that makes a man unclean. The profundity of the words that they heard, the insight into scriptures. Yes, indeed, there's a resurrection, a life hereafter. God is not the God of the dead. He's the God of the living. Haven't you read the God Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? Or the power of his words. Lazarus come forth. To the winds and to the waves. Be still. The boldness of his words, so that even his enemies Went to him and they said, we know that you speak the truth and you don't care about what other people think The cunning and the wisdom of our Savior's words. Render therefore to Caesar what is Caesar and to God what is God's. What they heard. From the mouth of this Jesus was something that just blew them away And what is it that they saw? They didn't just hear with their ears, they also saw. They saw loaves and fishes multiplied. They saw the lame walk. The blind see. They saw the dead raised. And they saw in the eyes and the attitude of Jesus weeping over Jerusalem as he heads back there to his Passion. Or they saw out in the rural hills, they saw the Lord Jesus With compassion for the people because they were sheep without a shepherd. They saw the anger of Jesus against the hypocrisy of the religious leaders. They saw His anger against the misuse of the house of God turned into a place of profit instead of a place of prayer for all nations. And then touch, you know, three out of five senses listed here. And it notice the plural, we He's putting himself with the other apostles. He's putting himself with the witnesses, the eyewitnesses of this incarnation, the touch. The Lord Jesus actually invited the disciples after his resurrection to touch him. See, I'm not a ghost. Come, touch me. And you can't possibly forget Thomas I won't believe unless I touch. And this word touch, it can be translated grope. It's what a blind person does when they're trying to figure out where they are. And that's the word that he that John chooses to use. Touch. Touch is so important. The touch of Jesus touching that funeral buyer. The touch of Jesus touching Jairus's daughter. Tabiatha, Kumi, little girl, arise. The touch of Jesus His disciples are up on the mountain after Peter has confessed that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus takes John, James, and Peter up on the mountain, and there they are, they have an overwhelming experience of the holy. That Rudolf Otto writes about. Terrifying experience of the mystery of transcendence. Of holiness, and they are blown away. Peter attempts to speak And then out of the cloud comes this terrifying voice. This is my son. Listen to him. Matthew reports that they were terrified and were on the ground. And you know what happens next? Jesus touched his dance. Touch. What's he trying to do? He's trying to emphasize in a concrete way that which was from eternity, that which was before the beginning, that which Is from another world altogether. We experienced. We, with our eyes, with our hands, with our ears, heard. Saw, touched. He's emphasizing the incarnation was real. That's my first point. My second point. What was the object revealed? Now here is something rather interesting if you look at the text. You can remember the beginning of John's gospel. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And that Word. Was the light. Was life? In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And that word became flesh. So what's the topic of John's prologue? It's the word, the logos. What's the topic here? At the end of first one, concerning the word of life, the Logos of life. And then verse 2, the life was made manifest. It's this amazing life that they witnessed. That's his topic. What what uh he's done here is is emphasize that this was a kind of life That was totally out of this world. Totally new. Totally different. It was a If if you can st you know, we can talk about existence as c conscious sentient beings. We exist. So do trees and stones, but they don't have self-consciousness like we do. But there's such a thing, you've heard it before, existence as opposed to really living And what John is basically saying in here is by comparison to the way that they experience the rest of reality This man, Jesus, exhibited real life. He was alive in a way that nobody else was. And he was communicating that life to others. In fact, he claimed that the reason he even came was so the for the purpose of communicating life. This kind of life. And so as the text moves on here, it changes from the word life to the word Eternal life. Look at verse 2. The life was made manifest, and we've seen and testified to it and proclaimed to you the eternal life. Now that word eternal life, John got that from Jesus. He got it from his, it's from it you know it's in uh John 3. 16. You know it's throughout the gospel. That's why he came to give eternal life. What does that mean? Life with an end? Well, yes, but that's not the real meaning of it. When you learn Greek, you learn something strange. Eternal life is really not everlasting life. Eternal life is Life of the age. Life of the age? Well, what does that communicate? We n you know, we have Stone Ages and Bronze Ages and Iron Ages, the Industrial Age. But those are all aspects of this historical age from creation till the consummation, whenever that comes. This eternal life is life not of this age. It's life of the coming age. What Jesus came to do was to bring life of the coming age into this age. and to grant it to all who come to him in faith and repentance. This eternal life is what just captivated the apostles. This eternal life is what just gave the wonder to John that decades later, when he writes this down, Cremarians are going to complain. That's come too complex. But the answer is, you didn't see what I saw, you didn't hear what I heard. You didn't touch what I touched. It was life that was manifested. And Jesus claims to be the way, the truth, and the life. Jesus claims to be the resurrection and the life. Jesus, life was given in order that we might have real life. Not just everlasting life, but life of the age to come in the here and now. So that we can respond in ways that reflect our Savior So that we can respond to the trials and tribulations of this age In a way that really surprises other people and even ourselves as we recognize That God's at work in us. I must move on. My next text. My my next point. The life shared. Proclamation, testifying, proclaiming, writing. John was commissioned to be a witness, along with his fellow apostles. And he points out that that's what he's doing here. He didn't keep this stuff secret. He Testify to it. See verse 2. The life was made and manifested, and we have seen it. And witness, testify to it, and proclaim it to you. We proclaim to you the eternal life. And then in verse 3, proclamation again, that which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you. And then in verse four, write. Communication. Now Would you have liked to have been there to heard, see, and touch Jesus? You're quiet. I hope so. I would have been liked to. Would I have been any better off? No. The promise given to Thomas after he had acknowledged that Jesus was not only alive, but his Lord and his God. The promise given to him is that others would come, not seeing, but believing. That's the work of the Holy Spirit. That's amazing. The privilege these eleven disciples, whom Jesus talks about in his high priestly prayer, these the privilege they got of Being kept safe by Jesus. You know, think about that. One of them was about to deny him. Many of them were going to desert him, at least not apparently being there at the cross like the Apostle John uh was. They weren't exactly an attractive crowd, but what does Jesus say in his high priestly prayer? I have kept them. I've kept them safe. Make them one. Like you and I, Father, are one. The unity That they had with their Savior and with the Father that sent their Savior, the unity, the oneness that they had was real. Is it just for them? It's for all of us. It's for all of us who believe their witness, their proclamation. And receive with gratitude their writings. You see, the way God made us As self-conscious communicating beings in his image, we don't need to have a direct connection. We can take the message and we can use it. And so we have this, in our tradition, we have what is called the means of grace. The word of God being given. And we're at no disadvantage. Think of all the people who heard Jesus, saw him, and rejected him. It's what the Spirit does. And that Spirit is at work today through the witness, through the proclamation. Let me move on to my final point, the goal. It's in the text in front of you, it's we proclaim also to you what we saw and heard. In order that, so that you may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and the Son. So what is real living? What is our sumumbon? It's to actually have communion with the triune God and with one another. I'm sure you probably use the Apostles' Creed here. I believe in the Holy Catholic Church. The communion of saints. The communion of saints. You know, that was something that captivated the ancient church So that it made it into that very brief Apostles' Creed, the communion of the saints. What is it? I've wondered. Perhaps some of you have wondered what why did it make it in there? The communion of the saints. What it's talking about here, I believe, is the way in which we have privileged access To the triune God through Jesus, here and now, knowing God, what we were made for. And what the life that came while we were just barely existing dead in our sins. The life, the eternal life, the life of of the divine uh Godhead. That life appeared, was manifested, in order that we might share in it. In 2 Peter, there's some amazing language that has troubled Protestants for years. Especially when we uh see what the Orthodox Church has done with it, or what we think the Orthodox Church has done with it It's uh I read it to you. His divine providence has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us. to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. What does that mean? Partakers of the divine nature Well, let me tell you, it's the same word that John is using here when he says that you may have fellowship. If you've been around evangelical circus, you've probably heard the word, the Greek word, koinonia. What does that mean? Fellowship, yes. Communion. By the way, it's in the Apostles' Creed, in the Greek version. That's the koinonia of the saints. with each other and with God. That's the word that's used. So what does koinonia mean? Let me suggest to you that on the one hand, what Koinonia means is union with God. Not in the sense of pantheism, not in the sense that we ever take on any of the incommunicable attributes of God. But union with God so that we take on the characteristics that God intended for us to have and the characteristics that the incarnate one. This one that John writes about has, had and has, and communicates to us. That I think is what is being talked about when Jesus in the upper room discourse and 15th chapter of John talks about I am the vine, you are the branches. Abide in me. Without me you can do nothing. Our union Is what is being talked about here in this fellowship with God. That's one thing. The other thing is this. To have fellowship with God, to be like Moses. I recently read that story of Miriam and Aaron. and uh the critique that they brought against Moses. And what God says to the two of them Is I speak with Moses face to face That's open to everybody now. Through the means of grace, the word and prayer. That is what is John is absolutely astounded by. That he has fellowship with That which was from the beginning, that which revealed this kind of unearthly life, that which changed his life and gave him this ministry. You see, the gracious promise of God is that He wants to commune with us. You've canceled the table this morning. I understand entirely why. But Wallace did before they canceled the worship service, they canceled the table this morning. And then of course they had to cancel the worship service. At the table of the Lord, if you'd had it, I would have said something like this The ancient Jews were forbidden to drink blood. No blood sausages for the Jewish people. Why? In the blood is life And then Jesus comes along in John chapter 6, after the feeding of the 5,000, and he says, unless you Crunch my flesh and drink my blood You cannot live. You will not live. What's he doing? He's saying, I became life. I became incarnate and demonstrated the eternal life here in this world in order that I might grant to you that life. I taste your death in order to grant you my life. Let's pray. Gracious Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. for its power, for its puzzles, for its wonder. Because it reveals to you, reveals to us who you are. Because it reveals to us Our Savior. Because it reveals to us your gracious purposes for those who are called By your the name of the Lord Jesus, who love God, and who are being changed into the likeness. of our Savior little by little, one degree to another. As that life poured out Brings changes to us. Grant this flock here, we pray, strength in the midst of their struggles. Grant them to be light in a hurting, fearful world right now, and protect them. As a flock, one of the many flocks of the Lord Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.