To remind you of something that's very important, even though it may seem obvious at first. We don't just read the Bible, it reads us. And if we come to read it only to affirm what we already know and believe, then important ways we're not allowing it to actually read us. To show us who we are, what we really love and desire, and how we actually live. If you believe that you're basically good A faithful disciple and wise, you will not gain wisdom, that you will not grasp the implications of discipleship, or see that evil actually runs right through your mind. Let's pray and then we'll uh read. Gracious uh Father, may you be pleased uh to speak to us May your spirit enlighten our spirits, our hearts, our minds, our ears, to hear what your spirit moved, the apostle. uh to write, not only uh to our brothers and sisters long ago in this Roman colony, but to us today and to all the church. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. If you stand, please. We're reading chapter four, beginning of verse four. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I would say rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is honorable. Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable. If there's any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me. Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. You may be seated. Now there is an old Greek proverb that says that the bow is it is always bent will soon break. And the proverb is implying that the bow that's always under pressure, that never has the opportunity to release or let go, will sooner be broken into a million pieces. If there were ever a proverb that fits our time, it's this one. Many people don't like that though. They are just Strung out, full of tension, turmoil, fear, and frustration. If one more thing enters their lives, they'll snap. If I had to choose one word to summarize how people feel today, I'd probably choose the word worry. People are worried today. Probably many of you have come here with some worry on your mind. You may be concerned about your finances or worry about unemployment. Are you parents may be worried about a child or your children may be worried about your parents? Now my first year in graduate school, my dear wife was the person who supported us. And the very first job that she got turned out after about six months' time to have some unethical practices taking place. So she reluctantly quit. So while she was working for work, I went to work as a night watchman. Now the company assigned me to a tired manufacturing place. That was in the process of being converted into a warehouse. And it was huge. We were issued a bicycle and took it out uh to make our rounds in uh the building. Um there were a lot of half disassembled machines And so periodically, without any warning, the machine would uh turn on, you'd hear these sounds. The owners were not willing to invest a lot of money, and so there were very few light bulbs. in this space. We were usually a flashlight to make our way around all of them. And there were millions of dollars worth of tires. in this building. And we guards jokes that if we ever happened upon someone who had broken in, we would ask if we could help them load the tires into their trucks. Now between the fastness, the darkness, and uh the noise of those machines, but the thought that at any minute there were thieves who were cutting up through the fence It just meant that every corner was one of caution in the building. Every step was one of worry. I never knew what was waiting around the corner. And many people live their lives just like this. Every step is one of caution and concern and work. And if you ask yourself this question, can I handle what's just around the corner? Well, I want to say to you, if you've never worried, don't worry, you will. You see, worry has a way of coming into our lives at inopportune and inconvenient moments. And once worry grabs you, it can squeeze every joy that you have in life. Instead of overcoming, you'll be overwhelmed. Worry is a formidable foe. And God has a great deal to say to us about worry, stress, and stress. anxiety. And God desires that our lives be gripped by joy, characterized by joy. Now the only lasting joy that cannot be diminished is found in Jesus Christ. This is true because only Jesus Christ, only through him can you be in a relationship with the God who is happy. God is not seeking to derive joy and pleasure or satisfaction from anything outside of Himself. God the Father rejoices in God the Son, and God the Son rejoices in God the Father. And the Father and the Son both rejoice in the Spirit, and the Spirit does likewise. Jesus came that we might enter into this divine joy. He put it this way in the upper room. These things I've spoken to you. That my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full. What are these things? Well, he refers to it in that same discourse when he says, as the Father has loved me. So I've loved you. Abide in my love. This joy flows out of being loved. Christ loves us, he is for us, and if we trusted him, our relationship with him can never be broken. He will never break it, and he will never let anything you do turn up him away. This is a love that's not only secure because Jesus says, I'm high in my love. He's speaking of our ongoing experience of this love. And this love, this great truth of this unshakable love is the foundation for the command to be joyful. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I will say, rejoice. This command is repeated by the apostles to impress on us what might actually seem to us as incredible, that we are to rejoice in Christ Jesus at all times. Regardless, regardless of what has happened or is happening or might happen. And this is of great importance because one of the distinguishing marks of the Christian is Joel. Paul puts it this way in his letter, rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer. And then again in chapter 12, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. Joy is a fruit of The Spirit. And almost everything else about the personal life can be fixed. Joy cannot. It's one of the marks of the Holy Spirit's presence in our lives. And this text is of great practical importance because it reveals how we can find and maintain joy. Now finding joy is a matter of focus. Many people act like joy is like a butterfly. You sit in the garden and you hope it'll lake. It doesn't like that. It's something you can choose to pursue, and you pursue it by maintaining focus on Of evil son This truth, the nearness of God, explains how it is that Jesus could be gentle on that last day of life. When men abused him, beat him, mocked him, stripped him of all dignity, attacked his character and his motives, and put him to death. Now, if you want to be gentle with others, you need to cultivate an awareness of the presence of God. There are many ways to do this, but one way is illustrated the life of Brother Lawrence. Now, he cooked for a group of mumps. Monks, as you know, spend their days in prayer, reading the Bible, and uh singing. But his days were spent in the kitchen peeling the potatoes. And in the kissing, he learned how to live in the presence of God. He did it by choosing to do everything out of a love for God. He reminded himself continually that he was in the presence of God. He wrote a series of letters to describe how it is he did this. This is a portion of just One of them. He writes, I've given up all but my intercessory prayers to focus my attention on remaining in his holy presence. I keep my attention on God in a simple, loving way. This is my soul's secret to experience the actual unceasing presence of God. It gives me such contentment and joy that I sometimes feel compelled to do rather childish things. My day to day life is this for giving God by step all the blood into tension. If I'm distracted, he calls me back. My prayers consist of simple continuations of this. Sometimes I imagine I'm a piece of stone waiting for him to sculpt me into the likeness of Jesus. Christ. At other times my whole heart and mind are being raised up into God's presence as if without effort, as if they've always belonged there. I long for all of you to have this experience of the presence of God. Felt experience. I'm long up for us to experience it when we gather up corporately. And as you pass through your day This is essential to live before a Deo, to live before the face of God. You see, Christianity is not primarily something mental. It's fundamentally revelational. It's about being in relationship with the living God. And just as you are with other people, so we are to be with him and in his presence. Now the second arena of life that frequently diminishes joys our circumstances. We have a strong desire to control what takes place in our lives now. Always do. That's what we want. Right right out of the grid. We want to be able to control the circumstances But the truth is, is we have a very limited ability to actually make things happen. So we worry. The gap between what we desire to control and what we actually control, that gap is called. We worry. And we experience anxious and harassing care. We want our light control, and we don't have it, and so instead of trusting God, we expend great energy, worry. Have you ever noticed that when you're worrying it's hard to rejoice? Joy and worry are as incompatible as oil and water. They simply don't They don't coexist in the same moment in your heart and mind. And Paul commands in verse 6: this: do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication. With Thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Prayer is the antidote to word. Note carefully what Paul says. Do not be anxious about anything. It means just exactly that. Anything. Everything, without exception. Now this doesn't mean that we're not a superficial attitude toward white people. It doesn't mean that there aren't healthy concerns about troubling things. But there is a corrosive anxiety and fear that's the product of unbelief. And this shifts our focus from the Lord to our circumstances. Everything is to be brought to our Heavenly Father, who knows all things. He knows our circumstances, our needs. He knows how vulnerable we feel. He knows that we have limited resources, that we are in fact weak. And he's waiting for us to converse with him about every circumstance we have and every circumstance that we cannot control. And Paul uses three synonyms of prayer to emphasize the importance of believing and expectance of prayer. Prayer short circuits worry because it shifts our focus back to God's omnipotence, his wisdom, his faithfulness, and his care. Peter says it this way at the end of his first letter. Cast your cares upon him, because he cares for us. And this prayer is to be made with Thanksgiving, because Thanksgiving reorients our focus and builds confidence in God's care for us. Corey Timbu learned this lesson during the Second World War when she and her sister were taken to Ravensbrook, which was a Nazi concentration camp. They called it a work camp. And they arrived together after three days, they and 80 other women being crammed in to a cattle car. Um and they uh were pushed into barracks uh twenty-eight and there they uh found themselves in a large building uh with very narrow roads between bunk beds that were three high and people would sleep three in them. And um it was filled with stinking straw, uh ugly place to be. But they were exhausted, and the thought of laying down was the only thing that could come on their minds. And so as Corey laid down, immediately she jumped up and hit her head uh against the next lump and said, There's fleas. This place is full of uh fleas. Um How can I cope with living in the midst of these fleets? And our sister said, Corey, I think God's already given us the answer. Can you remember that verse we read? in the Bible this morning. And Corey had a Bible that she had on a rope on her back with regards to this. And she pulled out that Bible and turned to the passage. It was from Paul's writer to the Thessalonians. And she read this. Be joyful always, pray continuously, give thanks in all circumstances. For this is God's will for you. And so Betsy said, that's the place. Now come on, Corey, let's try. What are we thankful for? Well, if we have to be in this place, I'm thankful that we're together. And your sister adds, and the guards didn't find the Bible. And Corey nodded grantfully. Maybe we should thank God for how crowded it is here. Because when we read the Bible, more people, more women will hear the Word of God when we read it. That's right. And thank you, God, for the please said that's the No! I can't thank God for the police. There's nothing good about them. Well, we'll just have to wait and see, her sister replied. Well every day the prisoners were awakened at 4 30. They stood outside the roll hall in the dark, in the cold. They were fed uh a breakfast of black bread and in the evening a very uh thin uh soup full of turnips and cabbage. And they worked an eleven hour day between breakfast and uh in dinner. And at night the only thing they had to look forward to was to return to their moss, where they would read a portion of the scripture. At the beginning, they posted guards to watch out, lookouts, to watch for the Nazi guards, because anyone who's down with the Bible surely would have been good. uh to death. But as days turned into weeks they realized that there were no guards who were going to enter uh the barracks. And one day Betsy said to Corey, I think I know why. I overheard the guards talking. It's because of the fleece that they don't have. Alright, or I will thank God for the fleece. Have you learned to offer your prayers with gratitude? You can always begin with what God has done for you in his Son. And if you cannot offer your prayers with thanksgiving, it's an indication that you have yet to surrender yourself to God. You've yet to say to him, my life is at your disposal. Do with me as you will. Now I know that may sound scary, and if you're here and you've not yet come to Christ, I can understand that. And you get to taste the sweetness and the beauty of God's care and love for you. We'd love to talk with you about that. But see, if you do surrender yourself to God's wonderful care, then the promise of verse 7 will be yours. And the peace of God will which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Now there's a story from a time after the Civil War where General Robert E. Lee and a lady are walking through her. And they came to a tree with broken and twisted branches. And she looked at the general and said, That was the loveliest tree in the garden before the war. And undoubtedly she was thinking, well, generally we will sympathize uh with me and at this point and condemn the conduct of the Yankees. But to her surprise, he didn't. He said, My dear woman Chop the tree down and forget. You see, in the eyes of this woman, this tree represented all the suffering. All the grief of the Civil War. And if she ever forgot it, for just a moment, all she had to do was look out the garden and be their life. And that fueled those memories, just kept them alive, the things that left her embittered and resentful. Now that this doesn't mean a treaty. All we have to do is think of someone's face. Or remember a moment with someone. That incident that curves, how they disappointed us. And we just hug that Kurt close To ourselves, we hold on to it until it grows a root of bitterness that defiles us and others Your curves are not metals. They are not dashes of honor. They are not the wounds that a soldier receives in combat. They are not to be cultivated, savored, like a pine meal. They are not who you are. Your hurts do not define you. They are not your identity. If you have been divorced, you are not a divorced person. If you've lost a job, you are not unemployed or unvalued. You are not the friend who failed you. You're not the person who betrayed you. These are not your identity if you're in Christ Jesus. Choosing to dwell on what's negative, especially your past hurts and disappointments, will eat away at your joy, and they will leave you bitter and resentful. Now the mind is a battleground for so much of what actually happens in our lives spiritually. It's as if everyone has a radio station broadcasting in our heads. And every day this talk radio station is telling us about our lives. It just sends a constant stream of messages. Many people aren't aware of these very often, but it's going on constantly. uh throughout uh the day. Uh from the minute you wake up to you set your pillow on the head, uh your head on the pillow and finally fall off to sleep We talk about ourselves to ourselves, about others to ourselves, we talk about the places we belong, and of course, about the nation we live in. And much of what this self-talk contains are lies and half-truths and distortions. They are discouraging, disheartening, and often provoke us to anger. This self-talk is devoid of the gospel. is not shaped by the truth of Scripture or the reality of God. And instead of passively listening to this voice, as if it was the voice of God speaking, To you, you need to resist. It's no wonder it's hard to be joyful when you are filled with this self-block. When you're tuned into this, you need to take control. and speak directly to your soul instead of just listening to it. This is what the psalmist does in the 42nd and 43rd Psalm. And here Paul writes these words to us in verses 8 and 9. Finally, brothers, whatever's true, whatever's honorable. Whatever's just, whatever's pure, whatever's lovely, whatever's cremable, if there's any excellence, if there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you've learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. And the God of peace will be with you. We are commanded to think about noble things. Now there's so much that's false ignoble, wrong, impure, ugly, dishonorable, and shameful to think about. There was true until time and it's true today. And today there's just a pipeline of this coming to us. It comes in the form of news and entertainment and social media. And we are commanded to choose carefully what we dwell on. It doesn't mean that we have to look all to uniquely Christian music or books or TV shows and That's the only thing that we can take in. Now Paul is urging us to look around wherever you find something that's noble and And pure and lovely. In fact, the words he uses here describe things that in the Roman culture describe things of excellence. These were common words to describe the things that were beautiful and not good for Romans. Find something that's noble and pure and lovely to meditate upon, to dwell upon. And Paul's words assume that in the pagan world that there's a notion of what's good and bad, right and wrong, what duty and irresponsibility are, beauty and ugliness and honor and shame. In Romans 2, Paul says that even pagans have the Ten Commandments written on their hearts, that they have some real understanding of what true morality is. This is true for people who aren't Jewish, who aren't Christian. They perform these things, and we can benefit from pondering their examples. Wherever they occur. All truth is God's truth. All beauty is God's beauty. They exist in abundance outside of the Bible And this is so because all human beings are made in God's image. No human being is so defaced of the image of God that they don't have something of beauty about them. They are able to make things that are beautiful. We must have great care in regulating our thought lives. We must display our habits of thought. We must, first of all, be aware of the messages played on our personal internal radio stations, examining what's said. To see if it's true. Many of our personal problems, especially depression and discontentment, have their roots and are fed by what we tell ourselves. And we have to replace them with truth. The very patterns of our thinking, neuroscience tells us, reshape the way our brains work. Our brains are plastic. And the more you do something, the easier it gets, and the more likely you are to do it. This is true of good habits. And bad habits. That's why bad habits are hard to change. It's not simply you make a choice, it's a habit. And really habits are far more prevalent in our lives than you might think. We get through most of the day through habits. If you drove here, you have all kinds of habits. You're not having to concentrate as much as you did when you started. You know, you have those habits that mostly they get you around safely. But we have habits of thought that we must train. We must replace Half truths with not truth. The second thing I want to uh uh press home to you is that just as it is true uh physically that we are what we think, so it's true that we are what we think. And so we have to take great care in what we read or watch or listen to, or even the conversations that we have. Don't fool yourselves. Because we're fallen, because we're still not fully redeemed as Christians, the cravings of our heart for evil To participate vicariously in evil is far greater than our appetite. for good. It's much easier to talk about evil for 30 minutes than to talk about good for evil. And we're much more in tune with what's evil. And this is so important for us because, well, of course everyone wants to be informed. The truth is that newspapers and television shows and all the media on the internet is driven by what's bad. It's what's mad that sells. One of the truth is that in any given day You and I are exposed to as much bad news as someone in 1750 would have heard in their entire life race. And it's made us a more fearful people. It's made us a more discouraged people. It's made us more negative. And much of what is produced as news or on the social media is calculated. With hyperbole to awaken anger or fear. Hyperbole is corrosive to our ability to be discerning And all of these things are corrosive to us. This is spiritual sewage. You would not eat out of the sewer, of course, but people constantly open themselves up to this. And this is affecting the church, and as I warned you last time, it's having a very destructive effect on the unity of the church, where these things are being elevated as values far above the things of first importance that the scriptures hold out to us. Thirdly, you who are parents have a duty to guard your children. Now, when they are young, do not expose your children to what's evil. But as they move forward the teens, their worlds get bigger. They're exposed to more flight. If you have a large family, the younger ones will get exposed sooner. than if they were you just have little ones in your household. And so as they grow, you need to teach them to be discerning and to think critically in in terms of what they watch, what they encounter on the social in social media or the internet or wherever. If you will follow these commands, then you will experience both of these promises. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. What you've learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Jesus Christ, in his dying for us, as our substitute, in his living for us, the life that we cannot live, has achieved peace for us with God. Reconciliation with God. And it's out of that reconciliation which is symbolized in this table. That in fact we can experience this peace that Ness is all understanding. And know the presence of God as we move through life with all its uncertainty. With all our limitation to affect what actually happens around us. This is God's will for you. May God grant you the grace to carry these things out. For it is his desire that you enter into the joyful fellowship. that the Father and the Son and the Spirit have. And that we share that fellowship. We gather here for that purpose. to taste a fresh, to experience a fresh that joy and to stir joy up in one another. Not surprising. Gracious Heavenly Father, may you be pleased to press into our hearts and minds these things. May they encourage us. May they lift their eyes up from all that's negative. May you fill us with faith and hope and love this morning.