Thank you. It's uh good to be here to worship with you all this morning and uh bring you greetings from Reform University Fellowship at the University of Maryland as well, where I've been for about 60 days. Students aren't really there yet. There's some summer school folks, but uh I'm looking forward to this fall and and just seeing uh the Lord work there and and uh I just looking I'm excited about being back here in the land of crab cakes, especially. In the Midwest it's kind of tough. This morning we're going to look at Luke chapter 5, verses 1 to 11. So if you'd turn in your Bible there. Luke chapter 5, 1 through 11. You know, as a child growing up, I I I remember uh kind of having a uh just a longing for the West and especially the Grand Canyon. And I don't know if you've been there or not, but you know, I remember watching the Brady Bunch and seeing that double episode where they went down into the bottom of the uh Grand Canyon on the donkeys and And uh my my cousins who live right next door to me, they went on a big trip out west when I was probably 10 or 11. They went to the Grand Canyon, and uh it was one of those places I always wanted to see You know, I've seen pictures of it and that sort of thing. And uh when I was a youth pastor in Oklahoma, we did we went to a camp out in California. So on the way back We were on I-40 and I said, we're going to the Grand Canyon. We're only a couple hours from it. And so from Flagstaff we went north and uh we went to the went to the south rim of the Grand Canyon. And I can just remember seeing that for the first time, my mouth just dropped. It was like all the air just was sucked up. uh from this huge hole in the ground, you know, one mile deep, ten miles across, just the rock strata. It was unbelievable. And, you know, it wasn't until I actually stood there on that south rim that I really experience the Grand Canyon. And today in this passage we're going to look at, it's particularly dealing with Peter and his experience with Jesus. And Peter had been around Jesus. And uh he'd even seen Jesus do miracles before. But there was something about this particular miracle and uh Christ revealing himself to Peter. that everything came to fruition here in this passage. And so read with me here, Luke 5, 1 through 11. Now it came about that while the multitudes were pressing around him and listening to the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Genesaret, and that is the Sea of Galilee. And he saw two boats lying at the edge of the lake, but the fishermen had gotten out of them and were washing their nets. And he got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little way from the land. And he sat down and began teaching the multitudes from the boat. And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep water and let down your nest for a catch. And Simon answered and said, Master, we worked hard all night and caught nothing. But at your bidding, I will let down the nets. And when they had done this they enclosed a great quantity of fish, and their nets began to break. And they signaled to their partners in the other boat for them to come and help them, and they came and filled both of the boats. So that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw all that, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For amazement had seized him and all his companions because of the catch of fish which they had taken. And so also James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not fear, from now on you will be catching men. And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. Please join me in prayer. Our Father and our God, we thank you this morning for your word. Lord, we thank you that it is not from the minds of men, that it is your thoughts that you have given us. And I pray, Father, that the word today would touch us, that your Holy Spirit would be here, that you would reveal your truth to us. That you would reveal our sin, that you would reveal the grace and forgiveness of the Lord. Father, that you would encourage our hearts, that you would strengthen the weak. And the weary, Lord, that you would give hope to the doubter. Father, that you would grow us in faith. And we pray that in Christ's name Amen. Probably the biggest question that we face, that all of us face, is is not things like, you know, what am I going to do with my life if you're a young person here today? That's a big question out there. Or, you know, um, you know, what am I going to do when I grow up? Or who am I going to marry? Or uh are the Orioles ever going to have a winning season again? Um But the greatest question that all of us can answer is, do you know God? Do you truly know who God is? Now, our culture obviously is is becoming more and more pluralistic, more relativistic We live in what you would call a postmodern world. You've probably heard that phrase before, but basically it's the idea that there is no absolute truth when it comes to religion. That is really anything you want to believe, that's fine. The Buddhist is going to believe one thing, Muslim another, the Jew another, the Christian another, but Really the di the the model for postmodernism is that we all get to the top. We all reach uh heaven to some extent. But as we look at the Bible, we know that's really not what it says. That the Bible gives us a picture of truth. It gives us Jesus who ultimately calls us to allegiance to Him. Calls us to follow Him. In this miracle here we see there's Christ who has authority over the creation. He's bringing fish from across this lake into these nets. He's calling man to follow him and to give up everything. This is not a God who is out there who is just whatever. But this is a very specific God that we have. And so uh Peter is confronted with that Jesus. He's confronted with the fact that he's not dealing with just a miracle worker who's gaining a lot of crowds, but he's confronted with the God of the Bible And as he's confronted with the God of the Bible, he's also confronted with himself and who he is. And in fact, You may have heard John Calvin talks about all wisdom is this, knowing God and knowing yourself, that there's a correlation between knowing who God is and then also understanding who you are. As you look at God, as you look at the scriptures, you understand also who you are. And so we're going to look at what it means to follow Jesus, follow this God this morning. What does it mean to follow Christ from this passage? And we're going to see several things. And the first is that Jesus blesses or he rewards those with faith. That Jesus blesses or rewards those with faith. Now, as we think about this story, put yourself in Peter's shoes. You know, he had been up all night fishing. He was there with James and John, and there was probably others as well. You know, they were tired, they were worn out. It was morning time. The normal thing for them was to fish at night. And uh here it is, the morning, daylight is here, Jesus is there, they're cleaning their nets, you know, they're they're tired, they're probably uh a bit crabby farting the pun uh for not catching anything and I can just hear Peter's thoughts you know as Jesus says you know Peter you know I know you've been out fishing all night but let's let's put in again You know, I can I can hear Peter saying, well, you know, we just came in. We just came in here and we're cleaning our nets. You know, nighttime is the right time for fishing, Jesus. And this is morning. And plus this crowd is here on the on the beach and and and they're noisy. And I don't think the fish are gonna be here uh are gonna be biting right here You know, you can hear all kinds of excuses. You know, plus he was just flat out exhausted. But yet, in verse 5, what do we see? Simon answered and said, Master, we worked hard all night and caught nothing. There's the excuse side. But at your bidding, or the ESV talks about, but at your word I will let down the nets. But at your word, I will let down the nets. And so in the midst of all this excuses, we have an interesting thing here. Peter submits. To the Word of Christ. He submits. And really, this is the essence of faith. With all our doubts, with all of our questions, with all of the unbelief in our culture, with all the postmodern thought that our culture has. Faith, biblical faith, is saying yes to Jesus and his word. It's really saying, I believe in Christ. I believe what he has said. that my I'm gonna look to him as my author authority and not to myself. That's really the essence of faith. It's saying really no to your own thoughts, no to your doubts, no to the intellectual pundits that are out there, and saying yes to Christ. and who he is. And so that's what we have Peter doing here. Even though it was probably a very reluctant faith, he says, no, at your bidding or at your word, I will let down the nets. And really, why did he do it? Well he'd probably seen, you know, he he'd been with Christ enough to see him do miracles. There was crowds following him. He was casting out demons. He had healed his own mother-in-law. And so there was something about Jesus that was different. And it was that Jesus in his word that he submitted to. And so it makes sense. It makes sense. For us to bow to this kind of Christ. This is a Christ who has revealed himself to us. This is a Christ who, the scripture said, out of his word the heavens were made, the earth was made This is the Christ who's created each one of us. He's our creator, he's our sustainer, he's our redeemer. So it makes sense that we should submit to his word and to believe him. He's the maker of heaven and earth. And he commands us to look to him. And so this is what faith looks like. Faith looks like submitting to Christ and His Word. And then what happens next? Well we see the miracle. There's an incredible blessing. It's not just a few fish or just a good catch, but look at verse six and seven. And when they had done this, when they thrown in the nets. They enclosed a great quantity of fish, and their nets began to break. And they signaled to their partners in the other boat for them to come and help them, and they came and filled both of the boats so that they began to sink. So we have an incredible miracle. We have Jesus displaying his power over the creation. Fish were coming from all parts of that Sea of Galilee, flying into those nets. Must have been amazing. And the crowd is right there seeing the whole thing Amazing. Jesus was teaching the truth to this crowd, and now he's revealing his power over the creation with this miracle. He's giving confirmation to who he is, that he is the Lord of glory. And so this story is really about Christ revealing himself revealing himself as God, as the Lord over create creator, the Lord over creation to Peter, even though he was reluctant. And so this this miracle didn't happen because Peter threw the nets just in the right place. It happened because Jesus wanted to show his glory to Peter and the rest of the disciples. He wanted to show him really that he loved him And that He blesses those with faith. He blesses the obedient. And really, that's a theme we see throughout Scripture, don't we, that uh God blesses those with faith. I mean, Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness, right right back there in Genesis 15. And really that theme goes throughout the scriptures that belief and faith in the Lord produces blessing. Now I'm not talking It's not always going to be both your you know your nets are filled with fish. It's not we're not just talking about uh any kind of health and wealth gospel here. of you know, you believe Jesus and and everything's gonna go right and you're gonna you know win the lottery or or uh you're gonna be rich. I'm not talking about that. But I'm talking about uh spiritual blessings. And the fact that God will provide for you spiritually, and he also will provide for his children physically with our needs. He he tells us that and so faith, uh believing in Christ, uh brings about blessing. In the Old Testament we saw on the contrast when Israel didn't believe in the Lord, You know, when they instead looked to the idols of the other nations, we saw that there were there was curses and that there was destruction ultimately because they followed and they believed other other gods. And so this story is again revealing this principle throughout Scripture that faith in Christ, faith in his word, produces blessing. Uh and that's what we have. And that's what we're called to do. If Peter has said, you know, Lord, I'm just too tired. That's you know, we're not going to throw out the nets. Ultimately that's a faith problem. Ultimately, Peter is saying My ideas, my knowledge of fishing, you know, my knowledge of the Sea of Galilee, that's more important than you. That that has supreme command. But Peter in this submits, and that's faith, and and the Lord always blesses faith. So that's the first thing. The second thing is following the Lord. It's going to show you and me our true self. It's going to show you, it's going to bring you an awareness of your sin, and that's a good thing. It's a good thing to be aware of who you really are. Now there's an un unusual reaction here in verse 6 or verse 8. It says, but when Simon Peter saw that, saw the miracle, all the fish, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. Now this is crazy. Peter had been up all night. I mean, this is the cat the kind of catch that you dream about if you're a fisherman, right? I mean I mean I can see him thinking, we've got Jesus. He knows where the fish is. Jesus, would you think about coming on our next fishing outing with us? You tell us where to throw the nets. This is going to be great. Maybe we'll have a little, you know, seafood restaurant right here beside the Sea of Galilee. I mean, I can see that that that Peter, I mean normally this is what he would be reacting like. This is great, we're going to be rich. But instead we see uh he falls at Jesus's feet saying, Depart from me, Lord, I am a sinful man. Well, you know what's going on? Well, Peter is confronted with who Jesus is. He's confronted with the Lord of glory. He's confronted with that this isn't just Jesus. uh this guy, but this is the holy one. This is God. This is uh the one who uh created all of life It was almost like the blinders of his eyes went off. You know, he had seen Jesus do miracles. He was with him. He saw him cast out demons. He saw him heal the sick. He healed his own mother-in-law. But there was something about this miracle in the line of work that he was involved with. that all of a sudden just brought the blinders off of his eyes and also brought the blinders off of his own thoughts about himself. And he saw That he was a sinner and that he was in the presence of a holy God. And that is a good thing, and that's really uh good for all of us You know, it reminds us of many pictures we see in the scriptures. Isaiah. You know, Isaiah was a prophet. He was a holy guy. But yet in Isaiah chapter six he's confronted with the Lord of glory and that vision he had and the cherubim there and uh the the Lord's uh robe filling the temple And when he sees that vision, what does he do? He says, Woe is me, I'm ruined, I'm a man of unclean lips, and I've seen the Lord of glory. He sees the holiness of God. He's awestruck. He's destroyed by it because he knows that he can't stand in that presence of a holy God. And neither can we. Neither can we. We can't stand in the presence of a holy God, a perfect, pure holy God, that we need someone else to stand uh before us, and we're going to get to that in a second. But um You know, Isaiah was a good guy. He was a prophet, but yet he was struck to the core with the holiness of God. And so Peter as well. And this is good. In order to be struck with the holiness of God, what does that take? Well, there's lots of things that bring us to that, but ultimately the scriptures. Ultimately, being in the Bible, being in the Word of God, reading through the law of God, just like we did this morning with Confession of Sin, he read 1 Corinthians. 13 about love. Love is patient. Love is kind. And if you really look at your life, can anyone say that they have that kind of love? That they're always patient? That they uh that that they're they love the Lord, that they love others just like Jesus did. We see our deficit, we see our sin. And the scriptures show us that. The Holy Spirit reveals those things to us. And so that's not a one time thing, but we need to constantly be Uh, understanding that, understanding that we are sinners and that we need Christ. So as you look, as you read through the scriptures, as you read the Psalms, for instance, and you and you read about the psalmist and how he just loves to praise God, do you really love to praise God? Because in my heart, a lot of times I see that I don't really love to praise God. That there's a lot blocking that And so being confronted, being in the scriptures, we're seeing our sin. And that is a good thing because that shows us that we can't save ourselves. It shows us that uh this isn't just a moral uh road that we're walking in order to get to heaven, like all other religions in the world, but that we need we have such a deficit that we have no hope in ourselves. And that we need a Savior. And that's really the next thing here, is that we should follow Christ because as we follow Him, His grace is revealed He reveals his grace to sinners. And we see that here. Now the Lord Jesus could have said to Peter, after Peter said, Depart from me, for I am a simple man, O Lord, Jesus could have certainly said, Peter, you're right. I knew you didn't want to throw down those nets. You know what? You are a sinner and we'd be better off for you not to be around. See you later. He could have said that, couldn't he? He could have fried him on the spot. He's God. But instead we have these gracious words here that the Lord Jesus gives us. He says in verse 10 Do not fear. ESV says, do not be afraid. From now on you will be catching men. And this is amazing. This is amazing. Do not fear. Do not be afraid. You see, Christ is the one who dispels all fear. He dispels all fear. Fear of God's wrath. That Peter, even though he was a sinner, he he didn't have to fear because Jesus is the one Who was going to do something about that fear? He's the one who was going to take all of Peter's sin and just a couple short years later would go to the cross. And he would take Peter's sin on himself and die the death that Peter should have had. In order that Peter might have his grace and righteousness applied to him and be forgiven. Don't fear, Peter. And this is what Jesus gives us. The cross. The cross is all about the fact that we should be there. But yet Jesus takes our place, our punishment. He forgives our sins, and not only that, but he applies all of the righteousness of Christ to us. This is what the Father does. And so we don't have to fear the Lord. If we believe in Him, if we believe in Jesus, we don't have to fear God's wrath anymore because Jesus has taken that wrath. We can live in that kind of forgiveness, in that kind of freedom. And Robert Murray McShane, you may have heard this quote. He said, For every one look at your sin, take ten looks at the cross. Because we're going to be constantly confronted with our sin as Christians as we read the scriptures, as we're around other believers, as as we're here at church, we're confronted with our sin all the time. And we could become self-loathing and we're hopeless. You know, woe is me. But we need to look at the grace of Christ and feed on the grace of Christ and believe that Jesus died for me, that I am righteous in him, I'm his child. I'm I'm holy in him, and nothing can take separate me from the love of God. And that's the kind of uh grace that that Christ is giving Peter. And he also says, from now on you will be catching men. So it wasn't just I'm going to save you and give you the gospel, but it's also, I'm going to give you purpose. I'm going to give you a mission. I'm going to give you Dignity. I'm going to give you a calling here. Peter, you're going to be a part of something great. You're going to be a part of the kingdom of God with me. You're going to be doing the same sorts of things that I'm doing. You're going to catch men Isn't this amazing? And this is what we are called to as well. We have no further to look at Acts 2 where we see Peter preaching that Pentecost sermon and throwing out those nets. Not to catch fish, but to catch men. And some 3,000 come to Christ during that sermon. What an amazing thing. But right before that. We remember Peter was confronted with his sin again when he denied Christ the night of his cru or before his crucifixion. So we see constantly that Peter He's in this process of seeing us in and then seeing Christ and being a part of this mission. And it's the same thing that the Lord uh is calling us to as well, to be a part of his gospel and a part of his plan. And so the the story kind of leaves us with with a question, a response. A climax. Christ's glory has been revealed in this miracle. His grace has been shown to Peter. He realizes he's a sinner. There's a call to ministry by Christ. And we are left with a response as well. What will Peter do? What will James and John do? What will we do? And what we see here is that grace Leads to following. That grace leads to following. It says they left everything and followed him. Do you think if you were there, if you were there that day, that you would leave everything and follow the Lord Jesus? That you would leave your your life, you would leave your work, you would leave your job, you would leave your family. That's what it says that they did. Uh they left everything that was familiar with him with them. You know, why do you think they they did it? Well, I think they did it because they saw Jesus' complete provision. You know, they saw that he had just brought fish from all over that Sea of Galilee into those nets. They saw that that Christ was so wonderful. that they were so filled with who he was. They were so joyous about that that they could not stay with what they were doing. Now, does this mean that all of us today need to to go into missions, full-time missions? Not necessarily. Not necessarily. Because Christ has has called us to whatever field we're in. Now some of us May be called to do foreign missions or to go into the ministry. But it does mean this: that we need to make Jesus' priority our priorities. And those priorities are people. Those priorities are those people that are in our family, those people that we work with every day, those people in our neighborhoods, the people that we really don't like. Because they're hard to like. The people that are different from us, that have different ideas. That Jesus is calling us to be concerned for people people for all of those types of people. You can't sit on grace. You can't sit with this wonderful experience of Christ and then just say, that's great, Jesus, see you later. I'm gonna go back. It's going to change the way you think about everything. And it did that for the disciples, and it's a call for us as well. It's not just about Peter and the disciples, but we're called to respond as well. We're called to follow him in whatever place the Lord has us. To think about how can we be a fisher of men? How can we as this church be a fisher of men? How can we cast out the nets in this area? In the summer of 2003, I had the opportunity to go to Manila with MTW on a short-term mission, and there was several of us from our Oklahoma church, and we went And we stayed at the Wycliffe Summer Institute of Linguistic House there in Manila. And that's kind of where the Wycliffe Bible translators come for their kind of their vacation, their downtime. There's also an office there where they work. And while we were staying there for a few days, I met an older gentleman. His name was Ed Roosh. And Ed had uh him and his wife had graduated from Wheaton College back in, I think, the mid-50s, and we were talking about the Cubs or something like that. He was He was interested in what was going on. And but anyway he started telling me about his ministry. And uh Wycliffe had asked, Who likes the water? And they raised their hands. And uh they Wycliffe sent him and his wife over to this little place in the Palawan Peninsula. This is southwest of Manila. And the people group there made their money by climbing up into the caves and uh and getting these bird nests that were delicacies to eat in Asia. And uh this is what the people did there to make money. And so their their calling, like all Wycliffe Bible translators, was to go into this community to learn their language. To try to write down their language, to listen, you know, to point at things, to try to get the uh linguistics down, and ultimately to translate the Bible And so that's what they began back in the fifties. Well, since that time his wife has died of cancer, but he's still there. And when we were there, he had completed the New Testament. He had just completed that. He spent his whole life. And the amazing thing is he said it was 16 years before the first person became a Christian. Sixteen years of persevering, sixteen years of uh believing the gospel, that this that Christ had called them to throw the nets out there. And now there are churches in those villages because they said we're going to follow Jesus into the deep. We're going to go And we're gonna do something for the Lord through his grace. Now it wasn't a law thing, it was because they loved the Lord. And because they wanted to tell other people about this great grace and this gospel that we as well have. And so that's my prayer for myself. That's my prayer for you. Let me pray. Father, we thank you so much for Your word this morning. We thank you for this miracle. We thank you for these words you've given us. Lord, you call us not to fear. And you tell us that you're going to make us fishers of men as well. And we thank you that in Christ we have that, that you dispel our fear because Jesus went to the cross and died for our sins. And Lord, you call us to be about the same task that you're about, to be about people, about calling men and women, boys and girls, to follow you. And what a joy that is. And I pray for this church and for these folks here that you would bless them as they go forth that we would take your word uh to this area, to Laurel, uh Lord, to College Park, to this Baltimore, Washington corridor, Lord, which needs the gospel. There's many, many opportunities. There's many hurting people here, and we pray that you would help us to be fishers of men in the places you have us. And we pray that for the glory of Christ. Amen.