I am glad and thankful for our pastor because he regularly preaches through the Word of God consecutively. And what that does, it protects you. It protects me from him being on a hobby horse or just preaching willy-nilly anything he wants to anytime. It forces you to work through the whole of the Word of God and it also helps the pastor because he knows where he's going to be the next week. He doesn't have to come to Monday and say Oh Lord, what would you have me preach on? But he knows what he's going to be preaching on because he's working through the Word of God. But that doesn't protect you from stand ins like me. You know, because we're not doing that, so Oh my, what are you going to get today? Um I thought that I would bring to you What I struggle with in the summer, and I call it the summer slump. Do you know what I'm talking about when I talk about the summer slump? For me, it's when church begins the summer schedule with no Sunday school, less visitation or fellowship, so many people are traveling. And having many of our weekly and monthly meetings postponed until the fall. Well, of course I can fill up any extra time with other duties on my own or a list of personal projects, family day trips, holidays, or a vacation. And it's with this change of pace But I often find it harder to be regular in spiritual disciplines of prayer, reading the Bible, and purposely looking for places to serve the Lord. For me, when summer comes, I get that special temptation to live for my comfort. I have that temptation all year long, but especially in the summer. Loving all those good gifts of creation. and growing cold to the God who gave and created those same gifts. We're warned about these very things in the scriptures in both the Old and New Testament. In the book of Proverbs it says this, give me neither poverty nor riches, feed me with the food that's needful for me, lest I be fool and deny you and say, Who is the Lord? So sometimes in the summers I'm going here and there and doing this and that, and I can pass by the very God who sustains me and keeps me. Or in Revelation, Jesus spoke to the church, particularly the church of Laodicea, and he talked about when we have all these blessings, he said this, I know your works, you're neither Cold or hot, what that you were either cold or hot, so because you're lukewarm, neither hot or cold, I'll spit you out of your mouth. For you say I'm rich, I've prospered, I have need of nothing. not realizing that you're wretched and pitiful, poor and blind and naked. You know, the Apostle Paul, it's interesting. We think of one side of the story about how he learned to be content. And he's learned to be content with all these problems, but I want you to listen to the scripture again because we often don't get this. He had to learn to be content and grow with God, not just during the times of temptations and trial. but also during those times of blessing. So listen to Philippians 4 again. He says, I know how to be brought low. And I know how to abound. In every any and every circumstance, I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. As he said, I look to Christ who strengthens me. But I think it's a particular problem that we have in our culture, in our time, with the abundance all of the good things that God gives us because we're not desperately in need and we don't feel and need that need for our daily food. Often our rent or housing. Often we have uh sheds in the back and barns full of stuff that we need to get rid of. and a bank account and social security and other things that if we really had a problem or the church to lean upon, that we have this abundance that not just during the summer at other times We have difficulties with our faith because when we're under trial and difficulty, it's then that we often say, oh Lord, where are you? I have no hope without you. So often in the past, during the times of brokenness, the church has rallied looking for God to help to finish the race of faith given them. But failed wishing for or during that during the good times of blessing. So today we're going to look at the book of Hebrews, and it's interesting. This is a book written to the Jewish converts who were were undergoing persecution and will see that they had done so well at the beginning of their faith when the times were hard, but they were wishing for the times of ease. And yet God was saying, you have need of endurance. And that's what we're going to be looking at today. Our need of endurance, not just during Times if you're having a summer of suffering, and some of you may be having that, you know, it the way it works is not everybody's high and everybody's low, right? Some of you, actually, this isn't just a summer slump for you. This is a hard time. We don't always talk about that with one another. Some of you may be pretty depressed. Some of you might find yourself overwhelmed. So whether it's a summer of slump or a summer of suffering, the word of God speaks to you today. And that's such a joy that God knows us and has prepared his word for each of these circumstances. And I trust that today it will speak to you. So in Hebrews 10, God was saying to these struggling converts to Christianity that they have need of endurance. And then we have Hebrews 11. Of course that comes after Hebrews. Long roll call of faith of those who stood during those difficult times. But now in Hebrews 12, as we look at it, it's how do we endure? How do we continue living faithfully the Christian life, the race that we have been giving During times of suffering or times of abundance, and we can have a spiritual slump. Well now, as the pastor had told you before We're going to repeat, let's stand, we'll pray, and then read God's words. Father, as we as I come before you today, I come confessing how easy it is. For me to take my eyes off of you and your son and know my need to be filled with your Spirit. Because so much of the abundance I have around me, and I love the great gifts that you give me, and I love it to be easy, and I can look to them and miss you. And so whether this is a could be a summer slump for some or a time of suffering or somewhere in between we All are reminded of our need to be living for you, our Lord and Savior, and that we need to endure, and that you have given us all that we would do it For our own good and for your glory. Help us to see that. Would you do what only you can do, Lord? Take my funny and feeble words and apply them to our lives as it opens your word that we would see and know and love our Savior Christ. For we pray in his dear name. Amen. Well, let us look to Hebrews chapter twelve as we are together running this wraith. Towards heaven, looking to Christ our Savior, and that we might continue endure in this race amidst all that might hold us back. Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 to 3. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, those who have gone before us in Hebrews 11 at one that he just mentioned, all those great ones of the faith, but also each other, as we look at each other and how we live this race. Therefore, since how we're surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance that race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary. Or faint hearted. Amen. Let us be safe. Well the first thing that these converts, the Christianity, these Jewish converts, the Hebrews, were given and you are given today is a command from your God. You are in a race and you are to run that race with endurance. cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also, as they have done, lay aside every encumbrance And the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run the race with endurance The race that is set before us. Indeed, we've all entered a race. We are following after our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. on our road to heaven. First Corinthians 9, 24, Paul says to us, don't you know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize. So run away in such a way that you are to obtain it. You and I are to run, follow after Christ with all our heart, mind, and soul and strength, but what does the scripture say? That we might get entangled by sin, that we could get entangled by sin. What does it say? Look at it. We are easily entangled. I know that. Right? I am shocked at how I can hear a great sermon, have a great devotion, spend time in prayer, walk out the door, and whammy. I'm sinning. You know, thought, word, or deed. It happens easily. And unless we set ourselves to be in the race daily, even moment by moment, to follow after Christ, we might be entangled in the world. by our sin. We have, in fact, difficulties. We live in a world system that hates Christ and His Word. It's the opposite. We know that more and more. At least we I grew up in a culture in the 50s and 60s that at least in some way said that the biblical norms were correct. Now they didn't necessarily believe in them or follow them, but they at least said that was the morals he should have. Now today things are turned upside down. Biblical m morals are turned aside. And the world is saying what is good is bad and what is bad is good. So you and I deal with a world system. Our own sinful flesh that is raised up in a moment, I'm shocked that sometimes I can be deep in prayer and have one of my most sinful thoughts. Do you know what that's like? It's like, where'd I come from? Right? We have to deal with the world, our own sinful flesh, and indeed the devil who is against us. And our race will not be finished until we go and die to be with the Lord or unless he returns faith first. So this race isn't a sprint. You know, sometimes I thought, wow, what can I do to grow to be like those people in Hebrews 11? Continuing the race. It doesn't happen overnight. It's a lifelong process. It's a marathon of daily following Christ and going after him. It's not a quick sprint, but a marathon. The Greek word for this race that it's talking about that you and I are in, the word for race, and I don't normally go into Greek, but it's helpful here because the word is agon. Do you hear a word in there? Agony. The race is an agony. It hurts. It hurts to follow after Christ and deny your own sin and look to him and to tear off the sins that entangle us. It's going to cost us something. It's agonizing at times to die to sin and follow after Christ. That is the race that we are in this side of heaven. We're in heaven. It's going to be easy. But the trouble is we love our comfort right now, right? Who wants to wake up today and agonize? Is that what you say? Oh Lord, give me a day where I can really agonize. No. We say, Lord, make it easy. Lord, help me through this. Lord, bless me. But the race is one that's going to be in this side of heaven difficult. It is going to be agonizing, a painful struggle. But we are to have endurance. The word for endurance speaks about enduring when everything in you wants to slow down or give up. And by the power of the Holy Spirit, God promises to give you his endurance as you continue in that race to set aside your sin. Remember how Paul and Philippians, when he read that, he says, I know how to deal with want or with plenty, how he compared those two things. Times of the some the times when you have more than you need or sometimes when you're struggling, he says, I've looked to Jesus. And of course, that's what we do. And the Holy Spirit says that we can do that in Colossians. It says, walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. fully pleasing him, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might for all endurance and patience. So God has promised to give you what you need, but we have to continue looking to Him. And what else does it say in verse one about that sin that so easily entangles us? You've got to lay it aside. I imagine that all of you have watched the Summer Olympics. Right? You may not be runners. I am runner. I have never been a runner. Well, there was one time I was a runner. I lost a hundred pounds and I was at the beach. And I would had bare feet and I thought I was going to play chariots of fire. You know, so I ran the first time. It was the first time in my whole life, even though I played sports and football, that I ever enjoyed running And you know I I could hear the evangelists and the music behind me, da-da-da-da-da-da. And I ran in bare feet and I had blisters all week long because my feet weren't used to it, right? But I didn't run with galoshes on at the beach and a parka right and a backpack. I ran in my swimming shorts, right? My swimming suit. That's how you run, and you have to be stripped down and get rid of those burdens. And Jesus says the way we run, we have to be fighting, stripping ourselves. of these sins that will hold us down. When you watch the Olympics in the summer, those people don't come with their training belts, you know, that they carry extra weight. They shed almost everything. And it's starting to get embarrassing how much they're shedding these days. Because they want to run as light as possible. And that's what Christ says we are to do. Now John Calvin has described, he knows us well, he was one of us. He said this, the nature of the weights that you and I must cast aside are these various burdens which delay and impede our spiritual course, such as love of this present life. Isn't that what I described? Right? The summer slump, loving my comfort. The pleasures of the world, the lust of the flesh, worldly cares, riches, and honors, and other things of that kind. Chasing after them. Not that God can't give us any of those, but chasing after them, wanting them, loving them. Being depressed if we don't get them cause us to stumble in our race of following after Christ Ligan Duncan, who is a PCA pastor in the South, and he's uh he's now the president of the Reformed Seminary in Jackson, Mississippi, he has said it this way about these These sins that we must cast aside that weigh us down. And I think it's really helpful. He says, they can be anything that hinders our progress. Anything which stops us from our discharge of our God-assigned duties, anything that dulls the conscience, blunts the edge of our spiritual appetite or chokes. the spirit of prayer. They can be good things. You know, you can spend the fa you can use the summer and spend so much time with your family. Vacations, traveling at the pool, whatever you do. You know, and it's great to have family and love your family, but you can be so busy cooking and cleaning or cutting the grass and getting ready and traveling and going to wherever. That you miss God. Now none of us would say, I haven't turned my back to God. I still go to church on Sunday, but During the week, we live as practical atheists because we're so caught up and looking to find our pleasure and happiness in everywhere else but God, even family, good things. If you are in a race, would you carry a bag of lead with you I hope not. Not going to help you at all, right? But even if you had a bag of gold, something very precious, it would still weigh you down in that race. And we can be chasing after these great things during the summer, but they can weigh us down, even the good things, if they hinder us from following after Christ. You must lay aside all the sin that entangles you in the race. Notice it says the sin. That's interesting. Look at the verse. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witness, let us lay aside every weight. And uh sin, uh in the the I think it's the King James says this sin or the sin, but it can also mean for some of us Those sins that we've been struggling with for a long time that we must continue to do that. The Old King James Verse translate this as laying aside these sins which so easily beset us, the idea of besetting sins. Those sins that plague us. What is it that that that that you fight so well many times, but you just say, ah I'm gonna give up now. I'm gonna just I've had enough. I'm not gonna continue in this race. I need a break And that's what often happens to us in the center, in the in the summer. Now, the first thing you were given is a command, but thankfully the Lord doesn't leave you or his church that way. Because he then gives you help. Look at the second verse. He says, to look to Jesus who endured the cross for you. That's how you run this race. That's what will enable you to cast off the sin. Look at verse 2. Fixing your eyes, our eyes, on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith. who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Thankfully, even though we don't always endure, he did. He never stopped his race. He never stopped preparing to go, to be with the Father, obeying him and go to heaven. He endured and looking to him that you and I can endure in our own race. When you look during your race, where you look is important. If you look at your feet, you're going to trip. If you look beside you at the crowd, you're going to trip. It's much like, now some of you do this and some of you don't, but now that we're even on a bigger piece of property where I live, we have three acres of grass and I cut it with my tractor, and I want to have straight lines. But the only way I can have a straight line through undulating hills and other things, I have when I'm when I'm going down the row, I don't look in front of me. I look at the end of the property where I'm going and I keep my eye on that. Because if not, my rows end up like this. You know, and then I have a funny looking yard. Well, I don't want to have a funny looking yard. I've got to keep my eyes off in the distance. And if we look at all these things here and there, they'll capture us rather than making sure we continue to look at Christ. In nineteen eighty one, Bill Rogers, some of you wouldn't know him, And some of you not following ri uh running, but he were on he went. I washed my mouth this morning. I can't do a thing with it He ran and won four Boston Marathons. And he showed up in 1981 in Omaha, Nebraska for a 10,000-meter run. Now, if we know what that is, it's a little over six miles. Why he showed up, everybody was surprised. I'm guessing he was paid to be there. And of course, it was no surprise that he won the race. And everybody else almost that was at that race came because they heard that he was going to be there, the four-time winner of the Boston Marathon. And if you were a runner, you wanted to see Bill Rogers. Well, one of the runners in that race that day was Bill Broadhurst. And people were surprised that he was there, because ten years earlier he'd had brain surgery that left him paralyzed on his left side. Broadhurst learned run lined up with the other runners and began to run, but not the same way they did. His one side was paralyzed, so every step he'd take a step and then he'd have to pull his other side along. And so it really wasn't a 10,000 meter run, but he was in the race. Took him two hours and 29 minutes to cover the six miles. With each of the last steps were filled with searing pain. But he looked at the end to the one he came to see, Bill Rogers. That one who had won all those marathons and had won that day. And when he crossed the line that day, Bill Rogers took off his medal. And he placed it around Bill Bebra. And that's what will happen as we look to the Lord Jesus Christ, as we endure looking to him. It's not that you and I are going to win this race. It's not that you and I are never going to have sin. It's not going to that you and I are going to have summer sluts or summers of suffering where we're struggling one way or the other, either because we're blessed or because we're broken. But as we look to the Lord Jesus Christ and keep our eyes on him, as we cross, he's crossing, giving his crowns to us, that he is already one. But that's the only way you and I are going to do it. It's not by looking to ourselves in our own strength or loving this world, but loving our God. Well God has given you a command. He has given you direction, help, but now he gives you hope. Look at verse 3. And this is where your hope and my hope is now and forever, but this summer. Verse 3, for consider him, of course it's Jesus, who has endured such hostility. by sinners against himself, so that you may not grow weary and lose heart. Aren't isn't God great the way he's written the scriptures for us? Because what happens in our race? We do grow weary and lose heart, don't we? I do. Lord, why is it so hard? Or why do I run from you in times of blessing? Or The number of my sins when I come on Sunday morning and I start thinking about my heart or something else, I come every week and say, Oh Lord I know that I progressed over my Christian life, but I didn't think it would be like this, you know, up and you know, that I so easily get entangled or I give up the race or I and every week, you know, I thought, wow, this is going to be the week. You know, still struggle. And he says this, don't give up, don't grow weary, don't lose heart. He knows you. He knows me. He knows that great temptation. And if we look to ourselves, we're going to be undone. There is no good thing in us, but there is in our Lord as we look to him, and he makes us like himself. What a joy. The end of Jude says, though you stumble and fall, the great benediction is that we will make it because He has made it In times of brokenness when it's difficult to trust in God's promises, when you've suffered loss for following after Christ. When you have sickness or death or hurt or financial price, and you think God has turned his back on you, when you are in the midst of a trial and there's no end in sight God knows he has put down in black and white for you that last forever, so that you may not grow weary and lose heart. Some of you are there today. Don't look to the circumstances. Don't look to yourself. Look to your Savior who has already run and won this race for you. But some of you, it may be that time's a blessing when you do have the summer slump, when all of your needs are being met, and you have money in the bank, and you think, what a great provider I am for my family. When you get good grades or an advancement in job and the kids are all in bed and not in trouble or you finish all your projects and you think how gifted you are Or when you get gifts or appraised or on vacation and you consider just how much you deserve all this. Fill in the blank for both blessing and brokenness can cause you to get off the path. And my temptation when I do that is just try harder. You know that little train that could? I think I can, I think I can, I know I can, I know I can To get on that train, do you know that train, that temptation in the Christian life? To dig deep and find your inner strength. Some people, when they read the book or saw the movie unbroken, that was the message that they got It's an Olympic story about an Olympic athlete during World War II, uh a veteran Luis Amparini who survived two plane crashes, 47 days adrift in the ocean, and a brutal Japanese POW camp. And yet he seemed seemingly was unbroken by all these horrendous experiences. Now when the book and the movie was made Especially the movie, Angelina Jolie, the director, chose not to cover the last chapters of Zampelli's life, where he said that he was broken. Because he battled with PTSD, alcohol, depression, and his unrelenting hatred for his guards. And he dealt with that after the war, World War II, until 1949, when Zamparelli trusted Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior at a Billy Graham crusade. in Los Angeles. You see, the change didn't happen, or he didn't really make it until he was broken Till he realized he could not run this race on his own. He came back from what happens in life, bitter and hardened and hurt. He's about ready to divorce his wife. He would beat her until she came to Christ and her attitude changed. And he wanted him to go to hear how he could have hope. Then for the next 65 years, Ampelli Zapparini went around the world to share his faith with anyone who would listen. telling them about his faith in Jesus and being forgiven of his sins. And considering what Jesus had done for him, Zamparini could forgive those who had wronged him. He even returned to share the gospel with hundreds of Japanese troops he once aided. By this time they were behind bars for their war crimes. Many of them hearing and seeing Zamparini's love for them, who were his former enemies, trusted Christ to forgive their sins. Right before his death, knowing that the book Unbroken had been on the New York number one reading list for 14 weeks. And as Angelo Angelina Jolie had shown him the movie on Broken while he was in the hospital bed, Zamporini said The heart of this story unbroken is when I found Christ as my Savior. When he was broken, he said, that's the whole heart of my whole life. May that story, may this scripture encourage you this summer to continue in the race. This might be a summer of suffering for you. I don't know. God knows. But He's promised to be with you. And it might be a summer slump for you because You're blessed, and it's easy to take your eyes off of Christ. Don't let either of the sins of unbelief However it goes, be yours. But by God's grace, may you have a great summer. Not because it's easy. But because you're looking to Jesus and you're in that race as he strengthens you to love and serve him, let us look to our God.