All right. Well, it's thankful to be back with all of you all again on another blessed Sunday evening on the Lord's Day. And we're going to be back in the book of John tonight. And if you remember, the book of John was one of the last Gospels written. It was written after AD 7, after the destruction of the temple, and our brother, the Apostle John, is showing how Jesus Christ fulfilled the entirety of the Old Testament. And uh this book is evangelistic, it's also highly Christological, so it's talking about Christ and his goal is to exalt Christ in the mind of his readers. So the passage for tonight is going to be John chapter 3 verses 34 to 35. So if you can please turn your Bibles there. And uh please stand as we gonna pray and read the verse. Let's pray. Father, thank you for another day that we get to worship you and to hear from you, from your inerrant, infallible, and holy word. It is your word where we see Christ clearly, and it is your word that is the seed by which your people are saved. Father, it is your word that is a lamp to our feet. And Father, we know that the nations are raging and the rulers of the earth they plot in vain. They have taken counsel together to fight against your son and spirit. But Father, we know that you sit in the heavens and you laugh. Father, you have begotten your son, and we know that unless they kiss the Son, they will perish. For the Son will return, and he's going to command every knee to bow and all to confess that he is Lord. And for those who will not do this willingly, he will break their knees with a rod of iron iron. So, Father, our prayer is for us to continue to kiss the Son. To bow our knee, to bow our wills, and to bow our hearts to Him by the power of your Spirit. And may we do that with joy. And Father, we pray for that more souls will be saved and your people will hold the sun as their greatest treasure and highest good. As we listen to your word tonight, may we kiss the sun and worship him in our hearts. Exalt him high in us, that our love may grow for you, Father, and grow for the Son, and grow for your Holy Spirit. Amen. The text tonight is John chapter 3, verses 34 to 35. And it reads, the Father loves the Son. and has given all things into his hand. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. And whoever and whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. This is the word of God. Amen. Baby seated. So in our text tonight, John the Baptist was rejoicing that salvation is found in Jesus Christ. But not only that salvation is found in Jesus Christ, he also rejoiced that the salvation that is in Jesus Christ Flows from the Father's love for the Son. Everything that Jesus Christ did was because he loved his father And all that the Father did was because he loved his son. And the son was empowered by the Spirit to accomplish all that the Father desired, because the Spirit loves the Father. And the Son. And Christ came for the love of God. And this is the covenant of redemption, which is going to be our topic for tonight. In eternity past, God made a covenant with his son to glorify him above all. And the son, out of love for his father, entered that covenant to express the love that he had for his father. The Holy Spirit, out of love for the Father and Son, worked to accomplish all that was planned by the Father. My professor Dr. Scott Swain at Reformed Theological Seminary said this, the covenant of redemption is the eternal. Self-determination of the Blessed Trinity who wills to communicate the bliss of his triune life to elect sinners through the mediation of Jesus Christ for the glory. Of Jesus Christ. So Dr. Swain is saying that in the beginning Salvation was planned all for the glory of God. John the Baptist, in this text that we just read, was talking to his disciples, and he and the disciples, his disciples had a problem with Christ because John the Baptist Baptist ministry was dwindling and Christ's ministry was increasing. And John was trying to explain to his disciples if you remember that he is the Messiah. And so John the Baptist tells his disciples that salvation is found in Jesus Christ And he could have told the disciples, God just loves you to pieces, right? But he didn't say that. John tells them that salvation is an act of grace from the overflow of love from the Father to the Son, and the Son's love for the Father, and the Spirit's love for the Father and Son. I said this in the last lesson when we were together that we are not the end of all the means of God. We are a means to a greater end. which is God expressing his love to his son, and the son expressing his love to his father and the Spirit expressing his love toward the Father and the Son. So tonight as we explore God's word, we're going to go over three points Number one, and it's in the bulletin, for the love of God, the Father made a covenant of redemption. Second point, for the love of God, the Son came to honor his father. And the last point, for the love of God, the Spirit brings about the supreme end. So first point. For the love of God the Father made a covenant redemption. John the Baptist says, for the Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. There was a promise made in eternity past long ago. Titus chapter 1 verse 2 reads this Reads says this, in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began. Now exactly who did God promise this to? Because there was nobody in eternity past before ages begin other than God Himself. God made a promise to his son, a promise to give his son a gift. A bride. In 2 Timothy chapter 1, verses 8 through 9 it reads, Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel. by the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus. Here it is, before The ages began. God made a promise to his son to give him a people, a bride, because he loves his son. And it is not that the son needed us, nor does God need us to express his character or his love to his son. His act of creating was out of his own good pleasure. But it pleased the father to give a gift to his son. In Psalm chapter 2, verses 8 through 9, it reads, Ask of me, and I will give, I will make the nations your inheritance and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall shatter them like earthenware. God's purpose for all creation is to see the sun as their greatest treasure. and revere his majesty, for that pleases the Father, that his Son be glorified and enjoyed. Mark chapter 1 verse 9 to 11 reads this, in those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open and the spirit descending on him like a dove, and a voice came from heaven. And here's God speaking about a son. You are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. The bride, the church. That God gives his son is not only to revere the Son, she must be redeemed by the Son, to reflect the Son's image. For there is no higher good other than God Himself. Therefore, his gift to the Son must reflect God, must reflect the triune God. And it is the cross that God uses to exalt his son. It is the cross that God uses to give the son all the nations and to redeem his bride and to make a people after his son's image. The gospel is a direct result of the covenant of redemption by the Father. Acts chapter 2 verse 22 to 23 reads, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works. and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst as you yourselves know. This Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. In Ephesians chapter 1, verses 3 through 8, it reads, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless before Him. In love, He predestined us for adoption of sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose. of his will to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches. of his grace. So the reason for all existence The reason for the universe is for God to put his son on display as the preeminent one The highly exalted one, the one greatly beloved, the one who was crucified, who died and buried and raised again to everlasting life. Why? Because he loves his son. In Revelation chapter 5, verses 9 through 10 it reads, And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain. And by your blood you ransom the people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom of priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. And it didn't stop there. In the following verses, there are myriads, thousands and thousands of angels, and every creature in heaven and on earth, under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them were praising the Lamb who sits. on the throne. And this is one of my favorite quotes by John Piper. He says, in conceiving a universe in which to display the glory of his grace, God did not choose Plan B. The death of Christ was not an afterthought or adjustment. For this the universe was planned Everything leading to it and everything flowing from it, it is explained by it. Therefore, before God made the world, he had in view Jesus Christ slain, and he had in view a people purchased. by his blood, whose names were written in the book. And as we can see, it seems that the Father was all in, right, for this plan. But this is quite a costly gift. So what was the son's response? And that brings us to our next point. For the love of God, the son came to honor his father. How did the Sun respond to this covenant of redemption? He responded in faithful, loyal love. The son was eager to honor the father in all things. The son loves his father and purposes himself to glorify him before all. So what did the son do to express his love to his father? Well, the first thing the son did was take upon himself human flesh He left his throne to come to fulfill the Father's plan and to receive the gift the Father had for him. And here is Christ on his throne. You remember that event with Isaiah after King Uzziah died? He saw the Lord sitting upon his throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. And above him stood the seraphim, those burning ones, those angels, giving him glory. They had six wings, and with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew, and one called to another and said, Holy. Holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. The foundations of the threshold struck. At the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And this was the pre-incarnate son sitting on his throne And we know this because the Apostle John wrote this in chapter 12, verse 41. He says, Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. And John, it was referring to Jesus Christ. So for the love of his father, Jesus leaves that glorious throne for his father. And we see this in John chapter 1, verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So Jesus Christ also had to live. We often focus on the death of Christ, but he honored his father by coming to live a perfect life. The Son was to please his father in obeying God's law perfectly at every point. For only God can please God. Everybody else in creation failed. The most innocent, Adam. The one who received grace, Noah, failed and sinned. Abraham, the most faithful, failed. And sinned against God. The strongest one, Samson, the most wise, Solomon, the most noble, David. All fail short of God of being God's perfect representative But not Christ. In Luke 2. 52 it reads, and Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. Hebrews chapter 5 verses 8 through 9 says this, although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. The son gladly also came down and gladly received his bride from the Father. Christ loves his people because the Father gave us to him. And Christ affirms this in John chapter 6. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. This is Christ's response to the covenant of redemption that the Father made with him in eternity past. John 17, he says, Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given because you love me before the foundation of the world. The Son came to honor his father by destroying sin and establishing righteousness through his blood. And in that act, he redeemed the gift the Father promised him in eternity past. The cross was to vindicate and honor his father. If we are Uh, if we get to the heart of the matter, we see in the biblical text that sin is an offense to God. It challenges God's rule. It insults God's character and sin attacks the existence and work of God. And Jesus, more than any of us, understood that an unredeemed humanity is a creation that is in open conflict and rebellion to its creator. It So the son came in response to his father to abolish all rival and rebellion to his father and to save those that his father has decreed a pardon. In short, the Son went to the cross to glorify God. And our benefit from that was the church became the bride. that he received from his father. John chapter 12, verse 27 to 28, here is our Lord. He says, now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But listen to what Christ says. He says, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. So how does God glorify his name? Well, Christ puts the Father on display and gives him glory through his death on the cross. Romans chapter 3 verses 23 to 26, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God put forward as a propiti propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. It continues on it says, this was to show God's righteousness. Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time. so that he might be the just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus Christ. The crucifixion, the resurrection, the ascension, and the return of Christ is the greatest conquest in all of redemptive history. It is true that Christ came as a servant, but he also launched an all-out assault on Satan's kingdom and pulled it up at its roots. It was for the love of God that Jesus Christ went to the cross. We must not downplay the gospel. If we are to be a good witness, we have to grasp that concept. We have to give the world something more than they have been receiving. If you go out there and say he was just a good servant The world's going to look at him as a failure. He is not a failure. He came and accomplished exactly what he wanted to do. The son left his throne, became flesh, fulfilled the law, and came to honor his father by dethroning the kingdom of darkness. And in that process, the Son also redeemed the gift that was given to him from the Father. Salvation is an overflow of the love within the Trinity. The salvation of sinners is a benefit that flows from the main purpose, which is the Son expressing sacrificial love to his father. Let me say that again. The salvation Of sinners is a benefit that flows out of the main purpose, which is the sun expressing His sacrificial love to his Father. Salvation focuses on God, and those saved are means to the glory of God. John chapter 10. Verses 14 through 17, Jesus Christ says, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me and I know the Father, and I laid down my life for the sheep, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice, so there will be one flock, one shepherd. And listen, he says, for this reason The Father loves me because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. So Jesus goes to the cross because he eagerly desires to express his love for the Father. The Father loves the Son because he lays down his life for the sheep that he has given him. So the reason that we are so loved by Jesus Christ is because we are love, because we are a love gift from the Father. And this is a long quote, so I'm going to prepare you, but John MacArthur said this. The sinner's need is satisfied that Christ Died for sinners. We know that. The Bible says that. But what people may not think about is that Christ also died for God. This is a such grandiose thing that is virtually exhaustible. Christ died for God. Ultimately, salvation is for the glory of God, the honor of God, the exaltation of God. The reason for salvation is not primarily for your benefit. It is for the glory of God. We are a means to an end. We are not the end. God does not save sinners because they're so lovable. God isn't overwhelmed with unconditional love for wretched sinners. He's overwhelmed with his own glory, and he's found in his saving sinners a means to his eternal glory before the holy angels and before of all the redeemed. So the next question we want to answer, where's the spirit in all of this? If this is indeed a Trinitarian love, where does he come in? And that leads us to our last next point. For the love of God, the Spirit brings about the supreme man. The Father loves the Son, the Son loves the Father, and the Spirit loves the Father and the Son. The Holy Spirit is called the Spirit of Christ and the Spirit of God because he proceeds from God the Son and God the Father. And in the covenant of redemption, it is the Spirit that accomplishes the Father's plan and the Son's work. It was the Spirit that considered see Jesus Christ in the womb of Mary, Luke 1. It was the Spirit that indwelt Christ and empowered him for ministry in John 1 and John 3. It was the spirit that led Jesus Christ to the cross. And it was the spirit that raised Jesus Christ from the dead, Romans 8, 11. And it is the spirit that came to Pentecost to gather throughout the ages, the gift, the bride. That was promised to the Son. And it is the Spirit that is the engagement ring for the church that signifies the promise of the coming wedding day. So the question is where is this all going? The Spirit is bringing about the supreme end, which was from the beginning and eternity past, the glory of God. Redemptive history will end and begin at its origin, the glorification of the triune God. In a loving act towards the Son and the Father, the Spirit is going to make his bride ready for the great day of the wedding. between the bridegroom who is Christ and the bride who is the church and who was the gift that God gave Christ. Then the Son will express his eternal love for his father by handing us over back to the Father. And then the triumph of God will be in all and all. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 says this, verses 24 to 28. Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must Reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put all things in subjection. It is plain that he is accepted who put all things in subjection unto him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son Himself will also be subjected to Him, meaning God, who put all things in subjection under Him, that God may be all in all. What a glorious truth. Now I know you're asking, what use is this to me throughout the week? This is great. But what is what use is this to me throughout my week? Well I'm glad you asked. Use number one The covenant of redemption is to increase our worship of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit Worship is not just the singing on Sunday. It is how you live throughout the week. And the purpose of the covenant of redemption is not just to exalt God in the highest place in redemptive history, but to exalt him to the highest place in our own heart, mind, and soul. Use number two. The covenant of redemption prevents idolatry. At the heart of sin is the dethroning of God. And the enthronement of the creature. So when the gospel is man-centered, the man is the end of all God's means in redemptive history. And this is an attempt to dethrone God and to exalt the creature. However, if the glory of God is the central theme. Of the gospel, then and only the creature is put in his or her rightful place, and God is on his throne. And that is the essence of holiness and proper worship. Use number three The covenant of redemption explains why the cosmos exists and it answers the problem of evil. All things are for the glory of God. His glory is the ultimate goal and end game for all that exists and all that happens. God's glory is the highest good there is, and all things exist to serve to that end. Thomas Watson said this, God's glory is worth more than heaven and worth more than the salvation of all men's souls. Better kingdoms be thrown down, better men and angels be annihilated. then God should lose one jewel of his crown, one beam of his glory. God made a covenant with his son, and the Bible is clear about that. However, God also condescends to his creation by way of covenant And at the start of redemptive history, God makes a covenant of works with man. And to deny the covenant of works To deny the covenant of works is to deny the gospel itself. And Lord willing, we'll find out why in our next sermon on the covenant of works. Let's pray. Father, thank you for salvation. Thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you for the gospel and thank you for the church. And we know that it was out of your goodness and out of the overflow of your love from to your son and your son's love to you and the Spirit loves to you. And the Son and Father, may we rest in that love. May we be secured in that love because that love is eternal and settled and fixed. And we pray, Father, as we go about our week, that we will remember the covenant of redemption and that you will have the highest placed in our heart and soul, that you will be our greatest treasure. Father, we pray that you'll bless us to be throughout the week, that you would help us to place you and ourselves in the correct place, you upon the throne, and us at your feet worshiping you. And Father, we pray that we will realize that your glory is the greatest and highest good. And help us to rejoice at that. And we thank you for the love you've shared with us, from the love you have. uh within yourself and father and for yourself and we thank you for that father continue to uh we pray for CRPC that you would continue to bless us and strengthen us And use us. And uh Father, thank you again for this church, and thank you most of all for you. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.