This morning as you came in you noticed it was overcast and raining. That might not be your favorite type of weather. I've always had a natural inclination. I actually like this to some degree, but the older I get, I I like the sun. But we have some words that encourage us as we come as God's people this morning from Isaiah 55 regarding what we see outside. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways than your ways. and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater. So shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose and shall succeed for which I sent it. And we see that all the time. We always want rain. We just had a very dry month. I think it was the driest August on record. And uh the plants need the rain. And um But there's there's more. There's more that God says about this this the Word of God. There's a major change I didn't realize until I was got older in Christ. There's more to this passage. It goes on. It says, For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace. The mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. And now here's the big change. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress. Instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle, and it shall make a name for the Lord, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. That as we gather this morning under God's word, we are expectant of a change, a change that only God can do by his spirit. That the remaining corruption that we have as his people will be eradicated by a spirit and that we would be. transforms the image of his son and maybe even some today might first for the first time come to know Christ and uh and enjoy the salvation that is in him. So with that please stand for the reading of God's word. I'll be reading from Exodus chapter six, beginning with verse one, and I'll read. To verse 9. Hear the word of God. But the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he will send them out, and with a strong hand he will drive them out of his land. God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. as God Almighty. But by my name, the Lord, I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they lived as sojourners. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the people of Israel, whom the Egyptians hold as slaves, and I have remembered my covenant. Say therefore to the people of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from the slavery to them. And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment. I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God And you shall know that I am the Lord your God, who has brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. I will bring you into the land that I swore to give to Abraham. To Isaac and to Jacob. I will give it to you for a possession. I am the Lord. Moses spoke thus to the people of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses. Because of their broken spirit and harsh slavery. Let me pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for the greatest privilege that we can have as those who have been created in your image, as first in Adam. And fallen in Adam, and now by your grace, many have come to be uh remade in Christ. To be more like your son. We ask now that you would bless us with your spirit, that all of us may be blessed. Be conformed to his image and to his core. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Our brother Cliff mentioned Leonard Bernstein. Hopefully I said that right. I had said his name right. And uh if you have a spectrum of of music you've got Leonard Bernstein on there somewhere on the spectrum and then you've got Gladys Knight in the Pits. And uh I know there's a big difference and uh I've always liked Gladys Knight and her voice and uh At one point she had a song, My Imagination. And it starts off, I've really got to use my imagination to keep on keeping on. Got to make the best, the best of a bad situation. And then she tells her story. Her sad situation was that her man had left her. And uh I've always appreciated kind of the the uh the vigor with which she sings it. And I like her voice and I'm thinking It makes me think about this passage right here before us today. You know, and the question is, do we need to use our imagination? Are we supposed to be great positive thinkers? Or is there more to our hope in this life? Or can there be more to our hope in this life? And this text has been on my mind for a long time because I don't want to be in these kind of situations. I don't prefer to be in a hard, difficult time. And it may be that this morning, this very morning, you may come in a situation like this. You may maybe you have heard some difficult news about health or relationships or money or work. And um and so as much as I dread these types of situations, we inevitably find ourselves at some point in time. In these situations. And the question is, do we just have to use our imagination? Are we supposed to be positive thinkers? And the answer is absolutely no. We have a better foundation for hope. And uh that's what we want to consider this morning in this text. So while this is a difficult situation to consider, as we put ourselves into the the Israelite shoes, it also gives us hope because we know the rest of the story. We're not like the Israelites who uh are are are in the midst of the pain and uh it seems like the good promises that Abraham just told them are eclipsed by their pain and by the the difficult circumstances in which they are. And that, you know, and so it's one thing to read about them But when we're in the midst of pain and suffering, it's very easy for us to forget the Word of God. That our pain and our suffering tend to eclipse the sure promises that we have in Jesus Christ. And so while this is a hard text in terms of experience, it's also a great encouraging text. It applies to us today. Wherever we are, we don't have to use our imagination. But we do have to use our minds and we have to use our memories in order to be encouraged in the midst of difficult circumstances. So the question is, what is it that God wants us to know in this passage passage today to aid our faith? What is it that's so important here? And so my doctrine for this morning would be the Christian life consists in remembering and resting in God's word with patient endurance. The Christian life consists in remembering and resting in God's Word with patient endurance And I'd like to look under look at this passage under two points. The first is, what's the cause of not hearing? What is their cause of not hearing the Word of God? The very Word of God that Moses faithfully proclaimed. to the Israelites that he received from God. So it's not, there's nothing wrong in this message, but it's in the people's perception to be able to hear. So the first thing we'll look at is the cause of not hearing, and then secondly, the background into our passage. The background into our passage is so important to really understand what's going on here and maybe why the Israelites Suffered so much. Maybe there was relief they didn't look at or had not considered. So first we'll look at the cause of not hearing, and we see this in verse 9. Moses spoke thus to the people of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses because of their broken spirit and harsh slavery. They were in a very, very painful place. It's a situation that none of us would want to be in. To say it was a broken spirit, another way to say it would be anguish, excruciating or acute distress, suffering or pain. And again, you may be in a place like that this morning where you just the pain is seems unbearable. And so this is why this passage is so helpful. Because you and I are not the first to suffer in any sense. And we have this wonderful example here where we'll see there's good reason to hope for greater things than what the Israelites were perceiving at the time. And to say that they had harsh slavery is not an understatement. It was very cruel. And uh again, this is their immediate situation. If you Took a cross-section of their life at this point in time. This is what life was like for them. They didn't have the freedoms that we have of coming here together as God's people. And in worshiping him, they didn't have the freedoms that we have in our country. To a great extent, they were slaves and they were under cruel bondage. And often as the case is we consider scripture, it's important to slow down and try to get ourselves into the shoes of the audience that we're reading about. Because if we don't, we'll just think this is a hypothetical situation. And so the Word of God won't have the good effect that it could because we haven't entered into the pain of the people in the passage. That's very important. As I get older, I see how important this is that scripture will make more sense if we will slow down and think of the situations that are before our eyes on Holy Scripture. Their current life experience was eclipsing the good news of their deliverance by God through Moses. It was it was we know from the story what's going to happen right afterwards. And yet it's important to realize that in their cross-section, it was dark. And it was sad, and it was hard, and it was oppressive. We know, as the reader, what lay ahead of them, and they would eventually experience the reality of the words to which at this moment they are deaf. But not right now, not at this cross section. And so again, let's pause. Can you relate to that? Can you relate to that? No. Over the last week I've had situations like that. I'm thinking, what am I going to do? What are my resources? And we're often in that place, but it's always a call to look to the Lord. Because we're not autonomous creatures. We were made through Christ. We were made through Christ and for Christ, always to be dependent upon him and the Father and the Holy Spirit. Even before redemption, in our created situation, we were made through Christ and for Christ, like all the rest of the created order before the fall. And so it's really important for us to remember that. And so when we come to those places of great pain and difficulty, our tendency, at least my tendency, is to say, woe is me, woe is me, and try to figure how can I how can I fix it and I find that I cannot fix it. I have no resources, often. And that's the call to call on our Heavenly Father to ask for his help. Through Christ, we have this wonderful, wonderful access to the throne of grace. 24-7. Whether you're in the emergency room, at the hospital. If you've just been betrayed by a friend, you have this access simply because God has offered it in Christ. And so that's the cause that they're not hearing. Their pain is eclipsing the Word of God, which is not good. And in my doctrine, I said that we we need to remember, so we're going to get into that now. We need to understand what they need to what needs to be remembered. But so we want to look into the background of this passage. The background of this passage, we know where they are now. They are in slavery to Egypt. And their fortunes had changed drastically from 400 years ago. Or not 400 years ago, but when they first entered Egypt. They entered Egypt with Joseph. Initially, Joseph was raised to the second in command under Pharaoh. He had great power. He had great wisdom from God. And then eventually Joseph's family comes in, Jacob, who is Israel, comes in, and over time they are given this wonderful place to pasture their flocks of Goshen. They're in a foreign land and yet incredibly blessed, incredibly blessed by God, in the midst of a foreign people. And so that's how this situation starts off, but then there's a change, and this is where we need to look into more immediate background. of this passage. And that comes from the book of Exodus at the beginning. I'm just going to read this. If you want to turn, you're welcome. But it's Exodus 1, 6 to 16. And this helps us to understand how they go from prosperity to where they are now. And this is what we read in these words. Then Joseph died, and all his brothers and all the generation. But the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly. They multiplied and grew exceedingly strong so that the land was filled with them. The blessing of God was upon them. They multiplied. You know, it harkens back to Genesis. Be fruitful and multiply. And God's blessing was upon them, and that's exactly what they did. But time goes on. And now there arose a new king over Egypt who did not know Joseph. And he said to his people, Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us. Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply. And if war breaks out, they join our enemies and fight against us and escape from the land. Therefore they set taskmasters over them. to afflict them with heavy burdens. So the the situation is changing. It's already been ramped up. There's some difficulties going on. Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens. They built for Pharaoh store cities, Pithum and Ramses. But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied, and the more they spread abroad. This amazing principle, often it happens in the with the people of God, that the more they're oppressed, God overrules it for their good. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel, so that they ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves, ruthlessly. And made their lives bitter with hard service in mortar and brick, and in all kinds of work in the field. In all their work, they ruthlessly made them work as slaves. Now, I trust many of you are in work situations or have been, and hopefully you've had a s a spectrum. At least you've had a good boss at some point, or somebody's an overseer at good point at some point, but maybe you've also had a horrible boss. You know, we have in the government we or other places we have people who are called whistleblowers who kind of expose what's really going on And people are asked to do things they shouldn't do, or they're being oppressed. And um and it's cruel. You know, an overseer has a responsibility to do good to those who are under them. And yet we know in the world, in the fallen world, that's not always the case. And people leave their jobs and go into other ones just because it's so difficult. And so things are very difficult for them at this point, but it gets worse. Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shifra, and the other Pua. When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them on the birthstool, if it is a son, you shall kill him. But if it's a daughter, if it's a daughter, she shall live So all of a sudden we're not just having cruel oversight, but now it's like we're gonna kill them. It's uh male inf in infanticide. And I think we need to pause again to think of how heinous that was. You know, if we we we are grieved by abortion. And if you have been one who has aborted a child or related to somebody, there's forgiveness in Christ. And there's restoration in Christ. But to think if you you know you would go to your local hospital and and they were given the direction, any male just kill them. You know, we need to feel the force of this. We need to understand how grievous it was. for the Israelites. And so this is what they lived through, and then uh in God's kindness in the midst of this So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said, Oh, I'm sorry. But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live. That God overruled, he gave these women courage. To stem the tide of this death death wish. And God was very kind. He does this all the time, in some measure. It's not always the case that things are stayed, but in this case that's what happened. And so now you start to feel more and more the anguish. I mean this this is their history for some period of time. Very hard. Nobody would want to live in a country with those kind of stipulations or under that pressure. And we need to feel it and we need to understand it because it's in these kind of situations that God works. and has worked in his son Jesus Christ. So it was a very, very difficult time. And the question is, is should we leave it there? Is that all there is to say about this passage? My doctrine is the Christian life consists in remembering and resting in God's word with patient endurance. Well we just read. Exodus 1. What encouragement is there there? What hope is there there? I mean, we do see that the midwives have courage and they they stem the tide of death, but Have I left out something? Have I left out some piece of information from God's Word? Absolutely. Absolutely. If I can impart just a tad of humor here, over the course of my life I've had a hard time sleeping. And so one of the things I will do to try to make me fall asleep is watch television. And they often had those infomercials. And I think the people who do infomercials, you know, realize that because they all sound the same, their eyes, everybody else's eyes blaze over, and really they're wasting their money in the infomercials. So then they had to put in the part, wait, there's more. They had to put that into the infomercial just to get the people's attention so they would pay attention. To the uh the infomercial. And really, there's something more glorious and more weighty that there's more here for us as we go further back in Scripture. Because before there was the Israelites without Joseph and without Jacob, there was Jacob, and there was Isaac, and there was Abraham. who initially was named Abram. About 400 years later. And God appeared to Abram, we see in Genesis 12. And what he's doing there is he's pulling Abram out of the darkness of his idolatry into his marvelous light. That Abram's family was were idolaters. We often put Abraham up there on the pedestal, and there's really good reasons to do that. But we need to understand that he was in idolatry too. And he too was falling in Adam. And so he needed a Savior as well. And so he calls Abram, he pulls him out of the idolatry, brings them to himself in some sense, and then three chapters later, and Genesis 15, he makes a covenant with him, a very solemn oath and a very solemn ceremony. And it's here that we read these wonderful words. That God has said he will accomplish on his behalf, on Abraham's behalf. As the sun was going down, a deep, deep, a deep sleep fell on Abram, and behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. Then the Lord said to Abram, Know for certain, know for certain. This is God speaking. The God who spoke the creation into order that still stands to this very day, although under the fall. Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs. Sojourners in a land that is not theirs. Egypt. Egypt. And will be servants there. They were slaves. And they will be afflicted for 400 years. Afflicted. But I, but I will bring judgment on the nations that they serve. And afterwards. They shall come out with great possessions. As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried at a good old age. This is life from God, the God of history, the God of creation, the eternal God, who spoke to Abram 400 years ago earlier. Now, I just realized recently, you know, we're all busy and we can't keep up with everything that's happening, but we're we're coming close to a birthday. Now the date of the birthday you may share, July 4th. But next year is our 250th birthday as a nation. And uh as I thought about that, I thought, that can't be right. I was here for the 200th. And I thought, oh, 50 years have gone by I'm an old guy, I guess. I was 19 years old when that happened. And um and I can remember vividly going to near the Pentagon, it was something called a freedom train. It was a big deal. But we're talking way beyond 250 years. We're talking 400 years And so God had said these things. This is the light of God's word that should have informed them. That should have informed the Israelites because it's like, now is the time. God's timing. Now is the day. Just like he sent his son in the fullness of time, he sends his deliverance according to his word. He never misses. He's never unfaithful. And so the question is raised, why how could they forget this? You know, we I think we can surmise they remembered some things. They knew about circumcision. They knew about Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, I'm sure. But for some reason they didn't remember these words that I just read. And God said them, and when God says them, they happen, but they only happen according to his timing. You know, we're so used to instant things. You know, I can get on Amazon, I can get something I want. If I order it in the morning by five o'clock that day. I mean you get used to that. And you know, and there's no there's no uh growing impatience, you know. It's almost like I gotta be very careful before I even open up Amazon. You know, I mean I gotta be aware that I don't just go click click click click click oh honey by the way you know but it it really is it's a it's a reality that we experience all the time And yet God's ways are slow, but they're always sure and faithful. God does not lie. And so they had forgotten it. Maybe they were, it was just the busyness of life. Maybe they didn't pass the faith on to the next generations as they should have. You know, there's that hymn, that line in that hymn, we fade and die like flowers that grow in beauty. But God is from all eternity. His promises are not limited to death or denied by death. His promises are always sure. When he says it, he means it. And we have to make that distinction. He's not us. He's not mankind who lie. But his promises are sure. And so they missed out on this great comfort and really the light that would have interpreted their situation. Their suffering was interpreting. The Word of God. It kept it out. It eclipsed the Word of God. And the Word of God should have informed their suffering. Because we're going to suffer in this world. We know that. You know, I heard about Rick and Mark's fathers. I've known Mark for 50 years. I knew his father. I haven't seen him in a long time. And I'm in touch with Mark. You know, and he told me we just had dinner with him in Laurel on Main Street. And he spoke about his father's not doing so well. And um so we all suffer, but we never forget the word of God in our suffering. And not only that, God is so kind to us in his word. He tells us how God fulfills it in Exodus 12. Exodus 12, verses 40 to 42. The time that the people of Israel lived in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years. At the end of 430 years, on that very day, all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. That God had exercised his mighty hand against Pharaoh who blasphemed him. Who is the Lord? Who is the Lord? You never You never oppose the word of God. You submit, you bow. And most and Pharaoh would pay the price At the end of 430 years on that very day, all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. It was a night of watching by the Lord to bring them out. Of the land of Egypt, so this same night is a night of watching kept to the Lord by all the people of Israel throughout all their generations. So God fulfilled what he said he would do. It's so important to follow the storyline of Scripture, even in the Old Testament. Romans 15, 4 tells us it's there for our encouragement to see the character of God, to see the faithfulness of God at all times in every generation. And so is there anything here for us? Is there anything here for us? We're so many hundreds of years down the road now. From the time of the Israelites being delivered. And that seed of Abraham who would bless the nations came. In the fullness of time, God sent his beloved son. The second person of the Trinity was born of the Virgin Mary by the power of the Holy Spirit. The second person of the Trinity took on human flesh, not to deliver us from mere human oppression. But to deliver us from the oppression that comes from the evil one that started at the fall. That oppression that made us slaves to sin and opposed to our good God. So that we might be delivered both from sin and Satan. I think sometimes people think of sin Unrealistically, Jesus says if the Son sets you free, you shall be free indeed. There's a slavery, there's a corruption of sin that we weren't made for. When we see the bizarre things that happen in our society, our families, or whatever, that are destructive and against the good created order. We need to understand that's not God's created order. That's not the way God intended it. But since the fall of man, we all have come under that. We've all come under that, apart from the saving, sovereign grace of God. And so in the fullness of time, he sends his son, and the son does all that Called with him in this first coming. He takes on human flesh. He lives a holy life. He too faces persecution. Even at his birth, he's just like Israel. Do you ever trace his the life of Mary of Joseph and Mary from the declaring that Mary would bear the child until Maybe his becomes 13. They're in danger. They have to go in and out of places. I think it's Herod. Herod wants to kill all he kills all the children in Jerusalem to and under. It's like a repeat of Exodus. But God in his providence and in his power preserves his son and he lives and he comes to do his ministry. He's a faithful minister and he he dies on the cross. Unjustly, by all standards, which was perfectly ordained by God, the book of Acts says. And what was he doing? He was paying the penalty of our sin. Our heinous sin. Our heinous rebellion. And the painful darkness that goes with that. And so he died on the cross, but on the third day he rose again from the dead, never to die again. Because we are here this morning. He is at the right hand of the Father, interceding for us. So that death is not the end of things. It's God, it's his plan, it's his will, it's his good pleasure. So we always have to keep looking away from ourselves and our illnesses. You know, Cliff was talking about the hands. I get it, you know, I get it. But even there, we have to look on beyond to the risen Savior. And that if we're in Christ, we're united to Him. And because He lives, we shall live also. We may die. We may die for the faith. But we will live forever. Because He will never leave us nor forsake us. Jesus says, no one can snatch you out of my hand. And the Father is greater than I. Nobody can snatch you out of his hand. But it doesn't mean we won't suffer. It doesn't mean we won't suffer. The Apostle Peter talks of these great promises, just like Israel had, that was spoken to Abraham, that he forgot. The Apostle Peter speaks of this. He says, His divine power has granted to us all things. that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory at excellency, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises. So that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, not becoming divine, but like God, like the Son, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. That the New Testament is filled with these promises that all center in Christ for eternal blessing. But part of that blessing, part of the grace that's granted to us in Christ involves suffering. And this is probably one of the most difficult things for All of us as Christians to understand the connection between believing in Christ and suffering for Christ. The Apostle Paul speaks of this in Philippians 1, 29 to 30. as he is riding from prison, as he has endured great hardship in Philippi. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. It's grace. Engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had and now hear that I still have. That this is a reality It is a part of the Christian life. Jesus did not lie to us. He said, You'll have difficulties in this world. But this is not all this. Just left. We have a great glory to come. And just like God delivered Israel out of the bond of slavery and Egypt, he delivers us out of the bondage of sin. And one day we will not go to the temporary promised land, but we will go to glory with God forever. There'll be no more tears, no more sorrow, no more crying. And that's what we're waiting for. And this is where this patient endurance part comes in. The Christian life consists in remembering and resting in God's word with patient endurance. It's spoken about throughout the New Testament, but I think it's in Revelation 1. 9 where John says, the patient endurance that's in Christ It's in Christ. Our ability to do this is in Christ. We can't do it of ourselves. We don't just man up. Just like we don't use our imagination to deliver ourselves. We don't we don't just Man up the strength or woman up the strength to do these things. It's in Christ. We will we will have to endure hardship. But it's all according to God's good plan. Often it's those things that make us holy. A year ago I was suffering with sciatica. It was right before Labor Day weekend. It was one of the most painful things I've ever had. And yet God used that to make me pray more and to humble me. No discipline for the moment, the writer to the Hebrews says, is pleasant. I've tried to make it pleasant. It never happens. But afterwards, but afterwards, this wonderful fruit of Christ's likeness and peace and knowledge of God in greater measure. And so we're similar to the Israelites under their bondage. They were there for a while, and yet if you're in Christ, you've been delivered. And we'll ultimately be delivered, but for now we have to wait and be patient. And we have to endure hardship. If you are not in Christ, this is the day to seek salvation. We don't know when the Lord will come. We can't presume on the Lord's goodness, but he offers deliverance and salvation now. As hard as it was for them to be in, the Israelites to be in Egypt, that's not their greatest need. They needed to be reconciled to a holy God who has sent his son, who is the judge of all. And on the last day he will separate the goats from the sheep. So now is the day of salvation. Now is the day to seek the Lord. And so when the Apostle Paul in Romans 8 speaks to this great privilege that God has done in sending his son, he says these words in Romans 8 concerning the difficulties that lie before us. What shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son. He did not spare his own son, his beloved son, in whom he was well pleased. That he might bear our sins. But give him up for us all. How will he not also with him? If he's given you the best, surely he'll provide for anything less than that. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? God has sent his son to pay for your sins It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? What can come between you and the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? No. As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. And this is where We need to remember the Word of God. It is food for our souls for endurance in the difficulties. Knowing all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. That is our hope. That is our sure hope. As we trust in Christ, as we look to Christ, as we believe in Christ, God is not a liar, and these resources are ours. As he sees fit to give them to us. But he will not forsake us. If we're in Christ, he will not forsake us. He is the perfect shepherd. He will not lose one sheep. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, and we confess that we often forget what your word says. We had a time of confession earlier, and we confess that we do not take your word to heart as we ought. We don't know your word thoroughly. We don't know how strong your promises are. We thank you for your patience with us, but we thank you that we can make progress, and we do make progress by your grace. We we ask that this morning that we might embrace the sure hope and goodness that you have given to us in your Son. That we would cling to Christ and sense his clinging to us and your clinging to us into whatever may face our way. And Father, we ask that in our particular circumstances that you would bring us to scriptures that would strengthen us and preserve us and give us. Faith and endurance in the midst of difficulties. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.