For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. Now this was especially difficult for the pastor, not just because that many people left, but because as he searched the Bible for direction, he didn't find anything in the Bible. Well, it's kind of a farewell and some greetings to people. So let's look at this first thing. or paleo or the DASH diet or the ice cream-only diet, which is my preferred uh diet. Of course, it doesn't carry a label, you know, non-temple offered uh meat. So don't let this escape your notice. There's an awful lot between in that three-volume set that we call our doctrinal standards. And this is what Paul's getting right there at the beginning of chapter 14, when he says, let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. For with the judgment you pronounce, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Uh when you buy something like a tomato, you'll wanna you wanna give it a good look. And they wore them again the next Sunday after that. that you check a pH in the aquarium. May it bring forth the fruit that he desires. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord of both the living and the dead. Or why do you despise your brother? And so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. So don't let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. It is good not to eat milk or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. And the whole thing snowballed. And so their hair was a mess and they they came in with ball caps. when it comes to honoring God, where the scripture isn't explicit either in its instruction or necessarily in the deductions we might reach. And the Holy Spirit wants us to see how much this is on his heart, just how central this is to the mission of the Church. That the church is composed of people who are both men and women, with all the differences that come with that. different outlooks about almost anything you could imagine. uh commands the humane treatment of animals. And it's this that the meat might have been offered to idols. And even among those who hold either of these views, and there are even some who don't think it's anything special at all about the day, it's just we happen to gather then to worship. There is the ditch of legalism which adds to the Bible or adds our application of something taught in the Bible and elevates it to the same status as Scripture itself. And the other ditch is antinomianism, which doesn't esteem the authority of Scripture and actually resists God's authority, especially his moral authority. No, there are things that we can infer. Paul in the letter to the Galatians says that justification resting on faith alone, in what Christ has done alone, is absolutely essential. To lose some part of that is to lose the gospel itself. And in 2 Timothy, Paul writes about the pattern of sound words, which is the pattern of apostolic teaching we find in the New Testament. to try to help distill what those are. Instead, we're to aim at sure conviction, which sets us free to an obedience which is firm. And what Paul does here is he gives us both principles to guide us and commands we are to follow. Now he gives us commands that are really very straightforward. It's before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. You see, God doesn't condemn the person who's a vegetarian or who is such for religious reasons, nor does he condemn the person who thinks meat and potatoes is the right kind of diet. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. and applying that to somebody who calls on the name of Christ. But Paul won't let us off the hook like that. But the very Word of God. One person believes that he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord who gives thanks to God. For if your brothers grieve by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not please ourselves. harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So the boys wore their baseball caps during the service and nobody complained. That's stealing, and the Bible is completely clear about stealing, that stealing is wrong. elders to get involved. that he thought really applied uh to this uh question. what the Bible calls disputable matters. cross, Jesus spoke in the upper room about our visible unity. By this, all people will know that you're my disciples if you have love for one another. And in John 17, as Jesus is about to be arrested, and he's approaching the time when he will offer up his life on the cross, We have his prayer. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so the world may know that you sent me And unity is something that Paul emphasizes in the book of Romans. of various social standings. are idol worshippers of different economic strata, from uh poor uh to rich. And Paul's very concerned that we believers get along with one another in spite of our inevitable differences. And Paul says that while there will always be differences among believers, we must learn to accept one another. So in verse 2, Paul's writing about eating, about eating vegetables or meat and vegetables. Meat had been handled in a kosher man altogether, and it's possible there's there's another factor which isn't explicit here but's dealt with uh in the letter to the Corinthians Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. think not only Easter and Christmas, but the days leading up to those events. And there are just a variety of points of view about this, far more than I'm going to mention today, and a whole host of opinions And even strong convictions about what's appropriate, depending on your viewpoint. It just is. Or Paul in the end of the first letter to the Corinthians says the doctrine of the physical bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ is essential. And most Presbyterian bodies actually don't say that all of it's essential. in prayerful study and in conversation with the broader church. neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality. Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. I did not create a list of those for you today. And what principles does Paul enunciate as he calls the church in Rome to navigate their differences? When we start thinking the other side has bad motivations, we impugn their motives. is he is appealing for unity by exposing the dynamics of our hearts and what's wrong. You know, judging is just a sign of how arrogant uh you are. is being a discerning shopper in the fruit and vegetable section of the grocery store. And uh I'm not very discerning uh about about that. a way to discern how ripe it's not. Our not accepting one another dishonors God. this truth and principle together with our concern about how to honor God where it's not an essential moral or doctrinal truth. And whether we've divided the church or destroyed a fellow Christian in the way we've walked through and responded to our differences. For it's in Christ's name we pray. Would you stand? Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. I know and I'm persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it's unclean. That through endurance and through the encouragement of Scripture we might have hope. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. He thought, well, the Bible really doesn't address this issue directly. to consider not wearing their hats. that solved the question, you shall not wear baseball caps, or said, you shall not judge those who wear baseball caps when you worship. And isn't that what we often face in the church? what is the best way to honor God? and love them even as you loved me. treatment of the gospel. Paul's passionate about unity, just as Jesus is, and it's not optional. And yet Paul is a realist about differences in the church. And actually, there's a fair amount going on here, far more than we're going to cover this Sunday and next Sunday. divide the church or destroy individual members, and that we must learn how to accept one another when we do disagree Now this is not a concern with what constitutes a healthy diet. The second issue concerns days. And for observant Jews, there were all sorts of holy days. Now, again, we need to be very careful about what we decide is non-essential, because there's ditches on both sides. But we don't have a list of essential truths in the New Testament. Take Ananias and Sapphira, who we looked at a little while ago. And Paul in 1 Corinthians 6 writes this, or don't you know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? And such were some of you. Now, it sounds pretty essential to me that if you continue in these things as a lifestyle, you'll be excluded from the kingdom of God. and makes this clear that there are lifestyles that indicate that real saving faith, a real turning to Christ, a real spirit-wrought transformation hasn't taken place. That are not matters of opinion. decisive, resolute, courageous, and joyful. fully convinced in his own mind. He knows that in non-essential matters, Christians will come to different opinions. We must not miss that both groups, both people on each side of this are seeking to please the Lord and honor Him. are and we think our motivations are better than theirs. And this is where we must begin if we're going to preserve our unity in the bond of peace. You see, we can think that our point of view, our studied conclusion, is superior to our unenlightened brothers and sisters. We think our practice is the right one, the only one that honors the Lord, that all other options are wrong and dishonor God. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who doesn't eat. That they're dim-witted, that they don't read their Bible enough, or listen to the right people In Matthew 7 in the Sermon Amount, it begins this way. Now, a lot of people think that Jesus is using the word judge here, our translations are, to describe You will recognize them by their fruits. But the disease tree bears bad fruit. When Jesus says judge not, he means we are not to condemn others. We do this, and there are a lot of ways we do this. Do we reject them? We need to really think hard about whether what goes into that blank. as the great wide world web would suggest. can, and lots of people do, think that God's honor is only tied up in which side of an issue that's in dispute. Meaning God's servant. God alone is the judge. You know none of us is free from pride. And we thank you that you're gentle with us. A couple of high school athletes were late getting home from a tournament that was some significant distance and on Saturday night. There would be for many people a reticence, a Jewish people, to eat meat. which some Christians hold is the Lord's Day, and others hold is the Christian Sabbath And they die right on the spot. for you. And then turn the searchlight of Romans 15-17 and ask on yourself and ask, am I welcoming others as Christ has welcomed me for the glory of God? Now, one of the most misunderstood words in the Bible is the word judge. every possible meaning of this word. Now, Nancy's been gone for seven weeks, and I'm so glad to have her back because one of the things I don't have to do now true teaching and what's false. You see, the root issue in condemning people and judging them in this way is pride. and walks us through some principles that may not at first glance uh seem uh obvious that apply uh to us How we handle our disagreements matters. that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you've sent me. Well, they mostly just don't come up today, but I want to emphasize that the principles here deal very much with matters that he calls the ESB puts as disputable matters or opinions about very practical issues Now, in the Old Testament law, animals were not to be strangled as a form of slaughter. Now, the issue here is which days are holy or are some days more holy than others And some Christians, but not all, think that Easter and Christmas are special days. And here Paul is dealing with issues that we could label non-essential. And I know people who were addicted to some substance or to some form of sexual immorality who came to Christ and immediately they were set free. for that. Turn to him. There is no virtue in weak indecision and vacillation. Andy states principles here, but they're not a mechanical formula. Ask yourself, am I angry? Paul then adds in verse 4, chapter 14, these words, Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? moral uh judgments, because by fruit Jesus means the result, what flows out of people's lives, sitting under good or bad teaching. We all will stand before the judgment seat of Christ. that we might receive this word shown from the Lord Jesus through the apostle into our very lives. Left over an issue regarding ball caps. But Paul does show us how it is that we should work through what we disagree about But there's also an amazing message of hope and grace announced here that radical, lasting change actually takes place as we come to Christ. You know what a litmus test is? With people who have this opinion or that, who wear baseball caps to worship, or parents who allow their children to wear baseball caps, or you just fill in the blank. For the glory of God, Paul says in chapter 15, verse 7. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. Now, here's the thing that you really must see, or you'll never make any progress. Both sides have this common ground. Because while the Bible doesn't say anything about downloading music you haven't paid for from the internet, we can't say that that doesn't matter or that the Bible doesn't speak to that. And the two main things that I want you to see this morning are in the outline. Likewise, there are clear moral standards in the New Testament. So here's the litmus test to see if in fact you're despising. Because the the team uh uh had played so hard, of course the students were exhausted and they did get up, but uh, and they got dressed nicely, but didn't have time to shower. And um the so what he did is uh because he realized this was gonna be a big issue, is he went to the boys and asked them Our relationships with each other are actually central to being able to persuade the world that indeed that the Lord Jesus has been sent from God. But he summons them as he speaks about the days, let each one be fully convinced in his own mind. All forms of disobedience to God are slavery. In chapter 14, verse 4, I read this twice to you now, Paul says, who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? Let's pray. We often experience this issue that we don't agree about It was revulsive to them. We'll never be united unless we let the Lord meddle in what's really going on in our hearts. But you know what a wonderful thing it would be if you would take a little bit of time and read this passage over and ask what is commanded You, oh Lord Jesus, you know how we behave. But it raises the question, are only the things that are explicitly taught or commanded essential? And so there's a real sharp edge in this passage. We do this as an expression of our acknowledgement that these are not the words of men That's what it means not to steal. Today's a good day to turn to him. To carry our side of this? No one uh can say this behavior or action is incompatible with following Christ or it's just plain immoral. He prays for himself, and then he prays for the twelve, and then he prays for those who will uh believe because of the witness of the twelve. And they went to the pastor and said, Pastor, this is your problem. We must not let our differences divide or destroy. Some are Roman citizens, some are free men, and some are slaves of different ethnicities, of different religious backgrounds. Do we disassociate from them? The doctrinal section runs through the first eleven chapters. Let's pray. Paul's expecting differences. And 15% of the members of that church left over an issue related to ball camps. Your fish will uh love you if you do, and if you neglect it, uh you won't one day you'll wake up and you won't like what you find. Well Jesus is saying we need to be discerning between good and uh They're not disputable. Amen. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of God. Well, the answer to that question is, should be, not me. For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. On the fourth Sunday, people were getting upset. And then I know others who have had a progressive path toward freedom. It's a little slip of paper. Gracious Lord, we ask that you might send forth your spirit. And they agreed. That sounds pretty essential to me, not lying to the Holy Spirit. And God can and will uphold the person whose opinion about disputable matters differs from yours or mine We need to identify good fruit and bad fruit. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes or figs from thistles? You'll have to come back next week to get that list. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. We can apply the command not to steal broadly. And we'll have to give an account to God, not only about our decisions in areas that aren't clear, but also how we treat others. And seemingly we're left on our own. In fact, we need to ask ourselves, here's another set of litmus tests. In the Roman world, some of the meat that would be sold in the market had been offered in a temple somewhere. And so they end up saying something like this. Now we don't like to admit we're angry very easily. He gives us another balancing principle that our acceptance of one another is an issue of God's honor. We want to please Christ, but week after week we run into issues that the Bible doesn't directly address. Lead us, O Lord, to yourself, that we might live out what we have heard today, even as we approach this table. Well, a few years ago, there was a church in the United States where fifteen percent of the membership They have the same motivations. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. And of course, if you don't know, the Westminster Confession of Faith is the longest confession that's ever been written in the history of the church. I haven't made too many terrible uh mistakes, but I've made some, and I know most of you know Gracious Father in heaven, you are the Lord, the searcher of our hearts. How do we glorify God? You check the pH, especially if you have an aquarium. And you see clearly our motives, our attitudes when we disagree. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. Now the book of Romans is the longest That would be one reason to have concern. He says differences in matters of practical Christian living are going to be present in every church. Judge not that you be not judged. But that's not what Jesus means. And there are doctrinal truths that are essential to Christianity. It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. We don't have the freedom to pick and choose, no matter what's happening in society around us. That's what Paul is asserting in verse 5 of chapter 14 when he says, each one should be May it ultimately bring forth fruit that brings glory to God. And in our text, Paul acknowledges that there will be differences among those who are seeking to please the Lord. In verses 5 and 6, Paul writes, one person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. There were all sorts of feast days, the Passover, the Day of Atonement, the Feast of Purim, and of course the Sabbath. Or John, in his first letter, says that it's essential to believe that Jesus has come in the flesh, and to deny that is to be the spirit of the Antichrist. So let me just recap what we've seen so far. Now one of the moms uh wanted to check with the pastor to be sure that would uh be okay, and he approached the pastor and he said, no problem. However, their parents found about it and they were very upset. They're easy to understand. Jesus is commanding us to be discerning Do we label them? For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. That's right. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such hope. And there's a lot at stake. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord It takes discernment to apply them. It's not the only passage, but it's one of the strongest. Do we think I can't fellowship Well, Jesus is praying for our unity But that's where things got messy, because the next Sunday, even though the boys had plenty of time to shower and get ready, they still wore their baseball caps. You wanna give it a little feel. So then, let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding And of those four chapters that are the application, one-third of that space is devoted to unity. Now, one level, what Paul's writing about, these issues, opinions, uh For God has welcomed him. You need to fix this. He is completely aware of the fact It's the only way we're going to avoid being at odds with each other over our differences. If you uh would, would you please uh turn in the Bible to Romans chapter fourteen? Ask yourself, do you think they are inferior to you? Jesus. He couldn't find any passage in the Bible that said you shall not wear baseball caps to worship. And so, like Daniel and his friends in Babylon. Yes, there are heresies and things rise to that level, but not nearly as commonly. There just didn't seem to be anything 15% of the church walked away over baseball caps. It's not about being vegan or vegetarian. And Paul says it's okay to be on either side of these issues, whether you're vegetarian only or have meat. There are lifestyles that are just utterly incompatible with following Christ. We need to be very careful about using the word heretic. They lie to appear more generous than they are. That incapacitates And here we have to keep. But whoever hath doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. That has to be discerned Why do you pass judgment on your brother? It was just simpler not to eat meat at all than offend God in that way. And what Jesus said in the Gospel of Matthew in particular is widely misunderstood. And if you would uh We ask people to affirm the system of doctrine as being essential. And then chapters 12 to 15 are the application, what it means to live that out. You see, we This is why churches write statements of faith. And if you just keep reading through the rest of the chapter, it'll become really clear. Why? Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. No one can say what's right For each of us, let each of us please our neighbor for his good to build him up. I'll even write it out. Of course, we need to be very careful when we say something like that about the Bible. It's not a secondary matter like which grades we'll go to which Sunday school classes or how many songs we'll sing in worship. He's really saying it doesn't matter what you do or believe about these things. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. They have different life experiences, different levels of spiritual maturity, and as a result I wouldn't recommend you do that, even if you don't drop dead as a result. They will reach different conclusions. And to do this, we have to form judgments. Now here's a litmus test. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died Another would be that the And what Paul's doing here And Paul takes this up here. And many Christians Um it's it's about Jewish scruples in relation to the handling of meat. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord's, and she And then there's Sunday. I have no business doing that You see us at our best and our worst. The glory you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. They're just very challenging to actually live out. So let's use some of the synonyms. And it's not seeing this. We think that somehow we actually know what their motivations are For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction On the way to the Soon there'll be watermelons out there and you'll be tapping If It didn't take that long for the And he said this in chapter 13 of John. So there's essential truths and essential morals. Well, the the pastor went back and forth on the issue. Paul's a realist That we must not let our differences Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. You don't have to be told it's wrong to steal paper and pencils from your employer. Now for the analytical among you, All sin is slavery, and Jesus Christ can set you free. Do we form a faction? You may take your seats. It's very important. Do we write people off who disagree with us? Why must we not do this? But nonetheless, For we pray in Christ's name. We've already seen that the answer about that is no. I'm irritated. So every healthy tree bears good fruit. Would you like to be free? You won't really understand where what Paul is getting at here. That they lack discernment. The Christian faith is meaningless if that isn't true. It sounds like this is a thing that gets you out. Some are Jews and others So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. And the reason for that is that God can That's where things start to go south. Well because God has accepted them. Now this is what happened. Amen. No, no, we can't judge. I'm miffed. Now, the text I've read is long. They had no more appetite. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. In the middle of the chapter, he says this. And then the last chapter is And at the end of that prayer he prays this. Do not be deceived. No judgment. Neither is sinful.