And in the Old Testament, it sets a limit to that. And you have only to think of Solomon, one of the most famous kings, and how his thousand wives led to the downfall of his kingdom. But it was because the Bible uses the ordinary language of everyday observation when it says the sun rises and the sun sets. I'm sure they're important to somebody. And they expect the Bible to scratch that itch, and if it doesn't scratch their itch, they kind of give up on the Bible. Now ortho is the same word. Of course, we know trees don't have hands. From Acts 20 and 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1, but especially 1 Peter 5. And so I'm going to invite you to do a study on this. Help us, Lord, to carefully compare what they've said to us with Scripture. uh highlight is why we pray before we read scripture every Sunday and preach. Timothy chapter 2 and then a few verses from Acts 17. that these are spiritual words that you have moved by the Holy Spirit for holy men to write to us. They received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. If we're really loving Jesus is whether we obey his commands. Whether you're going to use your time, talent, and treasure largely for yourselves, or almost exclusively for yourselves, The narrative doesn't say, well, this was wrong or this was bad or this was good, that somehow the narrative and the Bible is, well, morally blind. And so Dr. a careful attention to the words of Scripture or the words we ourselves use. You have to read text initially as literally as possible, but recognizing that there's figurative language in the scripture. Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth. And Philetius, who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened, they are upsetting the faith of some. And then from Acts 17, beginning in verse 10, the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. And when they arrived there, went into the Jewish synagogue. I was talking with my girlfriend's father about what it means to follow Jesus. Uh Jesus said that quite a few times in that passage. And last week I started with this foundational truth that the Bible must be our fundamental source of authority. In other words, the scriptures are enduring. They are clear and they are authoritative. But different interpretations seem to undermine the usefulness of Scripture as a way to preserve our unity And even to raise a more fundamental question, can we trust the Bible? Obviously, slavery is inhuman and cruel. But let's look into the Bible and see what the scriptures do say about slavery. that slavery is a normal part of human life, that it's God's intended pattern for societies, that it's somehow his plan for humanity. to have slaves. Old Testament law forbids the slaveholder from abusing their slaves. But there was also debt slavery, kind of what we call indentured servanthood, where people were not owned by others, but they gave up their freedom What we find in the New Testament is once again a regulation of slavery. The British Parliament ended the British trade in slavery and soon afterwards abolished slavery altogether. Let me just take one other example. And this is one of the things that sometimes trips people up when they read, especially the Old Testament. It's not a book of morality tales. and other uh members of his family by having multiple wives. We're not neutral or receptive. One of the most famous mathematicians and atheists was Bertrand Russell, who candidly admitted that he rejected the idea of God because he didn't want anyone telling him what he could or couldn't do in his bedroom. through our rejection of the revelation of God. Then when you read about a miracle in the Bible, well, you're going to discount it. or some idea in the culture or some unexamined assumption. It's going to result in it being distorted. Of course, it appears to us that the sun moves through the sky, when in fact it's the earth that's moving. agendas. And so they only look for verses that seem to directly speak to some issue that they want help with, and they really actually miss. the grand story of the Bible. In the passage I read in Acts, Paul enters the city of Berea and goes to the synagogue and preaches the gospel to the Jews who are gathered there The result was that many of them believed. Of course, they had to work at it. And Paul describes false teaching as quarreling about words. His point goes beyond this. And so every generation of believers has the responsibility to think deeply and carefully about what the Scripture teaches And this means we need to understand and utilize sound principles in interpretation. Elders are to do. It may even seem like a new idea. says, well perhaps you're missing something. And you're really willing to look at the matter with an open mind. And it's really important how we handle that. And he wants us to hear his voice in them. expressed in a long time. That we might carry out all the work that you have ordained for us as a body. of paper. that you've come, that you appeared in flesh, that your first followers touched you, ate with you, heard your voice, walked with you. 2 Timothy 2. But avoid irreverent babble, as for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, and their talk will spread like gangrene. But God's firm foundation stands bearing this seal. With not a few Greek women of high standing as well as men. Turned to John's gospel and read these words of Jesus. Now we're in this series because we're getting ready for the transition team report. Now, last time I said the Lord has not left us without guidance about how it is we should maintain our unity. high view of Scripture. Government is God's idea. He invests into every human being dignity and worth that exists apart from anything that they do. Humans are commanded to work. What you will find is that God regulates the institution of slavery, which was well established in the ancient world. Now it is a fact of church history and really not just an embarrassment, but shameful that Christians use the Bible to justify slavery. Because you have a master in heaven. as to how you treat other human beings. Slavery is not the natural order of things. including the idea that Christ died for slaves, and therefore in God's eyes they enjoy the same dignity and status as free people do. to lead the fight to end slavery. for marriage and for family life. This trust is reasonable. So let's come back to this question. goes down in proportion to how strongly they're resisting God and His authority in their lives. And I have to pray, Lord, grant me a humble and willing heart to act on what I see in the Bible. The second reason that people end up with different interpretations is that they have controlling ideas or thoughts or commitments as they read it. People hold on to certain things as they read it that are in addition to their Bibles that they've really given control over how they understand it. first observed this and proposed that the earth circles the sun, and he was denounced as a heretic for saying otherwise. for articles about science, because I've always been interested in science. Our agendas, they are like rose-colored glasses. We have to accept the entirety of Scripture. Your intended meaning. God certainly knows what he means, and we go astray if we try to impose or read into his words what we want them to say. It's God's meaning and not our ideas that we should read out of Scripture. He says Timothy's to work at handling the scriptures so that he has God's approval. handle the word of truth. But this is really contrary to this cynicism and skepticism that asserts it's not possible to come to any definite conclusions from the Bible. Greek translation of Proverbs 3. A lot could be said here, and I'm going to mention a couple, but you'll have to go or ask me later about where you can find out more about this if you're curious. We have to use the Bible to interpret the Bible. But many possible applications. With enough humility to recognize you could be wrong. And even one such as I, as well as the doctors, the scholars, the church has given to help us understand the scriptures. Was that the mission that CRPC has doesn't line up with the mission that Jesus has given the church. And we thank you that we have the record of that and the witness of Scripture made alive to us by your Spirit. Well, these comments beg the question, if there is a way to correctly interpret Scripture, then why do so many learned people come away with different interpretations? extreme forms it treats people as properties having no more value than a hammer or a saw. One of the more common forms of slavery in the ancient world was to be taken captive in war and enslaved in that way. And in the letter to the Corinthians, he says, if you can buy your way into freedom, O slave, do so. Well, the fault does not lie with God or the scriptures, but with us. And very literally, that Greek word means something like to guide the word of truth along a straight path. You have to distinguish, it's very important to distinguish interpretation from application. You know, especially when you have come to a point of view you're quite sure it's the case, but when your brother or sister who loves you And one of the more surprising things that came out of the Congregational Survey, the Ministry Insight tool that you did last year. which in his mind made obedience, well, not very important. You can make Scripture say anything you want to. You can't really understand the Bible. Well, dangers for you, uh potential threats for you as a congregation, and in my opinion, are whether you're going to be inwardly facing as a church. often mentioned today, and it is goes something like this. Slavery makes people less than this. And if you search through the Bible, you will never find a passage that says you should own slaves. If you search through the Bible, you'll never find a passage that says that God thought slavery was essential to what it means to be human, or it was his intention for human societies. And so the Bible doesn't support slavery. Had multiple wives. It wasn't approved of any place in the Bible, but it was regulated. But far from approving the practice of having multiple wives, the book of Genesis goes to, well, great lengths to actually show what terrible consequences came in the life of Abraham. My point's this. And you can think of this. Kevin Van Hooser put it this way, to the degree that we neglect some verse or part of the Bible, it's to that degree that we nullify its authority. looking only for the things that we like, that stretch our itches, that confirm what we already believe, we're actually undermining what the scriptures say. a personal letter you sent them. That's what Paul's saying. to hold and share your understanding and conclusions about Scripture with humility. And will you recognize that the applications you're making don't have the same clarity or authority as the meaning of the passage itself? The way that you all interact with each other will impact the children in the life of the church. It's going to talk about developing some things, maybe some things that were present early in the life of the church, but haven't been explained. Enable us, Father, with much grace and eagerness to hear what you would say to us through the labors of the transition team Open our ears, quicken our minds, make our hearts soft, that we might receive what you would say to us today, for we pray in Christ's name. And whether or not you can be united and not divided as you make decisions. I myself, I'm a sinner, and I've been blind to parts of the Bible. Now, being highly educated doesn't mean that you're interpreting the Bible well. for worship. Paul also in writing to Timothy speaks of the importance of handling Scripture with care. Are you really willing to dig in and ask, what do the scriptures uh teach? Here's the first fault if you're following the outline closely. which accepted Ptolemy's conclusions that the sun circled the earth. The third reason people end up understanding the Bible differently is they have personal agendas when they read. What does this looking at it carefully involve? Well one of the things that I've put in your bulletin that's really important for you to know is as the transition team report comes to you later this month, it's going to speak about strengthening some things. It can't be trusted. I have a personal agenda every time uh I uh read a newspaper or a magazine or my newsfeed. This is called confirmation bias. Another reason that we end up in different places is that not everyone is using good principles of interpretation. Are you willing to let the scriptures change your mind? Gracious Lord Jesus, thank you for the gift of Scripture. This is a good question. You should set your slave Onesimus free. And I want to put these implications in the form largely of questions to you. The living word of God is the Lord Jesus. It can be this controlling idea or thought can be something that you got from your parents or your family or church tradition or your favorite Bible teacher. And this happens all the time. read in contexts. Luke commends them for their receiving the word with eagerness and examining the scriptures daily to see if those things were true. They are to shepherd, they are to lead, and they are to be examples. Not just as differing opinions, but as ruining cures. Well, this has implications for how it is that we protect and guard our unity when we have differences. That's one of the things you need to be willing to study. They accepted the authority of Scripture. They're just not that important to me. 14, remind them of these things and charge them before God not to quarrel about words, which does no good, but only ruins the hearers. You can trust what the Bible says about social relationships. Now this is a very unusual word that's translated rightly here. And it's even going to suggest that some things in the life of the church need to be reformed according to Scripture Marriage is God's idea. Paul's commanding Timothy to teach the church in the face of false teaching and false teachers who oppose him. In fact, we are sinful. They had to apply themselves to careful study. It's a question I want to explore with you this morning. Because much more of the Bible speaks to every issue in life, but if you're only looking for a few verses that scratch your itch, you're gonna miss it. It's part of what it actually means to be human, is uh to create, to work. Sometimes they had a sort of second-class wives called concubines in many translations. He said, among other things, but it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the wall to become void. Its statements, its prescriptions, its commands are not time-limited and culturally bound It's right there. Are you open to actually considering that you might really have missed something? You would want them to receive that letter and read it in light of your intentions Well, the Bible's author ultimately is God. That's figurative language, to give expression to the trees, giving praise to the Creator It comes from the time of Abraham. They compared scripture with scripture. Perhaps you've never thought about Jesus giving the church a mission, or perhaps you have, and maybe you've reached a conclusion about that What he's saying is that biblical teaching, doctrine, or theology, right belief in matters, is necessary for healthy Christians and a healthy church. If God intends to communicate a particular meaning through the biblical authors, then why do people interpret the Bible so differently? Do you notice what he's doing there? It's full of contradictions. But the main thing I want you to see here is that you can trust the Bible. And it's very easy to do this. This is the beginning of orthodonis, the guy who straightens your teeth. And we saw briefly that because the scriptures are God's word, they actually share his attributes. It regulates it. You could actually be missing something. You see, their faith rested on the clear teaching of Scripture. And so we have to have humility about our applications. Now, on the surface, this line of thinking seems unassailable, very convincing You cannot be in that kind of slavery for more than seven years. You can do much more study than it's on the two sides of that piece. I mentioned that, and then I tried to reason with him. It was never God's intent for humanity. And we hear that voice as we study, as we read, as we listen, as we learn from each other. He institutes that and he talks about how we should relate to it. One example of this, a famous example, comes from the Catholic Church. That doesn't mean we we understand all of it completely clearly, but when we in intentionally just turn our eyes away, Well, thank you, Mark, for leading us in prayer. If you want to know about elders, then you need to read several passages in the New Testament. We've progressed beyond that. People's ability to see clearly what the Bible says It matters to God. And I'm sure that there may be some other things that will be mentioned in the report or recommendations that you'll have different points of view about. The more you turn away from it, the darker your mind gets, the less appealing God's word is. He's the one that's given us life. Well, it was like a slap on the face It dehumanizes people. In Britain, William Wilberforce devoted his life to that cause and on his deathbed 6. We want certain things to be true when we close our eyes to other things we don't want to be true. Often this happens to uh to Christians when they read the Bible because they have an itch. It contains within a teaching that leads to its abolition. And our statement of faith affirms this One very common example is if you don't believe in miracles. And there's all sorts of other things out there that just they don't hold my attention. Father, as we uh seek to receive your word, we know Now, these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica. In fact, he speaks to it and he talks about how to live in marriage. And if the Bible is interpreted through this idea, or it's under something else, He will make your paths straight. It's telling a story of redemption. Their family dysfunction is written large in the book of Genesis If you love me, you will keep my commands. Warm feelings are simply not enough. When Paul speaks directly to slavery, as he does twice in the New Testament, he says this. Now, we'd be very mistaken to think that Paul is forbidding Will you listen respectfully to those whose understanding of the scriptures or their reasoning from them differs from your own? They had to compare Paul's message to the scriptures. You may take your seats. And if you want to find places in your Bible for both, that you may. The Lord knows those who are his, and let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity. Or even more radically, no one can understand the true meaning of anything anybody says. He's saying to those who are masters and own slaves that in fact you're a slave to God and you're going to give account. They understood that it was divine in its origin, but the gospel of Jesus Christ was new to them. Man, that hurt when he said that. And Lord Jesus, we thank you. It's because we need the ministry of the Spirit. We can't trust what the Bible says about social relationships because it teaches and affirms, endorses slavery. Radically, Paul writes in the letter to the Ephesians, do not threaten your slaves, masters. You're going to say, well, that's a myth, that's a fairy tale, that's just made up. Well, we can be certain that they approach the Bible the same way you'd want someone to approach With enough humility to receive from the teaching office of the church. That it might bring praise to you, O Heavenly Father. This is the only way we can know. They think that because We are not neutral and receptive as we read the Bible At times I just want to go my own way. It actually impacts our ability to influence our community. I could work this out for sexual ethics. He's a brother. And often this results in our actually reading the Bible only to confirm what we already think it says. And this requires him to rightly You see, silence in the Bible, when you read that someone had multiple wives, is not approval. And I asked to borrow a Bible The Bible opens with God creating human beings in his image and likeness. And each of those ideas deserves careful study. Or even that Paul's forbidding and engaging with false teaching of these opponents. Every text in the Bible has a single meaning. That was not only the accepted science of the day, Lord, do this so that we might mature as a body. It denies that they have dignity and work. That's big. He's the one on which all the scriptures center. And the Old Testament recognizes a couple of different kinds of slavery. Well, much, much more could be said, but the last thing I want to It's hard to understate how important this question is. It could be that they want to read the Bible as kind of a self-help manual And he summed it up this way. And the two greatest And this shows us that the Bible's teaching is stuck in the past. And the New Testament contains the very seeds that undermine slavery. And there, if you start digging into the end of that letter, you'll see three key words that talk about what Many men, especially of wealth, One of my famous friends from a seminary. Undoubtedly, the Bereans. It is likened to gangrene, a terrible wasting disease. This is what Romans chapter 1 tells us when it speaks of the darkening of our minds that comes. Are you willing to search the scriptures and see what they say when differences arise? We're in a short series this morning, and we're going to read from two passages. And the Bible commends and commands a careful reading and study of Scripture. The New Living Translation really gets us a sense of when he says, correctly explain. Now, let me be very specific and talk about one example that's Poor Galileo. Some of you have paid a great deal of money to one of them to have them do just that. He'll be more useful to you that way. I'm always keen to look And very often it doesn't tell you whether the actions someone takes are right or wrong in Guy's eyes. And this is in fact what happened in the Western world. We have personal Are you willing? And you have a lot of important decisions ahead of you And we need the aid of your Spirit. In Greek it's ortho to munta. We need his illuminating uh work to to bring the light of Scripture into our hearts and minds. And God has revealed his mind in the scriptures. And many of them therefore believed. I've since encountered many people who say similar things. Guide us in the days ahead. They may be important. When the psalmist says the trees clap their hands, His reply was unforgettable And ultimately, it's a question of what will please and bring glory to Christ. I don't suppose there's anybody else who's had a similar experience here today. In fact, that very rare word is the word that's used in the It's all about love. But this practice was never commanded. And This is in keeping with Jesus. And it's most And you'll search though in vain for any passage that says That's impossible. And False teaching is described. It's in Christ's name we pray. And if not, just listen carefully. Now that may seem very controversial to you. Amen. It's simply reporting the facts. Among them are Hymenaeus, In England, Christians use the scriptures. And the scary thing is I've done this. He says to his friend Philemon, They are powerful. It's irrelevant. Let's pray. That's not what Paul's saying. If you would, would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Amen. That's just your interpretation.