That to be sure a real mouthful or mindful. We are returning this morning as we make our way, the first Lord's Day of each month, to the first chapter of Galatians. And they're doing so, they're considering this false gospel thanks to certain troublers who have come along, certain outsiders. And in these opening verses, Paul wastes no time in taking up the cause of the true gospel instead. but then to prove it to them fully throughout chapters 1 and 2. Paul, an apostle, is writing to them, and all the brothers who are with me. And then third, the what of his greeting. It's put in our confession of faith. Being a transgression of the righteous law of God and contrary to it, every sin in its own nature brings guilt upon the sinner. 1 John 5. The gospel is a gospel of the Father's glory, and so we rightly say, hallelujah and amen. And so he wrote to them and reminded of the gospel in all of its fullness. should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed. Is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you received, let him be accursed. Not as the word of men, but as they actually are, your word which is at work in us who believe, And that is our prayer that by the power of your Spirit this word would be at work in us today, that we would be strengthened in belief. That he was an apostle not from men nor through man. And so he goes on in Galatians to remind them of his story, how he'd been called into apostolic service by God through Christ. And it is significant. week, as I hinted last time, we're going to take a little bit a look a bit more closely at what that gospel is that is of divine origin For starters, in the interest of reminder, let's get our bearing again with verses 1 through 5. And yet it doesn't come from him in isolation. Which is everlasting punishment. In Galatians 3:13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, he writes, by becoming a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who's hanged on a tree. In 1 Peter 3, 18, Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Listen to how he puts it in Galatians 2. Listen to what Jesus said in Matthew 12, 32. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come. That history could be divided up in this way. in the present in a curious kind of overlap period. And yet, in God's sovereign providence, Satan is powerful. And now God, through Christ, by the Spirit, is drawing us to Himself. And by that I mean a misunderstanding concerning how the various persons of the divine trinity, Father, Son, and Spirit, are involved in the gospel And took it upon himself that he would come and live and die and rise for us. Here in the gospel, there is no antithesis, no opposition between a harsh father and a loving son. And yet, his obedient son, he was also determined to do the Father's will. And it is the responsibility to answer it with praise. with a few words in the interest of application. No opposition between a harsh father who wanted nothing to do with you and a loving son who managed to find a way to change his mind. We've only scratched the surface of what the gospel is, what it includes, what it proclaims It is all of this in more, and the implication of that is, what more could you possibly want? And all the brethren who are with me, to the churches of Galatia, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. Or of God? And in obedience, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Who have shown up on the scene proclaiming that false gospel and so trying to persuade the Galatians of it as well. In verse 1. His was an apostleship of divine origin and therefore of divine authority. by these troublers who had come along and who were opposing him. to remind the Galatians of his divine commission. And that means that our gospel is from God, because we have cast our hope upon that same gospel we stand today, upon that gospel as our foundation. Remember, the word gospel means good news. So that's the from of his greeting, then the two of it, this is a letter to, the churches of Galatia The bad news in this respect was that we, that is the human we, we as a race, deserved the wrath of God for our sins. Whereby he's bound over to the wrath of God and curse of the law, and so made subject to death with all miseries spiritual, temporal, and eternal. Some mean-spirited deity, someone who delights merely in causing pain for no good cause? So that his people never would, a fundamental truth, Gospel 101, and as such, it is all over the New Testament. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God, a gospel of atonement. The writer to the Hebrews taught it. so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. And the Apostle John taught it as well, 1 John 2, verse 2. He says that Jesus gave himself for our sin. to make atonement. Then nothing less than the Son of God incarnate laying down his life would have been enough, and he did. Mark 10, verse 45, Jesus said, even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life. As a ransom for all. And gave himself for me. Paul says he gave himself to me, and so I live in him. From the present evil age. And so we were in desperate need of someone to come along and set us free from it. There is the present age, and there is the age to come. Jesus said a similar thing in Mark 10, 29, talking about those who have sacrificed for the sake of the gospel in this time. trains us to live godly lives in this present age. Was the claim that the age to come had already come in the coming of Christ? That's the understanding of history that Paul is reflecting here in Galatians 1. Rather, sin is the very disposition of their will. So that he can say in 2 Corinthians 4 that the evil one, Satan, is the God of this age. There is nothing in us but unmixed wickedness. According, Paul says, according to the will of our God and Father. And it's confusion that goes something like this. And never have another thing to do with any of us ever again because of our sins. He would prevail upon the Father to be benevolently disposed to us, whereas previously the Father was ill-disposed, content to forget all about us. The gospel teaches, here Paul teaches, that what Jesus did, he did not do in spite of any ill will in the Father's heart. Rather, he did it precisely because it was the Father's loving will. So that thanks to our sin, we deserved God's wrath because of our sinfulness, we provoked his anger. To whom be the glory forever and ever. That we should acknowledge him as excellent in all of those ways in the light of the gospel. Hallelujah. It was the Father who sent the Son to save you. By the triune God. And song, but also the implicit praise that is a holy life. Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forevermore. in the letter of Galatians. Against a false gospel that the Galatians themselves are at least entertaining, they are at least considering it Rather, faith in Christ had to be supplemented with works of the Mosaic law, especially circumcision, in order to be saved. Paul's apostleship of divine origin. on that gospel, on what it is, what it includes, especially in verses 4 and 5. And doing so, we're going to notice four corresponding lessons about the gospel. gave himself for our sins. Courtroom, it is necessary that justice be served, that the penalty be paid, and Jesus paid it. But also for the sins of the whole world. It is a gospel of deliverance. Here, Paul calls it the present age because that's the way he saw things. He says, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children in lands with persecutions, and in the age to come Eternal life. Paul uses the same language in 1 Timothy 6, 17, talking about those who are rich in this present age. So that Paul has to urge in Romans 12. Referring to the inclusion of that word evil or wicked, he says, by this single word, as by a thunderbolt, Paul lays low all human pride. And the Father wanted absolutely nothing to do with us because of our sin. Also, Romans 5. And in short, let me say this: people of God, learn well your gospel. This morning we'll be training our attention especially on verses 4 and 5. And then he goes on in particular. To deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Is going to be to take each of those four clauses in turn and reflect upon them and learn from them. To deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. We deserve the outpouring of God's judgment on account of our transgressions of His law. For his friends. from the present evil age. We've just reflected upon the fact that we were guilty sinners, and that's true. Seated at the Father's right hand, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. That in the person and work of Jesus Christ, the age to come had already been inaugurated. And then notice that he also calls it the present evil age as well, because that is true of it too, thanks to our fall into sin. And he was instrumental in our first fall. Listen to that. The world reigns in us, and we live to the world. Even while we still dwell here, the gospel is a gospel of deliverance. His unfathomable loving self-sacrifice. would be to go to the Father and present his saving works to the Father, and He would do so in such a way as to change the Father's heart. The gospel doesn't work that way. A few verses later, again for the second time he went away and prayed. The good news that God saves sinners. Unfortunately, in popular expression anymore, the word hallelujah has come to mean little more than woo-hoo! Yippee! Paul adds his emphatic, may it be so, and in doing so, he summons us to do the same It's evidence that your deliverance has begun. And joy and peace. And now we've reviewed them, applied them one by one. And we pray it in Jesus' name, Amen And hand in hand with that, as we saw last time, he wastes no time taking up the cause of his own apostleship. Bore the wrath of his father so that his people never would. Paul also taught it in 2 Corinthians 5. No mere token gestures. As a ransom for many. Apart from grace, we were citizens of an anti-God kingdom. This first age, this present age, it is a veritable nightmare of sin. Any thoughts to the effect that on our own, apart from grace, we weren't all that bad? That we were in desperate need of being delivered. Christ has become our deliverer now. He is setting us free. And the son was our hero because the son loved us, loved us in a way that the father did not. Thanks to his obedient life and atoning death, so this misunderstanding goes, Jesus would find a way to persuade the Father to care about us after all. Now, of course, the gospel does also teach that apart from grace we were children of wrath. 2 Corinthians 5 21. Going a little farther, Jesus fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. A gospel of the Father's love, and now fourth and final, Paul concludes: to whom that is the Father, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. We are the people of the age to come, and that matters every day for us in this age. Hold fast to the gospel. And I'll be reading verses 1 through 10 of that chapter as I did last time. I am amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel, which is really not another. This text, the last time I was with you, this morning we returned to it. So all that by way of review, reminding you of things said and learned way back in the month of September. Part of the good news of the gospel. Thanks to our sins, we had brought guilt upon ourselves. Which is no deficiency in him, rather it is his glory. He gave himself. For our sins. This age is now an age in which men and women are enslaved to the power of sin, not against their will. But it is the present evil age. Precisely in order that we might be delivered from the present evil age, R. It is a gospel of the Father's love. This is important because this clears up some confusion that sometimes surrounds the gospel, some Trinitarian confusion. Is the Father who determined that we should never know it out of his love and that Christ would bear it in our stead. That Jesus would suffer his wrath and make it possible for us to be reconciled to him. You see this all over the New Testament. You see this especially clearly, perhaps most poignantly, in the Garden of Gethsemane. He's just mentioned, Paul has, he's mentioned the Father as the one whose will it was that Jesus give himself so as to save. Was that he should drink that cup? That he is excellent in his being and his wisdom and his power, his holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. To go around mired in fear and discouragement, thinking that the Father's wrath remains revealed against you, it does not. Christian, rejoice. It's also a gospel of deliverance. Praise the Lord. We rejoice to consider that it is a gospel of deliverance. We rejoice to consider that it is a gospel of your love and a gospel of your glory. The present age and the age to come, and this wasn't by any means an unusual way of thinking and speaking at the time. And it's a gospel of the Father's glory. Because the guilt of sin has been taken away, therefore we've been reconciled to God And we rightly respond that way to the very revelation of the gospel. Praise the Lord to the Father be glory forever. Jesus gave himself for your sins. Every moment in which you do face some kind of choice between the evil of this age and the holiness of the age to come, and that moment becomes an opportunity to show which of the two is your age. Paul, an apostle, not sent from men, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. Let's join together in prayer. That is a misunderstanding. By virtue of his true humanity, he recoiled at the thought of what was in store for him, and rightly so In short, the idea here is that the Father is worthy. Christian, the gospel calls you act your age. That we would be encouraged all the more to hold on to it and never let go. And for it is a gospel of the Father's glory as well. 19, that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. So that second lesson, now our third, because Paul goes on: Jesus Christ gave Himself for our sins. So that third lesson about the gospel. In light of such a gospel, in light of such good news, where else would you go? Well, built into this very same greeting or introduction here in Galatians, Paul sheds more valuable light. By this single word, as by a thunderbolt, Paul lays low all human pride, for he declares, Calvin goes on, that apart from that renewal of the nature which is bestowed by the grace of Christ, So those four lessons about the gospel learned from Paul, learned from each of those clauses in turn in verses four and five. It does matter that his apostleship was from God, because that means that his gospel was from God as well That is language that makes the personal sacrifice that was involved all the more clear. That's great! Or am I striving to please men? And this idea too, it's all over the New Testament. 8. We saw Paul in that very first verse of the letter, making it very clear to the Galatians Quote, every sin, both original and actual, in other words, both the inward disposition and the outward fruit that it bears, every sin Jesus Himself thought and spoke in these terms, a division between the present age and the age to come, and picking up on that, you see it elsewhere in the New Testament. Learn well your gospel. We could put it that way, because this letter is one in which Paul does blast away in a number of different ways. That's why Paul wrote these things to the Galatians, because they were losing their grip on it. And that's what he did. God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Hallelujah. You are fully loved by God. And that was true, certainly not because God is some kind of malicious ogre. For that matter, a token gesture would not have sufficed if atonement was to be made. That's the good news. Amen. Learn here that the gospel is a gospel of atonement. You see, this is all over the New Testament. I read it before. He's causing us, causing the age to come to break into our present experience. What the Son lovingly did, he did because the Father lovingly, willingly, sent him to do it. That revelation itself creates a certain obligation. Galatians chapter one, beginning at verse one, hear now the word of God That is a caricature of the gospel. The gospel is the gospel of the Father's love. All right. Galatians chapter one, especially verses one through five, we considered Notice verses 4 and 5. And in order to appreciate that, remember by the way, what the bad news was Hebrews 2, 17. 20. Jesus is setting you free. Your very life ought to breathe his praise. 2, do not be conformed to this world or to this age. The brothers who are with him stand with him in the things that he has to say. Learn here that the gospel is a gospel of deliverance. Learn here that the gospel is a gospel of the Father's glory. Let's bring these things to bear upon our own hearts. We noticed that last time in verse 1. 21, quote, for our sake God made him to be no sin who knew no sin. What does he wish them? It is a gospel of atonement. Learn it in all of these four parts. And once again, in order to appreciate that, let me remind us what the bad news was. We've already considered the fact that it's a gospel of Jesus' love, because we've considered In other words, that he was the ambassador or the representative of no mere man. He says, It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And that one word evil says a lot. And that word, remember, means praise the Lord. Self-sacrifice. But see here that the love of the Father is also revealed in it Galatians 4:4. We've seen it's a gospel of atonement, gospel of deliverance. Hallelujah. It was the Father's good pleasure that he gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. But the point is that was the bad news. He gave himself. So that first lesson about the gospel this morning. And he encourages evil still. This present evil age is no longer your age. Let me urge you finally feel the force of this gospel in all of its fullness, because it is at the same time all of these things and more. He's worthy to be acknowledged as glorious. And then notice as well Paul adds to that his amen. If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. He is delivering us from the present evil age. Our Father, that is our prayer today, that reflecting upon the gospel in all of its fullness He bore the Father's wrath in your place so that you will never bear it yourself. And so Paul felt it urgently necessary right out of the starting blocks Your whole life ought to have hallelujah written all over it It is Paul's greeting. We are being set free. The good news of the scriptures can be summarized. He says, whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. My father, if this cannot pass, unless I dream May we be so reminded today. And by the end of the episode, it was clear. And we looked at that together last time as well. He wishes them grace and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ gave himself for our sins to deliver us The age to come has already dawned, and yet the present age has not yet completely expired No exceptions. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. It is not the gospel itself. And then not only to remind them of it briefly in the first verse. Jesus Christ is the one who gave himself for our sins. So too, John 15, 13. Self-sacrifice. Once upon a time there was the Divine Father. John 3:16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only Son. It's also a gospel of the Father's love. You are fully loved. Amen. God is just. The writer to the Hebrews, Hebrews 6. That is the character of this age, the present age in which we live Do you know the very fact that you're a believer to begin with is freedom underway? One, it is a gospel of atonement. He held nothing back. That's bad. And so the letter does come from Paul. Paul's greeting, three parts to it. That's the way Paul looked at things. What was unusual, what was in fact revolutionary about Christianity, That is the good news of the gospel. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. The guilt of your sin has been taken away. Jesus predicted that he was going to do this before he did it. It does not mean woo-hoo. And then having done so, we took a step back to consider the significance of that for us today. And he prayed for the third time, saying the same words again. Learn well the good news that you, that we, profess to believe. John Calvin in his commentary on this passage says this. Self-sacrifice for Paul. He is the propitiation, the sin offering for our sins, and not for ours only. We are the children of the age to come. And so we were under the wrath of God and the curse of his law, and so we were subject to death, even eternal death. 2. And learn here that the gospel is a gospel of the Father's love. You may recall, as I'll review in a moment, that last time we considered together verse 1. The gospel is a gospel of atonement. All of that's true, and yet the wonder of the gospel is that the very same Father whose wrath we deserved. It establishes a responsibility that belongs to everyone who beholds it. Act your age. You may be seen. Later on, the Apostle Paul took the same point very personally. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. It is his introduction. Apart from grace, we belonged to the present evil age. By word and spirit, He's reaching down from heaven and He is snatching us out of this age, even while we're still here. End quote. Or our dilemma wasn't all that serious. As far as he was concerned, he'd be happy simply to cast us off, all of us. But even though we are an angel from heaven, We can't deny that. As God, he gave that which was of infinite worth. It's a gospel of atonement. 4 when he calls this the present age. To be sure, Satan is not sovereign, not even in this age. One way of putting it is to say that a right response to the gospel on our part is for us to say. As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man Our Father, we thank you for the Scriptures, for they are your word to us, and we would receive them as such this day. Peter taught it too. Paul taught the same thing in first 1 Timothy 2, 5 and 6. But do you understand that the bad news was even worse than that? And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me. That's the way the Bible as a whole describes history as a whole in terms of two ages. Calvin writes, we are of the world until Christ take us out of it Remember, the gospel is that God, that is God the Father, saves sinners through Christ by the Spirit. The very revelation of the good news. And as I said, that's where we're going to focus our attention. Dying on the cross, he bore the wrath of his father. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life. The future had already broken into the present in such a way that we are living now even to this day. It is a howling wasteland in which rebellion against God has become the rule. It does not mean yippee. And I'll remind you as we go of each of those. Biblically, we can look at the human condition apart from grace in a host of different ways. He gave himself It's a gospel of atonement. As one commentator puts it, quote, And let me say this as well. We saw how Paul wasn't shy about telling his own story when he knew what was at stake. Do you understand that? Remember, that's what we saw. And so he is provoked by sin. Jesus did too. 5, talks about those who have tasted of the powers of the age to come. Here Paul does indeed lay low. The gospel is a gospel of atonement, therefore, it is also a gospel of deliverance. Oh, but then along came the divine son. Because in the gospel, his excellence is on display, the wonder of who he is. You don't really belong here anymore. But as I say, let me read the first ten verses for us this morning. First, the crumb of his greeting. So powerful, in fact, that John can say We rejoice to consider that it is a gospel of atonement, our sin taken away. For am I now seeking the favor of men? Apparently his apostolic credentials had been called into question. This was no mere abstraction Hallelujah. No, that was true because God is just And in Titus 2, 12, talking about how grace And there are other passages. We might even fairly say it is Paul's opening salvo. Satan can be described in those terms because he himself was the original rebel. And the good news is that Christ has done it. And then, having done all of that, what he would do according to his own devising Well then it makes sense that Paul should be inspired to praise in a way that's centered on the person of the Father. It was triply clear that the Father's will. Praise the Lord. Not just the activity of praise that is a word Jesus Christ gave himself for our sins. Well then, if the wonder of who he is is on display in the gospel, he's worthy. There is no divide within the Trinity Hallelujah and amen. Second, our second clause. That's also true. God saves sinners through Christ. Two, it is a gospel of deliverance. And so the son got the idea himself. In fact, it was commonly understood among the Jews in that day. He is making us citizens of heaven. It comes with his apostolic authority. And see here how our first two points connect. And yours is the age to come. Remember, it was a false gospel that Christ alone is not enough to save. Christ gave himself in order to do this. How else are you going to derive true comfort and peace in this line? It matters to be mindful of that identity. Rather, he was an apostle sent to represent God and Christ. That is Our confession of faith confesses that point. We say hallelujah this day, and may that be the mark of our lives. In order to deliver us from the present evil age, it's a gospel of deliverance. It means praise the Lord. So you see this phrase packs a lot. Feel the force of the gospel in all of its fullness. Paul taught it. Amen. Here, Paul does remind the Galatians, he reminds us. Romans 8. Christian, you are loved. You have no right now. We're going to reflect upon each of those four. And notice as well the way Paul puts it here, Galatians 1. Jesus dying on the cross. He gave himself for our sins to deliver us. You've been snatched from it by divine grace. May it be so. And so in his Self-sacrifice 32. It was his will. First, Jesus Christ. There you see that division of history into two parts. Three times he prayed it. He gave himself. Let me conclude this morning. Amen. And it is an age of holiness. He refers to Christ Jesus as the one who gave himself Let's join together in prayer. Ephesians 1:21, Paul talks about Christ. Three, it is a gospel of the Father's love. It was the Father's will. For example, in every moment of temptation that you face. We belonged to it. You see this over and over again. So the confusion goes. Here's how it It is not just the present age. He gave himself for our sins. Amen. Stand with me for the reading of God's Word. We've considered each of these four things discreetly. Now that is confusion. Amen. This is one of them. No holding back on his part. In a sense, we were enslaved to it. Our study together this morning. It is a gospel of atonement. It was the Father's will. 4. Point one.