As we begin this morning, I'm needful to give you a warning. The warning is I have an extra long introduction But I also want to give you some hope, because I've shortened up the end The history of slavery in our nation has left deep scars among the people that have Festered and refused to be healed over the years as our sin of racism continues to break out amongst us. Many of you are familiar with Martin Luther King Jr. 's I Have a Dream speech from August 28, 1963, that he delivered near the Lincoln Memorial. And in it he had these words. He said, I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin. but by the content of their character. Dr. King ended with these hopeful words when he said, he looked forward to the day when black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics will be able to join hands and sing the words of the old Negro Spiritual, free at last. Free at last. Thank God Almighty. We are free at last. You've seen the news of our own cities as they have had trouble, especially over the past years, and the past this particular past year. But often in seeing that trouble, we don't look into our own hearts. We don't look to see if it's just what the news is perpetrating before us, why it's happening. Or if any of it could happen or does happen because of our own hearts. Dealing with racism continues to be Looking for that day that Dr. King was looking for, a process that has to go on with ourselves. Thankfully, this past summer, because it's a work in progress, our own denomination, the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America, passed an overwhelming overture on racial reconciliation. I'm going to read to you the first paragraph so that you'll know what it says. I can certainly pass on the rest of you and to the rest of you a link if you'd like to hear it. But here's the first paragraph Therefore, be it resolved that the 44th General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in America does recognize. confess, condemn, and repent of our corporate and historical sins, including those committed during the civil rights era, and continuing racial sins of ourselves. And our fathers, such as the congregation of worshippers, excuse me, the segregation of worshipers by race, the exclusion of persons from church membership on the basis of race, The exclusion of churches or elders from membership in presbyteries on the basis of race. The teaching that the Bible sanctions racial segregation and discourages interracial marriage. the participation in and defense of white supremacist organizations, and the failure to live out the gospel imperative that's found in Romans 13. 10 Love does no wrong to a neighbor. This particular amendment is an amalgamation that went forth from last year's General Assembly that came from 40 or more different presbyteries than saying, we've we've talked about this in the past But we haven't really dealt with ourselves and our own hearts, and particularly that our denomination spread and came out of the deep south. And so last year, not this present year, but the year before, through a personal resignation by two pastors from First Presbyterian Church in Jackson, Mississippi. This overture comes forth. Now the reason it came forth is because they were brave enough to go back and look at their own minutes from the past. Because if you would go to First Presbyterian Church in Jackson, Mississippi, it's a well-integrated and mixed-race church. The church in that area is now 70% African American. And so they don't deal with that. If you would go there, you would feel very welcome and loved, but they said, we need to look into our past. And when they did that, this is what they found. They went and looked in their minutes. It says, given its history and position with the PCA, First Presbyterian Church has taken steps in recent years to build bridges and gospel partnerships. With Jackson's African-American community, which makes up 70% of the population. The session put together a committee to comb through the session minutes from the civil rights era. The committee soon discovered that in 1954, the year the U. S. Supreme Court issued its Brown versus Board of Education decision declaring segregation in public schools to be unconstitutional, The Presbyterian Church USA urged its churches to desegregate, but in response in 1954 First Presbyterian church session committed to remaining segregated and barring African Americans from worship. What would they do now that they've gone back and looked at their minutes? Would they say, that's not us today? If you came here, you wouldn't have a clue that we were once like that. But they said, we can't sweep that under the rug because no one's going to go into the catycombs wherever session minutes are kept and look at them. They were willing to say, even though we had beloved fathers and mothers in the faith, we erred in this area and continue in our own hearts have to deal with racism that we have. And so as they dealt with that and were willing to be public and came forward to confess their own sin, there were many other brothers and sisters throughout the South that had similar things that said, we need to do the same. And it's easy for me, who's often not lived in areas like this. I grew up partly in Alaska. You see the people who are there from the armed forces and Eskimos. You know, you don't see much else. And I was in Germany as a child. I didn't see much else and I was young, and I didn't grow up through integrated places. And so even as I moved to this area I have to say stupid things in my own heart, just because I don't know people and the way they react and how they do things. And then I find myself with my own racism, my own strange thoughts breaking out in my own heart. And I wanted to say, yes, this is for those churches in the South. But as I began to think about what was said here, I realized that that breaks forth from my own heart. My own heart is enslaved. At times, with those kinds of thinking. I'm thankful for our own congregation's mission statement that at least states that CRPC. The Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church seeks to be a multi-ethnic beacon and bastion of classic biblical Christianity for Laurel, our greater metro area, and the world. We need to pray that God in his mercy will more and more make that a reality as we seek to honor him in our race relationships here and across the world. Now Why am I bothered with this? Right? Pastor, this isn't a public service announcement. We're here to worship. What's going on? Well the first thing is, is that our own General Assembly, when they approved this overture, included this clause. Be it further resolved that the General Assembly urges the congregations and presbyteries of the Presbyterian Church in America. To make this resolution known to their members in order that they might prayerfully confess their own racial sins as led by the Spirit and strive towards racial reconciliation. For the advancement of the gospel and the love of Christ and the glory of God. And if you would have asked me, Pastor, are you a racist? I said, no. Not me. Never have any thoughts about anybody else. That's not true. I find the weirdest thoughts breaking out in my heart at the weirdest times And I just go with them. I said, well, and I make and I rationalize and say, well, of course I should feel this way. And then God reminds me of his word. And his love and care for me. Just even thinking about this has greatly helped me. And if we need to think about it more as a congregation, and more because of where we're situated. Then this is the beginning of that conversation being able to happen, which our General Assembly has asked us to do. But the second reason, and more important reason is because it fits exactly talking about being free from slavery, the portion of scripture we're talking about Not physical slavery, but spiritual slavery. Because if we've been going through the book of Galatians, that is exactly what was happening in Galatia. The Gentiles As they were being converted, had false teachers come into the church and were trying to enslave them to the Old Testament law of God that you must keep these to be saved. And then also add the Old Testament rites of circumcision and others that they had. They were adding this unbelievable burden upon those who are free in Christ. Free because Christ has paid the penalty for our inability to keep the law. But they were adding this burden back on these false teachers had invaded the church and they were enslaving. spiritually that congregation and it was spreading throughout the New Testament church because of the Pharisees and scribes, some who'd been converted. Some who hung around the church said, we used to do it that way. We can't get rid of all this tradition. The good news can't be that good. That Christ has paid it. You've got to do this. And they were bringing the yoke of God's law to be kept perfectly once again upon those who are free in Christ. Well, that's where we find ourselves here today, looking at our own freedom. And this is a freedom that we must keep seeking to win in the Church of Christ And to make sure that we have it through Christ our Savior. So let's stand and we'll look at God's word and be thankful for those who've gone before us and fought this battle. That God continues to ask his church to be a part of. Let me pray and then I'll read God's word. Our Father and God, we rejoice. That we're part of your church and that you keep your church And you are willing to raise up people at times that will speak things we don't want to hear or in ways that seem hard or rough, because we need that to break through into our own stony hearts. We thank you for the power of your spirit, and we pray that your word would apply your truths to our lives today. So that we might be a people who rejoice in the good news of the gospel and our freedom in Christ. For it's in his name we pray. Amen. Galatians chapter 2, verses 1 through 10. Listen now to the Apostle Paul as directed by God. Then after 14 years talking about after his conversion, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas Taking Titus along with me, and I went up because of a revelation and set before them, though privately before those who seemed influential, the gospel. that I proclaimed among the Gentiles in order to make sure that I was not running or had not run in vain. But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek. Yet because of the false brothers, secretly brought in, who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into slavery To them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved from you. For you. And from those who seem to be influential, what they were makes no difference to me. God shows no partiality. Those I say who seemed influential added nothing to me On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised. For he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised also worked through me for mine to the Gentiles. And when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived that grace was given to me They gave me the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised. Only they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing that I was eager to do. Amen. Please receive it. Through the gospel, Paul fought for your freedom in Christ. There's always those that want to add You can't be good enough for God. The good news can't be good enough that Christ's death for you is enough. You must continually add your own works. And that's natural for all of us. We have that sin of law-keeping of the Pharisees and the scribes, because I know that when I came to Christ, I was forgiven. I know that Jesus has paid the price, and so when I came to Christ and I know that I was forgiven, I felt like Paul like Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress where he came to the cross and that burden, we know, remember that when you read it, his burden fell off his back. He went down in the pit Right? And he could walk and free as he as he was going forth in his journey to heaven. And if you're in Christ, you know what that is. You know what it is to walk differently. But because we still sin this side of heaven, we begin to think that Christ's death and his obedience but his obedience, his perfect obedience in our place is not enough. that we start adding, oh God, yeah I've sinned. I better not come to you because I've sinned now. You must hate me. You're going to unadopt me. You're going to throw me out of your kingdom. And we start having this burden placed on our back again. Yes, when we sin we should confess it, but it has been paid for. But we're natural scribes and Pharisees. We say, I've got to keep this. I better not go God to go to God until I do some more of this. And I cleanse myself something, and maybe I'm nice to my wife today, or I don't fit my brother today, or or maybe I'll listen to the teacher for a change. Especially if it's home school. So but anyhow, it goes through all of that, right? But We start to put this burden and get enslaved again to the law. Instead of listening to God as our Father, we just feel like he's got this whip. And he's beating us. And that's what the Galatians, the heresy of the false teachers, were bringing back to the church people. So Paul is speaking to this church now, and he says, now you you're afraid the false teachers are telling you, I'm not bringing the message. And he's coming them and telling them what he did in Galatians 2. 4. He says, I went to Jerusalem, the beginning of the passage, I went to the home church. We're a daughter church out here. You know, he went back to Wallace. You know, he went back to Jerusalem. He went back to the home church and he says, Am I preaching the right message? Galatians 2, 4. But when he went back, some of the Judaizers were there, and they said, Yet because of false brothers Secretly brought in who slipped in to spy out the freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so they might bring us into slavery. There were some who even went back to the home church in Jerusalem and there were scribes and Pharisees and said, no, no, no, the gospel's not enough. You've got to keep this and do this to be saved and be clean. Jesus is not enough. You must add this to it. Now, we don't add circumcision to it today. We don't think in the measures they were adding that, but we say, well, your hair has to be so long or so short, your skirt has to be so long or so short, and we add thousands of other things to it. And we think if I don't keep all those things, much less God's word, then I can't be clean. And we start carrying around this burden around us. So in Acts 15, and we're not sure if Paul going to Jerusalem is this Acts 15 time or another time, but Acts 15 tells us. the kinds of things that would have happened. So if in Acts 15, if we turn there a minute, if you want to keep your finger in Galatian and Acts, it'll help you. Acts 15 in the book of Galatians. But in Acts 15, 1 and then 5, it talks about what happened. It says, But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, unless you're circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees and rose up and said, It is necessary to circumcise them in order to them to keep the law of Moses. You see, our natural tendency is to say Christ is not enough. His work on the cross was not enough as he died to save us, and then he lived to give us his righteousness. And we want to add to that, and they were adding to it. But if you have your finger back in Galatians 2 and 5, we see the character of the Apostle Paul because he says this. To them, the Judaizers, we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. I want to tell you that for I've been a pastor for officially for 35 years now. And for about 27 of them, I Continually, and I still have to fight, but I just had to fight because I thought I had to make, when I preached to you, I had to make you right. It was my job to make sure that the congregation was straight. And so I stand up here and instead of telling you about the gospel in Christ and making that clear always, I would tell you, well, if you're a Christian, you better do this. You better make sure you're having your quiet time. Make sure you're having family devotions. All your children, be careful you obey God. Now, and your parents. Now, are any of those things bad? Of course not. But I centered on that. It was first of all laying this law on us, and then at the end, if anybody could still look up, I said. And don't forget the cross. You know, people are like, uh Yeah, I'm so thankful I'm a Christian Right? Instead of embracing that you are loved when God knows you and your sin that you've committed this week. I mean, if any of us would lay the sins that we've done outwardly or in our minds and our hearts before us, if they were listed uh up here, any of us this past week, the rest of us would say, oh my, and we'd all scream running out The amazing thing is, God allows us to come back into his presence every week in our own failures and weakness and says, I love you. Christ has died for you. And that It was what moves us to want to follow and love him, not the burden of being enslaved to the law. That's our natural tendency. That's my natural tendency. So the Christian has to have the gospel and preach the gospel to himself, not just when he first comes to Christ. But all the time. So that we're following after him out of love and not a burden. So even when things are tough We understand that we are here as God's beloved children and can follow after him. This has to continually Be remembered by the church. I'm not afraid to tell you this is the church. 500 years ago in 1517, Martin Luther, not King. The original Martin Luther, uh well not you've probably other ones named that, but the one we think about, in 1517 brought forward his 95 thesis and nailed them in the door in Wittenberg to the Catholic Church that had lost the gospel. And he says we have to come back and get rid of that burden. And that's what the Reformation is all about. And this next year is going to be the 500th anniversary of that. But the reason I'm here preaching this today and opening up the scriptures for the same thing is because we, just like the Galatians, just like the Roman Catholics. In our own selves, we come back and find ourselves under this burden of the law that Christ has kept. So we don't want to follow after Jesus because we're just saying, who can do it? Rather than knowing him and loving him and saying, I want to because I'm your beloved child Martin Luther said this in 1517. Our stubbornness on this issue, the gospel, is pious and holy, for by it we are striving to preserve the freedom we have in Christ Jesus. to keep the truth of the gospel. If we lose this, we lose God, Christ, all of his promises, faith, righteousness, and eternal life. We can stand to lose the loss of our possessions, our name, our life, and everything else, but we will not let ourselves be deprived of the gospel of our faith. in Jesus Christ. The first part of that was through the gospel the Apostle Paul stood to keep it But thankfully it wasn't just the Apostle Paul, but also the church in Jerusalem affirmed that through the gospel you keep your freedom in Christ. Now, if you have your fingers still in Acts 15, which I warned you would be good, but if you can look there now if you haven't, I want you to look at Acts 15, verses 10 and 11. And this is the Jerusalem Council's response to the false teachers that were coming and saying Jesus isn't enough. His righteousness isn't enough. You must add your own perfect keeping of the law. You must add circumcision. And this is the response. Of the church affirming what Paul had said. This is a response to the false teachers who had come in. Acts 15, verses 10 and 11. Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test? By placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear. But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ just as they will. Amen. There's nothing you can or ever will do that you can add to the work of Christ to save sinners. To save you if you've confessed. Lord, I can't keep the law. I never will be able to keep the law perfectly. I need a savior. And it's Jesus Christ. Paul Wasn't sure if his own words would be enough, so he brought back as he was putting his case before the Galatians. Living proof. Exhibit A. So if you look at Galatians again, chapter 2, verse 3, he had taken with him to Jerusalem Titus, who was a Greek. He was a Christian in Galatia who was a Gentile. He had not added circumcision to what was needed And so he took him to took Titus to Jerusalem with him, and now he brings him back, Galatians 2. He's a living example that the apostles agreed with him because he says this, but even Titus who was myth me was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek. God's message from the beginning to the end of Scripture is that you cannot save yourself by your own works. Almost the very last portion of Scripture where Jesus is revealing himself. He says this in Revelation 21, 6. It is done. Does that sound like the cross where he says it is finished? It's paid for. It's done. You can't add anything It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty, I will give you the spring of water of life when you get really good. Is that what your translation says? I hope not. Get rid of it. Revelation 21 says this, to the thirsty, to those who are parched, struggling under the burden of keeping the law by themselves To the thirsty I will give from the spring of water of life without payment. Because it has been paid. It was paid by the Lord Jesus on the cross. John Piper reminds you that your only hope to be free from the slavery of sin is by faith. Trusting in Jesus and his righteousness alone, given to you by the message of the gospel from the beginning to the end of your Christian life. He says this: Not only is Jesus our pardon, Jesus is also our perfection. Not only is Christ our redemption, Christ is also our righteousness. Not only is the Lord our punishment for our disobedience, but the Lord is also the performer and provider of our perfect obedience. While we should strive For racial reconciliation, this side of heaven, because we're still broken, and not even the church will be completely sanctified We will have to still work on it and ask God to reveal those sins in our own heart We're enslaved and still a portion to that old man so that when someone is different or does something different or looks different or we don't understand the way they're thinking or what they've done, these horrible thoughts can arise. In our own hearts. But brothers and sisters, thank God Almighty that now through the gospel you are spiritually free at last. Thank God Almighty, because of the gospel, we are free at last. And what are we free to? We're free now to follow God's commands. Oh, wait a minute, Pastor. You just gave me all this good news about the burdens of leave. What are you talking about? Following God's commands. Well, that's. What those who are loved by the Father, his children do. They say, Dad, what would you have me do? Heavenly Father, you've given your Son for me. How do I live now that you've given me his name, Christ? I'm a Christian. And so even the apostles, Paul reports, they said, you have the gospel message, but when you go back In verse 10, Galatians 2, then it says, remember the poor, the very thing that Paul says, I was eager to do. Their hearts were changed. They're forgiven, so they should look out and care for others, love God and love their neighbor, the sum of the commands. So it's not that the commands Aren't what we are called to have and do. I know some of you are saying, oh, free at last, I can do what I want. Well, what we want now is to please our Father. Do you see how the burden is relieved? Oh no, I gotta do that. Father, thank you. I had no hope, and you gave your son for me. How am I to follow you now? Let's go to Ephesians chapter 2 as we come to an end. Did you hear that? Come to an end? You happy? Ephesians chapter 2. First, we'll look at verses eight and nine, because the gospel is just so wondrously Placed here before us in verses 8 and 9, knowing there's nothing we can do to save ourselves. It is never and never will be by our works For by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not of, and never will be, of your own doing. It is the gift of God. Not a result of works that no man should boast. Dr. Gerstner. Would surprise Christians sometimes, and he would say, you might not realize it, but you are saved by works. And everybody'd go, what? He says, justification is ultimately by works. The works of your Savior, Jesus Christ. They are received by a justified sinner as his own works. Christ justified his people by his works as their works. Works. Done by him as their substitute. This is the gospel. This is what the Apostle Paul laid down his life for. To keep it, to go to the church in Galatian, the other churches, to make sure that we would people would know that we cannot ever and will not ever be saved by our works. It is by faith. Through God's grace, the death of Christ, that we would never boast. Get that down. But you see, it was already in the beginning, the first century of the church, starting to be lost. And then in 1517, Martin Luther comes back with the other reformers, and they had to fight again for this truth. But this truth we have to fight in even in our own hearts every day, because naturally we're scribes and Pharisees. We can't believe that the good news of the gospel is that good. And when we understand that, then we're moved to follow after Christ. Now, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, if you looked at it, it couldn't lay out the gospel any clearer, any plainer. But then notice what it says in verse 10. Now that you become his children, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for Good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. We don't do good works to be saved. We do good works because we are saved. Because our Heavenly Father, who loves us and has shown that through crushing, purposely killing Jesus Christ, that you might become his child. He might turn his head from him and give his love and righteousness of Christ to you. That's why we do good works. We wake up and say, Father, Heavenly Father, how might I please you today? And that's what the scriptures are. They aren't a burden. It's his love letter saying, if you know me and if you're my child, follow after me. Not to save you, but because you're mine. Martin Luther goes on to say this. When we have thus taught faith in Christ, then we do also teach good works. Because you who have laid hold of Christ by faith, through whom you are made righteous, begin now to work well. Do the sum of the commandments. Love God and your neighbors. These are good works indeed, which flow out of this faith, and the cheerfulness conceived in your heart. That has free remission of your sins in Christ. Brothers and sisters, because you are free. Thank God Almighty that you indeed are and always in Christ will be free at last. Doing good works to glorify God, not to be saved, but because you are saved. Not obeying God's commands because you are enslaved to his laws to be saved. But hearing your father's wise words for his glory and your good, desiring to follow them as his beloved child. Let's go forward this week joyously Being amazed that the God who knows the way we lived our last week, whether outwardly or inwardly, has said that Christ is enough. I love you today because of him. We have changed hearts now to say, Father, how might I live and serve and please you? This week. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.