In Philippians 2, verses 12 through 16, Paul writes to the church at Philippi, So then, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. We should look to Christ's return because the Bible presents it, as John does here, as an encouragement to our faith, as an encouragement to us. And that you might seek to develop patience in working through these things. And to lead astray. and enables us to understand truth. That you we might know the truth, that we might know what what to do. and the things that tend to be uh the challenge for people coming to Christ in our country and people following Christ faithfully. and given him their uh them his spirit, because he has uh purposed to change that people. And one of the means of grace, one of the ways that God encourages us in our faith, is by the preaching of His Word. That you have revealed your character and your will to us, Lord. And Lord, that you might glorify yourself in changing a sinful people into an obedient people. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father. And you have no need for anyone to teach you. It's not a unique situation. uh than even Judaism or a mixture of Christianity and Judaism. and will be raised above the hills, and all nations will stream to it. And it seems to be that just as uh God's work among men and just as his salvation reaches a a new height of clarity. uh apocalyptic visions. Um to this person as well, he doesn't use the term Antichrist, he calls him the son of lawlessness, or a man of lawlessness. uh worldly influence will try to deny Christ and lead the church astray before the second coming of Christ. That some are even present in the church. the true believers to believe the same. And the picture here is of believers receiving the Holy Spirit, having that anointing of the Spirit of God that we might be regenerated. That we might be born again and that we might understand the truth and that we might know it. Paul writes to the Corinthians of this. And as the Spirit abides in us and teaches us about all things, so we abide in Him. Who abides in you? To believe these false ideas about Christ and who he was and what he did. uh came to prominence in the eighteen hundreds, often Tim sprang the Seventh-day Adventists and uh Jehovah's Witnesses and many other cults. And that the Bible says no one can know the day and the hour. And just going over the words of the songs of the angels and of the saints in heaven is an extremely valuable and encouraging study in the praise of God. And the Lamb and His saints triumph over Satan and his minions. That's a very valuable portion of scripture that we can apply. um sufficiently, but just in part. And to read his word, to see what he has said about all the situations that happen in this life uh to worship him, to be with him, to abide with him perfectly unto all eternity. and where he shall welcome his elect unto the many mansions that he has been preparing, the glorious inheritance of eternity with God. um who have left their homes and their families and gone to foreign nations, Lord, to proclaim your word. uh warring factors, Lord, of of a false religion and um the love of the world. The Colburns in Japan. uh who are from Japan and could lead an indigenous uh movement and church there. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work, for his good pleasure to will and to do according to his good pleasure. As we come to you with the knowledge that you are at work within us to will and to act according to your good pleasure, Lord, I pray that you might enlighten our minds, that we might know what that good pleasure is That we might seek to do those things that you've called us to do, and to abstain from those things that you have warned us against. Lord, I pray that you would be at work now, that your word might not return void, but it might accomplish your good and perfect purposes. From this we know that it is the last hour. And because no lie is of the truth. and was really uh some sort of spiritual apparition. who saw him both transfigured in glory, and also leaned upon his fleshly bosom at the Last Supper, writes to these churches to proclaim the person and work of Christ, that he was fully God, that which was from the beginning, the eternal word of life, who was with the Father. Those who know God will walk in the light. uh narrows it as he goes on and says that not only will those who know God walk in the light, but they will obey the commandments of God. And those who say that they love God but disobey his commands lie and do not live according to the truth. And finally, he encourages these believers who have been downtrodden to live a life of holiness in anticipation of the second coming of Christ. And he's warning Timothy in his ministry to be on guard against false teachers. straightforward definition of the last hour or the last days would be the time uh after the ascension of Christ, after Christ had completed his mission uh is that of an Antichrist, a specific Antichrist, who will gain great power and influence on the earth. It tells us that there will be the sound of a trumpet, that the Lord will descend as he ascended with his holy angels. And many who do not believe that Jesus was the Christ. They are people who uh might be in the congregation of believers, part of the visible church here on earth. But it is without root. Whether it be in this life leaving the church, being separated from God, or in the life to come, being shown that Christ never knew them. And John really centers in on what he's talking about in verse 26, as he writes, These things I have written to you concerning those who are trying to deceive you. But here when he he uses the term Antichrist plural, he's talking about the false teachers, the docetists, who have come in, who have denied that Christ was fully God and fully man, and are trying to deceive. Or if you remember the kings were anointed with oil, um, when they were um chosen to be king by God. We we are able to understand these things, that we are able to know the truth, not because of our own selves, not because of we were clever enough to discover hidden wisdom. But because of the Holy Spirit, the anointing that we have from God, of His Spirit, and the mind of Christ. But he continues, the one who confesses the Son has the Father also. We see that as we live our lives here on earth, that it's by the decree of the Father that we are called unto Him, that it's through the work of the Son that we are called in Him, and that it's by the abiding of the Holy Spirit. the study of um those last things uh leading up to the second coming of Christ. More common way that we in the Reformed Church overreact to eschatological things is by being overly dogmatic about them. And trying to figure out how political associations and changes are really reflected in those prophecies in the book of Revelation. And we should read it. We see what it's like to worship God in heaven. Of perfect fellowship and communion with God. To be in that place with God where we will not be able to sin. And that He will draw us to Himself, that He who justified us and sanctifying us will one day glorify us. And that Christ, though we do not see him now, we know that he is at the right hand of the Father. That one day we might be with him. We need to remember that ultimately God will triumph over these things. uh all things. And that in the Holy Spirit we might know the truth, and that we might abide in the truth, that we might live in the truth of God, that we might think his thoughts, as it were, after him. And that we might walk in his footsteps, that we might walk in the ways of God Himself through obedience to His word. It will be a day when he will draw believers to himself, both those who are dead who shall rise first, and those who are alive together on the earth, who will be caught up together with him in the air, and we will be made perfect. And Lord, as we encounter those uh those who do not believe in you, those who seek to um to persecute. And Lord, I pray that we might abide in the truth, even as your spirit abides within us, knowing, Lord, that you will preserve us. And for some reason I've always remembered the late Dr. Send out your Holy Spirit that that the people that they proclaim the gospel to might know the truth. That you might glorify yourself in saving men in Christ. That you might be sanctifying us by your truth, even as your son prayed. Lord, I pray that you would refresh and encourage us with these words to your glory and to our good. Father, we thank you for Craig and Ree. as their children are being uh educated in the Japanese system, that you would help them to be salt and light there as well as their parents. several come to faith in Christ out of that culture there and pray that you would be pleased to grant more and more. Do all things without grumbling or disputing, so that you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. But not because he is not preaching a gospel of works, he's not preaching the ability of us to save ourselves, but he follows that up with, for it is God who works in you. And we'll be reading 1 John chapter 2, verses 18 through 29. Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father. And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. And that which was made manifest, fully man, which he had heard and seen, which he had felt with his hands. First of all, we see that John warns believers about false teachers who are enemies of Christ. So he draws a parallel by saying, those who know God will walk in the light, as God is in the light. And we saw that walking the light is is a broad symbolic terminology for being pure and holy. Children, it is the last hour, and just as you have heard that Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrists have appeared. Now there are several terms in just in this first verse that need to be unpacked. And uh even in the Old Testament we see references to the last days. Rock cut not from human hands, as Daniel put it, that rock who is Christ, all nations coming and seeing the fulfillment of the coming of the Messiah and his salvation. Paul, in writing about the the last days or the last hour, says in 1 Timothy 3, verse 1, But realize this that in the last days difficult times will come. So the resistance to that work, the resistance to God and his salvation, reaches a new level as well, where there will be false teachers. Peter says, know this first of all, that in the last days mockers will come with their mocking, following after their own lusts. It's a descriptive term, and yet as we look in verse 18, we see that John uses the term in two different ways. Even now many Antichrists, plural, have appeared. But uh both as John just refers it to it in passing, just as you have heard that Antichrist is coming, that one day in the future before the But writing to the Thessalonians in chapter two, he says, Then that lawlessness that lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will slay with the breath of his mouth, and bring to an end by the appearance of his coming. But uh just uh to point out uh that phrase and what he means there is um uh that man who is against Christ who will have So many like him will come in the last days. and knowledge that they had. being against Christ that they left the congregation of believers. But a temporary interest in spiritual things, a temporary presence among the people of God. Will ultimately be shown for what they are. John is reminding them that the Holy Spirit, they have an anointing, he says. As the Spirit works in our heart and our mind, we see that it enables us to understand the things that the natural man cannot grasp. Again, condemns those false teachers who would deny the Son by saying, Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father. We have the ability to confess Christ. Difficult things that we do not understand about the world and even about spiritual things. As those try to attack believers, try to thwart their good and per and per good purposes and God's perfect will, yet the Holy Spirit abides in believers. And Christ shall lose none that the Father has given him. To become obsessed with the things of eschatology and to seek to know more than the Bible tells us. Here we get the words of Christ to the churches who are living the Christian life, who are struggling in their faith, and they're in different situations with different struggles, and yet the word of God is addressed to these churches. And we could uh spend the rest of the time and the rest of the day going over the blessings of that place. and triumphs over those who would seek to to thwart his purposes. In our lives here, as we face conflict, as we face false teaching, as we face struggle to s with sin As we work out our salvation, to remember that God has willed in us to work and to do according to his good pleasure. And um as you face persecution at work for what you believe, as you um experience the the fallenness of this world through uh difficulties and fights and arguments, even within your uh own family in the family of believers, Left you on your own, but he has given you his Holy Spirit, that you might know the truth, that as you encounter trials of various kinds, as James says, that you might rejoice. With arguments and disagreements, with the results of sin in a fallen world. It's a comfort to know that we have the mind of Christ and that God has given us his word, that we might come to his word, that we might read what he has said. Lord, we do pray that you would be with us as we live our lives in this world. And looking forward to that great day when Christ shall come again and shall draw all his people to himself, when he shall speak those good words. uh and true freedom to the people there. nation at one and the same time has two great struggles in that the people still have the pull of their ancient religion of ancestor worship. on the one hand that draws them and has a tendency to infect them and at the same time modernism and materialism among whom you appear as lights in the world, holding fast the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory, because I did not run, nor v uh toil in vain. These things I have written to you concerning those who are trying to deceive you. Coming up with their own flavor of Christianity, saying that Christ was uh was good, but he wasn't fully God and fully man. And he goes on to give us a picture of those who know God and what they look like, what true believers in the faith look like. We saw that those who love God will not be idolatrous or loving towards those things of the world, but will fix our eyes on God and flee the things of the world. And uh he will see that he first of all warns believers about false teachers who are enemies of Christ. his uh ministry here on earth, but before his second coming, before the end of time. the uh those days before the end, those last days. the return of Christ, there will be um a man against Christ who will bring gain great power and influence. They um uh went out from among the believers and um they said it was because that uh the believers didn't have the secret knowledge that they had and w uh didn't have the the level of esteem and and um But he doesn't just warn them and then uh give them no antidote, but he reminds them of the work of the Holy Spirit in their life. And John encourages believers not only to remain in the Spirit, but also to look forward to the second coming of Christ. But in devotion to heavenly things, and that they might fix their eyes upon God and live a life in anticipation of when they will be with God always. And as we seek to apply this, as you face trials, are you facing hard times in your life? And Lord, I pray that we would expect these things because we know it is the last days before Christ returns. In the midst of the challenges and the difficulties, humanly speaking, that come to people who would hear the gospel there, with the pull of uh ancestor worship and the pull of materialism, we thank you, Lord, that the gospel is not bound. Will flee the love of worldly things. This is a phrase that has similar references throughout Scripture. And one of the things John says about the last hour is that it is characterized by false teaching and by sin But not only does the Spirit enable us to know truth, but he enables us to abide in the truth To stand our ground against false teaching. As for you, the anointing which you have received from him abides in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you. You abide in him. That even as false teachers come, we might not be turned from the truth. And that the Holy Spirit abides in them. And as we are preserved in the Holy Spirit, if we think about what the Bible says about the nature of our assurance as believers for our salvation, that we remain in him. A great reason to read the book of Revelation is the picture of the New Jerusalem, that heavenly city that will be after the second coming of Christ, after the there is a new heavens and a new earth. But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know. This is the Antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son. So John here shows the purpose of that ownership, that the Holy Spirit might dwell and abide in us. But instead, remember that John encourages believers to look to the second coming of Christ that they might live their lives in devotion to God, not in devotion to earthly things. And this is not how the Bible presents the second coming. And four quick reasons to read the book of Revelation. by anything that man can do. And before we read, let us pray. And as we look at the things of this world, the things that are present in this material world that tend to wean our affections away from God. And just as the last days are after the coming of Christ, yet they are before his second coming, before the end of time. First of the singular use of the word Antichrist, the Bible, in telling us about the second coming of Christ, it doesn't tell us a lot of information, but it does tell us some information. But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know. And we are able to to know the Son and know the Father. And certainly we need to uh realize that those groups are out there. By uh breaking fellowship over um eschatology, by being so sure of what we think and not what the Bible says, that um You feel worn down. And finally, as we live our lives, as we struggle with these things, let us look to the second coming of Christ, knowing that it will be a glorious day And uh I don't want to spend a whole bunch of time on the Antichrist because John doesn't spend a whole bunch of time on it And as false teachers arise, those who are against Christ, who are against his salvation. 1 John 2, verse 18, and following. So um John identifies the time that the believers are living in as these last days, a time where um there will be false teachers, there will be uh men who hate God seeking to strive against them. that uh tried to set a date when Christ was going to return and began to depart from the the scripture in many other ways. That we uh go beyond Scripture and say things that the Bible doesn't say, or we're just not charitable towards um towards other people and their view of the second coming. And are you discouraged in your Christian walk? And those who say that they love God and do not love their brothers, again lie and do not live according to the truth. gives it to us uh exactly like that in verse 22. And so as we as we see the situation of the first century church and uh our fearful event for them as they face these these false teachers, this temptation to go to another gospel which is really not a gospel at all. Besides an overreaction, sometimes we have an under-reaction about the second coming of Christ. These things that the Apostle John encourages believers with as they face false teaching. Here Paul is addressing the church at Philippi and telling them on the one hand to work out their own salvation with fear and trembling. That's a about it. And he says here that many have come, and just as broad is the way that leads to destruction, so there will be many who deny Christ, many who war against his church and his salvation. And just as John has attached a special blessing to those who read the book and the prophecies therein, so we as believers should should uh seek to know these things. John in this section picks up his warning to them by speaking then very directly back to the docists, back to these false teachers. The Book of Revelation is useful for instruction and correction, for rebuke, and for training in righteousness Thirdly, scenes of triumph is a great uh reason to read Revelation. He also in verse 18 talks about Antichrist. And as he's reminding the Corinthians that they are not their own, that they were bought with a price. John writes that believers might remember that the Holy Spirit abides in them and that they shall one day be glorified in heaven with him. It says that that we might have the mind of Christ is how the sp scripture puts it. Heavenly Father, I do thank you so much for your word, and I thank you for the beautiful pictures that you have given us of what life will be like with you unto all eternity. Lord, I pray that we might remember that you have given us your Holy Spirit, that we might know the truth through your Spirit, through your word. And when the sun comes out, they are scorched and withered. This is a missionary family who's been ministering the Tokyo Bay area. But uh John identifies that it was it was so that the the believers would know that they were not of of the gospel, of Christ, that they would be identified for what they were. We see this as Luke gives to us the parable of the sower and the word being sown abroad to different people. He says, Spiritual things are foolishness to the natural man who's perishing. But the Holy Spirit lives in us. Um but just to unpack the word, uh our English word just means against Christ. This word abide means to dwell. That one day we might know the truth fully, where now we know it And so we see that John, as he writes to the believers, is warning them against false teachers that will appear in the last days. Whereas we see dimly through the pages of Scripture, we don't see all the details, we don't know all the things surrounding um the second coming of Christ or or his will for us, yet then we might see it fully. But as his anointing teaches you about all things, and is true, and is not a lie, and just as it has taught you, you abide in him. Certainly many of Paul's epistles were to confront false teaching as well. In Jesus' name we pray. As we come to the the point in the service where we bring our petitions before God, I'm going to ask Elder Cliffhall if he'll come and lead us in prayer for um uh And as we confess Christ, we also have fellowship with the Father and with one another, even as John wrote in the first chapter. Francis Schaeffer's um recollections of the the the challenge of the gospel in Japan that the We thank you for calling them to missionary work in Japan. And those who say they know God and yet walk in the darkness, they lie and do not live according to the truth. There might, you know, there's a couple other details that believers will be gathered from the four corners of the earth. So as we look at uh the second coming of Christ, we need to be charitable and realize that there's a great deal of mystery in the scriptures about um about his second coming. And we should look into these things. Just a little background. Because God has drawn us to himself. They went out from us, but they were not really of us, for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us. They will be shown to be false teachers, to be against Christ The Holy Spirit preserves us and our knowledge of God and of the truth. Then let me encourage you, as John did, that you have the Holy Spirit within you. And that your Holy Spirit is powerful to bring the truth of God to individuals and to bring the faith in Christ. The one who confesses the Son has the Father also. And so as we live our lives, we should look to these things. Even when we don't know what to do, the the best two things to do are to pray, to ask God to help us. Who is the liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? So we shouldn't uh overly try to set a day or an hour or become obsessed with the things of man. And we talked about how James points out that friendship with the world is enmity towards God. No one shall snatch them out of his hand, because the Holy Spirit abides in us. God has revealed through the Apostle John pictures of what worship in heaven will be like And John here uses the phrase, the last hour. From this we know it is the last hour. It dwells in us. It's in his name that we pray, Amen. We should look into the things of Christ's Second Coming because the Bible presents us with evidence and information about the second coming of Christ. Our series uh of 1 John, we've been looking at uh a situation in which the the early churches were uh beset with false teaching. One is the letter to the churches. Another one is the picture of worship. Um I remember correctly, Craig and Ree are both from the area. But they were the Docetists, as we said, from the Greek word meaning to seem. Who is the liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? And as for you, the anointing which you have received from him abides in you In Isaiah chapter two, it says, Now it will come about that in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established as the chief of the mountains. And there are several pictures of anointing in the Old Testament. Amen. And this is a reference to the gospel going out to all the world, beyond the boundaries of Israel, and all nations coming to that Yet the Holy Spirit abides in us. And he has said that he has gone to prepare a place for his people. And John says in 18, just as you have heard that Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrists, plural, have come. We will be made perfect to the full enjoyment of God unto all eternity, and where God will wipe away every tear from our eye. And as we seek to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. So we see as far as false teachers, as well as antichrist, that many have come It means to live. Do you feel like you're tired? That you might seek to develop your faith as God calls you to wrestle with difficult situations. Lord, we do pray that you would continue to bless our worship now, and Lord, that you might be changing us We see this in verse 18 that he warns them against antichrists. As Paul said, do you not know that your body is the the temple of the Holy Spirit? And uh it can be a sticky subject. Lord, I pray that you might draw them to yourself and that you might preserve them in your word by your spirit, Lord. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word I've not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lies are the truth. Thirdly, we see that John encourages believers to live a life of devotion to God in anticipation of Christ's return. Lord, that we would be on guard against false teaching, that we would uh beware of those who are against you and against your salvation, Lord. Not that we might know the exact time, that we might know the exact day or the exact hour, but that we might be encouraged. And one is the last hour. Now this is a um a stark term, one that only the Apostle John uses, and uh I think in our modern conception it makes us think of Hollywood and of John says in verse 19 that even some of these are in the church. Even as we face difficulties in our life where we we don't know what to do. And that as He has called you to live in this world, He is not We pray for the spread of the gospel there and its influence in the society and culture to bring bring grace and truth. I have written to you because you do not I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it And Lord, that they might uh in the midst of these uh Because God has chos um chosen a people. The Apostle John who knew Christ, who walked with Christ. So uh to give a uh And so often when we we are confused about uh issues, uh when we're confused about things And uh John in verses twenty-three and following, uh And Lord, we do pray that you would be with the Colburns and the Iversons, Lord, another family who is at work in the same area. So John reminds them of the work of the Holy Spirit in their life, that they know the truth But I think a more um Children, it is the last hour, and just as you heard that Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrist have arisen. And lastly, um That God again and again executes his decrees in an unshakable manner Grant them um good relationship as they uh seek to uh raise up local leaders, elders and pastors. The picture there that Paul uses is of ownership. This is at the beginning part, the you might think of it as the easy part of Revelation, but That as we are made alive by the Spirit, as He gives us the ability to know and understand spiritual things. In Christ's name. But those who are not of God are ultimately Just to say, well, no one can know the day or the hour, and therefore it's fruitless to study. And though there's many difficult passages and difficult symbols that are hard to understand, yet we see in the book of Revelation that God And Cliff, as he's been praying for missionaries this month, is going to leave us in prayer for them, and then I'll close after a time of prayer. So those Try to oppose Christ We pray for them and their children. And he narrows the obeying of commandments down to those who love God will love their brothers. And But these false teachers were preaching something different. And as John is fighting heresy, he states things both positively and negatively So let's pray for them as they deal with people in that situation. So those who deny that Jesus was the Christ, those who deny God, are Antichrist. Um Trust in these things. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you have given us the gift of prayer that we might uh intercede for those Lord, we do pray all these things in Christ's name. And this is the promise which He Himself made to us: eternal life. We have examples of this in history, certainly with the Millerites, John Miller, who uh From this we know that it is the last hour. It doesn't tell us much more than that. And Paul in writing to the Thessalonians about the second coming of Christ refers That the Holy Spirit not only makes us alive But as his anointing teaches you about all things, and is true and is not a lie, and just as it is taught you. Is this a difficult time at work? Let's stand as we uh read the holy inerrant word of God. And just as that person is coming before the the second coming of Christ And then he reminds these believers who are beset with false teaching about the work of the Holy Spirit in their life. Luke's talking about temporary faith, not saving faith, not faith according to the Holy Spirit. I pray that you would be with our minds, that they might be fixed upon you. This is the Antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son And Paul, again, writing to Timothy, warns him about difficult times in the last days. As uh It is by the Holy Spirit that we are able to know the truth, to confess the truth. But um, it's a wonderful picture. And as they seek to plant uh this small church in the Tokyo Bay area, we pray that you might be pleased to grant fruit. As for you, let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. One is setting aside people for our work, the priests. Amen. Children, do you realize that in the book of Revelation And he's given you his Holy Spirit Let's pray And let us now turn now in His Word to the book of 1 John. And John in defining what Antichrist means They can't say that they are drawing near to God if they're denying Christ. And then last week we saw that those who love God And especially in our day, I think we have many uh false reactions to eschatology. He says, just as you've heard that Antichrist is coming, and that's a singular term, And John here says two things. What is John saying here that it is the last hour? Now, eschatology is uh But another tidbit that the scriptures gives us But as was the case in in uh in John's day, the Docetists left the church. And we see this in verse 27. Paul uses the last days. But to us who have the mind of Christ, they are life. Here Paul writes to the church of Philippi, to encourage them in their walk with Christ. Rest on these things. He just seemed to be man. And as he laid forth that God is light, and in him is no darkness, none. We pray for your care and watch over them, strengthen and bless their marriage. He lives within us. And they were uh It tells us that the dead in Christ shall rise first. He talks about those who shoot up and who have temporary faith. I think they grew up in the Columbia and Ellicott City area and uh have been in Japan for a number of years. But John does That God, if you are in Christ Jesus, has given you his Holy Spirit, that you might know. But they went out, in order that it might be shown that they were not of us. And we thank you that they seen And we see this in verse 20. Amen. Is this a difficult time at home? He dwells within us. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Well done, good and faithful servant. One, that the Spirit abides in us. Men who oppose the truth. We'll be continuing our series in 1 John. It gives us a picture of what it will be like. Please be seated. Are there difficulties in your family? Lord that you would uh We pray And one is an overreaction.