As we continue our study of the book of James, we are in chapter four. Last week, in verses one through three, James began to address, at least in part, what was I think caused James to write this letter in the first place. He invited us to think about what causes quarrels and fights strife within ourselves and ultimately within the church. Unlike what he has done several times throughout the letter It was not presented as some hypothetical situation for our consideration. was going on in the church to which he was writing to. Just as a brief review to set the stage for what he has for us today, On a deeper level, he addressed our passions, specifically our sinful passions. It was wanting to get their way. and being recognized, admired, and influenced the outcome, and they were not getting it This caused them to act in sinful ways. They were frustrated and unable to achieve their selfish ambitions and envious desires. And what they were doing was restoring or resorting to a worldly type of wisdom in order to gain them the recognition they desired. as leaders within the church. James has already warned people who walk who would desire to become teachers chapter three and verse one in the church. He has rebuked them for fancying themselves as wise and understanding. James 3. 13 These people want to lead and direct the church, but they are not employing the right type of wisdom, godly wisdom, to do the job that they would like to do. This, of course, reminds us that we should evaluate the reasons behind our petitions, our prayers to God. It or is it for the glory of God and the good of my neighbor? Or do I want God to give me stuff or my way for my good? and my glory. With this in mind, would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's Word, which is from James chapter 4, verses 4 through 10. Hear now the word of God. You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says? He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us, but he gives more grace. Therefore, it says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God. And he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will exalt you. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. It has been the longstanding argument by academic and pastoral scholars that the first three verses of our passage today is the Heart of this letter. Not only is it close to the geographic center of the book, but more importantly, it is the thematic center of the book. James has been diagnosing and revealing the problems that arise from the absence of peace within the believer and any church community experiencing personal and interpersonal strife. This painful and dangerous tension comes from a substandard or poor relationship with God. In verse 4, he's about to use some shocking biblical imagery to make his point. So I think it's almost appropriate to say, ladies and gentlemen, Please make sure your seats are on the upright position and your seatbelts are buckled and tightened. Up until now, he has called his recipients, his readers, us, brothers, no less than nine times. He really has been very gentle. He hasn't named names or factions within the church. He's tried to help them see by use of hypothetical situations Allah, let's say a rich person and a poor person walks into your worship service, or not many of you should desire to become teachers and so forth. He's helped them to see that certain types of behavior are inappropriate, as well as the reasons behind their sinful behaviors. He's also taken the time to emphasize. That true faith in the Lord is not a spectator sport. True salvation shows itself by godly works in the life of the believer. But now he doesn't mince words, and he calls it like it is James accuses his readers, the church, of whorishness. Their sin is adultery. But as it relates to any relationship with God, It is no less than idolatry. The notion of adultery committed against God by his people is not new in biblical history, is it? The Old Testament visible church, Israel, was portrayed as God's wife. We can see that in two passages. Isaiah 54 five and six states For your maker is your husband, the Lord of hosts is his name, and the Holy One of Israel is your redeemer, the God of the whole earth he is called For the Lord has called you like a wife, deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your God. In even more descriptive language, God speaking of his bride Israel as a harlot found in Hosea 2. 5. For their mother has played the whore. She who conceived them has acted shamefully, for she said, I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water. My wool and my flax, my oil and my drink. Israel was delivered into bondage and fought into a land of her own, protected and provided by her husband, God Himself. But as those of us who have read through the Old Testament, she became a woman who pursued other gods, small g. and in the process committed adultery by playing the role of the harlot with other nations and other nations' gods. Now with this Title, James accuses the Church, the New Testament Church, Israel, of the same type of behavior. This is important. Because adultery committed in the Old Testament church, after many attempts to reconcile her to himself, resulted in God sending his bride away. Jeremiah 3:8 encapsulates this idea very clearly. She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel. I had sent her away with a decree of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear. but she too went and played the whore. James is concerned for the communities he's writing to, and for him, it's a time for them to get serious. about their commitment to Christ. Now you may be saying something along the lines of, well I thought that, you know, once God saves you, He perseveres you to the end. And I think this raises a question or two, doesn't it? Does God send away people if they apostate from him? Can congregations be lost? Can even denominations be lost? Can these people and institutions be If you will, spit out of God's mouth. Spit out of Jesus' mouth I think we must answer yes. The reason why I say that is because it comes straight from Scripture. In Revelation 3:16, The Lord Jesus says to the church at Laodicea, So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. Now, it's taken longer to experience this in in our part of the world, but we have seen it over the last century or last century and a half in Europe. What happened to Europe? was that she experienced what happens when you play the role of an adulteress. The gospel was taken away. Darkness had started to come in. Because they were not fidelitous to God's word. Now, you may ask, how does God send them away? One way is that he leaves them to their own devices when they try to accommodate with The world. One of the things that could happen is that they liberalize theologically. Now I'm not talking about politics here, I'm talking about theology. And then they fall away. They lose his word. They lose his protection. And then and in the end they lose him. That person, that church, that denomination, well You see, she no longer produces a holy seed for her bridegroom, the Lord Jesus. So what's the real issue here? You and I, we have to be on the lookout. For what Worldliness. Worldliness. Let me take a moment to clarify a potential misunderstanding that could arise. I'm not talking about wearing the same type of shirts or shoes or sandals or living in similar type homes or enjoying the same type of foods or going to the same restaurants Humans all have similar needs, and as Christians, we do as well. But we shouldn't go out of our way to Look different just for the sake of looking different. That's not what I mean by worldly. So what is it that I do mean by being worldly? James's concern is when we seek out friendship. That is, when we try to find in accommodation with worldly ways of thinking and what the world values James says, when we do this, again, on the individual level or on the institutional level, this is no less than an act of hostility towards God. I think we tend to take a cavalier or casual understanding of a friend or what friendship means. We say we tend to say things like, you know, everybody is my friend. I have no enemies. But in Judaic as well as Hellenistic culture Friendship involved a sharing of all things. It was a commonality and a unity of both spiritual and physical things. Without really providing an example, in this verse, he goes directly to the conclusion. He says, therefore Whoever desires to go the route of the world for the purpose of making friendship with its ways of thinking and doing things as opposed to God's ways of thinking and doing things, godly wisdom versus earthly wisdom, makes himself an enemy of God. No, he doesn't uh say it specifically here, but we should be reminded that throughout James he's already pointed out that the people to whom he's writing, the following. Discrimination against people. Chapter 3 verses chapter 2 verses 1 through 13. So that they can get the attention of power brokers by speaking negatively. of other people, chapter 3, verses 1 through 12, to advance their own interest By exhibiting envious and bitter behavior. Chapter 3, verses 13 to 18. And pursuing their own pleasure. Chapter 4, verses 1 through 3. What do all these things have in common? They reflect worldly values, don't they? Let me give you some statements that would give color to some of these things. You want to get somewhere in life? You gotta have power. You gotta be noticed. Schmooze. Get the attention of people who have influence and can make a decision in your life. To make an omelet, you gotta crack some eggs, don't ya? You can't make other people happy until you're happy first yourself I'm sure you can come up with a lot of other platitudes offered by the world and worldly wisdom that justifies the things that James is complaining about. You see, the people were not overtly and consciously pursuing worldliness, but their actions betrayed them. James wants them to remember that God does not tolerate any rivals. In our lives. I don't know about you, but in some ways I find that comforting, and in some ways, I find that scary. James made it clear that man cannot cannot, I'm sorry, Jesus made it clear that man cannot serve two masters. Did he not? It is either one or the other, despite how we rationalize or may rationalize the opposite When we choose to think and act in the world we way, we are at that point showing allegiance to the world. And as difficult as it is to hear this, we are prostituting ourselves spiritually. Is this ruffling anybody's feathers? I think that if you're a Christian That's a good thing. That's a good thing. Verse five brings to light the seriousness And consequences of churches and individual choosing to go worldly The jealousy of God for his people, his bride, you and I, has a rich tradition in Scripture. God is seen to be jealous for his bride to the point of disciplining her. But part of disciplining within the church context, his bride, has two forms. by use of gardening analogy from the Gospel of John. The first is that that branches who are sickly sometimes they're raised higher. to receive the nurturing sunlight that they absolutely require. And sometimes They are cut, they are pruned, and thrown away into the fire for fuel. Having established this understanding We must remember that the object of God's jealousy is you. His bride, but the cause for it is his name, it is his reputation Now, folks, we're getting to the brass tacks here of the book of James, so really focus here. All those that bear his name can bring either honor or dishonor to God's reputation. This is why Along with covenant breaking, God chastised, disciplined, punished, and sent away his bride in the Old Testament. In the newer covenant era, He has taken on, along with the remnant elect of Old Israel, ethnic Israel, a Gentile bride. But just as the Old Testament Israel had individuals who proclaimed to carry Jehovah's name, but were only members of the visible church. the visible community of God, there are those that do so now in the visible church today. And just as in the Old Testament era, there were those that were elect, that sinned and received God's Loving discipline. So there are elect in the New Testament church who need and will get God's loving discipline. Therefore, each person and body of believers must not give way to things like selfish ambition and bitter envy. As that will give way to either God's loving but painful discipline and perhaps even estrangement for him in our lives. How does knowing God, knowing that God will either discipline or estrange himself from those claiming to have his name, make you feel? Christian. Does that notion cause you to feel a desire for repentance in your life? Are you comforted by knowing that God loves you so much that He won't let you go, but instead will show you His love by disciplining you? Is your heart filled with godly fear that turns to him for the grace of repentance? If you're there, if that's what you're feeling, that's a good sign. That's a very good sign Or are you feeling indifferent? Are you feeling indifferent to your worldliness? Are you even now in your mind justifying your worldliness and dismissing God's word? I believe that the way that you respond to these questions reflects profoundly about the genuineness of the proclamation for Christ. This is just as true for the individual as it is for the local church and more broadly denominations across the country. Let me take a moment to illustrate this from what happened over a decade ago by a Supreme Court ruling on the definition of marriage. I want to make it clear here that what's not on trial is a Supreme Court or even individuals who agree with that decision. Those that will and are being held to account are professing Christians and the churches that proclaim the name of Jesus as their Lord and their God. The true church, the one that is supposed to be faithful to the plain teachings of Scripture, now can use this ruling as an example of the third test of genuine religion that James provided for us at the end of chapter one, not being defiled by the world's ways. Those that just call themselves Christian with no interest in the faithful proclamation of the word will find a way to justify And accommodation with the worldly values as supported by the Supreme Court ruling. They will justify one way or another Whether it is by ignoring or reinterpreting God's word, why? To be friends with the world. This is similar to what Israel did by putting up Azeropoles by the countryside. If you allow me to make a play on words, the true Church of Christ has or is about to be outed. The true church of Christ has to come out of the closet and be prepared to be ridiculed and persecuted. for her fidelity to her bridegroom whenever she is put to the test In the process, the broader church will be pruned, and those that were just carrying the name of Christ, without any spiritual substance, will be sent away. Or as Scripture says, spit out of God's mouth. The reason why that imagery was used for the church in Laodicea was that the water was neither cold nor hot, but lukewarm because of the springs that the Roman aquedots brought into the city Another way of saying this was that they were not single-minded in their faith and service to the Lord. The Lord of the church spit Laodicea, spit her out. It was not pleasant or acceptable to him. Therefore, the church will have the opportunity. The individual Christian will have the opportunity. The national denomination has the opportunity now to show its faith. By its actions, by what it proclaims. And this is what James is telling us. You believe? Show me So then, the purpose of this verse, then, the purpose of what James is telling us is: watch out, be on guard. Protect your soul from worldliness. Don't become worldly. This will only raise God's jealousy, and it's usually not a painless thing in the life of a believer No, if at this point you may be thinking to yourself, it's a tall order to not think and act worldly in a world that I live in. How can I possibly survive without God coming down on me? James provides a moderating and helpful solution. He reminds us that no matter how difficult the temptation to become worldly, God's grace is greater. In our times of temptation, we must turn to God to give us the strength to not give in and sin. James quotes the second part of Proverbs 3. 34. But the humble he gives favor. To the humble he gives grace. God's grace demands a response. It is the response of humility. God's grace demands a response of humility. We have to realize that God's gift of sustaining grace is given to those who are willing to admit their need of it. And accept it humbly. But God stands opposed to those who proudly defy God's grace and think that they can go it alone. You ever hear that? You think that you can get yourself out of your troubles and do righteousness on your own ability? God opposes that. I mean, it's good that you want to live in righteousness, but you're not doing it in the right strength. God opposes that How appropriate it is then that James begins the section on the solution with submission. Submission to God. Submission, I think, is best experienced when it is accompanied by humility, is it not? The type of submission that James has in mind is not one of pragmatism, because it makes sense to obey God at that instance. Instead, it is of a type that surrenders to God's commandments because he is who he is. and admits personal inability, which cries out for help. The second sentence continues to give us advice. He says, resist the devil. The Lord resisted the devil and his temptations after he fasted for 40 days. And what happened? The devil fled. The word in the Greek flee is fuego. It has a military connotation and it is a fleeting of a wounded enemy who runs away to seek safety. For those who would say, I am resisting the devil, James, but God doesn't help me. James has a response for that. Draw near to God. The aim is unto repentance. The promise by God to his people has always been and will continue till the last day. This is, of course, not a reference to salvation, but a restoration to fellowship for Christians. The promise is simple. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you You do realize that one of the reasons why when we get together and we worship on Sundays He said, we confess. It is something that we need to do as a congregation and as individuals, because we need to confess and repent and draw near to God. James is calling the community of believers, what? Sinners We should remember that although we are justified by God in this life, we are not perfected and are given to sin, and frankly, at times grievously given to sin. Therefore, James clearly sees his readers as both Christians and in need of serious splash in the face. To arouse them to this reality and to depart from ungodly behavior. What about your life? Do you need to be aroused, awoken from your sinful, your sinfulness, and ungodly behavior? What is the implication of this for you and I? Well, we must be humble, for one. We must not be proud. And we must take comfort. And knowing that God will sustain us in his grace in times of difficulty Are you perhaps going through a difficult time right now? Because maybe you're standing up for your faith? God will sustain you. Why? Why would you ever be worldly in the first place? Because you have sinful passions. And you're frustrated, and you know that those passions would be much more acceptable or tolerated by the world. James tells us that what we really need in these instances is good old-fashioned repentance. Confession and repentance truly is good for the soul How then do we cleanse ourselves and and how do we know if we've been doing it correctly? Well he says, Be miserable and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning and your joy to gloom. We must mourn our actions and our thoughts. We must turn the pleasures of our sinful acts Upside down inside out. Sin does indeed give us pleasure. If it didn't, well guess what? We wouldn't do it, right? But we must take a moment to see things from God's perspective. And not from our selfish desires. When we see how our sinful behavior grieves and justifiably arouses his discipline We may begin, perhaps we may begin to despise and experience misery for our sinful passions. By seeing where our sins lead us and the horrible consequences they have upon our lives. We can turn our laughter and our joy of them and for them into gloom and have genuine regret. Over our sins. Can you look back over your life and and see how At a time when you sinned, you were enjoying your sin, but then after you realized The pain that it caused you and those that you care and you love. What a wonderful thing it is to have regret for your sin. Is it not? Let me offer you an exercise to use when you're in this situation. That is, when you are being tainted. Imagine yourself directly after you committed your not not before you imagining yourself as if You committed your sin directly after that sin that you particularly enjoy and immediately recognize That you committed it in front of the Lord Jesus, who had just witnessed your sin. Try this exercise right before you are tempted to commit that sin and that you want to. Imagine being on the other side and Jesus having seen what you just did. It can be very effective to know that the Lord is with you. And he's watching. Verse 10 opens and closes with a pair of verbs that are opposite. Humble, exalt. One lowers, and the other elevates. James closes this thought out by returning to the same thing which he opened. Submit. To humble ourselves means to recognize our own spiritual poverty and inability to please God. It is to acknowledge our desperate need for God's grace and to submit to His Lordship in our lives. When we do so, God will elevate us. He will empower us, and we will experience the victory in Christ. And consequently, the devil will flee for cover. Are you in need of being elevated by God? Elevation means to come into His presence. And to have him to raise your chin, if you will, when you've been walking around with your head down because you are ashamed of your sin. Are you there today? God is here for you. Repent. Confess. Be humble. Turn to His grace. So he may elevate you. Now, I've got some concluding thoughts on James' approach and his teaching for us this morning in conclusion. First, his approach. All of James has been pastoral, gentle. He has now been very plain. And He is not holding anything back. He's done this to bring his readers into the reality of their situation. And hopefully repentance. I think we can agree that he has not minced any words. He has he he he was not concerned about being politically correct. He was not interested in applying sensitivity training He called it like it was. We too should learn that at times. We will need to shock and call our brothers and sisters in Christ out for their sins But we must also learn from James, that we can be effective in our efforts to reclaim our wayward brother. After we have developed a relationship and we do it out of concern. That is the motivation, concern and love for that brother. or sister in Christ. It is for their well being. And now his teaching. James closes his thought with a return to the motif of persons whose faith wavers and vacillates Did you catch it? Double-minded. The Christian who is a sinner is double-minded. He's not living a life that is sold out to God's lordship. And maybe trying to strike a friendship with the world. Are you trying to strike a friendship with the world? James calls all persons who claim to be Christians to be followers by not just proclaiming, but also action. But it reminds us That we can be obedient wholly by God's grace and not by our efforts alone. Brothers and sisters, resolve now, resolve this very minute to take the next exit off the worldly highway and turn back towards God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace. Holy Spirit, we thank you that you are the one that has provided us this word. And although we talk about the the authors of the books and name names, we know that it all comes from you for our benefit, for our growth. And we pray now that You would be pleased to help us see the areas in our lives where we are being worldly. That is trying to find an accommodation with the world, with the word of God. And somehow rationalize it in our heads, in our souls. Afflict us with guilt. Afflict us so that we would turn to you for grace To overcome that temptation, remind us, we pray, that God's grace is greater than any sin or temptation. Remind us of the great love and power of Christ in our lives. Help us. To reflect the Lord Jesus in our lives, not only by faith, but the faith, that is true faith, that shows itself in our outward actions. And we ask this for your glory and in Jesus' name.