Is all we need from you to take a copy of that away. Um that's all the ad work done. Let's turn to God's word and uh as we read God's word we stand. for the reading of God's Word. So let us read in the book of Acts, chapter 28. Book of Acts, chapter 28. We're going to read from verse 17, really, right through to the end. So bear with me, although we're going to focus largely on the closing verses, but let's read from Acts 28. And verse 17. Let us hear the word of God. After three days he called together the local leaders of the Jews, and when they had gathered, he said to them, Brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans. When they had examined me, they wished to set me at liberty because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case. But because the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar. though I had no charge to bring though I had no charge to bring against my nation. For this reason, therefore, I asked to see you and speak with you, since it is because of the hope of Israel that I am wearing this chain. And they said to him, We have received no letters from Judea about you, and none of the brothers coming here has reported or spoken any evil about you. But we desire to hear from you what your views are. For with regard to this sect We know that everywhere it is spoken against. When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers. From morning till evening he expounded to them, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about Jesus, both from Moses and from the prophets. And some were convinced by what he said, but others disbelieved. After disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul had made one statement. The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet. Go to this people and say, You will indeed hear, but never understand, and you will indeed see, but never perceive, for this people's heart has grown dull. And with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them. Therefore, let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. They will listen. He lived there two whole years at his own expense and welcomed all who came to him, proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. Amen. May the Lord bless and instruct us from His Holy Word. Please be seated. Juice for Jesus is a partner, sister, in a sense, organization. We have our differences, but We have the same aims, we might say. They have a catchy tagline. It says, juice for Jesus, established AD 30. Give or take. Um I really wish we had that one, but we're you said a hundred years. We're about a hundred and eighty. We're we're close to the hundred and eighty. But yeah, they say going back even more. It's a port it's an important reminder that Jewish mission is not something that began in the Jesus movement of the seventies or eighties. Or even the missionary movements of the eighteen hundreds where where we began. It began in AD thirty, give or take. And today we need reminding of the importance of Jewish evangelism, theologically, historically, and even particularly so in the demographics of 21st century USA. might I even say in the demographics of the Northeast. The providence of God of bringing twenty-three Jewish souls up the Hudson River in 1654. It's a fascinating story. I haven't time to get into it. I do have one of the lectures in that course that is on that. I commend that one to you But the Lord's providence in bringing his ancient people here is something we need to do business with. Forty-two percent of the world's Jewish population lives in the United States. Six million Jewish people. There is history behind that, providence we would call it. There is the contemporary reality that we live with Jewish people all around us again, particularly in the Northeast. But also there is a scriptural mandate for us bringing the gospel back to those that brought it to us. As I often say, the book is Jewish, the man is Jewish. The missionaries were Jewish in A. D. 30, give or take. And this message of the Messiah has come to us Gentiles. Not for us to say, thank you very much, we'll go off and evangelize the rest of the world, but actually to bring it back to those that brought it to us. Scripture speaks in Romans 1. 16 of the gospel to the Jew first and also to the Greek Now that could be in terms of chronological order, but actually the Greek word means more than that. It has the sense of priority And certainly in our day we need to renew that thought because it seems to me that gospel is to the Jew last, or maybe not at all. Many of our forefathers believed we had a duty to bring the gospel back to our Jewish neighbors. McShane's sermon on the table is on that. Um, if I can say just in passing, all the stuff on the right hand side of the table is the free stuff. The books are on the left hand side, throw a few dollars in for that And if I know that uh you're all gathered around the right side of the table, I know you're Scots-Irish. Um but it's all there, please Please utilize the resources. One of the things that we do in CWI is to resource and assist local churches. So I want to bring that scriptural mandate and that historical mandate and that contemporary. reality back to us. And I want to do it by looking at Acts 28. And at first sight you might think, well, this is all about the Gentiles. This is Paul bringing the gospel to the Gentiles. And indeed, the title of the sermon this morning is JWI, which is Jewish Witness International. Then to CWI, Christian Witness to Israel. In other words, they took an interest And bringing the witness to the international, to the nations of the world, JWI. And we now need to look back with thankfulness and indebtedness to bring the gospel back to the Jewish people. But first I want to uh just take a few moments over context. Now if there's any uh budding preachers here, this is not the normal preacher method I was taught at seminary. keep your uh introduction short and then get into the meat. Well I'm actually going to take a little longer on the introduction And I'm just saying that because uh this is not the normal uh good preaching method, but I feel as I'm just coming in I need to give a little context. to Acts 28. Acts 28, question, when is this? And we need to remind ourselves that this, what he says here, is after decades. of Jewish ministry. Sometimes I think the impression is given by preachers, even reformed preachers. that the Jewish guys who believed in Jesus faced an immediate brick wall and they went to the Gentiles. And they find a wonderful reception and a wonderful hearing from the Gentile world. Game over, world mission begins. And what we've done there is conflate the narrative. And we know indeed in the teaching of history, even in our schools these days, There is a conflating the narrative or even a distorting the narrative. And sometimes that happens with regard to this. Here we are here in Acts 28. There have been decades of Jewish mission before this. This is Jews for Jesus, give or take, AD 30. Thousands of Jewish believers were around at this time. The early church was Jewish. It had spread to the known world, and letters were written to the elect lady. To the dispersed exiles. Good people disagree on that, but I've had many good conversations with seminary professors. Who affirm what I like to hear them affirm, and that those letters were written to Jewish people, to Jewish believers who were dispersed, who were kicked out of the countries that they were in, even Judea. But they were dispersed and spreading the message to the Gentile world as Jewish Missionaries International. So, when Paul gets to Rome, who's he going to call? Well, do you think he's saying, well, uh I'm definitely not going to see Mosh and Schmuli Goldberg? No, he's he's under house arrest. And he's uh he's under house arrest also by the Italians. Let's get that into our heads. It's the Romans He's under house arrest. He's not in chains by the Jews. Yeah, they wanted him dead. They didn't have the authority. But he's under house arrest by the Romans, by the Italians, and he Doesn't call the Gentiles. That's why we started reading at verse 17. He doesn't call the Gentiles. He calls the Jews. He calls the leaders of the Jews. It's still a Jew first. And then in verse 20, I want you to note, actually verse 22, I want you to note that they want to hear him. So they hadn't completely cut him off. Who who is this bo that why we won't hear you, Paul? I wanna hear what you have to say And so by verse 23, he has a crowd, and he's preaching Jesus from morning to evening. Some are convinced, some aren't. What's new? I often tell it, and I'm sure I've told it here, that where you get two Jews together, you get three opinions. That's the same here. Some are convinced, some aren't. There's always that double response. And it's only then, after decades of Jewish mission and, might I say also, Gentile neglect. That Paul then brings in that verse from Isaiah. And he declares something jaw-dropping. Salvation is sent to the Gentiles. They will listen It's taken a while. He didn't say this after the day of Pentecost. Didn't say this after 3,000 Jewish people came to faith, after 5,000 Jewish people came, after 10,000 Jewish people came. No Peter had had that vision, you remember, about all the unclean animals, and that was not only a vision pertaining to food laws, but also pertaining to the Gaim world, the unclean pagan world. But the gospel is still going for decades to the Jew first. The first Presbytery meeting in Acts 15, yes. First Presbytery meeting in Acts 15 talked about the nature of Jewish and Gentile missions. So well, how do we do this? This is complicated. The gospel had gone into Europe into among by by the Jewish people. It had gone into those pagan areas of Athens and Ephesus and it didn't react too well. In fact, there were an occasional city riot. And Paul comes back from his Euro travels to the Jewish church in Jerusalem and reports, hey, great things are happening among the Gentiles. And what does James say? Incidentally, I don't like the column James because he's too English for that name, James. It's actually Yakov. It's actually Jacob In other versions of the Bible, particularly European versions, I remember from learning my French, and then the French Bible is Yaakov. Jacob, that sounds more Jewish. So when Paul comes back from his Euro travels, he talks with James, we'll call him James, and he says, there are thousands. James tells Paul there are thousands, Acts 21. 20, there are thousands here among the Jews who have believed. So all that to say, this is context. All that to say, we come to Acts 28. And it's the international uh it's it's the Judean church taking it to the international ministry to the Gentiles. And then we have this announcement. And I want to look at it under three headings as quickly as I can. I want us to see there is a declaration, there is an aspiration, and there is a proclamation. First of all, declaration, salvation to the Gentiles. An aspiration, they will listen And a proclamation, it's the kingdom of God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Let it be known. That's the declaration. This salvation of God. Now there's so much to unpack in that and we don't really have the time to do it, but it is taking us from Genesis 3. 15, that gospel, it's often called the Proto-Evangelion, the the the the the proto-gospel, but I looked, I I think it's just gospel In Genesis 3. 15, the serpent is told the gospel. There's going to be someone that's going to crush you. You're going to bruise him, but he's going to crush you. We read on in Leviticus, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission for sin. We read in Job, how can a man be righteous before God? We read in Jeremiah 31:31, I will make a new covenant because you broke the old one. And that new covenant, I I'll I'm gonna put it inside you I'm going to put it in your heart and move you to follow my laws. Not external, but internal. Ezekiel says something similar, Ezekiel 36, again, the outpouring, the sprinkling. And so when Jesus is having that debate with Nicodemus, and Nicodemus is like, do I have to be born again? What is that? Back in my mother's, no, no, no, Nicodemus. Haven't you read Ezekiel? Haven't you read Jeremiah? Have you read Isaiah about the one who's going to be crushed? See, our Jewish neighbors don't know any of these things. One of the things that we do in our ministry is to just bring the word to them. They don't read Isaiah 53 in the synagogues. They don't know Jeremiah 31. We go out in the streets with t-shirts with Jeremiah 31, 31 on our back. And I've been there and people have come over to me and said, What what does that mean? We had a Jewish young girl came out of a storefront to ask us that. I said, Have you never heard of a new covenant? No, I've never heard of a new covenant. Well, let me give you it. So we give her a New Testament. A Russian, Ashkenazi, Jewish young girl never heard of these things. This salvation of God. We're going to look at the new cup, or the the new cup, new covenant in my blood, even as we as we come to the table, we'll say a sentence or two about it. But that's what Jesus says. This is Jeremiah. Jeremiah says there's going to be a new covenant. Jesus says this is it. This is it. This salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles. This is all something that we all too often just assume. Of course it's sent to the Gentiles. We deserve it, don't we? We need to remind ourselves what the ancient world was actually like. It was the ancient Middle East had that little light of the of the glory of God shining upon that tiny little nation in the Middle East, the rest of the world, my Scots-Irish ancestors. We're in total darkness. For thousands of years, God passed by the Gentile nations. For thousands of years the one true and living God shed his love and poured out his love and his revelation upon A little tiny insignificant nation who were disobedient, but just because he loved them. The world was passed by. My Scots-Irish ancestors were slaughtering each other, but also slaughtering the English. And then the English were slaughtering them as well. And I learned recently that the New Zealanders were basically eating each other after battle up to a couple of hundred years ago. The pagan perversions of gender fluidity, trans and polyamory, that's nothing new. The ancient world wallowed in all of that, although today we now have a Supreme Court that doesn't know What the difference is, or at least some of the members. That was the Gentile Gaim unclean diabolical world God was occasionally gracious to a Gentile, but the church from Genesis 3 to Acts 28 Was largely Jewish. So when the apostle makes this declaration The salvation of God has been sent to the Gentile. That's jaw-dropping. We need to see and reflect how radical that is. And how glorious it is for us. That's the declaration. From that we move to application just on this one point, and it's very brief. It's our debt. If he has made this declaration, it's gone to the Gentiles, then our debt is great. Vilhelmus Abrachel, that uh I mentioned earlier, it's on the table. He said this. Pray for their salvation. How they prayed for the salvation of the Gentiles. How they rejoiced in the prophecies that one day the Gentiles would be redeemed. Therefore you ought to do likewise for their redemption. Richard Sibbs, Anglican minister in Cambridge, England, the faithful Jews rejoiced to think of the calling of the Gentiles. Why should we not joy to think of the calling of the Jews? We need to see the debt. My colleague Mitch Tepper is a Jewish believer from Brooklyn. He works largely in Pittsburgh, though We uh have him go to the streets and sometimes I join him in various other locations around the US. His father passed away, his Jewish father passed away just January, uh aged one month shy of ninety-nine. He did come to faith in his closing months, though for most of his life he was a Jewish atheist. I would occasionally visit with his father and uh Just over a year ago I was down in South Florida with him. And uh anytime I'd be with him, I would I would buy him his dinner at his favorite Jewish deli. And uh the last time I visited with him when he was alive, he said, Oh, it's my turn to pay. Well you don't tell a 98-year-old, yeah, okay, you can pay for dinner today. No, no, no. I said, Mr. Tepper, no, I'm paying. But let me remind you why I'm paying. Your ancestors made a difference To my life, the life of my four children, the life of my fourteen grandchildren, who are all hearing the stories of a Jewish Messiah called Jesus Mr. Tepper, I'm paying. This is the response. This is the debt. This is the payback. And indeed we read in Scripture, 2 Corinthians 8. 4, the Macedonian church, the European churches, were begging to assist the Jerusalem church. They regard it as a privilege. Why? Because of this sense. So we have this declaration and we have this debt. I must move swiftly on. Secondly, we have an aspiration. They will listen. Now I know the apostle can speak the word of God and does speak that, and we'll come to that in a moment. But in his own human heart, this must have simply been an aspiration. Our application is determination, so you'll see where I'm coming or where I'm heading. But this, they will listen. Now I want you to get this. This is not a statement suggesting that the Gentiles were better than the Jews at receiving the gospel. Sadly, some anti uh racial some racial anti-Jewish Rhetoric has been poured into that. Paul wrote in Romans 11, 18, do not be arrogant against those other branches. Gentiles, don't be arrogant against the Jews. So it's almost as if he knew it was going to happen, that there was going to be Gentile arrogance. The church now today has largely replaced Israel. And my colleague Mitch in Brooklyn when he was growing up and the Jews were living next to the Italians, and he was simply called the Christ Killer. as many Jews were. That arrogance is not helpful and indeed it's not right. And there's an arrogance that comes out of this verse. Oh, the Gentiles, they're going to listen. Oh, yeah, well, they will listen. Of course. We're ready for it. I read even in one of the commentators that the Gentile church or the Gentiles were hungry for the gospel. No, no. They were wallowing in the mire of sin. Paul's they will listen is an aspiration, despite the godlessness all around him. Deuteronomy 32, 21, we read, They have made me jealous with what is no God. In other words, the Jews have provoked God. to anger with their idols, so I will make them jealous with those who are no people. I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation. We can to we're no people. We're foolish. But God's going to use that to provoke the jealousy. And indeed, in Romans 11. 11, we read just that. Romans eleven and verse eleven. Did they stumble in order that they might fall beyond recovery? By no means. Rather, through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles, so as to make Israel jealous. It was the foolish nation of the Gaim, unclean pagan Gentiles. By their listening, Israel was to be made jealous. And indeed we read in this strange, mysterious divine dynamic, Romans 11, 25, a partial hardening has come upon Israel until the time of the Gentiles has been fulfilled. In other words, there's to be a fullness of Gentiles. You see, what is stunning in Paul's aspiration, and we sometimes talk about the Puritan hope. Well, this is the Pauline hope. What is stunning about the Pauline hope is that Gentiles are actually going to listen. There's actually going to be a Gentile church. Even though the Gentiles were not hungry for him, if I can say it reverently, God was hungry for us. There was to be a fullness of the Gentiles. There was to be a plundering the nations out of Satan's grip. You remember Jesus talking about that strong man and the binding of the strong man and the plundering of his goods? That's world evangelism. His sheep will hear his voice. They will listen. So we have a declaration, the salvation of God sent to the Gentiles. We have then the debt. We have an aspiration. That also then by extension brings out God's determination. God's determination. Did God determine to leave the Gentile world in total darkness? No, wondrously no. The mystery, you see, of of of the the story is God's love upon disobedient Israel. Their failure, the rejection of the Messiah by the Jewish leaders, the crucifixion by Gentile hands, the Italians. The love of God for those God-killing Gentiles, and the restoration of a covenant people And Jew and Gentile together under one shepherd. Back to Romans 11. This sounds to be more a sermon of Romans 11 than Acts 28, but you n you know me. Verse 25, I want you to understand this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, and in this way all Israel will be saved. Verse 30, you Gentiles were disobedient to God, but now I've received mercy because of their disobedience. So we weren't hungry. We were disobedient. But we've received mercy as a result of their disobedience. And then verse 31, they now have been disobedient. In order that by the mercy shown to you, they also may now receive mercy. That's the divine order. No arrogance. God has consigned all to disobedience, as Romans 11 continues, that he may have mercy on us all. Oh, the death. You see, this was his determination all along. Praise the Lord for amazing grace. Salvation sent to the Gentiles. They will listen. Declaration, aspiration, finally, proclamation. And really we'll only dip into this. But it does give us some, by way of application, precepts, so proclamation. Note the audience. Note the audience there at verse 30 and 31 of Acts 28. He welcomed all who came to him. Teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ. The audience was all, Jew and Gentile By this time, Jew and Gentile were coming to him. There was no distinction. There was no profiling. When we go to the streets, we don't check the length of the person's nose that we speak to. We preach to all. Mind you, we were last weekend we were up in New Jersey and uh we were working with a Reformed Presbyterian church there. We're doing street evangelism on the Saturday and Monday, and I was preaching on the Sunday. And we were out on the streets of Teaneck, New Jersey. 80% of the people that passed by us were wearing kippah. We preached to all. But in TNAC, nearly all are Jewish. So the audience that Paul was preaching to was all. The content of his message was the kingdom of God, the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, he preached Jesus in his kingly splendor. He is Lord. Roman, Jewish person, he is Lord. That was seditious to the Romans. Caesar is Lord. No, no, no. Jesus is Lord. That was blasphemous to the Jews. Only God. Shemai Yisrael, Adonai Elohenu, Adonai Echad, Hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Can't have that Jesus guy. Now he is He is Lord. The content of Paul's message, the content of our message, is Christ is King. The manner of his message was with boldness. John Sot speaks of this particular Greek word as candid, clear, and confident. In other words, there's no concealment. And again, one of the things that we do even as we're speaking, we we tell it as it is. We say, I'll go in with Mitch in the Judaica store, for example, in Cleveland, Ohio. Uh remember just a few months ago we were there talking to the the guy behind the desk, the rabbi, uh and uh We had another Jewish believer with us, so there were a couple of Jews, and one token Gentile was there, and the Jews were going at it, and uh I said, full disclosure, I'm a Gentile pastor. But I have a love for the ancient people and continue to share certain things with him. So we don't use cunning and cunning schemes as as we read in scripture. We are candid in our presentation. No obscurity, we care not the consequence. So our manner has that holy boldness to it, boldness to it One of the things that I uh really feel we all must do in our evangelism is I I've spoken of a little mnemonic, A-I-M. We need to take aim at people. What do I mean by that? We need to arrest people. What does an arrest mean? It stops them. Stops them doing what they're doing. We need to arrest people. We do that in the streets. If you stay for the 20 minutes, I'll show you some slides. We stop people in the streets and we ask them questions. We arrest and we implore about the Messiah. A-I-M. We arrest and we implore about the Messiah. We have a boldness. to stop people running headlong into hell. And we implore about Jesus. So this was his manner, and then the opportunity was that it was without hindrance. That's interesting, isn't it? In the light of Caesar is Lord. Can't say Jesus is Lord. Well I am. What the apostle was saying here was seditious. But he was he had freedom. It was without hindrance, and indeed it was without hindrance because there he wrote Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Philemon. But without hindrance, the proclamation gives us principles and precepts for ministry, and I've already hinted at it to some degree, so I'll just quickly go through it. We preach to all Whether it's pulpit ministry, whether it's coffee house conversations, or whether it's street evangelism, we preach to all. We have to be inclusive. Inclusive is a dirty word in today's language. I wonder how inclusive the inclusive people are. I passed by a store yesterday and it said we are inclusive and I wondered if I went in and stated some of my beliefs how inclusive they would actually be. They wouldn't include me. But in our ministry, in our evangelism, we are to be inclusive. We are to preach to all. The content of our message, as I said, it's King Jesus. I was with the Reformed Presbyterians, and over my head it said, For Christ's sake Crown and Covenant. Yeah, I believe that. It's for Christ's crown and covenant. And it is the salvation of God we preach. It is the summons of God we preach in all our conversations. And again, we do that with boldness, but also we do it in an imploring way, because to be honest with you, our Jewish neighbors have never heard this. They have never heard the sweet, sweet story of Jesus and his love. They have never heard of his glory. They have never heard of the wonders of the God man's salvation, the Messiah of Israel. The rabbis keep them in darkness. Jesus, remember, came to set the captives free. That's what he opened the scroll of Isaiah. I'm here to set the captives free. Bring King Jesus to our Jewish neighbors, my friends. With candid, clear, and confident words. Matthew Henry says: when we cannot do what we would in the service of God, we must do what we can. I also have preached in other places about the diversity of our ministry and our supporters and how we do this together. Because this is no cookie cutter method. We have folks who go into coffee shops. The uh Judaica store in Cleveland, Ohio has its coffee shop. There's a retired pastor. from the PCA church there he goes and he'll have coffee with the rabbis and start to talk. Another lady is having at lunch with a certain Jewish lady that she met at a Jewish event. She looks at the JCC, the Jewish Community Center. What's on? Is there a music event? Okay, I'll go along to that music event. And she went along, struck up a conversation, and now she's having lunch with a Jewish lady. In fact she's had her second lunch with that Jewish lady and the Jewish lady brought three more Jewish ladies. along to have lunch. Natural, organic friendship evangelism. All I'm simply saying is we have a debt, we have a duty To bring Christian witness to Israel back to those that started Jewish Witness International. And the opportunity is here. And the obligation is here. So let us be about the master's business. Let's pray together. Father, we do thank you for your grace in our lives. We thank you for the Word of God, which teaches us how that message came across millennia and came across shores to reach us. We thank you for that. We are indebted to those who under God brought that message. We thank you indeed for those of the first century who under God brought that message. And so may we pay back. We thank you for this church and its heart for the ancient people around us here, and we pray that this might be a day of iron sharpening iron. And we will be intentional in bringing the gospel to a Jewish friend, a Jewish neighbor, a Jewish doctor, a Jewish dentist, a Jewish lawyer, whatever. Help us to see the fields white unto harvest and bring King Jesus to those enslaved in their sin.