One of the fun things for me in being in this congregation is to see how many of the children I can look at and may know the tunes and can sing them. Without even looking at at the music and the words. It's incredible to me because I didn't grow up in the church and didn't know those tunes. I know other tunes. And um sadly they're stuck in my head. Some of you are old enough to remember Mission Impossible television series that ran on CBS from 19 sixty six to seventy three. Uh oh, I won't do it but or the remake of nineteen ninety eight to nineteen ninety, or maybe you've seen one of the five Mission Impossible movies starring Tom Cruise. I understand And there's a sixth to be announced soon. The plot is generally the same. It's about a secret team of American government agents known as the IMF, the impossible mission. Force. In the original series, each show would begin with Jim Phelps, the team leader, receiving an envelope marked Top Secret, describing the next impossible mission. Brothers and sisters, as we come to the scriptures this evening, you will see And on the one hand, God is calling each of you to accomplish a mission for his glory and good, while on the other hand, that mission is impossible. For you to fulfill in your own strength or by your own abilities. But thankfully, through Christ, by his indwelling spirit, your mission impossible can now become him possible. Because you know the Lord Jesus Christ. He is not only in you, but promised to stay within you, dwelling within you by his Holy Spirit, empowering you, giving you all that you need. Reminds me of the prayer that I believe Augustine at least might be quoted to him It says, Lord, command what you will, but give what you command. And God calls us to do things that are literally impossible for us. But he also gives in himself and by his spirit all that we need. Let us stand together. We're at the end of the book of Thessalonians, Church in Thessalonica. Was a church that Paul sought to encourage much. There wasn't a lot that he had to say, oh, you're doing wrong. There were some things, of course, because they're a church just like us. We spent a lot of the letter encouraging them and doing even better. We find ourselves in the summer here working through these callings that he's asking them to do even better. For God's glory. And those are the verses that we'll be looking at in 1 Thessalonians tonight, but let me pray first. Our Father and God, to understand your word is one thing. It cannot be understood in the heart, except that you work by your Spirit. We can certainly read the words. We certainly have the cognitive ability to understand these things. But to have any desire to do them and look To you for the help to do them is of you, so that you have to promise and fulfill your promise not just to meet with us. But to encourage and strengthen us to do these things. So we indeed ask for that, O God. We are dependent upon you. So as we read this word this evening to your church, to us, we could easily become overwhelmed as we see your will. But we thank you that you give what you you command through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. First Thessalonians chapter five. This evening we'll be looking at verses sixteen to eighteen. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Amen. Please receive it. We look at these verses tonight. I believe they're impossible. God has given us an impossible mission. But through him, they become impossible. To understand that God is calling you who are by faith to this mission impossible, you must look at the last phrase in this verse. 18 at the end it says, For this is the will of God for you. Now, right out of college, I worked with Young Life, which worked with high school kids, and college kids and if you gave them the choice of what they wanted to study, it was usually similar or the same. They said, I want to know, I want to study what is God's will for my life. What college should I go to? What job should I take? Who will I marry? Will I make it? Will I be successful? Will I be able to do what I want to do? And often that is what they wanted to do. My response was usually the same. Whether one individual came to me with a question or teaching a group, first thing that I'd always say is, I don't know. I'm not a prophet or a son of the prophet. I don't know what your future has. But I can give you Scriptural principles, a grid to you which you can run your circumstances through to know how you are to respond to them so that you can know God's will So we have to do that often. Some situation or circumstance will come up to our life. We're not sure what God's will is or what we should do, but we can go to the scriptures and find, either directly or by good and necessary consequence God will direct us in what we should do. But that takes work. It's not always easy. And some people will say, well, you should do this, but they take this verse, that verse, and this verse, and they say that. And then it's kind of like a doctor. You want a second opinion, you go to someone else, and they say, Well, if you take this verse, that verse, you can do that. And sometimes it depends what church you're in or who you are. But sometimes Thankfully, God makes it unmistakably clear what his will is. And that's one of the situations That we come tonight. You may not have come tonight and said, Well, what is God's will for me? But I can tell you in three areas for each of you exactly what his will is: rejoice. When you feel like it, when things are going right. Is that what it said? Rejoice always. Pray when it's convenient, when you're not too tired, when you have time. No, pray without ceasing. And if you really like something that God has given you, then give thanks. Give thanks in all circumstances. The trouble with this commands that God gives us. is that no matter how much you try to pull yourself by your up by your own spiritual bootstraps to do these commands, we regularly fall. The more you try in your own scheme, you don't succeed. The more you'll grow weary in trying. Your faith will go weak, and you'll soon lose hope. Because this is an impossible mission for any of you to accomplish on your own. Therefore, I rejoice that God doesn't just say, For this is the will of God But he says in verse 18, For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you, that you rejoice always. Pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances. For this impossible mission for you to fill in your own, for your own power, now becomes possible because Jesus dwells in you, in Christ Jesus. I know I'm using a pun that you'll hear over and over again, but it goes from impossible to him possible because he has promised to strengthen you and help you for each of These things. Thankfully, Jesus says this to you, his church, in John 15:5. I am the vine. You are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do nothing. You won't be able to do these three things. You'll fail quickly on your own. But in him, in Christ Jesus. You can do it. In 1974, Marg and I had Johnny, Erickson, Tata come to speak at our Young Life banquet in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. And she stayed with us tonight. Because she was a quadriplegic, she is a quadriplegic, she was not just our guest, but we also became her caregivers while she stayed with us. Since Johnny had some movement of both her shoulders and arms, there are times when you see her speaking, especially when the camera's just on her face or on her upper body, you think, well Johnny is really okay. And you forget that she She's a quadruplegic. But when she stayed with us, we found out it was different. We were the ones that had to push her wheelchair. We were the ones that had to cut her food. We were the ones who had to take her out of her wheelchair and put her in her bed Uh we, Marg, had to change her clothes, wash her, I emptied her catheter. In the middle of the night I woke up and turned her in bed. We wiped her nose, combed her hair, and Marg put her makeup on. And Johnny writes about what this like How every day she can't face that next day because she is not doing all of those things. And she has another another caregiver come in, and she has many different ones, and she's not even sure always who signed up for that day. They just come. And she has to be able to do all three of these things and treat these people well. And she writes this. When my caregivers come every morning to get me up, clean me, and dress me, I have nothing to offer them. I'm tired. Struggling. And hurting, not ready to face the day or the people who've come to help me. I'm grumpy and I'm wondering what do I have to offer them? But then I call upon the Lord and ask his help. And he gives me his smile, and I can give him them a warm greeting to those who've come to care for me. Thankfully, Johnny grasps onto and believes the message that the angel Gabriel gave to Mary, the mother of our Lord Jesus. As she's learned to trust in him, as you and I can each day, when Jesus said, and the angel said to Mary, nothing is impossible with God. This mission, these little three things, they were short, weren't they? Some of them have even memorized them already. I'm old, I have to keep looking at them But they're not impossible with God. So let's look at them. Let's consider what God calls The Thessalonian church, but calls every church to, calls you to this evening. And and so God is God is here, and we have to look at our own lives, right? How do we do these Three things that Christians are called to. They make a great difference in how we live and how we interact, especially with our family, and especially with those at work and in school. But also with our God, because without Him, it's an impossible mission. God's mission impossible for you is to rejoice always It is impossible in him. Rejoice always. Your joy as a Christian must not spring from circumstances, but your faith in Jesus Christ. In Nehemiah 8. 10 it says, do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. I have no doubt that some of you are facing really hard circumstances right now. I don't know all of your circumstances, but I know that's the way it is in life. Some of us are up and some of us are down and some of us are just kind in the middle hoping we can get by one more week. But don't ask me to do these three things. Really? Rejoice always. I don't think that means that you have to be a praise of the Lord parrot. Right? I lost my job. Praise the Lord. My dog got run over the car. Praise the Lord. We're not talking about that. Then maybe you eat even seeing people who are like that and I just go, you gotta be kidding me. I talk about reality But they're talking about knowing at God and looking through the lens of the Lord Jesus Christ, that God his Father has given his son for them. They can always look at that and know that they're love no matter what. They can rejoice because they're the beloved child, the beloved son or daughter of the living God Pastor Charles Spurgeon reminds you that the basis of your joy is not the passing things of this world. Beloved, we love God's gifts. And as long as they're piled up and pretty and in good shape, we're pretty happy. But he only gives us the gifts that we would learn to rest and know and love the giver himself. And when the circumstances change and the gifts change or the circumstances change and we go, oh my no God ate people. We all know that too, and we all can have a pity party. And be depressed, and I'm not saying those circumstances are easy, but God says you get given that chance to depend on him. While he takes out the other props to know that his hands will keep you and bear you up. Pastor Charles Spurgeon says this way. He reminds you the basis of your joy is not the passing things of the world. Brethren, it's not this carnal worldly rejoicing. If it were, it would be impossible to keep it up evermore. There is a joy of harvest, but where shall we find it in the winter? There is a joy of wealth, but where is this joy when riches take to themselves wings and fly away? There's a joy of health. But that is not with us evermore, for evil days come and years and weakness and sorrow. There's a joy of having your children around you. Sweet are domestic joys, but these last not forever. And even at the house of the happiest knocks The hand of death. No, if your joys spring from earthly fountains, those fountains may be dried up, and then your joys are gone. If the foundation of a man's joys be anywhere on earth, it will be shaken. For there is a day is coming when the whole earth shall shake, and even it is far from being Stable. So our joy needs to be in the Lord. The joy of the Lord indeed has to be our strength, that He will never leave or forsake us. us. He will never stop loving us, never unadopt us, never bring anything into our lives except it is good. And good isn't what our definition, my definition is that the publishing clearinghouse is going to show up next week at my door with the balloons and knot and say $5,000 a week for life. And not only just for me, but my my my and it goes on forever, because the next you get to pick someone in your family, it goes on for their life too. Right? So often that's the way We look at joy rather than we're beloved by a God who never takes his love away from us. Rejoice always, beloved, not because of the circumstances or Steady or right or growing, but because your God always loves you. The Apostle Paul was able to grasp this truth in Second Corinthians. Chapter 6, because he says this. As servants of God, we commend ourselves in every way by great endurance in afflictions. In hardships, calamities, as sorrowful. Oh man, who wants? But he says, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing. As poor yet making many rich as having nothing, yet possessing everything, because we have the living God. You're all rich. Yes, because you're Americans, you're filthy rich compared to the rest of the world. But that can all change And it does. But we're rich because we're children of the living God. Second thing that God calls us here tonight to, God's mission is impossible for you to pray without ceasing. In him is possible. Boy, when I read that pray without ceasing, I go, oh my. Because I start praying and I just go. I I have a rough time just staying awake often. You know, and try to have my devotions. I've read the scripture and I bow my head and the next thing I'm out Or I've forgotten what I'm praying for. So I gotta stand up or I gotta pray out loud. And so if that so if it means If praying without ceasing means never stopping, we're all in trouble. Let me tell you what this means. Thankfully, without ceasing does not mean continuously occurring, but constantly repeating. You see the difference? Now some are you looking, I have to look every once. Oh what what did you just say? Thankfully ceasing does not mean continually occurring. That no matter what, you're going, yes Jesus, I love you. I gotta do this. Will you take care of this? And so you're like, you know, you can't even think, right? Because you're just doing nothing but pray. But it means constantly recurring. Now you'll see what I mean by that in a minute is that you find yourself dependent on God, that you're not doing in this own strength. That as God's child, you're going to your father to say, help me. Paul is speaking of a continual, persistent, incessant prayer that's part of the Christian living, and it flows out of dependence of God. As long as you feel your insufficiency, you feel your dependence. You're going to pray without ceasing and being persistent in your prayers. I can confess that there are times as a pastor I just and thankfully this happens if someone calls me a 3 a. m. with some kind of a problem. Um I can figure out what it is. I don't give a prayer to God usually because I'm usually trying to open one eye and figure out what they're hearing, you know, I'm hearing and do all that. And I can do some of my pastoral stuff without saying, Oh God help me 'cause it's three A. M. 'cause I don't even know what's going on or who I am or where I am, right? So thankfully some things we can do automatically, you know, you're child calls in the middle of the night. You don't have to say a prayer. You might need to say a prayer, but you can go take care of your child. But so often I could also come up here and not pray. I've been doing this 35 or 40 years. And I can tell you what, it won't make a hill of a difference if I do it that way. I'm I'm dependent, you know No, th th this this doesn't get from me to you from God unless he's involved. And so I've got to say, Oh God, you've you've got to work in a sleepy congregation tonight You know, because we're dependent. But dependent, you want your children to change. You want your children to love the Lord Jesus, and so we can do all this manipulation. You know, like add one more thing. You can't do this. Or I say it meanly, or maybe I'll say it sweetly, or you know, rather than just saying, oh Jesus, I can't change this job. I could tell them what's right, but you're gonna have to grab their heart. And that's where the difference is made, because you've not been sufficient on your own, but you're saying, Oh Jesus, unless you do this, I don't have any help and hope. Jesus has given us a parable of the man who went begging uh the lady went begging bread from her neighbor at night and just kept going back and going back. But at the end of it it says this, what father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead give him a serpent? Daddy, I'm hungry. Can you give me a piece of fish? No. Right? We hope we don't have too many fathers like that. Or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion. He's being foolish here, right? Because he's saying, you know, even we don't do that. If then your evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those of you? And that's exactly what we're asking for, isn't it? Lord, this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. Lord, I can't rejoice always. I can't live a dependent. All in me wants to say, I can do it, live independently of God. You can't live dependently except that He is independent. Us. And he has said, I'll give you the Holy Spirit. I'm not going to withhold you. Whenever you're needy to do any of these things, I'm going to give it to you. The Heavenly Father will not hold back his Spirit. The third thing, God's mission impossible for you two, is to give thanks in all circumstances. And it is in Christ impossible. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, give thanks in all circumstances Not giving thanks, being unthankful, is the trait of an unbeliever. And it's described in Romans chapter 1, that chapter that lays out how an unbeliever who who can see and lives in this world and see all of God's handiwork and reject it, who who is fed by God every day, who who has he l the air that he breathes, the water that he drinks, The place that he lives is a gift of God, and he can't see it. It says in Romans 1:21, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. And people who don't give thanks, that's the life of an unbeliever. We should be the people who are always thanking others and thanking God for giving others who have given us what we have. Pastor John MacArthur writes, When God brings trials and difficulties into our lives, and we complain and grumble, we question his wisdom. And love as well as his sovereignty. No matter what happens, we can still be grateful that we've not been treated as we have deserved. Don't ever pray that Don't ever say, God, give me what I deserve. Because I know something about each one of you. I know you deserve hell. I know that you live a large portion of your life ungrateful. I know that this is hard for us and we can often go around and think, I deserve that. No, most of us never say that, right? We've learned our P's and Q's. Thank you. Thank you very much. But sometimes inside we say, not only deserve it, I deserve the biggest piece. I guess it's just me. No, it isn't, is it? Because our hearts are such that it's hard to be really thankful. We've got our P's and Q's down, but just to understand that everything we have is a gracious gift of our good God. Romans 8, 28 and 29, you've heard this, but it says it clearly. We know that those who love God All things work together for good. Those who are called according to his purpose. What's that good? Remember, I think it's the publisher's clearinghouse, right? Five thousand dollars a week for life for me and Abigail But God goes on in verse 29, says, No, these things happen so that you'll become like Jesus, dependent upon your Father and trusting in his will. Sometimes we can see that in the long run. I grew up with a father who was a drunkard, a father who would beat us and berate us. And I grew up hating them. And I would be glad to tell you about that But thankfully through time and growing and maturing and seeing God's hand, I can see how God gave me that father, and I've been able to not only be ready to forgive him if I ever Could he's dead, but to love him for being a father and not turning me away and still taking care of us as long as he was here. But I can see how God used all of those things to make me the person. I am today, and to have me trust and know my Heavenly Father, who never turns his eyes from me. And loves me in spite of me. The God who really knows me still loves me. Well, beloved, here we have been given this evening, and this last one I think is the hard the a r hard one to give thanks always. Um of you've heard of the Thirty Years' War Um, I'm not that great of a student of history, so I had to go kind of look what it was. But the Thirty Years' War was a series of wars in Central Europe between sixteen eighteen and sixteen fourteen. It's one of the longest and most destructive conflicts in history, resulting in millions of deaths. In 1636, amidst the darkness of war, a German pastor. Martin Rinkert's parish was ravaged by death and economic disaster. Now you have to understand that a parish in Germany was, if you were in a Lutheran parish, which he was was I think a Lutheran pastor, then he was given not just those in the church, but everybody's in the church. You're born into the church in Germany in that time. So everybody in the area is his congregation, whether they actually came to services or not. So he was responsible for the care of all of them. He is said to have buried 5,000 people in the bounds of his parish in one year, which was an average of 13 a day In the heart of the conflict, with the cries of fear outside his window and the anxiety of his own heart, he wrote disgrace for his children has become a well-known hymn. Now thank we all our God with hearts and hands and voices Who wondrous things has done, in whom the world rejoices, who from our mother's arms has led us on our way with countless gifts of love. And still is ours today. Oh my. What a good encouragement for my own heart That is ready to complain in an instant. Because my computer's just Too slow. How can it take five seconds for Google to come up? My day is ruined Well, as you've looked at these three callings that God has given us that we know are his will. To rejoice always, pray without ceasing, and give thanks in all circumstances. If you're like me, you say, Oh my. I've seen some growth, but I know just lots of failure. And the wondrous thing is. Is that there is one who has accomplished this impossible mission for us, even the Lord Jesus Christ. And in our failings we go to him and confess our need. We don't even have to hide it. You don't even have to pretend like we go out tonight. Oh yeah, I do all three things. I'm really growing in all of these. It's so great. No, you can say, oh my, I Lord, what am I gonna do? And he gives us 1 John 1:8 and 9. It says, if we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth isn't in us. But if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive our sins. And cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And that is because on the cross, as Jesus was dying and they offered him one more drink of sour wine, he took it and then he said, It is finished. It was finished because he has paid in full for all the times we fail. Draw near to him tonight Freely confess, oh Lord, these three things, I need to grow in them, and I need to depend on you. Would you draw me close to see how much I'm loved as your child? That I would desire to do these things for your glory. Thank you. That I don't have to do these things alone. That I can, in dependence, call upon you and you will provide What is needed. How good of a God. And thankfully we have pictures in scripture where and testimonies from Christian biographies. I would encourage you to read. Read them. People who struggled, but they found God faithful and ran to him. The Apostle Paul and Silas were in Philippi, and because they had been faithful in preaching The Word of God. They were doing everything right. They were beaten, and they were thrown into the deepest, dark dungeon of the Philippian jail. And it says at that time, it says the crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore their garments off of them. and gave orders to beat them with rods, and when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely. And having received this order, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in stocks. And they wailed and cried all night. It's not true, is it About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns. Let us pray and we'll sing too. Our Father and God, we thank you that as you give us these commands, it's not because they're bad, but it's because they're good for us. And you have not just said do them, but that you would you live inside of us and will encourage us and we can grow, and even when we fail, we come to you and you strengthen us and help us. Help us and heal us. Call us to grow in being your children tonight. That indeed we might learn what it is to rejoice in being your children. Always. And that we wouldn't live as independent but dependent and pray, calling upon you to fulfill our needs. And even in the dark of circumstances, we We can thank you because you're at work. And we understand that you're bringing them through Jesus Christ to conform us to his image. For it is indeed in his name that we pray. Amen.