Yes, I am living in Arkansas, but as I've shared before, my accent is not from Arkansas, it's a little further afield. Uh from Northern Ireland originally. Some of you have known me for many years, some of you perhaps are seeing me Me for the first time, so I better give just a little introduction. Um, I'm uh a native of Northern Ireland, but have been traveling back and forth over here representing the work of Christianity Witness to Israel for approximately about ten years. I started in 2004 with uh with CWI. It's a London-based London headquarters uh mission to the Jewish people. Israel in our name concerns Israel, the people. We have workers in the land of Israel. We have workers in Europe. We work In Australia, Hong Kong, and the U. S. Last time I was with you, there was one staff member of CWI in the US, that was myself Since then we have a second worker now in Miami or just north of Miami in Hollywood, South Florida. And some of you may know that that is the second largest Jewish population. In the United States. Because we are a ministry to the people, Israel, we need to be here, 42% of the world's Jewish population. Live in America. A great number in the Northeast, a great number certainly obviously in New York City and in DC and and surrounding regions. But a lot of the snowbirds then make their way down to South Florida, so the second largest um area of Jewish population. is uh is the South Florida region. 500,000 Jewish people live there. And uh we have placed a staff worker, a former PCA pastor actually, uh with his credentials in the South Florida Presbytery. And uh he is working out of St. Andrews Presbyterian Church in Hollywood. And uh actually I'm going down to do a a weekend of meetings with him. next month. So in addition to driving to the northeast, please pray for me, I am driving to the southeast as well. I'm driving back to Arkansas after a tour of about 12 15 days here uh and uh then ten days at home and then another fifteen, sixteen days down in the southeast I do have uh a wife and family and uh I I don't totally abandon them. Uh in fact you met them last time I was here. Um uh I stayed with the balls and it was it was wonderful to have that time with them. Um And uh some of you did meet my youngest uh daughter and and my wife uh unable to be with me this time. The youngest has gone to college. We are empty nesters. Please pray for us in that new stage of life. Uh, to be empty nesters. And uh and my daughter is has just headed to her college years. And uh so I'm grateful for your interest in what we do and your prayers and your financial support as well. I I want to thank you personally for that. And I'm so grateful just again to get the opportunity to be back with you in person. I know it's under difficult circumstances, particularly for Bonnie and for Skip. uh but I consider it a privilege to be able to step in. Uh it worked with my schedule and uh on in in an unfortunate sense it worked with their schedule as well. But we continue to pray for them. Can I just very quickly show a few items that are on the table? in the the foyer. Uh there are a couple of books. Please just put a donation in uh in lieu of the the price of the books. Uh Stan Telchin's Betrayed is probably one of the uh um the best known of testimonies of a Jewish guy that has come to faith. What happened was his daughter came to faith at college. He decided he was going to win her back to Judaism, but in so searching the scriptures Uh he found the one of whom the scriptures speak and his whole family came to faith. It's a wonderful uh testimony of God's grace. Um twenty five testimonies from the UK. My colleague uh My CWI worker in in the UK, Richard Gibson, has compiled together twenty-five testimonies, very uh real-world situation, Holocaust survivor. Um Someone that were w that grew up in a brothel, God's amazing grace, to sinners and sinners who are ethnically children of Abraham in these stories. So please do pray for Jewish mission. There is much confusion about the whole subject, but mission concerns the gospel. It's not about a ton of other stuff that our attention seems to be given to, whether it's blood moons or rapture or it just seems to be there's a whole mess of of of passionate interest. But it's misfocused. And my desire in our ministry is to get the church to think about Jewish mission. Just as our forefathers did, Robert Murray McShane prayed the opening prayer at our first ever meeting in London in 1842. Please, that's a freebie, take that. C. H. Spurgeon preached for our mission. On four occasions he did the annual sermon for our mission in his day. These worthies believed strongly in God's unfinished covenantal promises and unfulfilled covenantal promises to the end of the ethnic sons of Abraham. Horatius Bonner on the Jew. Please take that. We have a new CEO since last I was with you. His name is Joseph Steinberg. And as his name suggests, he's Jewish. Um he he grew up in the States. He initially started with um with much Rosen and Jews for Jesus. He played saxophone with the liberated Wailing Wall way back in the 70s and 80s. He moved over to England. um worked for us in England in London in the eighties, then went into the Anglican ministry. Um but I I met him in London in July and I was uh speaking to him. He said, Stephen, you know I believed my whole life has been building up to this point. And of course, there's a sense in which we all may say that as the Lord prepares us. And he has taken the helm of our uh of our whole international organization. So uh you can read a little bit about Joseph Steinberg uh in the articles in our Herald. There are several issues of our Herald magazine Please take that. I know some of you get it. If you would like to get it in print or email, there's a little sign-up sheet. Please avail yourself of that. So our materials are there. Please make my uh make my trunk a little lighter on the way home. home. Please take the materials that are there. It is a privilege to be with you and indeed a privilege to have the pulpit open to open So let's give the Lord's word the respect that it deserves as we stand for the reading. of the Word of God from 2 Corinthians chapter 3, 2 Corinthians chapter 3, and from verse 7 2 Corinthians 3 and verse 7. Now if the ministry of death carved in letters on stone came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end. Will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory. Indeed, in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all, because of the glory that surpasses it For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, how much more will what is permanent have glory? Since we have such a hope, we are very bold, not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face, so that the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome of what was being brought to an end, for their minds were hardened. For to this day, when they read the old covenant, that same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away. Yes, to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom, and we all with unveiled face beholding the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart, but we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word. But by the open statement of truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience. In the sight of God. Amen. May God bless us the reading of His Word. Please be seated. I was recently taking a meeting to which I had invited a Jewish friend. I was speaking on John 17. You don't need to turn to it. I was speaking on the high priestly prayer. That prayer of our Lord at the end of his ministry in the upper room prior to his death, it is a wonderful Prayer, it truly is the Lord's Prayer. What we understand as the Lord's Prayer is perhaps really uh a misnomer because he could not pray concerning his own transgressions. But John 17, the high priestly prayer, truly is the Lord's Prayer. And I was taking the verses 2 through 5. of John seventeen and uh I I read them and then I preached and and uh I I asked her um as preachers sometimes do. Well how how how did uh how did you feel that went? Um and specifically from a a a Jewish perspective I was I was I I suppose I was seeking some encouragement And uh she said, well I I I really didn't hear much of the early part of your sermon because I was a bit distracted. And well I did get into it at about the third point. And of course any preacher that hears that is uh is somewhat disappointed that the congregation was somewhat distracted uh and only got there at the third point. But then she explained to me why. She said, you know, when you read that reading, those verses, John 17, 2 through 5, and particularly when you read verse 5, I couldn't stop thinking about it. And so I was I I was just totally distracted and through most of the sermon. Well, what was it that she got distracted about? Well, it's John 17, verse 5. Jesus prays to his father in that upper room. Here is a Jewish rabbi among a company of Jewish disciples in the upper room. He's told them he's about to die. And he prays to God, now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. And she, a thinking person, an intelligent thinking person, she got stuck on that. And she said, I I I I was that was staggering. Because all I could think of when when Jesus is there praying to Hashem, praying to the Lord, praying to God, All I could think of is that he's praying about the Shekinah, about the glory, about the temple, about the tabernacle. And all she could think of here is this Jewish rabbi with a group of Jewish friends, and he is praying, glorify me in your presence. With the glory I had with you before the world began. You know, sometimes when we read verses like that, we skip over them so quickly and we're so familiar with the scriptures. That they don't come to us as something that just blows us away. The word glory, for example, we we use it so casually in our Christian vocabulary. I want us this morning to think of three glories. And I want us to do it with some sense of the weightiness. That's what the glory has, a sense of weightiness. The word has a sense of weightiness. The weightiness of the divine presence, the the weightiness, the awesome reality of the godness of God, if we can put it in those terms, the glory of God. So let's look at 2 Corinthians 3 and 4, these verses we've just read, and I have three points. It's a typical Presbyterian sermon with three points. Only I've actually got one more point, and so I've got a conclusion. If a preacher has four points, he probably really calls it three plus a conclusion So that's what I'm going to do this morning. I have three points and a conclusion. I want us to look at old glory, veiled glory, and then surpassing glory First of all, old glory. Let me dip into a couple of the verses that we read. Verse 7. The ministry of death. Came with glory. Verses 9 and 11. The ministry of condemnation. What was being brought to an end? Came with glory. Now, a couple of things I want to mention just at the outset. This ministry, this ministry of death, this ministry of condemnation. We're going to shortly be looking at the surpassing glory of the new covenant. But we need to pause over the glorious nature of the old. When we get a new vehicle, we uh we often look at all the the bells and whistles that are on this new vehicle that we hadn't had in our former vehicle. Or when we get a new computer. And uh nowadays if your computer is more than three or four years old it's it's antique. So you have to upgrade. And when you get your new computer and and you You have to get to terms with some of the new software. But i it it's fascinating. Wonderful things. Wow, it does and does it so quickly. My old computers just get so so slow. and and you're taken up with the with the new. Or um maybe you get a new phone. I've been here A little over two years, so the phone company, when you reach two years, the phone company wants to sell you a new phone. So you've got a new contract. And so we get the new iPhone five. Of course the six is out now, so this is this is antique. Well, not quite. My four was fine. Um, but we get the five. My my daughter will probably be able to tell us what the difference is. I don't. I don't know. What's the difference between the 5 and the 4? My iPhone 4 was amazing because prior to the 4, I had a Walmart $30 phone. And so when I upgraded from that to my iPhone 4, it it was amazing. Sometimes we don't see how amazing the old is. I have a a box of old stuff at home. I I I have my kind of antique box. My my wife is She is ruthless. You met her, some of you. She is ruthless. If if something doesn't move in our house in twelve months, it's out. She she Gets rid of it. I keep moving around a lot. It's so she's ruthless. My my mother though, and I've inherited this, my mother was a hoarder. And so I've inherited a little bit of the horde. It's a wonderful blend when husband and wife have that compliment, and it's it's been sanctifying to each of us. But I have a box of You know, a a brick of an old cell phone. I have I have a five and a quarter inch floppy disc. You remember those? Yes I have a reel to real tape of me singing aged ten in my church in Bangor, Northern Ireland It's amazing. Well, the singing might be okay, but the the real but again, think of it. 1970. There I'll give it my age away. 1970, this reel-to-reel tape of music. You play this tape, and it was this large reel-to-reel, and you can hear the music. That technology, we just you know we just say things into Siri and the technology that is old is is just deemed antique, but it was amazing And what I want us to really consider, even as we glory in the new covenant, let us not denigrate the old. Because in so doing, we may, we may, to some degree, denigrate our God. And his glorious presentation of a ministry, even that brought death. I want to say two things about old covenant, old glory. One, there was a moral magnificence to it, but there was a terminal transience to it. Two things. Let's pause on those. There was a moral magnificence because the ministry of God's moral nature was carved on stone. And it was given to the very ancestors of today's Jews. So let's think of the wonder of that. I have a good friend in the UK in Cardiff, Peter Naylor, and in his commentary he writes this. Prior to Moses there had been nothing like this. And at that time this ministry was as indispensable as it was unique. And he further points out the magnificence of it. He said, because It originated with the God of Israel and exhibited his righteousness. The old glory had a moral magnificence because it exhibited God. In all his moral glory. Hebrews 1, 1, in the past God spoke to our forefathers. We can't say that. I can't. I'm Scots-Irish. I'm Ulster Scots. I can't say that God spoke to my forefathers, but but these yes, Joseph Steinberg, Jewish. Jewish people today can say God literally spoke literally with our forefathers. That's amazing. The theophany of Sinai, the shaking of the mountain, the fire, the cloud, the trumpet, the giving of the law came with a weight. That we must never, never undervalue or forget. It showed the moral magnificence of God Himself. Paul did not despise old glory. Christ did not despise old glory, nor must we. But what we need to see. Is there was a moral magnificence to it, but a terminal transience to it. In other words, it was coming to an end. It is called the ministry of death. It's called the ministry of condemnation. Moses' face shone. The sheen would fade. It would not continue, it would be temporary, it would be transitory. Its function was to show us God's moral nature and convict us of sin and drive us to the solution, which in their day was the blood of bulls and goats, pointing to Pointing to a once-for-all sacrifice. And Romans 2 and 3 would speak of that, wouldn't it? We know those verses are unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God. Romans 3 9, none is righteous, no one does good. Romans 3 19 and 20, that every mind may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God, for by the works of the law No human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. I want to, throughout the sermon this morning, just reference a couple of notes that I've received from Jewish friends, a couple of comments, messages. Emails. I received this from someone who had attended synagogue at the festival time. I looked around the room. I watched the sway of those praying. I took note of how intently my people were trying to pray. Desperately seeking forgiveness, trying to reach heaven. Some had begun to perform our acts of charity to seek that atonement and peace in their souls Some were content with praying these beautiful but mostly empty prayers. Is this what it was about? Why were we even there to perform a ritual? Was this what Hashem wanted of us? a group of look ha lookwarm, half-hearted people thinking of when it's time to eat. That might even sound like some churches. You see, e even even this person realizes it's empty It's a ministry of death. It's terminal. It's transient. And if I can say this just in passing. There are modern Judaizers who want us to think warm, fuzzy thoughts about Judaism. Even some Jewish people are sharing with me that it's empty. They it it doesn't meet the Bonnie's mom is in her final days, we're told This has nothing to offer except a ministry of death. It is terminal. It's transient. We need the ministry that is far more glorious than I know, I'm told. Did Bonnie and Skip and her mom all know? For Jewish people it's there's an emptiness. So don't let's just have lovely, warm, fuzzy thoughts about Judaism It doesn't answer man's deepest need when we are on our deathbed. But don't denigrate it. God is glorious. There is a moral magnificence to the old glory. But it is terminally damning without a solution. So let's move from old glory to veiled glory. Veiled glory to the ancient people, to the Jewish people. So we read in verse 7. The Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory. Verse 13, Moses put a veil over his face, so the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome or the telos. Of what was being brought to an end. Our verses 14 through 16. To this day, when they read the old covenant, the same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ. Is it taken away? Whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their hearts, but when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. There are some Israel ministries that need to read that verse. There are some who are friends of Israel and have a knight for Israel that need to read that verse. Because only through Christ is it taken away. There is no dual covenant. There is no two ways, one for Jews, one for Gentiles. And some televangelists will tell you that. This is clear. They are veiled. They cannot see. They are hardened. They will not. But only through Christ. Therefore, what is mission? It is bringing the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Jewish people. That's a no-brainer. Romans 10 1. My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they'll all wonderfully be Torah observant. No. That they may be saved. No brainer. But let's let's move back to this veil. It's an interesting study. We haven't really time to get into great detail. But why was Moses veiled? Was it Was it just sort of some divine sunscreen? No, it was a symbol of an even greater spiritual veil. It was over their eyes. And it might even be a suggestion that this was a sovereignly ordered veiling, just as there is a sovereignly ordered hardening that we read in Romans 11. A sovereignly ordered non-seeing. Now we are responsible for our arrogance and our stubbornness. I'm not letting them off the hook or any of us. But also in the providence of God there was a non-seeing, so that we might be gifted with the grace of Jesus Christ. Romans 11 speaks of this beloved chosen people being hardened for your sake. For your sake, so that in laurel we might hear the gospel, that you might hear it today. I don't know your hearts. But you have a privilege here today that Jewish people don't have As your pastor will preach the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ to you, what will you do with Jesus? They are veiled. Commentator again, he says, in denying Israel the spectacle of a cancelled glory, Moses prevented them From appreciating that the Sinai covenant would in due course come to an end, there was, so to speak, a cover-up of both the prophet's face and the governing principle. A divine cover-up. There are some things that we cover up from our kids, aren't there? There are things that are for adult days and There are things for childish days and and we want our children to be children and the sad reality in our world today is that children are being robbed of their childhood. But this old glory was to be a veiled glory. For the days of infancy prior to the surpassing glory that was to come. But Jewish people have been hardened and have been blinded. Yes, by their own responsible stubbornness, but also by the sovereign Plan and purpose and drama of God that we might hear. I want to say two things under this heading of veiled glory They are insensible to their privileges, and they are inadequate in their practices. Insensible in their privileges, to their privileges, and then inadequate in their practices. I was invited to synagogue, one of the festival services. I was saddened. My emotions moved from sadness because there was emptiness. There was nothing. Um then there was anger because there was a reverence for the scrolls. The Torah scrolls were uh the ark opened regularly through the service and There were various things done to uh prayers before the Torah scrolls. There was, there is a um a reverence for the Torah scrolls But there was nothing of this in the service. And nothing was being offered to these needy people by the teacher. Not many should presume to be teachers, my friends. But the rabbi, isn't that what Jesus, when Jesus looked upon the Christ, he had compassion. They were like sheep without a shepherd. But when he spoke to the leaders, he had righteous indignation. And in a similar way, we should have pity and compassion on every Jewish person. And yet also we should have that indignation. Against those who give them nothing, even from their own scriptures. Romans three verse one says, What advantage has the Jew? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with with the oracles of God. I I I was close to speaking with the rabbi. Maybe I should have. With that righteous indignation. You guys were entrusted, have been entrusted with the very articles of God Himself. What are you doing with them? We who are entrusted with the Word of God, we must preach the unsearchable riches. But even this that has a moral magnificence to it, even the terminal transients. But that's not even being, well it's being taught as a do-do-do religion, but it's empty Again, let me quote from a Jewish friend. I'm ashamed of the lack of passion in myself and my people. We were given the Torah We spend two days praying 600 pages of prayers, bowing, standing, sitting, rah-rah, rah. Uh kind of hear the inadequacy in that. And it should break our hearts that Jewish people will be going to synagogue services on their Sabbath and hearing. Nothing that will be of any benefit when it comes to crossing that river. Poor privileged people who were broken off for your sake. Enemies of the gospel. twenty eight enemies of God for your sake. But God's not done with them. We're not done there. Because in God's Divine purposes, they have been veiled for a season. They have been hardened. But the one who hardens may also soften, and the one who veils may also take the veil away. Salvation is of the Lord. And therefore we pray for that, we work for that, we we labor for that. When they turn to the Lord, when they are grafted back into their own olive tree, the veil is removed. Second Corinthians three sixteen, when one turns to the Lord. Again, let me read from a Jewish friend Rabbi read from the Torah about the Aqeda. You know the story of Isaac being placed on the altar and Hashem providing an offering to atone. Isn't that what he did for me? He provided a lamb, the lamb of God, for my people, for the world The shofar sunded. I cried, Wake up from your slumber, O Jews, wake up! My heart cried out. He heard me and cleansed my heart and hands. I also cried because some of the people around me may never experience this total cleansing. I find forgiveness in something other than myself. I find peace in Yeshua. The veil is removed. When one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed Old glory, veiled glory, surpassing glory. Surpassing glory. Verse eight to Corinthians The ministry of righteousness, verse 9, must far exceed it in glory. Verse 10, the glory that surpasses verse. 18. We unveiled behold the glory, and we are being transformed from one degree of glory into another. Again, two little subheadings. Christ is surpassingly superior. And the gospel, secondly, is transformingly glorious. Christ is surpassingly superior. Christian, if the veil has been removed from you, Jew or Gentile. We need a greater recognition of the surpassing glory of Jesus Christ. We need a greater recognition that He is the preeminent one. We state it, we say it, we're Christians, we serve him, but in our lives When I was moving over here, I I spoke with a a A church planter in Galway, and uh he's American. He moved over to Ireland to be a church planter in Galway, and I I I asked him um what I was going to face as I was going the other way. And and uh in fact before he answered his wife said, you know the greatest problem you're going to face is distractions. Distractions. It can be very legitimate and churchy things. We can have a ton of programs, but we can be distracted from the one thing. Or it can be in our society the great God, or the wealth of of of produce and uh ability to eat out and put on the calories and I've certainly done that in the past two years. But we must have Christ As the surpassingly glorious one in our lives. There is so much that takes up our time and energy. There are so many distractions One of the old Puritans would write of the expulsive power of a superior affection. It's an old language, but it's a very good theme, and we would do well to make it the theme of our lives. When we've got so much stuff and sin and distractions, what what will get rid of this? See Christ In all his wonder, in all his glory, there is a surpassing glory to Jesus. And we need to see that, and it will expel the stuff. The expulsive power of a superior affection. We with unveiled face may behold the glory of God. Christ is surpassingly superior. And the gospel of Christ then is Is transformingly glorious, changed from glory and to glory, till in heaven we take our place, till we cast our crowns before thee. Lost, lost in wonder. Love and praise. In Jewish mission, one of the things that we face and we deal with the the controversies of the messianic movement. And I want to just say that in at the first instance It would be wonderfully ideal that we all come together, every nation under heaven, and that is the right thing, but we do have Korean churches. And we do have Chinese churches, and therefore, in a sense, we should have no problem with Hebrew churches, Hebrew fellowships, messianic fellowships Well, here's my concern. And sometimes it comes from Jew-loving Gentiles who just muddy the waters. And when there is a fascination with all things Jewish. And when there is this warm fuzzy feelings about Judaism and all the stuff that is empty. Then there is an affection being placed on such things instead of on Jesus. If any believer, Jew or Gentile, has a greater interest in Jewishness than in the Jew called Jesus, something is wrong. And then if I say also that if any believer has more fascination with blood munds and raptures, Instead of a bloodied Messiah and a redeemer, there's something wrong. And you see, we're going to have a movie coming out soon, and there'll be the buzz again about rapture and such things And sadly, sadly, our illiterate church finds its theology from movyland rather than The book. We need to preach Christ. We need to have a superior understanding of Christ. who Christ is, we need to have this affection, this superior affection that will expel all the nonsensical, rabbit-trail, stargazing Gnosticism that is in the church today. We read it here, we with unveiled face beholding the glory of God. Do I need anything else? Does Bonnie's mom need anything else? Please put Christ in his preeminent place, where he must be. Old glory, veiled glory, surpassing glory. My fourth or concluding point Verses 1 and 2 of chapter 4. Commending to the conscience. And the single point that I want to make is that this ministry Is commendable by its transparency. Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or tamper with God's word. But by the open statement of truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God. I find it interesting, and indeed I struggled with it as I studied that Paul says we commend ourselves. And we commend Christ Christ is the surpassing one. Christ is the superior one. We commend ourselves, he says. Why? Well, only because we are the visible embodiment of the very gospel that we're speaking of. We command ourselves, in a sense Paul is saying, look at me, test me, see, see if this is for real. See the gospel. Underhand, deceptive, manipulative. Oh, my friends, you know it better than I do. In the church, we become diplomats, strategists Instead of heralds, we become marketeers selling Jesus. And regarding Israel ministries, there are far too many marketeers. You mention Israel and you'll get the dollar. Well, maybe it's not always that case. We need we need more. But mention Israel and people get those warm fuzzy feelings. I read a recent magazine article that $230 million a year goes to Israel-based ministries. And if I can make an important announcement, most of that is not Going to real mission at all. There are crafty deceivers, there are charlatans There are CEOs of such Israel organizations that are on a salary of five hundred thousand a year. We know this. I want you to be discerning. Check out what we do. Check out CWI. Check out me. And I'm here, as I've shared in the past, I'm here for you to see the living embodiment of the ministry. And you need to see your missionaries. You need to see those that you're praying for and supporting financially. We need to be accountable to you. There needs to be a transparency to the truth that we present. Because we're good at it. We can hit it out of the park with one sermon. You need to discover: is this guy the real deal? Is this ministry worthy of my interest? And so also when we're witnessing to Jewish people, Jewish people are very clever. They can see right through us. And they can see if we're the real deal. Am I witnessing in a manner to Jewish people that they know that I'm not just interested in them as a project, but as a person? Our work is to make an irresistible impression of Christ, to provoke to jealousy is what the scriptures say. Jews for Jesus has a wonderful motto. I wish we had made it up first, but they got it first. To make Jesus an unavoidable reality for every Jew. If I can stretch that a little and I say would say that CWI, I want us to make Jewish mission, gospel mission to the Jewish people. intentional, prayerful, and practical in every church in the United States. If you're in a Jewish area, I want you to engage in Jewish mission in a real sense. If you're not in a Jewish area, I want you to be praying for those that are. And I want every church, as our Scottish forefathers, as our Westminster divines, believed in the importance. Of bringing the gospel back to those that brought it to us. It's payback time. Closing comment from my Jewish friend. Thank you, Stephen, having you and Wendy by our side as we walk this Yeshua thing out. I must say you've been sent for such a time as this. Thank you for not trying to change us or push us to do something we simply were not ready to do. You've been an example of what it means to lead, not push. We commend ourselves, but we don't preach ourselves. We preach Christ because glory, glory, glory goes to the one with surpassing glory. Even Jesus. Let's bow together in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for Jesus, the Christ of God Our only hope, our only atonement. We have no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died. That he died for me. Help us, Lord, to live this and to share it with all that we meet, Jew and Gentile. And be provocative in our lives, unto the leading to the envy of others, and saying, What must I do to Be saved. So hear us and help us in all our ministries of the kingdom work, and all glory will go to Jesus, before whom we cast our crime. Peace. For it's in his precious name we pray. Amen.