The times that I was with you throughout the fall months, we were in the opening verses in Galatians 1. And we return there one more time this morning. We'll be focusing on verse 10, but I will read verses 1 through 10. Stand with me then for the reading of God's Word. Paul, an apostle, not sent from men, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. And all the brethren who are with me to the churches of Galatia, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forevermore. Amen. I am amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel, which is really not another. Only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even though we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so I say again now: if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you received, let him be accursed. For am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. Galatians one through ten, let me pray for us. Our Father, we thank you. Again, for your word. We thank you for the Apostle Paul, through whom you write this letter to us. And we would hear it this morning in that spirit as your word to us. And so grant us humility before it, faith to receive it, obedience in accordance with it And we pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, this morning, the fourth of our journeys into Galatians chapter one. And first, by way of review, since it has been a while. We have seen a number of things so far in our study of this particular chapter. Among other things, remember we've seen the overall character of the letter as a whole. It is a stern, it is an angry letter that Paul writes. His introduction is something of an opening, salvo. Because Galatians is a letter in which Paul blasts away against this false gospel that the Galatians have at least begun to entertain, a gospel that claims that Jesus isn't enough. Rather, faith in Jesus has got to be supplemented with works of the Mosaic law in order to salvation. A false gospel, by the way, by which Moses himself would have been appalled. had he been on the scene. In any case, uh remember in our very first study, way back in September, we saw Paul right out of the starting gates. describing his apostleship as that which was of divine origin and authority. Not based on mere human authority. He wasn't representing any man or men. In our second study, we then saw Paul shed some precious light on what was the true gospel that he as an apostle preached. It is a gospel of atonement, a gospel of deliverance, a gospel of the Father's love, and a gospel of the Father's glory. We learn those things from verses four and five. And then at last time in our third study in November, I think it was, we saw Paul expressing to the Galatians his amazement, his astonishment. Not his gratitude, not his joy, not the sorts of things that he expresses in his other letters. Here it is astonishment, and it is that because The Galatians were so quickly deserting God and his truth for falsehood instead. No wonder that he was astonished. And no wonder, remember that he also warned them in the way that he did. He urged them that the men who were preaching this false gospel to them they were under the wrath of God. Remember, he says it twice. Let him be Occurs. And he urged the Galatians themselves that they had to see those men in that light. They had to relate to them in a manner that was consistent with that dreadful reality, to put it positively. He urged them to hold on to the gospel with unyielding devotion. And so that's what we considered last time when we were together, the calling that belongs not only to the Galatians. But it belongs to us as well to be unyieldingly devoted to the true gospel of God's grace. So, all of that in the interest of review. Those are the main things that we've seen so far in verses 1 down through 9. This morning, a briefer passage, just one verse, verse 10. But certainly a passage for all its brevity that still says a great deal, not only about Paul and the kind of man that he was, and the kinds of motivations that drove him in his ministry. But it also says a great deal by implication, by application, about the kind of men and women that we ought to be, and about the kinds of motivations that ought to drive us as well. It is A verse that confronts us with the question, and it is a hard question, Christian in everyday living, who is your Lord? Before whom do you bow? Whose approval do you most desire? Whose approval is it that you most desire in the things that you're about? So let's take a look at it. Verse 10. He's just had to say all of these hard words in 6 through 9. He goes on now. Am I seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. So there is our verse. And the main idea of it, I think, is clear enough. The idea is that Paul seeks to be a God pleaser and not a man pleaser in his ministry. His real goal is to go about his apostolic ministry in such a way that God approves of him, whether man approves or not. And what that means in his case more specifically is being a faithful servant of Christ, an apostolic servant of Christ. That's the main idea here. That's what it meant in Paul's case. Now, notice four things about this verse if we were to take out our Magnifying glass and study it up close. First of all, notice how this is the perfect bookend on our study of Galatians 1:1 through 10. We began in verse 1. With Paul saying, I'm not the apostle of any man. Rather, I'm an apostle of God in Christ. Well, now here in the end, Verse 10, Paul is saying, I'm not in this to please any man. I'm in this to please God and Christ. Well, put the two together. Put verse 1 and verse 10 together, and it makes perfect sense. What he's saying is that what really matters to me is the pleasure or the approval of the one whom I represent. My ministry is from God, verse 1. Well then it is also for God, verse 10. He is the alpha of it, verse 1. Well then he is also the omega of it, verse 10. The chief end of my ministry, Paul says, is that the God who sent me in the first place should also be pleased with me. He is my boss, and so he is the one ultimately. with whom I have to do. So you see how verse 1 and verse 10 go together very well indeed. Second, notice this as well. He spells out clearly here in verse 10 that it is an either or. There is no neutrality here, there is no middle ground. At the beginning of the verse, he says Am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? And then at the end of the verse, if I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. It's one or the other. Paul says, I can't have it both ways. And he sets out plainly what the two ways are, and Paul, for his part, is quite confident, and rightly so. About which of those two ways was true of him. In his other letters, he speaks plainly about his desire to please God above all. We're going to look at some of those passages in a little bit. And he refers to himself regularly as a servant of Christ. That wasn't boastful on Paul's part. He was simply a man who knew what drove him in his heart. He knew that that is what he had become. The servant of Christ. He wanted to please God. Third, notice this as well. He appears to admit here That this is not what he was before. That he wasn't always this. Because notice he puts it this way: if I were still trying to please man. I would not be a servant of Christ. Now, admittedly, it's not entirely clear here what he means by that one word still. But the fact that he does go on after this verse to tell his own story, including the story of his own conversion into the service of Christ, that does at least suggest That Paul has in mind here not only an either-or pleasing man or pleasing God, but also, in his own case, a before and after. Pleasing man before, pleasing God now. In any case, Paul certainly does know that he has become that, a servant of Christ. Pleasing God is his aim. And then, fourth, notice this too. Not only does Paul know that about himself, he is apparently confident that the Galatians know it about him as well. Because you see, he puts it to the Galatians here in verse 10 in the form of these rhetorical questions. He puts it to them in effect by asking them, you tell me. What drives me in my service? You know me. You know full well that what drives me is the prospect of the pleasure of the God I serve. And not finally the applause or the approval of any man to whom I preach his word. You know that as well as I do, he says to them. You know me well enough. So that's basically what Paul is saying here in this verse. As far as why he says it That's not as clear. Verse 10 does at first glance seem to be somewhat abrupt in the flow of the chapter. Consequently, there have been all sorts of suggestions as to the role that verse 10 plays in the chapter. It's sort of a fun parlor game that commentators like to play, trying to read Paul's mind, why did he say this? And there are plenty of suggestions. Among other things, it has been suggested, and this strikes me as at least plausible. It's been suggested that he says these things here in verse 10 because he felt that his very hard words in verses 6 through 9 including his two, let him be accursed, that Paul felt that those words called for some sort of explanation on his part. In other words, it's suggested that he goes on to refer to his desire to please God in verse 10, in the way that he does, as that which explains the fact that he is willing to write hard words. That aren't likely to please man. It's even been speculated that Paul's not just explaining himself here in verse 10. He might even be responding to a charge that had actually been made against him by his opponents. That he was a man pleaser. In which case, he's answering that charge here in verse 10 by entering his hard words in 6 through 9 as exhibit A. In any case, whatever was behind his words in verse 10. And as I said, there are lots of suggestions. The words themselves are clear enough, and that's the main thing. Paul was driven by a desire to please God, the very God who had once called him into service. That was his main motive. And brothers and sisters, of course, the same thing ought to be true of each of us. We don't have to do a whole lot of hard work here. to see the application of verse 10 to our own lives. We're about to look at some other New Testament passages that make it clear But I think even just reading the verse, we can be confident about it that this is a principle that does apply to all of us today. Paul is an example for us in this respect. Pleasing God was his aim. Pleasing God ought to be the Christian's aim. Galatians one through ten Now, as I said, there are lots of other Bible passages that can help us out here, and I want to point you to several of them as we take a step back now and reflect upon our doctrine. Pleasing God ought to be the Christian's aim. I want us to stop and think about that in three ways in particular. Reflect first of all upon what it means, what it looks like that the Christian ought to want to please God. Second, I'll say some things about pleasing God as opposed to pleasing man. Remember, it is an either or. And then third, I'll say some things about why this ought to be our aim. First of all, then what it means that the Christian ought to want to please God. Colossians 1, 9 and 10 helps us here. And I want to read that passage for us. Colossians 1, 9 and 10, Paul writes this: And so from the day we heard We've not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge. of God. That's Colossians 1, 9 through 10. And you see there Paul says it quite plainly. He says it in the form of a prayer report that the Christian can please God, because he prays that for them. And furthermore, he says that what that means, what that looks like, is bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. In other words, we can put it this way, it means a life of truth And holiness. A life of truth and holiness. We can say that it is a life of truth because Paul talks about increasing in the knowledge of God. We can say that it's a life of holiness because he refers to bearing the fruit of good works that are consistent with that knowledge. Thankfully, in his word, God has told us what pleases him. He hasn't left us in the dark. He hasn't left us to guess what gains his approval. He has made it plain. And it is a life of truth and holiness. And as I said, Paul implies here that that's possible to live that way. And that it's desirable for them to live that way. And furthermore, he also implies that it's a gift of God's grace that anyone is able to live that way at all, because Notice, he prayed for the Colossians that this would be true of them. He asked God to make it happen. He didn't just urge them to do it, though he might have. But he says, I ask God, our gracious God, to make it happen in your life. Because the very same God whom we want to please With such a life as this, it is his Spirit, the Spirit of truth, and the Holy Spirit who works in us. In such a way as to make us that kind of people. It is possible, it is desirable, and it is gracious as well. It is the gift of God to be pleasing to Him, to live a life of truth and holiness. So we can say that much positively about what pleasing God is. We can also make some headway here by ref reflecting briefly upon what it is not. Still under the heading of our first reflection, what pleasing God is not, and understand this very well, the Christian pleasing God. When we use that language, we are not using it to communicate the idea of the sinner earning, meriting his salvation by virtue of his good words. And that needs to be underlined. This is something entirely different. The Christian pleasing God is not a matter of the sinner earning his salvation. Instead, the believer seeks to live this life. Of truth and holiness, precisely because God has already saved him. The believer wants to please God, not out of some desperate attempt to save his own skin. But rather because he's grateful that God has already rescued him in Christ. What we're after here is not the sentence of justification from God the judge by virtue of our works, what we're after is the smile of the one who is already and who will always be God our Father. And he will be that. steadfastly, even when we displease him. And in this respect, grace reigns. And by the way, this point is clear in that very same Colossians passage. He tells them there, I pray for you that you'll please God. Well, he also tells them in that same passage. May you be the kind of people who give thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. He has transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption. The forgiveness of sins. You see, we don't earn those things Rather, God has already graciously given them to us, and it is that gracious God whom we want to please by being obedient to his will. So, those thoughts, first of all, about what it does mean and does not mean to please God. Now, second of all, what about pleasing him? As opposed to pleasing man. What about the either-or that Paul brings to the forefront in Galatians 1. 10? Well, there are other passages in the New Testament that reflect the same idea. It's one or the other. Listen, for example, to Paul in Ephesians 6. 5. Referring to slaves or servants, he says, Obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of eye service as people pleasers. But as servants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart. There you hear it, the either or. Not by the way of I service as people pleasers. Isn't that great language? But as servants of Christ. Doing the will of God from the heart. He says a very similar thing in the very similar letter that is Colossians, Colossians 3, 22. Slaves obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye service as people pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. So you see how both in Ephesians and Colossians Paul brings out this idea. James makes the same point, and characteristic of James, he makes the point. Well, quite pointedly. James 4, verse 4, you adulterous people. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. That's James chapter 4, verse 4. So we've got that apostolic instruction, and then we've also got the light of apostolic example. They not only taught this. In passages like those, they also lived this, and Paul for his part wasn't unwilling to say so. 1 Corinthians 4 I'll read, beginning at verse 1, you see the apostolic example. He says, this is how one should regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, he says, it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy, and then listen to him. But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me. Therefore, he goes on, do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation. From God. That's Paul writing in 1 Corinthians 4. It's a very small thing, he says, that I should be judged by any person. What matters is the judgment. The commendation of the God I serve. You see it again in Galatians, Galatians 5. 11. Here again is our either or. He says, if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. There is apostolic example. Paul says, I am not preaching circumcision. Risking persecution, suffering that persecution. You see his example there. And then you see his example perhaps most plainly in 1 Thessalonians 2, beginning at verse 3. Here is the example of Paul. He says, our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive. But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not to please man. But to please God who tests our hearts. There it is clearly. Not to please man, but to please God who tests our heart. Our hearts, he goes on, we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed. God is witness, nor did we seek glory from people. There's a pungent way of putting it. We didn't seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ. That's 1 Thessalonians 2, 3 through 6. You see it there. And in those other passages, 1 Corinthians and Galatians, the positive apostolic example So we've seen some passages in which you see the apostles teaching this, passages in which they confess to having lived this way. But then there's more. Sadly, we've also got some passages in the New Testament that are warnings about counterexamples The fact is that there were false men. There were those who were man-pleasers. And that in such a way that Paul, as a good pastor, felt the need to warn the churches to be on the lookout for them. Listen to Romans 16, beginning at verse 17. He says, I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught. Avoid them. Why, Paul, what about them? Well, such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites. And by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive. Paul says, be on the lookout for folks like that. There are folks like that. Avoid them. They're not servants of Christ. They're speakers of smooth talk and flattery. They're the kind of people who want to win you over Galatians 6. 12, he makes a similar warning. Galatians 6. 12, this is the part of the letter that Paul says, I'm writing with my own hand. He says, it is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. There's a counterexample if ever there was one. Here are folks who are preaching this false gospel just so that they won't be persecuted. These are man-pleasers, to be sure So, the New Testament teaches this clearly. We ought to be pleasers of God and not pleasers of men, and furthermore, we ought to be on the lookout of those for those who are clearly the one and not the other. Now, having said all of that, having read that catalog of New Testament passages, in the interest of equal time now, I want to read some other passages. And these will be the ones that prove that everything that I've said so far is wrong. In fact, Paul was a crass man pleaser, and he said so himself on several occasions. And what's more, he also urged the churches that he served to follow his lead. After all, don't we read in Romans 15, beginning at verse 1? We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor, uh huh, for his good to build him up. Let each of us please his neighbor. First Corinthians nine. There we read, beginning at verse nineteen Though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant of all, that I might win more of them. To the Jews I became as a Jew in order to win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under the law, though not being myself under the law, that I might win those under the law. To those outside the law I became as one outside the law, not being outside the law of God but under the law of Christ, that I might win those outside the law to the weak. I became weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things. to all people that by all means, I might save some. I mean, come on, that sounds like the Man Pleaser's Manifesto. I have become all things to all people. We'll finally enter as evidence. 1 Corinthians 10. Verses 31 and following So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God, give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the Church of God, just as I try to please everyone. In everything I do, not seeking my own advantage, and so on. Romans 15, 1 Corinthians 9, 1 Corinthians 10, and all God's people said, Aha! We knew it. Paul was a man pleaser. I knew it all along. He even admits it, and he counsels the Romans and the Corinthians to be the same. Or does he? Of course he does not. Paul was not a man pleaser. He wasn't that at all. These three passages don't imply that at all. Still, the question then is raised: what do we make of them? Well, in all three of them, Romans 15, 1 Corinthians 9, 1 Corinthians 10, in all three of them, when Paul talks about pleasing man. He's clearly not talking about the kind of thing that he rules out in all of those other passages. He's not talking about deceiving the hearts of the naive by smooth talk and flattery. That would be a peculiar boast indeed. if he were confessing to that. He's not urging the way of eye service as people pleasers. What he is talking about in those passages It's something very different. He's talking about the willingness to handle one's Christian liberties in such a way as truly to serve other people. That's the idea in those passages. The willingness To exercise or at times to forego one's Christian liberties so as to advance Or guard the spiritual welfare of others. That is what he's got in mind in those three passages. And clearly that is a very different sense of pleasing man. Than what we've been talking about so far. And we can go on. That isn't the only other sense of pleasing man. There are a bunch of other meanings that we might attach to that language. For example, there's also the meaning that is simply doing kind things for other people, the sorts of intentional acts of kindness that do bring them pleasure. For example, the giving of a gift that makes another person smile. That might be described as pleasing man. There's also the sense of it that means living a godly life because, among other reasons, you know that that is a right source of delight. for your brothers and sisters in Christ around you. That is a perfectly appropriate motivation. The bottom line in all of this Is that we need to be clear. We're going over and over again about how you're not to be man pleasers. Well, that language, pleasing man, can mean a number of different things. Some of which are perfectly legitimate, even biblically required. And so that's why we've got to be very clear about what we mean by that language. What is biblically prohibited? Is the sense of it that Paul's got in view in Galatians 1. 10, and so it's the meaning that we've got in view here today, which is seeking glory from people. As he puts it in 1 Thessalonians, seeking glory from people, pleasing others as one's ultimate motivation, the kind of thing that keeps you finally. From keeping the commandments of God. And in that sense, if we're clear, if we say, okay, that's what we mean here today by pleasing man, well then it becomes very clear it is an either or. There is no neutrality. In that sense, pleasing man and pleasing God are manifestly incompatible. You've got to pick one you can't serve. two masters. Jesus said so about God and money in Matthew six. No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or be devoted to the one and despise the other. The same principle applies here. Elijah made a similar point about God and Baal, way back in 1 Kings 18 He came near to all the people and said, How long will you go limping between two different opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him, it's the same principle at work. No neutrality. You can't serve two masters. You've got to pick one. What that means for us here today is that you've got to set pleasing God and not pleasing man as your ultimate aim. And why should we do that? More briefly now, our third reflection this morning. We've talked about what it means. To want to please God, what it looks like. It looks like a life of truth and holiness. It doesn't look like earning our salvation. We've talked about that principle as opposed to pleasing man. Now, thirdly, why be this way? Why should we set pleasing God as our ultimate aim? Well, consider two realities that help us here. Each of which having to do with the way we we relate to God. First of all, as I mentioned before, we ought to want to please God because He is our gracious Father. He has graciously redeemed us in Christ. Why should we want to please him? Because we're grateful. We're grateful to him for all that he's done. He has dealt so bountifully with us. Is he not worthy of our gratitude? Second, we also want to please God, and this is perfectly compatible with the first, out of holy fear. That's part of the picture as well. The God who is our Father, he is still, in a sense, our judge as well. He is still the one before whom we'll stand on the last day and we'll have to give an account of ourselves and he will evaluate our works. That's all true. And even if our salvation won't be in the balance on that day, and it won't, we can take comfort in that, still, there is right fear or reverence. that the Christian feels when he thinks about that day. God, our gracious God, he is still our just judge and the point is that matters to the Christian. That's one of the reasons why we ought to want to please him. The Apostle Paul of all people, Paul who took second place to no one in believing and proclaiming the grace of God, Paul told believers over and over, please God. Because you're going to stand before him one day. Paul was not shy about saying that. And in fact, he said it in some of the passages that I've read already today. Remember the Ephesians 6 passage, talking to servants. Not eye service as people pleasers, instead servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. Why, Paul? Knowing, he says. That whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is slave or free, and then he urges it upon masters too Do the same to them and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality With him. You see, that matters to the Christian. The Christian saved by grace, whose salvation is not in jeopardy. Still, the Christian says, I'm going to stand before God one day. And so I want to live now in a way that pleases him. Paul makes the same point in that 1 Corinthians passage that I read before. He says, It is the Lord who judges me. On the last day, each one will receive his commendation from God. You see, there it is again. God, our gracious God, he is still our judge. And for that reason, too, we want to please him. These things are perfectly compatible. Abundant gratitude on the one hand. And holy fear on the other. The scriptures call us to both, and the scriptures hold forth both as reasons why we ought to want to live for the approval of our Father. So those reflections upon our doctrine this morning. Let me conclude with just a few words of application. First of all, I want to address myself to any who might be with us this morning for this service of worship who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And for you, I think I should clarify something about our lesson this morning, which is to say, don't leave here thinking that this is some kind of in-house lesson that doesn't apply to you. Don't be thrown by the fact that I have regularly couched our lesson in terms of the Christian. Being called to make pleasing God his aim. I have regularly put it that way, and it's certainly true to put it that way, but don't let that cause you to think that this doesn't apply to you because you're not a Christian. It does apply to you because it's also true to say that what we're talking about here this morning is just another way of looking at what is man's very reason for being in the first place. Pleasing God, which is a way of glorifying God. That is not just some peculiar Christian concern. Understand, that is your reason for being, too. It's just that in your present condition you haven't made that your aim at all. And apart from the grace of God, you will not make it your aim. And yet it's also true that this same God, who's the only one who can set you free, he's often pleased to do just that. by means of the preaching of his word, the very kind of preaching that you've heard today, and so I call you today to repent. And to trust in Christ for salvation, and then out of gratitude for that salvation, and out of holy fear to make it your aim. To please God in all that you do. To those of us who do believe in Christ, a brief and final challenge in the light of all that we have heard this morning, I ask you. Simply the question with which we began. In your everyday life, practically speaking, who is your Lord? Before whom do you bow? Put another way, what drives you? Perhaps better put, who drives you? Feel the force of the either or. You cannot serve two masters, seeking the approval of man or of God. If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ in day-to-day decisions that you've got to make. Which is it? Admittedly, there are some of us for whom man pleasing is a besetting sin. The rest of us still at least confront the temptation every day. Christian, who drives you in this life? Whose pleasure is it ultimately that you most desire? Is it God's? Your gracious Redeemer Gods, or is it your parents? Or your children's? And yes, that's possible. or your spouses or your bosses or your friends, whose pleasure is it ultimately that you most desire In the decisions that you make day to day. And one of the best tests that you can apply to answer that question One of the best ways you can tell the degree to which you are a man pleaser is how willing or unwilling you are to say hard words to other people. Of course, that's the willingness to say such words in those circumstances in which you're actually called to say them. You're not always called to say hard words. Sometimes you're called to silence. But there are some circumstances, some times, some moments in which a hard word is to be spoken to your parents. Or to your children, or to your spouse, or your boss, or your friends, and in those circumstances, are you willing to risk their displeasure? Knowing that God would approve, knowing that your gracious Father would smile upon it and that it is his smile that matters most of all. That is a hard question to ask, I know. And it is a hard question precisely because it all too often turns up a very convicting answer. Thankfully, the very God that we ought to want to please, He is on our side in this. He's the one who forgives us when we fail. He's the one who enables us to live this way. Remember, Paul. prayed for the Colossians that they would please God. He asked the God of grace to make it happen in their case, and we should follow his lead. And so we will do so now. Let's join together and pray. Our gracious God and Father, our just and holy judge. We bow before you this day and confess that both of those things are true, and that both of those things ought to drive us to want to please you in all that we do. Forgive us, we pray, to the degree that we are pleasers of men. And by your Spirit would you work in us that desire. To live such a life and we pray in his name. Amen.