And we're going to see it later explained in regard to anger. They're either destroyed and running for cover, or you cut them off and you don't love them the same way you're still loving them. Now, this isn't all of our sinful anger, but this is a summary of just six things, I believe, that we're to be putting off We like to feel that we're righteous. You think he's being really gracious and spiritual, right? Seven times seven is forty-seven times ten, four hundred and seventy. Oh, what do we know about the Corinthian church? As we come to hear God's word, I'll read from Psalm 131 to begin to prepare us. I want to rest. My eyes are not raised too high. of Christ. And if you're very angry, count to a hundred. So turn to Ephesians 4 for a moment before we open the passage this evening. There's something that has to happen and help us to make the change that needs to go on to our life with any problem. Now he's saying in verse 4, chapter 4, verse 21, assuming, he's writing to the Ephesian church, he's talking to Christians, assuming that you've heard about him, that you have heard about Jesus. So you're putting off the sinful behavior of your life and you're putting on righteous behavior. That's verse 21, putting off, verse 23, putting on. I thank you that you didn't just die for us, but you live for us, O Christ, so that we are yours and will not be lost. They're going to the war against the perceived evil, or they're going to o war in the streets, or going to protest, or something like that, that is truly wrong for a Christian. For your zeal of your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. Then you begin in your mind and eventually your attitudes and actions to seek to administer your own form of justice to the perpetrator. Did you ever ask that? They didn't realize it and it's coming, and you just like to add to it, you know. was cleanse spiritual house, but she didn't put righteousness things instead and they came back worse. It's going to get worse. And so it's the mercy of Christ, because Christ has been merciful to us that we can begin to deal with our anger. is I had mercy on you. From your heart. And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. It's only through the gospel because you have been forgiven by the Lord Jesus Christ. the greatest day in the world. To help you through this biblically. He'd been attending the annual jungle camp with his two boys to fellowship with other Christians in the area to help them encourage them with his teaching. On January 22nd, 1999, he was sleeping in a station wagon with his two boys, Philip 10 and Timothy 7, when it was set afire by an angry Hindi mob Father, for Christ's sake, let us pray. To be able to forgive in my heart the way you have forgiven me. Like a weaned child is my soul within me. Traditionally, it's a service where we come together to give God praise and thanks for his work in our lives. And he was angry against man for our rebellion against him. Before the foundation of the world to crush him for us, that we might be saved from his wrath. Those of you with a volcanic nature could be encouraged to listen to the wisdom of our nations. Excuse me, verse 22, when it says this, excuse me, 23, and be renewed in the spirit of your minds. We have the Word of God renewing our hearts and minds, changing us by the power of the Holy Spirit. Put off the sinful behavior, to put on righteous behavior, is because God is at work directing you what to do in His Word and empowering you by His Holy Spirit. That indeed our minds and our lives would be renewed and be like Jesus Christ. Or whether we're the ones that clam up. You know, quiet. Like the atom bomb went off. They hate that babies are being killed and aborted every year and so that anger within them allows to do that or to work within the court system or gives them the energy to go and work at the crisis pregnancy center. But we each need to take this x-ray. Now look here. I want you to take an x-ray this evening. Sometimes you just break out in rage, anger, and internal deep hostility. Might be saved. With his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. Right? Similar to the parable we just talked about, it says, and when you stand praying, forgive if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive your trespasses. Because I've been forgiven by Christ. Now when they had heard this, as Peter's preaching, they were cut to the heart and said to the Peter and the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? For the promise is for you and for your children to all who are far off, and every one whom the Lord calls to himself. By God's grace, you're going to be the example. Whether to make the relationship right, what it is to forgive in my heart, and then how to make up or can you make up or should I make up? Graham Strange was a Christian missionary who'd been working in Orissa, India with the poor and especially leprosy parents, patients since 1965. Charred beyond recognition and reduced to fragile frames of ashes, the three bodies lay clinging to each other in what must have been a vain attempt to protect each other and escape the mob. I can forgive the killer's deeds. Us this evening. But for some of us, it's uh Eeyore year. And our trust in him and his sustaining us. But the angriest one in the world is God. You're saved from God, and the amazing thing is that we're saved from God by God. We're saved from God's wrath because he would lay it all upon his son Jesus Christ for us. Right? Because you're directed in God's word and empowered by his Holy Spirit to do that which is now supernatural. But it is a principle of change that's throughout the scriptures. We were taught in him as the truth in Jesus to put off the old self, which belongs to your former manner of life. Which is corrupt through deceitful desires. We can put off the old and put on the new because our minds, the scripture talks about our minds and hearts being the same, because The Holy Spirit will give you self-discipline to change. And now verses 30 to 32. and slander be put away from you along with all malice and be kind to one another, tenderhearted Forgiving one another as God in Christ has forgiven you. On the Lord Jesus Christ and killed and crushed him as the sacrifice that you might now love us. That yes, you've given us the doctrine of salvation that we might be saved, justified, but you've also given us the doctrine talking about sanctification. God calls you to put off your sinful anger. But in your anger, do not sin. against a perceived evil. So listen to these and think about the way you express your anger and how it works in your family or at work or at church. Sinful anger is motivated by your love for yourself or an idolatrous desire. Sinful anger is when your will is violated. How dare you not bow down to my wishes and make me happy and do what I want. We're not really so sad that they did something wrong, but we're mad that they made us get out of our lounge chair. X-ray, James chapter 4, verses 1 and 2. A spouse, a husband or wife, our child, our parents. Right? James 4, 1 and 2, what causes quarrels? You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. That's mine. Because we didn't get what we want. So whatever it is, don't matter. Bitterness is when you have a smoldering resentment within you. Clamor, out of control strife, slander, speaking evil of the other person, malice is usually not just evil thinking, evil speaking, but it's evil thinking. I want you to look at a parable with me because this is one that I know that we can opens up this very principle of Nature abhors a vacuum. This will help you if you're dealing with anger. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And out of pity for him, the master of the servant released him and forgave him the debt. So his servant fell down and pleaded with him, Have patience with me, and I will repay you. Debt. You might need help in figuring that out. that these people would. Many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, save yourself from this crooked generation. You know, but you don't happen until there's still there's that relationship is broken until they're ready to repent and come back. to supernaturally. husband and wife that argue, but that we can solve the problem because supernaturally because of Jesus Christ and that's our testimony to the world. It's interesting to the Corinthian church, 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 2 and 3. To be known and read by all. Not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts. Is it with a teacher, an employer, a friend, a neighbor, a mom, a dad, a parent, a child, or someone else? Not only were they not allowed to escape, but others were not allowed to come to their rescue. But I have one great desire that each citizen of this country should establish a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, who gave his life for sinners. And I want to encourage you, because it's often his work in our lives, that for some of us it's a zippity-doo-day year. Particularly, we're going to look at it in a few minutes where it is explained, it's probably the best place, it's proclaimed here the principle. And to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and look at verse 24, and put on the new self, created after the likeness of God and the true righteousness of holiness. I'm going to be reading chapter 4, and as we read, I'm going to be reading verses 26 and 27, and then 30 to 32. explain in regard to anger. um uprooting anger. It's our problem. So whether you're angry at someone and you cut them off, you know, and it's quiet and you might be miss little goody two-shoes, you know, I read my Bible loved nice But when the same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. There's a difference between someone who's just foolish and stupid to someone who is purposed in a devilish way to come after you. Behave supernaturally and even love our enemies for Christ's sake. Some of you blow up and you level everything and everyone around you, while others of you handle your rage by clamming up. Putting on wrong behavior and putting on right behavior. The Apostle Paul is going to explain it in regard to anger. How to live with and for you. immorality and ungodliness of every sort. A godly or righteous anger is response to wrong done to your fellow man. As we might have a righteous reason to be angry, but then turn it in a sinful way that we express it. Or with ever. And so if teaching that instead of teaching them a lesson and help them understand what they did wrong Because the reality is that probably all of us are dealing with anger this very evening. That your passions are at war within you. Ephesians 4, 31. No one knows. And all of your wrath, and all of your clamor, and all of your anger, and all of your slander, be put away from you along with all malice. Because if you're having trouble with hardness of heart and anger, and you're saying to yourself, I'll never forgive that person. And they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. But I always need to be ready in my heart to forgive them if they're ready to make up. So does that mean that the guys who crucified him and were people who were mocking him were instantly forgiven? That for your safety's sake, the best place is to get away. And as we share them together, God's work in our lives, we need to hear that. We don't go yelling and shouting, but how does someone go if they want to go to the March for Life every year? We should be angry at evil. Anger's tough for us, isn't it? Sinful anger is when you don't get what you want. Now, you have to read it between you and God. It's like my brother and I, Jack and Jerry. But it's going on in here, isn't it? So anyhow, this adjective, right? But because Jesus has forgiven you and you know his wondrous grace and love. As many as seven times? Alright? So Jesus at the cross, he praised Father that they don't forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing. But that we can change and ask for forgiveness and work the relationships. And it damages your Christian testimony, hurts other, or wounds your own soul. My husband and our children have sacrificed their lives for this nation. Because he causes us to see that it's his blessings for the great things and even the hard things. But for most of us, if we start thinking now about that time, you know, our list will actually get pretty long, and that would be wondrous to hear about God's working as he continually does You're saved from the wrath of God because of your sins. So as we talk about handing our anger biblically, the first thing we saw was, who is the angriest one in the world? There's no outward things being destroyed or falling apart, but you're quiet and you might even be nice in your quietness, but your seething and your anger inside. Lord willing tonight, you're going to hear God through his word give you a way to handle your anger Let all bitterness and all wrath and anger and clamor But I'm rolling over in bed tonight. Go and ask for forgiveness. But the truth is, the spiritual x-way answers that question, and we don't like the answer. Right? Oh man, I live in those places. Should destroy each of us. The one was forgiven a million dollars and the other guy is forgiven a hundred dollars. No, that would be universalism, right? First of all, in Luke chapter 23, verse 34, when Jesus was on the cross, he said, Father, forgive them, for they know what not what they do. He was ready to forgive anyone who would come and bow the knee and trust him. Having the heart to know you're forgiven and ready to forgive others until they come with repentance. And understand the grace of Christ. It would have been a blessing to my family and to me had I gone for help a long time ago. Can it be done? Later, a missionary was handing out gospel tracts in the same town. A Hindi man came up and said, Is this the Jesus of Gladys Stains? giving praises to him and uh to chance where we get to do that together. By washing the wounds of the patients and loving them in Jesus' name So I would encourage you to be thinking about that. Your anger biblically. Now, in the natural way that you deal with anger most often follows one of two personality types. 4 verses 21 to 23, you're going to have this principle explained. Not to tear up the China shop, but to get through the China shop and work it. Ephesians chapter 4, 26. Or it was the television. I forgave you all the debt because you pleaded with me. There's a warning here, especially for those who might be suffering from regular abuse by someone who says they repent and yet they continue to lie and hurt you. And he just might be saying, Well, I hear what you're saying, but I don't think I can get through this. Gladys was asked whether she and her daughter Esther planned to leave India. We're not prejudiced against the way we handle our anger. Now, thankfully, if you're a Christian, you don't have to do things naturally and be enslaved to your angry desires. So that's the principle proclaimed in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 21 to 23. And do not sin. They know. Forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. See, there's a difference between if I have a broken relationship with someone, and this is just one part of forgiveness. Emotionally. And I was too proud and didn't know it to go to a counselor. But some we have personality types, some blow up, some clam up, but we can easily go back and forth. In a way that honors him and helps others. But the thing that makes it different for you and me, the ones who are in Christ by faith, is verse 23. We do thank you that in Christ your anger has been abated, propitiated. In his book, Heart of Anger, Lou Priolo makes these helpful contrasts so that you might begin to think about, is my anger righteous or is it sinful? Righteous anger is when Christ is Lord of your life and he calls you to. Why are they taking my time? How we can become tenderhearted. Or maybe you haven't shouted that, but you just in your heart, you just know it's never going to be right. Let us burn, put off hatred, and spread, put on the flames of Christ's love. To even think about the faces that you've brought before eyes. Ephesians chapter four We're supposed to be putting these things off. A couple more times and I can get them. Of course, he's in prison. I want to remind you that next Sunday evening our service will be different in the fact that it is the week before Thanksgiving. Tonight, as we go to the second part of dealing with our anger, we're talking about getting to the heart of our conflicts, getting to the heart of your conflicts, which really is our own heart. And killing yourself often in the process. Amen. And reacts in a just way. Faces. Then he responded, Then I want to know him It's a whatever it is in the English language. Well, the principle is putting off our sinful anger and putting on the forgiveness of Christ. Do they know that you are a forgiver because you have been forgiven? His wife Gladys responded to the world. It might really be wrong, but I get alright. When you don't use the energy and motivation produced by anger to solve the problem, but instead nurture and fuel and grow your wrath I want it. Yet he went low that we might go high. That's the only thing that will allow us and move our hearts to be tender. That you, the angriest one at us for our sin, gave your Son for us. But the broken relationship, you might forgive in your heart, but the broken relationship is not actually restored until they repent of their behavior and ask for forgiveness. It's taken me 50 years to work through that. Beloved, you and I don't have to act naturally. So God gives us the righteous behavior to put on. Then Peter came up and said to him, said to Jesus, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Some of you have burning anger, hardened hearts. To imagine, to take a pillow and imagine that that's the one you're angry at and pound that pillow to a pulp. So also, my Heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother What gospel does your family and your children and your husband know in your relationship with them? My father was a drunkard and abused my mother and my brother and myself physically and There's no blowing up. It's not just a doctor who's telling you have cancer, but God is now pointing the picture to our own hearts, the sin that develops and is cancerous to our soul and kills us spiritually. Now all of us at adults have learned not to do that, right? And here he's talking about the difference of how a Christian acts in regard in the opposite of a non-Christian. Can something wonderful be done? Specific ones of us, Lord, who need it. This is one that the Holy Spirit will help you apply to your relationships. God is so good, because He just doesn't bring us this book full of doctrines that are airy and fairy, but He speaks to our very hearts. It's only the scriptures what Christ has done, and this parable helps us. We pray for your work, starting and continuing, through Jesus Christ, for the sake of our souls and for your glory. What? You have it. And Peter's thinking, man, you know how we go, right? And Jesus said, Father, forgive them. But we are called to do it. I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. I shouldn't have been watching that show. Thank you. We'll let them deal with their anger later. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven, verse 23, may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. We all deal with it. If you put off anger and all these things, but don't put something else in between it, they're gonna come back like the spirits. Verse 28. And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay his debt. We deal with it. I want you to turn with me to the book of James, chapter 4, in verses 1 and 2. They know when it's there. We like to be on top of the other person. We're always better than we deserve because we deserve hell and God's judgment without Christ. There's no way he'll ever pay the debt. Listen now to the word of God. And it talks about the definition of the anger we're using. A godly, righteous anger is a response to God being dishonored. Righteous anger is when God does not get what he wants. The first had to do with the angriest person in the world. So we start off in Ephesians 4, 26, where God calls you. Why did we just do that? It wasn't a very good example. Let all bitterness, and that all really isn't just talking about bitterness, it's talking about each of these. This can begin to tenderize you. We thank you for the specificity of your word into real life problems. But the heart forgiveness is different from transacted forgiveness where you come and say, Will you forgive me? And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, not written with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God. Father and God, anger is a universal problem for all of us. Well as we come to this this evening, remember we're looking at this principle of putting off and putting on. Anger isn't out there somewhere, is it? I'm free at last! Do not let it destroy you and your family. We should handle it in a godly way. Ah, mommy gave that to me. How come it's not fair? We have all for each of them. Your child may need discipline, but most often or sometimes not the way we did it. Lord, we would ask for your mercy to be among us tonight to even think seriously about this. You might even be very nice about it. Don't let the sun go down on your anger and give the devil an opportunity. I have those things. 2 Corinthians 3, verses 2 and 3. I'm not going to charge you like a doctor. But when the same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred deneri, and seizing him he began to choke him and say, Pay what you owe. But notice the first thing was to forgive from the heart. Let me tell you just a wonderful story. It is our problem. People. I've been there, done that. Would you do this for the sake of our souls, O God, our own lives and relationships? Should have asked my wife ahead of time who was an English teacher, but my pride was probably too big. They never had to trust Christ or repent of their sins. You might forgive them in your heart, but the relationship can't change until they change. Anger usually gets out there. My brother was three and a half years older than I am. And Jesus says to him, I don't say to you seven times, but seventy times seven. Often we don't take that kind of inventory. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. It happens from our own hearts. Therefore, God's people are to make righteous judgments. No, seventy times seven is just saying it never ends Do not let sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity for the devil Don't worry, I'm not going to show up and say, well, let me look at your x-ray You know, as we look back, whoa is me. Only Jesus can forgive their sins. That's one of the fruits of the Spirit. Now the definition we talked about, we're using for anger last week came from Robert Jones' book. You know, it's only because of Christ. Right? It's not only remember that you bitter, but you keep remembering it. They don't know what they're doing, but they weren't forgiven until Peter preaches in Acts chapter 2. So I hope that you'll come and encourage others from the congregation to come that we might uh spend all of our time. There's not going to be any touching me or talking to me. But if you turn to Ephesians chapter 4, and we're going to look at verses 20, start off looking at verses 21. You are called to do it. Anger, it's our anger, and it causes emotion in us, and when it's righteous anger, it allows us to go and do what is right, to make things right. And remember, this is this putting off and putting on principle, the principle of change, explain in regard to our anger. What causes fights among you? Can't work or get any funds. Tonight we're on the second uh of a series, Lord willing, I'm doing, of how to handle We're going to look at this principle in the book of Ephesians, because that's where we're preaching tonight, where first we're going to have this principle explained. I'm not bitter, neither am I angry Ephesians 4. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. It would be my joy to sit with you. And and maybe it's not what complete restoration would look like, but what would it look like to even have my heart tenderized? Ooh, I did more dishes than they did. Now, here's a summary in the next verse. So now we get out there, right? But here this not very good church that struggled with sexual sins and other things, he's saying. India is my home, and I'm happy to be here. It's a time to give praise to God and tell of His workings. Or it was I had a long day. I want the blue one. And you should not have you should it not should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant? How do you know? Verse 32: Be kind to one another, tenderhearted. Have the moral high ground. We get in one sense to preach to each other in a glorious way that we have in the body So when you tell someone you're saved, they say, What are you saved from? Yet in his mercy and grace, he provided the Lord Jesus Christ and purpose The world is glad to provide both groups of people with answers And for you who, like a tortoise, retreat into your protective shell, you might just find a psychologist who would encourage you. Would you give us hope this evening, whether we're the ones in the relationship or with our friends that blow up? I'm good at angry. I can't believe it. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him: Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And we're thankful that in Christ we're forgiven and here to encourage one another in this grace. But first, I want to show you a principle that not just helps us deal with anger. Or there's the others, you know, the volcano has gone off and everybody's hiding in the bedroom or somewhere else. Forgive hurt me once, okay, hurt me twice, three times a fool. By God's grace and reading his word and growing up and maturing, but I didn't have to go through 50 years. Our sinful way of dealing with things, sins, and problems. You broke my rules, and you're going to pay for it. I don't know if it's an adverb or whatever. We don't have to act supernaturally. Free at last! Your anger can either be righteous or sinful. You wish they were dead, or maybe you're working towards that, figuring out how it can happen. Don't worry. You desire and you don't have, so you murder. That's the only thing that allows you from acting naturally You to put away from you these six forms of sinful anger, which is a sample of many more. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant. Yet even in their death they were inseparable I have only one message for the people of India. But if you just do that alone, you'll be just like the world. 26. But there is a great warning to all of us. What causes quarrels? Now, the world, and you might actually at times, right, sometimes we're a mixture of both You might mark this in the scriptures. All let all your bitterness I can never say if they truly want to make up, nope, not happening. But it wasn't until Pentecost that those ones who came. He died when I was sixteen. You're going to have it proclaimed in the passage, but Ephesians chapter Anger is our whole personed active response of a negative moral judgment. O you who love the Lord, hate evil. But in our hearts, what's going on? Maybe it's not an adjective. I know how to do with my wife and my daughter if looks could kill. There are many more than 3,000. Of all churches, the Corinthian church, Paul says, you're going to be my example. And God has provided pastors and elders and parents and counselors. You're putting off the wrong behavior and putting on the right behavior. Oh Lord, my heart is not lifted up. It comes out of it. We weren't from a Christian family. Oh, I want the red one. It's the gospel. He submitted himself and took the wrath of God that we might go Right? It's not bad to say, I'm going to talk to someone else. But to put off the wrong behavior, to put on the right behavior, Amen. What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? You're to be an example. Because no one recognized it in me and said, you need to take care of this, Pastor. By God's grace, maybe we'll get there. They'll have to ask him for that. And Father, we thank you for the wonder of the gospel. And often we don't handle it in a godly way. Where did that come from? You're to forgive not because you're a nice person. I know it would be Pastor Skip's joy to sit with you. And it's the principle of putting off sin and putting on righteousness. Unresolved anger that we didn't take care of right away, or a godly way, with a boss, a teacher, a friend. Let us read it. One of our nation's founders, Thomas Jefferson, who said, When angry, count to ten before you speak And we're going to see that it doesn't happen just because we've chosen to do it And if you don't put off the sin and put on righteous behavior Matthew 11, 25. What gospel is the world reading in your relationships with them? Psalm 69, 9 says It's been in there and it's burning. Let me pray. Anger is us. Righteous anger is motivated by a sincere love for God Turn to Matthew 18, please, verses 21 to 35. Thank God I'm free at last! Be angry How does someone go to war unless they're angry? There's not a chance. 463. Sinful anger is when you act as if you're the Lord of your life It's like two little children. But thankfully, God didn't just say put off one thing because But he refused and went and put him into pres prison until he should pay the There's nothing wrong with that You know, but God's given us a spiritual x-ray. You yourselves are our letter of recommendation written on our hearts Father and God, how good of you to have your word speak about these real issues of life and in our own. I need wisdom to know She said never You know, we come to that time and we go, Because God always wants the right thing. I know it modifies. It keeps building that fire. And I destroy everything in trying to make things right I see some discussion in the group, but anyhow. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed But I have calmed and quieted my soul like a winged child with its mother As James Montgomery Boyce has said, to abhor injustice. Don't even compare. So they received his word and were baptized, and were added that day about three thousand souls. Now, what do you say, Pastor? If you were in Christ, This is what we're going to be putting off, our sinful anger. God is we deserve God's wrath. Jesus prayed. And with many words Because of the gospel and the cross of Christ, we might I put it away last time. Some of you might have thought that personality was Satan, who is often angry And that's the wondrous good news. So we're not asking you to pull yourself up by your bootstraps and do this. Let's be seated That's usually what happens to me. Some that may be broken, some that might be hard. Is it not this? And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold We can ask naturally, we can act supernaturally. And that's where we are tonight. Or I'm tired. What causes fights with it? The cold shoulder, right? And God is so good to give us this. Yeah, why did you do that? But often we don't, because we like to nurse our anger We are to be an example to this world of broken relationships. So Righteous anger is when God's will is violated. If you're gonna make my heart my life hard, uh you're no longer gonna be my favorite child and you'll pay for it. Starting in verse twenty six. Right? So the difference in the debt is like a million dollars and thirty-three cents. You're not saved from your sins Matthew 18, verses 21 to 30 Because there's times with abuse And what did we do every day after school? You know, we can just list off those things, right? He took it from me. Let me ask you tonight: where is it that your heart is overrun by sinful anger? I'm mad and I'm not going to get over it. But there can be lots of steps along the way. You place the anger you had for our sin and rebellion But God's giving it to you this evening and giving it to me. There's not a chance in hell. What do you think? Is it with a boss? What is that word? Whose face is God bringing before you this evening? Or I had to fix something. And Jesus had the moral high ground, right? That's the wonder of the gospel. Yeah, some of us like both. But you also teach us. And you're thinking some anger bug must just have flew through the house and spread anger all around, right? Now I I want to give a little bit of a warning here. But the wondrous thing is that God is at work in all of those things. Aren't we just no let me tell you how I know that or why I think that, right? Bitterness is smoldering resentment. And Gladys continued to serve in the leprosy home. Now we won't ever say that out loud, will we? Remember the lady that had the devil driven out of her and it was her house The first guy has this huge debt, but he goes after the second guy who has the small debt. God's anger is righteous as He always makes correct judgments against evil. But not all the people around him were instantly forgiven. He said, yes it is. If you say my sins, that's not the right answer. What would all be? Or I really just didn't think about it. You took that Why is he bothering me? So there's a difference between ready to forgive. Would you use the wonderful good news of the gospel to tenderize? Or you did that. The angriest one It's nothing out there. I know there's other elders and others who understand what it is to be angry. I cannot handle this any longer by myself. And he Peter said, seven times, right? How do we do this? I thought it was I'm going to kill every one of you. Now And we pray for the glory of our Savior Jesus Christ. So each one of you can have one this evening. Someone tell me that's an English person. Let us encourage one another. So let us stand together as I read from God's Word. Yes, I do. When you have sinful anger, take care of it. We fought like cats and dogs. Oh, what are my bad habits? It's not that we won't have children and parents that bick gear and argue at times. The angry Who is it that God is bringing to mind? Amen Wrath It's not that you and I aren't going to have It's in here. He's saying. Everybody's ducking cover. I guess I should have a good habit. Perfect and sinless. Therefore, there's hope. Amen. As many as seven? And so