Less than a hundred days, three months before the electing of our next president. From Donald Trump, we hear the great news about crooked Hillary Clinton. And from Hillary Quinton, she is quick to tell us about crazy Donald Trump. Now, for all I know, both of those statements might be true. But you just don't talk that way in polite society. Hmm. There was a time in our nation when things were like that. But not anymore. So you might be saying, well, I get bombarded by that every week, all the time, all the media. All I hear is crash People, crass people saying crass things. You might be saying to yourself this morning as I come to church, well at least I can get away from that and we'll talk about Blessed things such as the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control But we forget that in that same passage, God contrasts that with the works of our flesh: sexual immorality, impurity Sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, and orgies. And things like these. You see, God is more than willing to be frank. To have his messenger say what even de Pete, not just hard, but even rude things to us, that we might hear him and understand his message. The last time I preach to you as I've been working this summer has been through the book of Galatians. And the pastor of that church had to come to them and give them severe warnings, not once, but twice. That they would get the gospel, the good news of how God saves us, how he saves sinners. That we would understand that mistakenly and get it right, because if we don't get it right, we're lost. And false teachers had invaded the Church of Galatia. And so Paul was willing to not be polite. God led him not to be polite. The portion of scripture we looked at last time was this from Galatians 1, 8 and 9. Paul said this to the church. He said, if an angel from heaven should preach to you a contrary gospel to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, I now say again, anyone preaching you to a contrary gospel to the one you received, let him be accursed. Anathematized, cursed of God, go to hell. Oh my So it's necessary that we who are Christ's church get the gospel right. If you were to summarize the gospel, how would you do it? How would you get it right? Is it going through your mind right now? You were put on the spot. Someone said, Tell me the gospel. Would you get it right or would you be anathematized? It's important Ulrich Zwingli, a contemporary of John Calvin and Martin Luther, said it this way. He said, The sum of the gospel is that our Lord Jesus Christ, the true Son of God, has made known to us the will of his heavenly Father. And by his innocence has redeemed us from death and reconciled us unto God. See, that's his summary. He had it down. He was able to give it to someone. But he says with that, you better get it right, because he goes on to say, therefore, Christ is the only way to salvation for all who ever lived. Do live or ever will live. He who seeks or points to another door heirs, yea, is a murderer of souls and a robber Therefore, all who regard another doctrine as equal to or higher than the gospel err and do not know what the gospel is. So Paul was not only willing to say what the gospel isn't To make it understand that we have to get the gospel right because it is important for our eternal souls. He then goes on to where we are today and talks about God's gospel work in his own life. As he gives his own testimony. And from there we can learn about what the gospel is and isn't. And even look at our own lives. So that's what God has for us this morning. So let's stand as we would hear the word of God, and then I'll pray Be reading from Galatians chapter one, verses eleven through twenty-four. Galatians chapter one, verses eleven through twenty four For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through the revelation of Jesus Christ. For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God violently and then tried to destroy it. I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers. But when he who set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace Was pleased to reveal his son to me in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles I did not immediately consult with anyone, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were the apostles before me. But I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus. Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days. But I saw none of the others' apostles except James, the Lord's brother In what I am writing to you before God I do not lie. Then when I went into the regions of Syria and Sicily, I was still unknown to the person, in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. They only were hearing it said, He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy. And they glorified God because of me. Father, we know that we are a gospel believing church. We know that we're all about the gospel. And yet so often, if we were to try to explain it to another person, How it comes, what's it about, we find ourselves tongue-tied and quite unsure, often because we know it so well. So as we look at your work and the life of our dear brother, the Apostle Paul, who's gone before us, may we learn more of it than and know and compare our own lives and think how we would share these truths with others for our own good and for your glory. Amen. Please be seated. As we've looked at Paul's testimony, the first thing that we would see is that the gospel came to Paul by divine revelation, not human ambition. Ambition. We know what ambition is. It's you have a desire and you want to get it. Ambition has been before us last week. before us for at least another week as so many around the world have set their sights, have ambition to get some kind of a medal, hopefully a gold medal in the Olympics, but hopefully at least get uh silver or bronze. They've set not only their ambition, but their whole lives to get there. Setting your heart on something so that you will get it. And we think that humans can set their hearts and minds on some kind of ambition to get to God. You've probably seen a picture that some people have made over the years of a mountain and gods at the mountaintop, and we all struggle by our own path. Up that mountain, you know, different religions have different paths, but they're all going the same place as we struggle to get to and be good enough for God But that's not what God says. That's what our heart says. I can do it. I think I can. I think I can. I know I can. But God says you cannot, your ambitions will not help you spiritually because you are spiritual zombies. You're the walking dead. Yes, you you walk, you have children, you go to school, you play games, but spiritually you're dead. What can a dead person do for themselves? Nothing. So the scripture tells us in Ephesians 2:1, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins in whence you once walked according to the course of this world. Our own spiritual ambitions, trying to get to God our own way, will not work and cannot work. Because until he changes us and our hearts and makes them alive by his spirit, we are dead. Galatians 1, verses 11 and 12, Paul says this: For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached to me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it from many a man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. God, in fact, came to him on the road to Damascus as he's ready to destroy the church in his own crazy idea of what religion is. I'm going to follow God, so I'm going to kill these people. Hmm. Sounds like a lot of religions that are out there today. But in Acts 26, 12 to 18, we see how even though he was alive, pursuing actually the death of others, He was spiritually dead until God gives him a change of heart. Acts 26, 12 to 18, listen. He says, in this connection I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests. And at midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven brighter than the sun that shone around me and those who journeyed with me. And when he had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in Hebrew, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It's hard for you to kick against the goads. And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a service, servant, and witness to all the things which you've seen. And all those things which I will appear to you, delivering you from your people and the Gentiles to whom I am sending you, to open their eyes, So they may turn from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God, that they might receive forgiveness of sins in a place among those who are sanctified. The scriptures already said we're dead, but Jesus says we're blind. We can't understand on our own. spiritual things. He has to open our eyes and he says, we're not in his kingdom. We're born in the kingdom of the devil. We're his servants. And so God has to make us alive. God has to give us spiritual eyes. God has to take us out of one kingdom and put us in his kingdom. It's his work, not by human ambition. We would not do it on our own. The gospel cannot come to you, did not come to Paul by any human ambition And its second point we're looking at is the gospel came to Paul and comes to you by divine calling, not human tradition. I love to hear Tevia Biller on the roof. I can sing it. I won't. You I'll save you. I love it. But our traditions, our ideas of what will get us to God, are what grandma said or Aunt Sophie or anybody else, if it isn't what the scripture says, it ain't right. And the Jews had made up traditions that they added to God's word for further protections. It was called the Halkula. And it made crushing laws that the people were under such burdens that they couldn't get out of them. And that's exactly what Paul He had taken God's word that says, Thou shalt not murder. He wasn't in a war. He was going to God's word said, thou shalt not murder, and he goes in God's name to kill the Christians and persecute them. In Galatians 1, 13 and 14, he talks about what he was doing by his own traditions where they had getting him. He said this. For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God violently and tried to destroy it. I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers. He said, human tradition got him in the wrong place, not in the right place. And we can do that with church. Well, as long as I go to church, my grandfather was a Presbyterian, and my father was a Presbyterian, and I'll be a Presbyterian. Not many of us are like that today. Most of us are spiritual mongrels. You know, 57 varieties. We are in the Baptist and the Methodist But I still say all those traditions, if they're man-made, you have to do this, you have to have your dress so long and your hair so short. You know, those are traditions. That's not the gospel. And we get so caught up with that. God isn't looking at our traditions, how we dress. Yes, I have a coat and tie on, and you You poor suckers that don't have one on today. We're looking down on you, and if you have a knit shirt on, woohoo hoo, you're no. We we we know better than that, right? But we still get caught up in that stuff. Because God doesn't look at my coat and tie. I wear this because I want to look nice. You know, I want to be reverent as I do something important, so I want to wear my best clothes as I can bring God's word. But even I had a t-shirt on, it would still be God's word. Because God looks at what? Not our outward behavior, but he told Samuel, God doesn't look at our outward appearance, he looks at what? Our hearts. And so beloved, don't tell me I'm sitting here in a certain way today and I've come at the right time and I have my Bible on my lap. What is your heart like? Are you wanting to follow after God? Are you wanting to be his? Has he worked in your heart? Or is it just I put one more day in and I can check it off? I have enough Sundays out of the year to seem good. King David was great. He had a great kingdom for a long time. But he was great because he knew his own brokenness and he didn't follow God perfectly. But in Psalm 51, he would say this Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgression Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. You see, God's people know that there isn't a week that we could ever be good enough for God Our own, if we would come in here and bring, okay, God, I lived a really good week. I can be with you. No. Because we all fail every day. In our thoughts, words, and deed. We don't come here by our outward behavior, our human traditions. We don't come here by our record. We come here by Christ's perfect record. We come here confessing we're needy. We come here confessing that our spiritual bank account is empty. And it has nothing unless Christ's righteousness is there. And so Paul's life tells us you can't get to heaven. The gospel isn't talking about our human ambition. It's not talking about human tradition. And the last thing we see from From his testimony as he has given it to us this morning is the gospel came to Paul and to you by God's divine sovereignty, not by your human volition. There was a a spiritual phrase that was on Bumper stickers. Probably I'm saying how old I am. I don't know if it was the 70s or 80s. I think it was Campus Crusade, and it says, I found it! If you go looking for God on your own, you will never find Him. We can't find Him on our own because we're dead spiritually. We can't see. We don't even want to see. Our own wills on our own aren't going towards God. They go away from Him. Psalm 58, verse 3 says, The wicked are estranged from God, they go astray from birth speaking lies. I was up in Concord, Massachusetts in my last pastorate, and the only time uh Other than when I was a child in Alaska long time ago, black and white television. That I was you know I was a Cub Scout, that was how long ago it was. I was on television once. Uh for About thirteen seconds. Um but I I would be repeated in this series of TV shows they showed on the public station in Concord, Massachusetts. Where they had all the spiritual communities come and present what they believed. And so that would err from time to time. And in Concord, Massachusetts, there are no Methodists. There are no Baptists. There are no Lutherans. There are universalists, Unitarians. There are Baha'i. There is Christian Science. There is the Church of Christ, which said we are considering Christ. Um we we and and um and it went on with all these weird groups. There was two Christian uh groups, there was our church that PCA church in town and a and another uh evangelical church out of about fifteen faith groups. So when I got to present my I went through the gospel, I went through uh that we're going back to the ancient roots of what the Unitarians used to believe in the town, but then afterwards there were questions. And someone says, You're one of those Presbyterians, aren't you? This is on camera, right? So I'm starting to feel a little defensive, you know You're one of those Presbyterians. You believe in election, don't you? You believe that our children are sinners, don't you? So here I am, you know, the cameras on me, starting to sweat, you know. And thankfully God gives answers, right? And so I said, I looked out in the audience and I saw that most of Them were older, and I said, How many of you have children? How many of you have grandchildren? I said, Do you spend all your time Teaching them to be good or teaching them to be bad. They didn't have to teach the kids to be bad. They come from the womb that way. Yeah, I know. I hope you'll see and get to meet my little granddaughter Abigail. She is really cute and she's here today. But her parents and her grandparents are going to have to be working with her her whole life because she is a viper. She is wicked from her mother's woo, as you and I are. We hate to see that, but we are against God, not for God naturally. So Galatians chapter 1 and verses 15 and 17 from our scripture today tells us something. It says that As we've looked at, Paul couldn't have gotten the gospel by his own ambition. You can't work your way He couldn't get there through his own ambition. He couldn't get there through tradition, but he couldn't get there through his own will But when we get there, it's because God, before the foundation of the world, who not only knows all things, but is in charge of all things, he chose you before you were ever born. He said his love on you, his will, move from all eternity to call you. Do you see what it says in Galatians 1, 15 and 17? Because Paul is saying this about his own self. He says, but when God, who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace, was pre pleased to reveal his son to me in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles You see, this Apostle Paul, even though he was a spiritual zombie for a while, he was a murderer by tradition, is changed not because he wanted to, but God gave him a new heart and changed. What he wanted. And the exact thing happens to you and me. You and I don't love God because one way we woke up and we said, I found it. I know it is. I put all the material together. I laid out this truth and that truth, and I figured it out. You would never figure it out If you figured it out, it's because God, before the foundation of the world, set his love upon you. Galatians 6 and 44 says this No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. We never went because we wanted to. It's because in love he said gave us new hearts and drew us to Christ. I want you to see how clear this is. So you never say, I found Christ. Ah, I got it together. I figured it out. No, we were blind and dead. But he chose us. So turn to Ephesians with me, chapter 1. You'll see just how clear this is. And it's all so that we would give glory to God. Ephesians chapter one, verses three to six. Paul is blessing God, and we should too. He says this Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him. Last week he figured it out that maybe he likes us. I remember back in 1942, God looked around and said, I'll pick him. Is that what it says? Look at what God's Word says. Even as he chose him, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world That we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, because he didn't want us to be lost. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has blessed us in the beloved. You see, in Paul's testimony, we see the testimony of every Christian. It is not that we're going to get to God by our own ambition. It's not that we're going to get to God. We understood the traditions of the world, our own family. It's not even that our own wills wanted him. It's all of God as he chose us who were dead spiritual zombies with our redding rotting flesh of sin, having no hope, eternally be lost But before the foundation of the world, he looked upon you and called your name and set his love upon you so that at the right time you would come to Christ. Christ. Why does he do this? So it's not for our glory. When we talk about Christians, we say, praise be to God. I was dead, but now I'm alive. Praise be to God. I was blind, but now I see. Praise be to God. My master was the devil who put all these joys of the world before me, all the gifts. I love those gifts. But then he opened my eyes and changed my heart. And I found the giver of the gifts with their satisfaction. And that's all for the glory of God. Not that we would boast. Look at Galatians 1, the last part of the passage in verse 18 to 25. twenty four. Then after three years, Paul says, I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, that's Peter. And I remained with him fifty day fifteen days, but I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. In what I am writing to you before God, I do not lie. Then I went up into the regions of Syria and Sicilia, and when I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. They only were hearing it said, He who used to persecute us now is preaching the faith he once tried to destroy. And they glorified God because of me. Can you imagine that in the churches? destroy us, but now he's one of them. If God has worked in you, we have to get it straight. It's not for our glory. It's not for our name. It's for his name and his glory. It couldn't be more evident this past week. As I've watched some of the Olympics. Michael Phillips gets one more gold medal. And what does he do? He sits on the rope and he looks up to the crown. He says, More, more. Give me more, adulation. I must have more. It's not enough. I must have more. One more medal. One more thing. Give me more. Clap some more. I have to have more. That is never fulfilling. And yet you watch the diving team, synchronized diving team of Steele Johnson and David Bodilla And when they win the gold medal, their testimony before the camera is that we're glad to win gold for a nation, but our identity is in Christ. God has called you not because you wanted to, not of your own ambition. Not because of any human tradition that your parents were part of the church or you were doing good. Not even that you wanted to, because you were his enemy before he changed your heart. And it's not to lift up your name, but to give you the name of Christ Christian. So, like the Apostle Paul. Because of the goodness of the gospel, that we're now here to glorify Christ. Let me end by reading the scripture from 1 Corinthians that helps put it in place. 1 Corinthians 1 and 27. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not. To bring to nothing the things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him, because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness. Sanctification and redemption, so that it is written, let the one who boast boast in the Lord May that be the testimony of you and me who are his people. I had no ambition to be his. I was dead in my sin. My family traditions couldn't get me there. And I would have never on my own bowed the knee to him. But he captured me with his love and has given me, adopted me to be his Has now given me his name. And I am a Christian to the glory of God.