Well, we're returning to Mark's gospel, and a recap is in order. We last left off with Jesus. Jesus having taken his disciples to Caesarea Philippi. And there he asks them, Who do people say that I am? And then who do you say that I am? And it's there that Peter makes the confession that you are. the Christ. And not a minute later Jesus begins to teach them that he must be rejected and suffer and die. And then be resurrected. And Peter immediately rebukes Jesus. And Jesus in turn rebukes uh Peter. And uh and we pick up there in chapter uh nine uh right after those events. So if you would, would you stand? We're gonna read verses two through thirteen of chapter nine. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift of this gospel. And Lord, may it be a gift to us. this morning. Give us all the help we need to listen well. And may your spirit illumine the scriptures in such a way that we'll understand its significance for us. Grant that we might unite the hearing of your word with faith today, that it might be profitable in our lives. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them. And his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. And Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi, it's good that we're here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. For he didn't know what to say, for they were terrified. And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, This is my beloved son. Listen to him. And suddenly looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them but Jesus only. And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they'd seen until the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean. And they asked him, why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? And he said to them, Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written that the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him. And then just a couple of verses from the book of Exodus, and just listen. This is from chapter twenty four. And then Moses went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain, and the glory of the Lord dwelt on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days, and on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the day. Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a devouring fire on top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel. And Moses entered the cloud and went up on the mountain, and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights. Please take your seats. A sustaining vision. He'd sold cigars in the family uh business for six years before he entered broadcasting. In nineteen twenty seven William Paley was behind a game that he intended uh to win. When he founded the Columbia Broadcast uh system, which at that time was a uh radio uh system, he was competing with David Sarnoff, who founded NBC. Sarnoff was a leg up on Paley, both technologically and in terms of finances. in getting uh his broadcasting system started. Now Paley bought an office in Manhattan and he could sit at his tiny desk With almost a bankrupt company losing twenty thousand dollars every week. And he could see not just his desk, but the millions of Americans out in the hinterland, many of which yet did not have electricity. He would envision an audience when there wasn't one. And he not only had vision, but he had the drive and the know-how to reach his dream. By 1948, his Upstart Network was a raging success. Surpassing even his rival NBC. That was the fruit of a sustaining vision. If we're going to follow Christ effectively, if we are going To serve in a significant and meaningful way in our generation, we must have a sustaining vision. A vision that will carry us through the dark times. The times of discouragement, the times of difficulty, perhaps even times when we feel disillusioned. Jesus calls his disciples up onto a mountain to give them just such a vision. It is a vision of the glory of Jesus Christ. Now Jesus leads his inner circle, Peter, James, and John, to the heights of Mount Hermon. Mount Hermon was the mountain in Palestine. It uh rose to some nine thousand feet above uh sea level, eleven thousand feet above uh the Jordan Valley. And on a clear day you could see it either from Jerusalem or Tyre. It was snow clad. It was a stunning backdrop for what was about to take place there. When Jesus was transfigured before their eyes, his clothes became an unnatural and unearthly white. The word that Mark uses here to describe it is the word that describes the color of lightning in the Greek language. And both Matthew and Luke tell us that Jesus' face shone. It may very well be that we should understand that the person of Jesus, his body, radiated this intense light through his clothing. And there too, the greatest prophets of the world. of the Old Testament, Elijah and Moses are also standing. They're talking to Jesus. A cloud covers these three. And then the voice of the Father speaks And then it's all gone in an instant. Does it matter? And if so, what does it mean? Well, in Mark's gospel, one of the things that he does is he shows us that At the most important moments of revelation, there are the least number of people present. There are three women at the empty tomb And there are only three men on the mountain that behold the transfiguration of Jesus. Now Mark's left us more clues about how important this is, and one of them is the mention of the exact time. It's six days after Jesus posed the questions to his followers. After Peter confesses that Jesus is the Messiah. And this takes us right back to Mark verse 1, where Jesus says to them, Truly I say to you, there's some standing here. who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power. But six days also it recalls these days of preparation for Moses when God appeared to him For Haj, there is no higher uh moment in the whole history of God's uh dealing with humanity. And there are numerous parallels uh between God's meeting with Moses on Sinai and God coming to Mount. Hermon and speaking to the disciples. Here's just a few. Jesus takes three named disciples up to the mountain, and Moses also takes three named people with him. Jesus is transfigured, his clothes become radiant, his face shines like the sun, while Moses' skin shines. when he comes down after talking to God. In both God appears in an overshadowing cloud. In both a voice speaks from the cloud. And James and John and Peter later will see these connections. They will realize the extraordinary significance of these events. Just why are these two prophets, Moses and Elijah, there? Well, for the Jewish people of Jesus' day, Elijah and Moses were figures associated with the coming. Messianic age. In fact, in latter Jewish tradition, uh Moses when he goes up on the mountain is understood to be that he's being enthroned there. Uh for the later Jews, Moses wasn't just a prophet, he was And twice as Peter reflects on this event, the thought of majesty, of the King's Majesties come out. He writes, We are eyewitnesses of Jesus' majesty. He received honor and glory from God the Father when he declared him, This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. Jesus had promised that some who were there living or hearing his voice would see the kingdom of God as it's come to power. And in fact, this is one extreme Expression of the completion of that promise. Jesus, the Messiah, King, his glory is being made visible before his followers. Divine nature is shiny through radiing out with the glory as bright as the sun. It's this Jesus who they have been walking with through Nazareth. The Jesus who uh eats lunch with these men, who gets tired and thirsty. This Jesus who will be rejected. He is God's Son. But it's not now that Peter understands this. In fact, uh Peter, along with James and John, don't have a clue as to what they should say or how to behave in this moment. They are frightened, as almost everybody who encounters God in this way is in Scripture. But Peter is a very practical man, and he's going to make the best of this situation. And so he immediately shares his unfiltered thoughts. Rabbi, it's good for us to be here. Let me make some tense for for you and for Elijah and Moses. Peter is putting them all on the same plane. He doesn't understand Jesus' uniqueness. And as if it's a rebuke, God the Father speaks out of the cloud. This is my beloved Son. with whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. Let me just say as an aside. These words are words that we hear in the gospel at the beginning, at Jesus' baptism. But at Jesus Baptism, they have spoken to Jesus to affirm his identity. And now they're being directed to the disciples. You see, Peter just hasn't understood what he confessed. He just hasn't understood the fullness of it. It's as if he forgot what had happened six days before. And something like this happens to us, doesn't it? We confess these things. In fact, we confess clearly that Jesus is the Son of God. But, you know, it's not alive to us. You know, we haven't been up on the mountain, we haven't seen this, it's just not alive uh to us. And some of the ways that this manifests itself is, well, we just trudge through the routine, the normalness of uh life. And the steady routine just uh creates a drum uh in our lives and our zeal for Christ flags. In fact, we often end up just drifting uh spiritually like a like a boat that's un uh moored. Or the cares and distractions of life crowd our hearts and minds in such a way that we don't seek after God. We we don't Prey. Or when people are unresponsive, cold, and apathetic toward our efforts to love them, we just think, what's the use? Have you forgotten whom you're serving? Is your confession? Has it lost its power of you? Has it just become unreal? It's just an abstraction for you. We need this sustaining vision of the glory of Jesus Christ if we are going to be spiritually passionate people. We need this vision to be spiritually passionate. And so it's recorded in three other four Gospels for us. We need to be familiar with it. We need to think about it often. Now the vision of the transformation of Jesus takes place as he's on the way to the cross In fact, uh that's uh the hinge point here as we've gone from chapter eight to chapter nine. Everything from chapter nine on is Jesus marching steadily uh to Jerusalem, steadily uh toward uh the cross. And Mark wants us to see that the cross and the glory of Jesus are inseparable. Six days earlier, Jesus had told his disciples that he would be rejected and put to death. And on the way down the mountain, he reminds them of this. He says, Don't tell anyone what you've seen until the Son of Man is risen from the dead. Now, the transfiguration is an essential sustaining vision for every disciple because it's a vision that reveals that glory comes after. Suffering. It's a vision that shows us that glory comes after suffering. You see, the transfiguration is a preview of the glory of Jesus, the coming glory that's being manifest in the resurrection, in the ascension, and his enthronement, and in the full level of the Jesus. Of his glory when he returns a second time. The cloud on the mountain is the visible expression of the invisible glory of God. It's the same cloud that brought Israel up out of Egypt and led it through the wilderness. It's the cloud that descends on the tabernacle when it's completed. It's the glory cloud that fills the temple when it's dedicated, and it is on this same cloud that Jesus will return to earth. The transfiguration is a pledge to us that he will come again in glory. And what's more is that Mark is preparing us to see the hidden glory in the shame of the cross. He's preparing us to see the paradox of the glory that is there in the cross. Now, Jesus and Peter and John and James, they're having this conversation going down uh the mountain and they are puzzled. They cannot put this together. They not just don't like the idea somehow when Jesus talks about being rejected and dying 'Cause to be resurrected you have to die first, right? They did understand that much. Um and it just doesn't fit for them. Now they like Well, all uh believing Jews in their day believed there would be a general resurrection of the dead. at the end of human history. They were completely confident that what uh happened. And they cannot figure out how Jesus, who's the Messiah could be resurrected apart from that general resurrection. In fact, it just doesn't square up with all the things they've been taught in the synagogue about what the prophets are saying about what lies in the future for Israel. And so they asked this question, why do the scribes, reflecting the teaching of the prophets, say Elijah must first come? Meaning before the end, before the establishment of the final expression of God's kingdom. And Jesus says, well, you're right. They're right. Elijah does come He asks a counter question, and then he surprises them by saying, Elijah has come. And he means John the Baptist. Elijah has come in the person of John the Baptist. You see, like Elijah, John the Baptist came to the people of Israel, not simply dressing and eating the same diet that John did. locusts and and honey. You can try that when you get at home and see how it is. But he came in the spirit and power of Elijah to bring God's people to a place of repentance. And as Elijah confronted a wicked king and his wife, so John does as well. Elijah is a man with a bounty on his head, but he escaped. Jezebel's grasp. But John does not. He's imprisoned and beheaded. You see, what Jesus is saying here is that John has lived out the pattern of Elijah's life. He has suffered. And Jesus' question then gets at the heart of the matter. What can the death and resurrection have to do with the Son of Man, of Jesus? Jesus and they really don't understand. The disciples need to see Jesus glory They need to see and experience His Majesty on the mountain as he moves to the cross. As he is rejected by the leaders, as he is crucified by the Romans God the Father here in speaking affirms that Jesus is more than human. He is the divine Son of Man, the second person of the Trinity. God the Son. And it is the Son of Man who must suffer and die before his glory will be manifest. And you and I need this sustaining vision because the very pattern of Jesus' life is the pattern of ours. It is the pattern of first suffering and then glory. This is how you make sense of what you experience in this life as a Christian. In fact, and this is free, it's not even in my notes. John Calvin published a little book that's buried in the Institutes called The And in it, uh what he does is he shows uh from the New Testament that the pattern of Christ's life, of suffering and humiliation, are also the pattern of the life of the Christian. And then there is glory in exaltation. But he adds this insight, which is that in the course of our lives we have moments of not just suffering, but we also have moments when we rise out of the suffering and have a taste of glory, a taste of exaltation. But we don't stay there, we come back down into the valley of suffering. This is the pattern of the Christian life, and we need this vision of what happened on the mountain to sustain us. Are you willing to wait for glory? Many people in the church today, I hope it's none of you But many people in the church today are like a little child that simply cannot wait. They remember only the parts of Scripture that speak of wealth and the promise of happiness and of God's uh goodness. and glory. And they're deaf to the call of discipleship, a call for self sacrifice, of suffering in bearing one's cross. You see they want to skip from the freshman level course, the one oh one, Right there to the graduate course. Stuff win 101, Glory999. I just want to go right to Glory 999 without the prerequisite. And Mark is teaching us that Jesus the Messiah must carry a cross, embrace humility and shame, and renounce earthly power. And that the disciples must do these things too. See, Mark is going to show us from now to the cross that what the disciples want is glory. They want to share his power over the demons. They want to be great. They want to control others. They want to be rewarded. And they want the most prestigious possible places of honor in Jesus' kingdom. And well, if we were honest, we want some of that too You see, we're tempted by our own desire for a life of leisure, of pleasure, of ease. We want others to serve us in ways small and great. In fact, today's often one of the very few days that the mothers are served by their families instead of being the other way uh around. And we are tempted by earthly power. We are tempted to try to bring uh God's rule God's kingdom into place by the use of worldly power instead of recognizing that the kingdom of God now Is in fact a place of suffering and not yet a place of glory. When Jesus returns, and only when he returns, visibly and bodily, will his Glorious kingdom be manifest and visible and expressed in all its totality It's true, and it's so important for you to realize this, and this is part of what Jesus is getting at in this seemingly strange and dark statement at the very beginning of chapter 9 about his kingdom. Of God has broken into human history because the king is here. That's how Jesus begins his ministry. The kingdom of God is near. Why is it near? Well, because the king is there He doesn't say it that way, because the picture of the people of that time is someone who's actually going to ascend to the throne, who's going to throw out the Roman oppressors, who's going to exalt Israel above all other nations, and he's not playing into that at all. That's one of the reasons why only three people are up there on the mountain Because otherwise, well, no would want to take Jesus captive to that agenda. The consummation is not yet. And like them we must follow Jesus in humility and weakness and suffering Friends, the very same powers that killed John and crucified Jesus are still at work in the world today. They can still inflict great suffering on us, on the people of God, and on the church. We live in difficult times, and we shouldn't be surprised. That we are not being invited to the table of decision making in our culture, or that instead we are slandered, we are misunderstood, in fact we are despised and hated. We shouldn't be at all surprised that we are marginalized and we should not think that it's our calling to muscle our way up uh to the the table of leadership in society and take our place there. Now we shouldn't expect honor but dishonor, not strength and power, but weakness and humility. The transfiguration is the sustained vision of what we need to grow as individuals. It's the vision that sustains and fuels our pursuit of personal transformation. I'm not going to read these passages from 2 Peter, but when 2 Peter recounts his experience of the transfiguration, He does it in the context of calling Christians to pursue Christ-likeness. He opens chapter 1 reminding them that God has provided everything necessary for them to be restored to the image of God. of God. And then he calls them to grow. And he says, Grow in goodness, and to your goodness add knowledge. And to your knowledge add self-control. And to self-control add perseverance. And to perseverance godliness. Into godliness, brotherly kindness, and love. And then he says that our making an eternal difference, our spiritual usefulness, our Our spiritual effectiveness in God's kingdom depends on our growth. And the transfiguration in the transformation of Jesus shows us not just growth. glory of Jesus, but the glory that we will share as we're made into his likeness. Peter underscores, this is not a fantasy This is part of the antidote to the cynicism and skepticism, not only out there, but in us This glimpse of glory, this vision of glory fuels our growth. It shows us where we're going. It's our destiny. It's who we are becoming. And it answers something very deep within us. The disciples don't understand what kind of king Jesus is. He will win by losing. He will give away power. He will suffer and not immediately enter his glory. Friends, there's a lot about following Jesus that's perplexing. And if you haven't had this experience yet, you will. You'll be just like these men coming down the mountain with Jesus, and you'll be scratching your head saying, what's up with that? Why is it this way? And the last beautiful thing to see here is that Jesus doesn't abandon them in their puzzlement. He stays right with them as he does with us. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, may you be pleased to burn into our hearts and minds. This vision. Though we have not stood on this mountain, we now by faith see Jesus Christ in the heavens. Sitting at your right hand on the throne, bringing all things into captivity and into submission to Him. Oh, we long for that day. We long for that in ourselves as well as our land and all the globe, for we pray in Christ's name