It really is a delight to be back with you this morning on this brisk December morning. You can see in your bulletin this morning that we're going to be turning our attention. To the Book of Romans, Romans chapter eight And we are going to be focusing, as it says there in your bulletin, on the passage beginning at verse 18. There in Romans 8. But I'm going to back up just a little bit for the purposes of our reading. I'm going to back up to verse 12 so that we can get our bearings just a little bit. So Romans 8, beginning at verse 12, please stand with me for the reading of God's Word. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him And now at verse 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility. Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom Of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation. But we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies, for in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees. But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Let me pray for us. Our great God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your servant, the Apostle Paul, who wrote these words. And now we hear them as your words to us today. And so we pray that you would give us ears to hear. Minds to learn, hearts to receive, and obey. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated It is rarely the case. It is the exception and not the rule that a preacher uses an illustration in a sermon, and that illustration is remembered 15 years later. That is not usually how it works, but every once in a while it happens. You've got the exception And not the rule. Every once in a while, sure enough, a preacher uses an illustration in a sermon, and for one reason or another, the illustration sticks In somebody's heart and mind, and maybe it even sticks for around 15 years. I remember a sermon illustration that I heard around 15 years ago. I was a student in seminary. It was a chapel message at the seminary. The preacher was from Scotland. And so the sermon illustration that day was taken from the British television program Doctor Who. Here in the U. S. , we don't get a whole lot of sermon illustrations from Doctor Who. But that day we did. And so that day I learned a thing or two about Doctor Who. And here's what I learned. In Doctor Who, the protagonist, appropriately named the Doctor. Travels space and time in this special space and time travel machine that from the outside appears to be nothing more than an ordinary police phone booth. But then when you step inside, it turns out that this thing is a whole lot bigger on the inside than it appeared from the outside. When you step inside. Lo and behold, it turns out that it really is a rather expansive, fully equipped space and time travel machine. And if you're in the know, you know that it's called The TARDIS. Let me say, by the way, that if you're a fan of Doctor Who, a friend of mine in England alerted me to this, there is A police phone booth located on Earl's Court Road in London. And if you go there using Google Earth and you see that phone booth sitting there, if you click on it. It takes you into the TARDIS. So there's a little bonus for you this morning. So 15 years ago, he starts telling us about this TARDIS. And the point of the illustration was this the gospel is like that. The gospel turns out to be so much more grand and glorious on the inside. Than it first appeared from the outside. The good news of the gospel looks a certain way to the unbeliever. It even looks a certain way to the new believer. But when you've climbed in and stayed in, When you've given it time and thought, when you've given it faith and experience, that's when you begin to see, oh my, there's more here than I realized at first. That's when you begin to say, The gospel is so much greater than I knew at first. It's what we might call the surprising grandeur of the gospel. And I think the reason that illustration touched a nerve with me 15 years ago, and the reason that it still does is that even then it resonated so much with my experience. And it still does. And I'd say that it's even a kind of confirmation of that sermon illustration that it only rings true for me. More than it did then. Fifteen years later, the gospel has only gotten bigger and bigger. The gospel itself hasn't changed, but as I've changed, as I've grown, the gospel has changed. Has loomed larger and larger, so much more grand and glorious. Now, the reason that I shamelessly recycle that sermon illustration here this morning is that this passage here in Romans 8, this passage shows us that reality. This passage shows us that sure enough the gospel turns out to be more More grand and glorious than we might have thought at first. To be more specific, this passage shows us that being a child of God, being a child of God, turns out to be. More grand and glorious on the inside. As Christians, we might have certain notions as to what it means to be a child of God. Well, then we turn to this passage here in Romans 8, and this passage begins to expand our horizon. It begins to stretch our understanding of what it means to be a child of God. Because what we learn here in Romans 8 in this passage. Is that for the children of God, there are future blessings in store that for many Christians are barely on the radar screen. So that we've got a lot to learn from Paul here, in this passage here in Romans 8. So we're going to reflect upon Paul's words here this morning. If you look on the very back of your bulletin, you can And see how we're going to go about it. You'll find there an outline. First of all, we're going to focus on these future blessings that are in store. And you can see there in the handout, in the outline. What those blessings are. They are the renewal of the world and the resurrection of the body. So, first of all, we're going to camp out and focus on those. And then, second of all, we're going to stop and think about the impact that it makes now. That those blessings are in store for us. So that's how we're going to go about it this morning. First of all, future blessings. That's the glory. And then, second of all, present impact. That's the groaning. So let's think, first of all, then about these blessings that are in store. When you climb into the truth of our adoption and look around and see how grand and glorious it is. One of the things that meets your eyes is this, the promise of the renewal of the world. And you can see it there beginning in verse 19. Look again at Verse 19. Paul says, For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. In hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. So you see what Paul is saying there about the created order around us. He's saying that thanks to our fall into sin. And then thanks to the curse that God justly imposed as a result of our fall into sin. The result is that the created order is groaning. It's groaning under the weight of futility and corruption. There's a sense in which, as you look around at the world around you, there's a sense in which things are not now the way they are supposed to be. The created order is racked with frustration and failure and disaster and And so Paul pictures it, he personifies it as groaning, he personifies the created order as waiting eagerly. Now notice what it's waiting eagerly for. And you see this again in verse 19. The created order around us, the rocks. And the trees and the bushes I can see outside that window. The created order is waiting eagerly, Paul says, for the revealing of the sons of God. So Paul pictures the creation as longing for the day when we are going to be revealed as the children of God. Which is going to be the day when Jesus comes back. And what a revelation day that's going to be. We are going to be revealed. We are going to be unveiled. Because we're going to be openly acknowledged and acquitted by God. And we're going to be made perfectly happy in the knowledge of God. We're going to be beautiful in holiness. We're even going to be beautiful, glorious in our bodies. God's going to be able to look at us and say, Behold, they are very good. He's going to be able to look at us and say, These are my beloved sons and daughters with whom I am well pleased. On that day, that last day, we're going to be revealed, we're going to be unveiled. like that. Now here's what's remarkable about this. Just think about the question. Why is creation, I mean the created order around us, why is creation longing for that, for our revelation? I mean, to put it bluntly, why does creation care about us? the rocks and the trees and the and the bushes, what's creation going to get out of that? What's the vested interest that the created order has in our revelation as the children of God? What's the connection? Well, there are several connections, I think. For starters, the connection is this the day when we are revealed like that. When we are unveiled as the children of God, well, that's going to be the same day that the creation is finally set free. All of that's going to happen at the same time, at the end of the age. And it's as if the created order, the rocks and the trees and the bushes, it's as if creation gets it in the way that Paul is personifying it. It's as if creation understands that all of that's going to happen on the day when Jesus comes back. Now, the Bible does not go into straightforward clinical detail about what the liberation of creation is going to be like at the end of the year. There's some mystery here. We get to use our imagination here. In some way or another, it must be That on the day that Jesus comes back, God is going to exercise his almighty power toward the created order in such a way that it shines, in such a way that it has beauty and glory like never before. In such a way that there is no more futility, no more corruption the way we know it now. And again, it's as if creation gets it. Creation knows that that's going to happen. It's going to be set free on the same day when we are revealed, we are unveiled. No wonder then that Paul pictures creation. As longing, waiting eagerly for that day, the day of our revelation. So there's that connection. We might call it the chronological connection. It's all going to happen at the same time. But then I think we can take it a step further. There's another connection. It's not just that those two things are going to happen at the same time, our revelation, creation's liberation. It's also that the liberation of creation, in a way, is going to be a part of our revelation. Think about it, we won't be fully revealed. Until we've finally been given a home that's worthy of us, worthy of the sons and daughters of God. That itself is going to be a part of our unveiling Well, sure enough, what's the worthy home that we're going to be given forever and ever? It's going to be this world. That's just it. It's going to be this world. Made new. It's going to be this world set free. Think about Jesus' promise, his beatitude Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Well, the very reality of that inheritance, when we come into our inheritance, including this earth made new, that's going to be an aspect of the Display of who we are as the children of God. You can put a crown on a man's head and call him king, but he hasn't been truly revealed as king. Until he arrives at the palace and crosses the threshold and begins to live there and reign there. and thrive there. That's when it's been made clear like never before. That's when he has been revealed as king. As royal son, like never before. That's why creation is longing for our revelation. Because our revelation is going to include the glorification of the ground we stand on. That's why creation is groaning, Paul says in verse 21, to obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. Imagine saying to creation, imagine saying to the rocks and the trees, why are you longing for our glory, for my glory? Don't you want your own? Well, if you say that, creation is going to answer back. Don't you get it? Your glory is my own. Your freedom is my freedom Because we're all in this together. Imagine the created order saying to you as a child of God, the created order says to you, I was made for you. And then, the creation story, you, child of God, were made from me. Well, a day is coming, says the created order, when I am going to To be remade for you, to be your everlasting home. That is what is in store for us. Us. And the point is that we ought to think about that prospect, the liberation, the glorification of creation. We ought to think about that as an aspect of the experience of our adoption. If I'm a child of God, and by the grace of God I am, if I'm a child of God, then it has to be that someday God is going to glorify the world. It has to be Why? Because a world like this one, I mean, the world the way we find it now, as Paul says, a world of futility and corruption, a world like this is just not fitting. It is not worthy. To serve as the everlasting residence of the children of God. Things cannot stay this way if I'm a child of God, and I am, and I'm not the only one. There's a whole new humanity. That is the children of God. And so it has to be, it has to be that this world is going to be set free to be our ever So the renewal of the world. That's one of these future blessings that stands out here in Romans 8. But then there's a second one. And it's the promise of the resurrection of the body. That's here too. Not just the renewal of the world, but the resurrection of the body as well. Look again at verse 23. Paul says, not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. So here too, Paul is pointing us forward, all the way forward, to the day when Jesus is going to come back. Because one of the things he's going to do when he comes back is he's going to give us our bodies back. He's going to reunite us body and soul, and he's going to give us our bodies back with a glory that they have never had before. In the new world, our bodies are going to be imperishable and glorious and powerful. In the new world, in the resurrection world, our bodies are going to be like the body that Jesus has now. Paul says so in Philippians 3. He says that we're waiting for Jesus to come back, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. That's Philippians 3. And here again the point is the same. This is an aspect of our adoption. This is part of what it means to be the children of God. of God. And the logic's the same. If I'm a child of God, and by the grace of God I am, then it has to be, it has to be, that at the end of the age he's going to raise and glorify my body. Why? Because a body like this, the body the way we find it now, a body that's perishable, dishonorable, and weak. That's the way Paul describes it in 1 Corinthians 15. A body like this is not fitting. It is not worthy to serve as the everlasting garment of a child of God. It has to be that one day the body is going to be raised and made glorious. And so that's why Paul can say here in verse 20. That's what we're looking forward to is adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. Now that phrase is remarkable twice over. Paul says, adoption is sons, the redemption of our bodies. It's remarkable, first of all, because he's talking about our adoption as something future, which isn't the way we tend to think about it. And it's remarkable, second of all, because he seems to be equating Adoption and the resurrection of the body, but that's just it. Those two realities go together. They're intertwined. Our adoption and our resurrection, our bodily resurrection. So that if you can imagine a believer saying to the Apostle Paul, Look, Paul, isn't it the case that I'm a child of God already in this life? Well, imagine the Apostle Paul saying back to that Christian, yes, but. Yes, it's true. By faith in Jesus, you are already a child of God in this life. But Your sonship won't really be complete until you're dressed like one. Until you look like one. Your experience as a child of God won't really be complete. until you are clothed with a body that is imperishable, glorious, powerful, until you are clothed with a body that in many ways is like the body that you are seeing. So you see, putting all of this together, it's not just that things can't stay this way, so that the world around me has to be Renewed. That's true, but there's more. It's also that I can't stay this way. My body has to be renewed. And it's the truth that we are the children of God that clinches both of those problems. It can't be any other way. So that's why I say when you climb into the truth of your adoption and look around, it turns out to be so much more grand and glorious than you might have thought. We are the children of God. Therefore, the world's going to be liberated. The body's going to be raised. That's how grand this is. That's how cosmic this is, literally cosmic. The renewal of the world. So let me challenge you at this point. Does your own understanding of what it means to be a child of God Does it match that of the Apostle Paul here in Romans 8? Is it as grand as his? Is it as cosmic as his? Just think about the question: what does it mean to you that you're a child of God? Certainly it means that you've been welcomed into the family of God. Certainly it means that you're now the object of the fatherly favor of God. All of that's true, but keep going. Do you grasp what that means? It means that one day he's going to renew the whole world for you. The world around us. He's going to take it and he's going to make it shine. And then he's going to give it to you as a present from a father to a child. He's going to make it glorious and he's going to give it to you to be your everlasting home in which to live and work and play and worship and rejoice. And it means that he's going to raise your body so that you have a glorious body that fits the glorious world that's your home. It's all going to fit so well. That's all part of what it means to be a child of God. That's part of our hope as the children of God. Does your own understanding of a Adoption match that of Paul. It's a good test for any church to take. If the members of a given church were to be examined about Christian hope, If they were to be asked, what's your ultimate hope as a child of God, how many of them would even mention the resurrection of the body? How many would even think of it? How many of us would think of it? Or does the horizon of our hope Our thinking about what's in store. Does it go no farther than going to be with Jesus when I die, bodies still in the ground? Now, don't get me wrong, that is a staggering prospect. That is a glorious prospect. Going to be with Jesus. Right after death, body still in the ground. I long for that. I groan for that. You should too. But here's the point. If your understanding of Christian hope only goes that far and no farther, then it doesn't go far enough. It doesn't go as far as Romans 8 requires of you. Romans 8 says keep going. Romans 8 pulls on you. Tugs you to a greater and grander hope than that. The day when Christ comes back, renews the world, gives you your body with glory. The charge is made by some theologians today that Christians barely believe these things anymore. That Christians have all but lost the hope of the resurrection of the body, that Christians don't have any notion of the coming renewal of the world. That's the charge that some are making. And I'd simply challenge you today, prove them wrong. If only in this congregation, in your families, in your life, prove that charge wrong. And magnify the resurrection of the body. Talk about it. Pray about it. In the way that you pray for one another when somebody's sick. Mention the resurrection of the body. And learn to look forward to the renewal of the world. Because in Romans 8, your hope as a Christian really is as great as Grand and cosmic is all of that. So that is what is in store for us And that brings us to the second point, the other point that I want us to notice here this morning, which is: what's the present impact that's made in our lives? By this grand and glorious hope. What's the impact in the present? What does the gospel do to us? Well, in short, according to this passage in Romans 8, what the gospel does to us is to make us groan. It makes us groan. We've already seen that the created order is personified as groaning. Well, now the point is that we're groaning as well. And what is this groaning that Paul's talking about here? It's that deep inward expression of emotion that runs too deep for words. And you know, sometimes it doesn't stay inward. Sometimes you can actually hear it with your ears from a believer who is feeling deeply, who is pained deeply. That's what groaning is. And here we can learn where that groaning comes from, what accounts for it. Groaning like this, Romans 8, groaning. It's the sound that you hear at the intersection of pain and hunger. That's what accounts for it. Groaning is what you hear where pain and hope meet. Because on the one hand, you're pained because you have a sense that right now things are not the way they're supposed to be. But then mixed with that is hope, which is your even deeper sense that someday they will be. That's what makes you groan. If you just have hope, but somehow you've managed to numb yourself against the pains of this life. You won't groan so much. On the other hand, if you've got a lot of pain, but no sense of hope You won't have this Romans 8 groaning, not the real thing. You need them both. Pain and hope, that's what makes you groan. Paul says there in verse 25 that this glorious hope, we wait for it with patience. But brothers and sisters, that doesn't mean that we wait for it with indifference, as if we didn't care. As if we weren't affected by the way things are now. It can only be real patience if you are affected. That's what makes it patience. Otherwise, it's just stoicism. It's just numbness. And there's nothing patient about that. There's nothing Christian, there's nothing spiritually admirable about just numbing yourself. No, we are affected. We do feel. And so we do hope. And that's what makes us groan. So there's a wonderful irony here. Strictly speaking, it's not true to say that for the believer the gospel makes things worse. After all, it's gospel. It's good. So it can't be that the gospel makes things worse. But here's the irony. It is definitely true to say that for the believer, the gospel is so good that it makes him groan. That's the irony of the gospel. It actually has the effect of making us feel more pained by the way things are now, by the way our bodies are now, because the gospel wakes us up. The gospel has the effect of waking us up and making us realize just how wide is the gulf between the way things are now and the way things are supposed to be. The way things are going to be. Because apart from the gospel, you can become somewhat numb to that. Apart from the gospel, some people are practically dead to that. That. But thanks to the gospel and the ministry of the Spirit, you wake up and you feel it, and you feel it deeply. And that's what makes you groan. And it's actually a good thing. It's actually a good sign, if that's characteristic of your experience. You wouldn't want it to be any other way. Every once in a while you you read in the news one of those hard stories about a child who was born with that rare medical condition that makes it so that his body does not feel physical pain. Maybe you've read one of those stories. Maybe you've Maybe you've seen it on the news. Maybe you know the long unpronounceable medical name for that condition. I don't know it. But you you read a story like that, or you see a news piece like that, you hear about a child like that Unable to feel pain. And at first you might think, that would be fantastic. That would be great. Where do I sign up? I get to go through life without pain. I mean, if that were an option on the table, my kids would probably be saying, sign me up They would say, even if I have to get a shot to get it, it would be the last shot that would hurt. So I'll take it, even if it takes two. That would be fantastic. But then you keep reading the article, or you keep watching the news piece, and they start to interview the parents. And that's when you realize. That wouldn't be great. That would be a nightmare. Because you're not supposed to be that way. In a world like this one, we're supposed to feel physical Pain. It's actually dangerous not to feel pain. Do you know what those parents would give if they could bring it about that their children would feel pain? We're supposed to be pained. Well, it's the same thing spiritually. We're supposed to groan. We're supposed to be pained by the futility and the corruption that characterize creation. We ought to be pained by the realities of bodily decay and death. It's not that pain of itself is a good thing. It's not. And that's why we're longing for a future world in which there will not be any pain. But it's that the capacity to be pained by that which is truly and rightly painful, that's the way we ought to be. And the point is, that's what the gospel does to us more and more. It sharpens our senses so that when you climb into the gospel and stay in, the more you believe it and grasp it, And live with it and walk with it. Well, the more you learn to groan over the way things are now, the more you learn to long for the way things are going to be. It would make, um, admittedly for a rather off-beat evangelistic appeal, but listen, the church can say to the world, the Christian can say to the non-Christian, Come to Christ, and I promise you, you will feel pains that you have never felt before. Come to Christ, trust in Christ and walk with Him, and I promise you, you will groan Like never before. It's like when somebody works out after they haven't worked out for a while. What are they saying the next morning? They're saying, I'm feeling pains in places I didn't even know I could feel pains. Well, come to Christ, come in and stay in, and you will feel pains that you never even knew were possible. But you'll also have the hope of a day when those pains will be no more. Because you will be a child of God. So we need to put to death any notion that groaning like this, Romans 8 groaning, is somehow beneath the child of God. Or that it manifests a sinful discontentment with the ways of God. There is a world of difference between Romans 8 groaning. And sinful grumbling. A world of difference between godly groaning and sinful grumbling. And to see the difference, you only need to take a look at your Savior. Just think about Jesus himself. Jesus groaned, but he never grumbled Jesus wept, but he never whined. Jesus sweat, drops of blood on the ground, but he never once shook his fist at heaven Jesus groaned, and here's the key. He did so as one who grasped the gospel. Now, obviously, he didn't grasp it as a redeemed sinner the way we do. He grasped it as the divine redeemer. But that's just it. Was there ever anyone Who realized the way Jesus realized how wide the gulf is between the way things are now and the way things are supposed to be, the way things are going to be. That's what made him groan. The Gospel writers tell us that he wept and sighed. The writer of Hebrews tells us that Jesus offered up prayers and supplications. With loud cries and tears. And when Jesus wept, he wept with all his heart and soul and mind and strength. It was an expression of love for his father that he wept like that. The fact that he was the Son of God The fact that he had a perfect grasp of the gospel, that didn't make his weeping half-hearted. That didn't mean that he was somehow untouchable by the pain above it all, no. It made his weeping more intense than yours and mine has ever been. Whatever precisely he looked like and sounded like, we don't know. But what it felt like, that we have never known. And we never will. So just think about your Savior. And don't be ashamed to groan, sometimes even out loud You know, sometimes in prayer, that's about all you can manage is a groan. And that's okay Because at the right hand of the throne in heaven is a high priest who understands, who can hear your wordless groaning and say, Yes, I understand. I know what it's like. Don't be ashamed to groan When we got started today, I said that it was fifteen years ago. Fifteen years ago that I heard that Doctor Who. Sermon illustration. Fifteen years ago, and I still remember it. Most likely 15 years from now, you are not going to remember this worship service. And that's okay. Let me ask you this, what do you really remember from nineteen ninety-eight 15 years ago. France won the World Cup. Remember that. This year, 2013, Christy and I I celebrated our 15th wedding anniversary, so I would be in big trouble if the only thing I remembered from 1998 was that France won the World Cup. But the fact is, we don't remember all that much as the years go by. And that's okay. So the real question is not: 15 years from now, are you going to remember this worship service? The real question is, 15 years from now, assuming you're still here, are you going to be more in awe of the gospel than you are today? Ironically, the question is: are you going to be groaning more than you are today? Isn't the gospel wonderful, so wonderfully counterintuitive that it makes us want that? We actually want it to be the case that years from now we'll be groaning more intensely for the world to come than we are today. Wouldn't that be great? So I urge you this morning, lift your heads, lift your heads from the present and look down the horizon of the future. Look all the way down, all the way down. To the end of this life, and then squint some more and keep looking. And look all the way to the end of the age. And see the life to come, and the world to come, and the body to come, and groan for it. Because be assured that day is coming. A day is coming when faith will give way to sight, a day when. Groaning will give way to singing, nothing but singing, because the gospel really is that great. Let's pray together. Our Lord Jesus, we thank you that it's true that the gospel is so great, because you are such a great Savior as this. We look up to you now with the eyes of faith, and we see you there, wearing glorified human nature at the right hand of the Father We see you with the eyes of faith, and we rejoice in you, and we groan. We pray that you would have mercy upon us. We pray that you would sustain us in such a world as this one. And we ask it for your glory and our good. Amen.