Let's please stand as we read from Matthew 18. If you are following along in your Bibles, it's Matthew 18, 15 through 20. And uh I'm going to be actually talking about the first verse, uh verse 15. But let's read this for a little more context. It says in Matthew 18, 15, If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you. If two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them Please be seated. Amen. Thank you, Mark. Jesus said in the Beatitudes, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Paul says in Romans, if possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Peace is a good thing, right? God wants us all to live peaceably with one another. But sadly, in this fallen world, we don't always have peace. Because of sin, selfishness, pride, whatever, we oftentimes have conflicts with others. Sometimes we're at fault. Sometimes other people are at fault. Most of the time it's a combination of the two. But no matter what the cause, the Lord commands us that whenever we're in conflict with other with other people, We must resolve it. We have to resolve it and be reconciled to the other person. We're not given an option. As such, the Lord doesn't just merely tell us to be at peace with others. He also gives us abundant instruction and guidance on how to be at peace with one another. others, and when the peace is broken and we have conflict with others, how to resolve those conflicts. Biblical peacemaking is a very broad and complex subject So tonight, so there's a lot to be said about it, but tonight I want to focus on this one verse here, Matthew 18, 15, which deals with what do we do, what's our response, what's the biblical response when someone sins against us. How are we supposed to handle that? Now, this is pretty basic teaching, but it's something that we all need to constantly, well that we need to learn about and constantly be reminded about and encouraged in. So children, this is for you too. This isn't just for the grown-ups. This is for everyone. And if you've been a Christian for a long time, this is for you too, because we all need to be reminded of these things. So before we launch into this, before I talk about what we're supposed to do when someone has sent against us and we're in conflict with others, I want to address one thing that we're not supposed to do, a wrong approach, and that's to ignore conflict. If you have a conflict with someone, if they sinned against you, It's never the right thing to just sweep it under the rug or ignore it or run away from it. Uh in other words, you you you should never deny that it exists. Um God never gives us that option. And whether that's true whether someone has sinned against us, because we see here, Jesus said, If someone sins against you go and talk to him about it. Confront him. But that's also true if we sinned against others. Jesus said if you're offering your You're giving your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you. Go, leave your offering there at the altar, and go and be reconciled to your brother. So in any case, if you have conflict, we're supposed to get it resolved. We don't have the option of ignoring it. So uh fleeing from the problem, fleeing from a conflict, and sometimes uh people flee from conflicts, they either they ignore it or they they flee from it and uh sometimes break off relationships and leave relationships. uh rather than getting them resolved. And uh that's not that doesn't solve the problem. It doesn't uh It doesn't reconcile you to your brother. Now, you know, there may be cases where you know ultimately you have to break off a relationship, but still you have to deal with conflict. And if you uh just ignore conflicts, then it'll come back to bite you. That could that leads to bitterness. Hebrews twelve fifteen Tox says See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled. So if you ignore conflicts, that often is the root of bitterness. And when you do things like that, then many people are going to be defiled by that. So, what not to do when you have conflict, and that's just ignore it. We're not allowed to ignore it. So what are we supposed to do? Well, it depends on the conflict. Uh sometimes when someone sins against you It's so minor that what God wants us to do is overlook that minor offense. In other words, turn the other cheek. And uh This isn't the same as ignoring the conflict. You're still dealing with the conflict. You're making a conscious choice to turn the other cheek and overlook a minor offense and involves forgiving. There's a scriptural basis for it. There's lots of verses in the Bible that talks about this. Proverbs 1911 It says, good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense. So oftentimes it's good to just overlook an offense if it's minor. Proverbs 12, 16: a fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult. Proverbs 17, 14. Starting a quarrel is like breaching a dam. So drop the matter before a dispute breaks out. And 1 Peter 4. 8, above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. So if you love someone, you're often willing to over uh overlook uh minor offenses. You know, whether it's a spouse or your children or your parents or a sibling or a brother and sister in the Lord or anyone. If you're willing to love them, then you're not going to let little things bother you. And I think that's an important principle. Not making big deals out of little things. Loving the person enough that you're not going to let little annoyances. uh get you very angry at them. Okay, so often so you can see that that's not a matter of just ignoring a conflict, but choosing to overlook a minor offense. Now the question is, oftentimes offenses aren't minor. So how do you distinguish between minor offenses and when an offense is too serious to overlook so that you have to confront the person? Well, ask yourself some questions. First of all, is the offense that that person did against you, is it dishonoring to God? Is the for instance, is the person's sin affecting his or her Christian witness? Is it causing people to think less of God or less of his word or less of the church because of what that person did to you? Let me give you an example. Well, let me give you a verse first. Romans 3, 2, 2, 23 through 24. You who boast in the law dishonor God by breaking the law. For it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. And we don't want that said of us or of the other person. So here's some examples. If a person mistreats their spouse, the spouse might be willing to forget that or forgive that. uh and and turn the other cheek. But if that's done, say for instance, in the presence of non Christian family members, uh, you know Over Christmas time or something, uh, or Thanksgiving dinner or something like that. Is it making, is is it harming the Christian witness? You know, are people looking at the at that person and say, well, this is the way this person treats his wife, or this is the way uh his wife uh the the the you know the wife treats the husband. You know, and they're they're supposed to be Christians. So, you know, the spouses may be you know willing to overlook these things, but is it a bad witness to others? And so, you know, uh in that case, you know, you're you're setting a bad example. And so um, you know, something should be done about it. Uh Or, for instance, just a hypothetical example, a Christian businessman or a Christian boss who mistreats you. You might be willing to uh forgive them and overlook the offense, but do other people see that? You know, is that uh supposed Christian businessman cheating someone else? So maybe you need to talk to them about it. Uh or uh, you know, is that supposed Christian boss uh mistr you know, y you might be willing to overlook them mistreating you But what does that say to his witness among other co-workers? So there's an you know an example of someone's offense bringing dishonor to God. More often though is the question is, is this offense damaging our relationship? So, you know, you might be willing to be patient, you might be willing to turn the other cheek, but you might find that it's it's doing damage to your relationship, in which case, you know, it's it's not the the holy thing to say, well I'm just gonna forget about it. The right thing to do is to confront them on it. So for instance, if you find you simply can't bring yourself to forgive an offense and it's doing damage to your relationship, then you're under an obligation to go and talk to the person about it. Or it might be just a minor annoyance, but it gets repeated so often that you need to finally start addressing it because it's starting to build up resentment Another thing is that you might be willing to overlook an offense, but is that offense to you? Is it possibly hurting other people? Um, you know, maybe imperiling others or causing damage to others. Uh or even more important, is it setting a bad example for other Christians, especially our kids? So uh, you know. A husband and a wife might be willing to overlook a minor offense, but is it setting bad examples for the kids if you see that the kids are starting to do the same thing? So that's something to think about. Or within a church. I mean, you might be having a conflict with someone in the church. And, you know, you choose to um overlook the conflict. But if that if that sin became public, could it do damage to the church? Could it split people in And so you might have to deal with the conflict then. And finally, another question to ask, is someone sinning against you and You know, you might think it's a minor thing, but is it hurting that person? Is it hurting the offender? Um you know, is it somehow causing damage to him or harming his relationship with God or with other people? Uh you know in that case you need to take responsibility and look out for the person. You know, it says in Philippians uh to not merely look out for your own personal interest but also for the interest of others. You might say, all right, well That person sinned against me. There's no skin off my nose. But that might be a sin against God also. And so you need to help that person by dealing with with the problem. Now, of course, that's not a a license to be a busybody and to go around and try to, you know. uh confront everyone in all their sins and all that. But it's it's looking out for them. Alright, so we're not supposed to ignore uh conflicts with others when they sin against us. But if it's a minor sin, then uh minor offense, then we should overlook it. And if we've uh gone through and uh determined though if it's if it's It's serious enough to do something about, then we have an obligation to go and confront the person. That's what Jesus is talking about in this passage. This assumes, too, that you've gotten the log out of your own eye. And that's a whole nother topic that I don't particularly I'm not going to address right now. And I'm going to take my coat off if you don't mind. Okay, so it says in Matthew 18, 15, it says, If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. So let's note several things from this. First of all, Jesus says that when someone sins against you, if your brother has sinned against you, go and tell him his fault. And what that means is you need to confront the person. Now confrontation is not always an easy thing, or oftentimes might put it this way. Confrontation rarely is an easy thing. It's hard to confront someone, but this is what we're supposed to do. And some people they avoid confrontation at all costs. That's not right. On the other hand, you could have people who love to confront other people And uh that's not a good thing either. Uh, you know, they say, oh, you know, Jesus says I'm supposed to tell someone their fault, whoop-de-doo, you know, I'm gonna relish this. And if that's the case, then that person has a problem and they need to get the log out of their own eye. But we're supposed to confront the person. Now, that's not the same as going and fighting with the other person either. You're supposed to do it in a loving way. Now note also it says who you're supposed to tell. It says, go and tell him his fault. It doesn't say in what in the hymn that's being referred to here is the brother who sinned against you. So if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault. The Lord doesn't say, if your brother sins against you, go and complain about it to anyone who will listen. He doesn't say if your brother sins against you, go and cry about it on your best friend's shoulder. He doesn't say that if your brother sins against you, go and request prayer about it. But in order for the other person to understand it, you have to give every little sordid detail of what that mean person did to you. These are all forms of gossip. If your brother sins he doesn't say if your brother sins against you, go tell mom and dad what your mean old sibling did to you. You need to try to can uh resolve these things yourself. So he wants you to t the the principle is, the important principle, and I think this is where, you know, a lot of people fall down and and and where a lot of trouble gets gets caused is that we're supposed to talk to that person directly. And not talk about them behind their backs. So if you're doing this, you're talking to the wrong person. Ultimately, it doesn't solve the problem, but it makes the matter worse. And uh when you're doing that too, it's unloving and disrespectful to the person who's offended you. And now you're now you're compounding the sin by sinning against them. through gossip. And another aspect of that too is that it separates the person with uh The person who's offended you, it separates that person from the person that you're talking to. And so now you're sinning against actually the per you know the the person that you know you're telling about this. And that gets back to this whole thing about the root of bitterness. You know, you're you're you're causing dissensions and uh breaking uh relationships And the Proverbs talk about that. Proverbs 16, 28 says, A dishonest man spreads strife, and a whisperer separates close friends. Proverbs 17, 9 Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends. And so that's not a good thing. That leads to broken relationships that can It could be harmful in families, it could be harmful in churches, and it's just it's just plain wrong. So you need to develop the habit of talking to the person with whom you're having the conflict rather than about the person. Now, that doesn't preclude seeking godly counsel or seeking encouragement, but you have to be very careful about that. You have to separate whether you're actually genuinely seeking godly counsel to be able to talk to another person, uh, or encouragement to be able to talk to the other person, or are you just plain gossiping? And ultimately, you have to talk to the person with whom you're having the conflict Now, also it says that Jesus says in this verse that the confrontation should be between you and him alone. You and him alone. The Lord doesn't say if your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault in front of everyone else. It says, go and show him his fault between you and him alone. So, for instance, parents, do you scold your children in front of other people? You know, this is an example of that. If your kids are sinning, they're offending you. You should take them in private and talk to them about it and be very careful about scolding them in front of other people. Children, do you fuss at your siblings in front of other people when they do something to annoy you or bother you? You should do it in private. And you should do it the right way, of course. So when we confront someone in front of other people, you're humiliating them. You're uh potentially harming their reputation or their authority in front of other people. And oftentimes you cause them to get defensive or angry or sullen or whatever. And you're creating another problem on top of the one that uh you're trying to solve. So now we learn from the rest of this passage that after you've talked to the person privately Then if that doesn't work, if you haven't won your brother over, then you're supposed to take it to other people, and in that case it's appropriate. And Jesus gives you very clear instructions on what to do. But the very first step should be to talk to your brother directly. Now, Jesus also says that if he listens to you, you have gained your brother. So the goal in uh proper biblical confrontation is to gain your brother. When you have conflicts with other people, your relationship with them gets broken. And when that happens, our obligation before the Lord is to be reconciled with your brother. And that's true no matter who's at fault, whether I'm the one who broke the relationship or whether they're the one who broke the relationship. The goal is to be reconciled with them. And since gaining our brothers are is our goal, then it's very important how we confront someone. When you confront someone, it should be constructive and not harmful. You know, the Lord doesn't say if your brother sins against you, go and lay into him until you've had your satisfaction. He says, you know, go and be reconciled to him. Go and show him his fault and the goal is to be reconciled to him and to win him back. You're not going to win him back. Um uh by you know yelling and screaming and fighting and carrying on and being mean and hurting the person and getting your revenge. It may make you feel good temporarily, but A, it's not glorifying to God, and B, it won't won't restore your broken relationship. It'll just compound the problem and cause more damage. So on the contrary, when we confront others, we're supposed to build them up. That's the goal. Ephesians 4. 29 says, let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, but only such is good for building up. As fits the occasion that it may give grace to those who hear. So we're supposed to build people up and we're supposed to give them grace, even when we're in confrontation with them. Even if we were upset and angry, the Lord said, get the log out of your own eye, and then you can get the speck out of your brother's eye. So be constructive. Uh and I know that in the heat of the moment, uh sometimes that's hard to do, but you really need to think about that. You know, you really need to think about are you doing damage? Or are you really trying to solve the problem and build the person up? And I think what's implied with that then is that we need to confront people with gentleness and patience. Now think about this. It says, Jesus says, your brother has sinned against you. And So, this person is caught in sin. Look at what it says in Galatians 6, 1 through 2. Brethren, even if a man is caught in any trespass, Even if a man is caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourselves lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens and thus fulfill the law of Christ. So, now when I've read this passage, you know, I always think of this in terms of You know, like say church discipline, someone's been caught in a bad sin or something like that. And you know the spiritual Christians, those who aren't caught in that sin, should help them. But this also applies to situations where someone has sinned against you. You know, they've been caught in a sin. So you have to realize they've been caught in a sin. Well, what's our response? We're supposed to be spiritual about it. That means we're supposed to approach it biblically biblically, excuse me. And then we're supposed to restore them. We're supposed to restore them. And, well, how do you do it? You do it with a spirit of gentleness. You don't come out there with guns blazing and blow them out of the water. You do it gently, and the goal is to restore them. And uh I love what it says too. Each one looking to yourselves lest you too be tempted. Realize that we're all sinners. And when you uh approach someone, don't do it in a sinful way. Get the log out of your own eye. and approach it lovingly, constructively, gently, and in a manner that wins your brother over. And by doing it, by doing it that way, you're bearing one another's burdens. We're helping one another. So that should be our approach. Another passage, 2 Timothy 2, verses 24 through 26. And this is one of my favorite passages. It says And the Lord's bond servant, and you know, I think the context of that in in 2 Timothy is probably talking about uh leaders in the church, but I think this applies to all of us. You know, we should all be bondservants of Christ. And the Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, be kind to all. Able to teach, patient when wronged. with gentleness correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. You know, when someone sins against you, In a sense, they're held, they're sinning, right? Well, not in a sense they're sinning. They're sinning. And in a sense, they're held captive by Satan doing his will. Well, what should be our approach? We shouldn't quarrel with them. We need to be kind. We need to be patient. We need to be gentle, we gently correct them biblically. And then it's God is the one who grants them the repentance, not the force of our words or the force of our anger that grants them repentance. It's God who grants them repentance. Our responsibility is to gently and lovingly make a biblical case to them and appeal to them and let God work in their hearts. And then let God uh uh free them from Satan's grip. So when you're gentle and patient with someone, It often helps the other person to be willing to listen and respond more positively. Proverbs 25, 15 says, Through patience a ruler can be persuaded and a gentle tongue can break a bone. Anna could break a you know a hard heart also if you're gentle. Uh so uh just one other uh Along with being gentle with the other person, something that's very helpful is to be willing to listen and be quick to listen. And we're familiar with James 119. This you know, but my beloved brethren, but let everyone be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. So by doing that, you know, you're lovingly helping to win the brother over. So uh We're not supposed to avoid conflicts, but if a conflict is minor, we should overlook it. We should turn the other cheek. Uh there are principles for determining whether uh an offense is minor or whether it's something that has to be dealt with. And if it is something that has to be dealt with, then the Lord gives us ways of dealing with it. We're supposed to tell him his fault, you're supposed to confront the person. You're supposed to confront that person and not talk about them behind their back. And it should be done in private. And it should be done. The goal is to gain your brothers. So we need to do it with gentleness and patience and be willing to listen. Now, if it doesn't work, like I said, you know, Jesus went on to talk about what you're supposed to do after that, and sometimes you need to get other people in involved to help you conciliate with the person. And that's another lesson. But in conclusion, God calls his people to love one another in a way that's radically different from that of the world. So this implies that we're to resolve our conflict in a way that's also radically different. Not in anger or bitterness or vengeance, but with love, patience, gentleness, and kindness. So let's let all of us with God's grace commit ourselves to resolving our conflicts in a loving and godly way. Thank you. Can I close in a word? Heavenly Father, uh thank you very much for the guidance that you give us in your word uh to how to uh deal with conflicts. And Lord, I do pray that uh As we uh since we live in this sinful world, uh it's s so often that uh uh we don't have peace with others The peace that you want us to have with others and the love that you want us to have with others. So often our relationships with others are broken. And Lord, I pray that Uh you would help us to live uh by the guidelines that you've given us to be peacemakers, uh to um Resolve conflicts in the ways that you want us to resolve them, and to love others in the way that you want us to love them. So Lord, we lift this up to you. We pray for the enabling power of your Holy Spirit in this and all these other areas. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.