Amen. Please remain standing. We'll just read right now from Philippians chapter four instead of me getting you up and down quite so much. Philippians chapter 4 verses uh 10 to 20. I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. Not that I'm speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble. And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only. Even in Thessalonica, you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit I have received full payment and more. I'm well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant offering. A sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches. In glory in Christ Jesus. To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. You may be seated. Now let me give you a moment, perhaps, to open a Bible, because I will be pointing out some things, and I will want to ask you to turn in a couple of moments to one other passage. And let's pray. Father, we thank you for your inspired, infallible, inerrant word that you have given to build us up. to strengthen us, to encourage us as well as to challenge us and correct us. Grant, Lord, that by your Spirit these very uh words that you have written to us through Christ's emissary Paul would come to reside in our hearts in such a way that they would bear all the fruit that you intend. Enable us to combine our hearing this morning with faith, that we might profit from your word. As it's been read and as it's expounded this morning, for we pray in Christ's name. Amen. An Englishman, an Irishman, and a Scotsman were in a pub and they each ordered the soup of the day. When the bowls were brought to them, a fly fell into each of their bowls. The Englishman called to the waiter, a fly has dived into my bowl. Bring me another one. And he got another bowl. The Irishman said, What the heck? And he just downed the soup. fly and all. But the Scotsman reached into his bowl, pulled at the fly by the wings, and said, Spin it out! Spin it all out Now I'm married to a Scot and I know in money's an emotional issue. And that could be true if you're Dutch or German or perhaps some other uh uh nationality that's famed uh for well it's a careful handling of money. As we're finishing up Paul's letter to the Philippians We saw last week it's really Paul's thank you note, and we saw it wasn't a thankless thank you, but rather a carefully written note. Making clear that Paul wasn't seeking gifts from them and modeling out of his own present circumstances how to face financial adversity. Paul has spoken in a very practical way about anxiety and contentment. And these are such common experiences. If you missed last week's sermon, I'd encourage you to go and find it, listen to it. You can find how to do that out on the announcement page or go to the website. And Paul still has more to say, and in what he says, last of all, he takes up the subject of money And he gives us here his own some of his theology of money, and he tells us how it is that God sees our giving. Now, the Bible teaches that money is a spiritual matter. In fact, Jesus says more about money than any other topic that he addresses. Now we would like to think of money as something that's neutral, kind of like a tool. Like with a hammer, you know, you can drive a nail, you can pull a nail, you can drive in a stake, or you can repair your computer at home. And this is how we tend to view money. It's neither good nor bad. It's just a tool. It's a resource. But the Lord Jesus and the apostles tell us something different. They tell us that money is a power, a power that reveals what our hearts treasure, a power that competes for our affection in our heart. Now I want to ask you to turn to Matthew 6, and we're going to read verses 16, excuse me, 19 to 24, and I want to make three quick observations. Matthew 16, verses 19 to 24. Money seems to promise satisfaction of our desires, security, social standing, flexibility of choices. And we treasure these. Jesus says in verse 19, Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rocks destroy. And where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys. and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Your heart, that is its loyalty, its concerns, its thoughts. its desires. They flow toward whatever you treasure. Verse 22. The eye is the lamp of the body, so if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. And then the light, then if the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? Money can blind you and turn your inner life dark. And then last of all, no one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You can't serve God in money. Money competes with God for the first place in our priorities and our affections. Jesus urges his disciples to lay up treasures in heaven. In other words, to put money in its place. And Paul warns in very strong language at the end of the first letter to Timothy of the dangers That the love of money has. We love what money can do, the power it gives us to acquire. And so I could summarize it this way. Money is a power that can be used for great good, or it can bring great harm into our lives. Now Paul says two simple things in our text this morning. One is how God looks at our giving. And then he closes with what is one of the most lavish promises in the entire Bible, that God will provide your needs. God's view of our giving is expressed in verse 15. So if you're not there, take a moment and get back to Philippians 4. In verse 15, Paul writes. You Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving. Except you only. Our giving is a partnership and not a contribution. It's an expression of a partnership, not a contribution, a donation, or a tax deduction. We don't support God's ministry. We share in it. Now we can't all go to Peru as Wes Baker has. or to Burkina Faso as the show Walters did, or Austria, as Sulawki has, or to the University of Maryland, or any one of a number of other places. but we can partner with those that do, and we can share in what they're doing. And Paul is very appreciative, and he hasn't forgotten They're gifts that are an expression of this partnership. You see, when the Philippians heard the gospel and went from death to to life, having received the new life of regeneration or of rebirth. Their hearts fell in love with Jesus And they wanted others to discover the same pearl of great price. Jesus was worth more to them than anything that they had. And so their money, what little they had, followed the treasures of their hearts, which included Paul. They had become friends with Paul. They had a genuine interest in his welfare. And they wanted to invest in his ministry. You see, their giving reflected their treasuring Jesus. The gospel and Paul, Christ's ambassador, who announced the gospel to them. And so they weren't casual givers. They gave sacrificially beyond their means, Paul tells us. They had a wartime mentality, and so they were willing to live a wartime lifestyle. Ralph Winter for many years taught at Fullert Seminary, and he illustrates this idea of a wartime lifestyle by referencing the Queen Mary. The Queen Mary was a luxury liner. It's still there in the harbor at Long Beach. At one time it was a museum. It has been converted into a luxury hotel at this point. Um, but when it was a museum, the ship, all uh three football uh uh lengths long was half a museum of when it was a luxury liner, and the other half of what it was like in wartime. On one side of the partition, you could see the dining room reconstructed to depict the peacetime table settings that were appropriate to the wealthy patrons of high culture. And for whom that dazzling array of forks and knives and spoons held no mysteries for them. On the other side of the partition, you would find metal trays with indentures in them to hold food. On one side the bunks were not doubled, but tiered eight high. And that explains how the ship could go from its peacetime complement of 3,000 to 16,000 people on board when it was a troop transport. Of course, it took the threat of global war to bring about this change. It was a national emergency, the survival. Of the nation depended on it. And the essence of the Great Commission today is that the survival of tens of millions of people depends on the fulfillment of it. Paul doesn't ask for their funds, and in fact he makes much of this in several of his letters, and the reason is simply this. In Paul's day throughout the Roman Empire, there were philosophers who went around and they always passed the plate when uh they communicated their philosophy to a crowd. They were rather infamous for this practice. They sought to get uh wealthy at the expense of their listeners. And Paul wanted to avoid any misunderstanding. And so he surrendered his right to support from the gospel. so that no one would think that he was trying to enrich himself from that message. He gloried in giving it away. It was his boast, he says, in many places. But he was open to partnerships. Just how do you think about your giving? Is it a contribution or a partnership? Now, Thanksgiving, some many years ago, when Paul Harvey would uh have his little radio segment, he told this story. The Butterball Turkey Company set up a telephone hotline to answer consumer questions about preparing holiday turkeys. And one woman called to inquire about cooking a turkey that had been in her freezer for 23 years. You heard that right, 23 years. And the representative told her, if it had remained below freezing the entirety of those 23 years, it would be safe to eat. But she advised against eating it because she said probably the flavor of the turkey is deteriorated to such a point you wouldn't find it appealing. And the caller replied, That's what I thought. We'll give it to the church. Paul continues to develop his understanding, his theology of giving, when he writes, giving produces fruit in the lives of the givers. This is verse 17. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. Let me be clear. The net result of the Philippians giving was not an increase in their income. They had less money after they gave. But it did profit them, and Paul's language here of credit is that of counting. And it also produced a fruit, Paul says in the sense that it showed that their profession of the gospel and God himself was more important to them than the next purchase. It might have been meat for them, but for us it would be the next gadget or the tool or the next meal out or vacation. It produced joy in their lives. And many of us understand this joy. We have freely given of our hard-earned, carefully saved, wisely stewarded money for the work of the church. We've rejoiced that we've invested in the work of God's kingdom. With such sacrifices, we've built facilities, helped children become disciples, reached out through campus ministry or through camps. We've helped people who would have neverwise heard the gospel as we've sent people God has equipped. to preach the gospel as they lived among them, to translate the scriptures and the plant churches. A joyful profit is added to our lives because we're a part of the great global cause of the Lord Jesus Christ. And for many of you here, it's been 10, 20, 30, 40, even 60 years of investment. And this is because our treasures have flowed to our to the kingdom that our prayers and our hopes and actually our emotional lives are invested in the outcome. And so when the gospel is flourishing, uh we rejoice. And when it seems to lose ground, we're like Brazilian soccer fans who've lost the game. There's another profit that accrues when we give away our money to God's work. Money, well, it holds the soul of our country in its death breath. You can't live in the United States without feeling the magnetic pull of materialism. It's not money per se. It's that we love what money buys. Great stuff, entertainment, space, freedom, status, and security. And for many of us, that love becomes a virtual obsession. We live in bondage to the demon Jesus calls mammon. But giving sets us free. Jacques Elul, in a marvelous book called Money and Power, explains that giving breaks the power of mammon over us. When we give away our money, we deny its power and experience a new freedom. Again, I know many of us have experienced this liberation. We've Even as perhaps we struggle to give away our money, we found that the choice to do so out of obedience to God leaves us more joyful. It leaves us freer Even if we simply give because we know we should. The very act of giving breaks the chains of mammon that bind our hearts. It's through giving we discover freedom and joy. And thus Paul says that our generosity profits to our own account. And then last of all, Paul writes what are truly stunning words in verse 18. For he says, I've received full payment and more, I'm well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent. A fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. A fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. Now Paul is running over uh to the first books of the Bible, and he's drawing from the language of sacrifice in the Old Testament. The sacrifice, literal sacrifice of animals and grain and f flour and oil that were burned on the altar. This phrase, fragrant offering, is used 49 times in the Old Testament, and it describes God's delight in the gift. And Paul takes this language and in the fifth chapter to the letter of Ephesians applies it to Jesus' sacrifice on the cross. And then amazingly, he uses it here at the end of this letter, a thank you letter for their financial support of his ministry. Though their gifts are intended for Paul's use at a deeper level, they are given to God Himself These gifts are both acceptable and pleasing to God. God receives these gifts as if they were given especially for him. Your obedience, your faithfulness, your love, your generosity are all gifts that God delights in. And for many of us, this financial realm is one of the toughest areas for us to glorify God. We're attracted to the idea of pleasing God through our giving, but in fact we struggle with the place that money has in our lives If this describes you, be encouraged. God is at work in you, both to will and to work his good pleasure. God is working to make you a generous person, to reflect his own generosity. Ask him to open his heart. If you want to grow in this, to give you a heart that's more single, that's more devoted to him. If you will persist in that, in time you'll grow in generosity. But Paul isn't done. His closing words about God's generosity with us are these. And God will provide all your needs. He begins, and my God. God is Paul's And the older I get, the easier it is for me to see God's father's heart, his open and generous heart toward his children Now, Nancy and I had as one of our goals to pay our children's way through college. We wanted them to start their lives, their working lives, without the pressure of college debt. And it was a pleasure to do so. And Nancy worked long days to supplement the income I brought in to make that a reality. It meant not only her working, but our putting a lot of things we would have desired off the list of things we actually did. Or to put it plainly, between giving for church and making college happen, we didn't live like most of the people in the community that we lived in. We didn't live like them. And as parents, our hearts just want to give to our children. We want to help them. We don't want to make them dependent on us. But I simply can't imagine. not wanting to be generous uh with our children. And so it is with our heavenly Father. Paul has experienced this firsthand and so he states the promise personally. My God. This is comprehensive. We'll meet all your needs. This is comprehensive. The needs in view are spiritual, emotional, relational, and financial. Now I need to make it clear that this verse is a favorite of health and wealth gospel preachers. It's a favorite for television preachers and evangelists and those that call themselves apostles. They make appeals for support, and they usually add Jesus' words about a hundredfold rewards to it. And they do violence to the scriptures. This is not at all what Paul is saying here. But they say, if you send me $10 or whatever, God will multiply your gift a hundred times. This is patently not what's meant. Paul says God will provide all your needs, not your wants. Now, we've grown very comfortable. We are very comfortable. And we enjoy great luxury. And we actually just take this. uh for normal. We we have so much we just assume this is what's owed to us. And it's hard for us. We live in a consumer uh economy with significant disposable income and it's hard for us to distinguish needs from wants. In 1890, a sociologist took a survey of Americans and asked what was essential, how many things they needed to live. The number was, can you guess? 16. That's right, 16. A few years ago, a similar survey was conducted of the things necessary to survive. The number was 98. Now, God doesn't guarantee to provide your luxuries. He doesn't want everyone to be a millionaire, nor does he want everyone to be poor. Do you have a financial need? If you are a faithful giver, you have every right to expect God to meet your financial needs You can rest your heart and your future on the promise in verse 19. And we can add Matthew 6, 31. If you spent decades seeking God and His righteousness, first and foremost, if you're putting money in his place, you can trust that verse 19 is for you. God will provide for you. And God doesn't use a teaspoon. Verse 19. And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. God will never grow bankrupt. He has unlimited resources. The Lord who multiplied a little boy's lunch and fed a great multitude uh can multiply whatever we have uh to meet needs that we would think is impossible. I know Nancy and I have experienced this numerous times where the math didn't work. But our needs were taken care of. Bill Gates, I know you recognize that name. He's one of the wealthiest men in America. And if he who has great riches wrote you a check for $50,000 or even $100,000 and gave it to you and said, here is my gift to you. he would be giving out of his riches. But if he gave you a blank check with his signature on it and said, whatever you need, I've already signed it. That would be according to his riches. God gives according to his great riches. Now I want to close with two questions that arise out of this text. And the first is this. Does your giving Look like a partnership or merely a contribution? Is it just an obligation? That you give the way you might throw a dollar or two into the Salvation Army bucket if you couldn't evade them at the front door of some store. You know, perhaps to quell your conscience. Of course, in our church nobody knows what you give. In the history of the church, that's not always been the case. It's still not the case since some uh places. But in our church, basically very few people have any idea what it is you give. But is your giving a reflection of a partnership or just a contribution? The second question is this. Am I stewarding the wealth God has placed in my hands with an eye to heavenly investments? Now I know that you need to steward your income, many of you to pay a mortgage, uh, to replace a car, to repair a house. uh to pay for education for your children. I also know uh that uh like me you cannot know what the future holds But money whispers in your ear that it is your security. And that's a lie. Money is unstable and undependable and could be gone in an instant, and there's really nothing you could do about that. There's one more principle here. This applies, this act of giving applies not just to us as followers of Christ, but to us as a church. When a church chooses to give wealth away in keeping with the principles we've seen in this passage. When the church is intentional about setting a number, a percentage of its income that it will designate uh uh to give away beyond its own uh work in the kingdom. to support the kingdom work of God around the world. Such a generous church can be certain that God will meet its needs. He will bless it financially. The ordinary generosity of God, the excuse me, extraordinary generosity of God is most clearly seen in the extravagant gift of the Lord Jesus. If God gave his son, how will he not give us all things with him? That's what this table is here about. It points to this greatest of all gifts. And it is also a doorway to a fresh expression of that gift. Let's pray. Father, the sermon about money makes us uncomfortable. And Lord, we we acknowledge that and even what little humor was worked into this sermon. was done so with the intent that it might help us to listen to what you say to us. Let these encouraging words affirm us in our giving. Take us to the next place with our giving, Father, that our hearts would increase in generosity, that more and more our lives would mirror yours. We thank you for this wonderful, gracious promise of your supplying our needs. Thank you. that you will meet our spiritual, emotional, physical, and financial needs as long as you deal with