Morning, brothers and sisters at Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church. It's good to be with you again. We were last here in 2022, so it's been a few years. I think if I'm right, this is the tenth time we've been to this church. So we've seen you folks a few times. And it's always good to be with you. You've walked with us for many years now, and we've been greatly helped by your support, greatly upheld by your prayers. Greatly encouraged by hearing from you from time to time. It's been a joy for us to walk with you through many years, and we thank God for you. And it's a joy to be able to reconnect with you again today. Let's pray, and then I'll read today's passage, which is Philippians chapter 1, verse 6. Philippians chapter 1, verse 6. So let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are a God who draws near to us. Many people in the world, Japan included, think that you're very distant and have nothing to do with their daily lives, but that's not true. You're a God who draws near to us. You're a God who has spoken to us and left your word with us so that we can know you. So that we can know how it is that you're calling us to live, so that we can know about the way that you provided for us to be reconciled to you We're very grateful for your word. We pray as we interact with your word this morning that your Holy Spirit, who inspired that word, would enlighten our hearts. Give us faith to believe your word and power to live according to it. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Philippians chapter one, verse six Whereby God's leading the Apostle Paul wrote this And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. Says God's word. As new missionaries, we got lots of advice from veteran missionaries. For example, we were told, don't you let yourself get sucked into ministry during your language study time. This was good advice, because the language aptitude that a missionary has at the end of their language study time is likely the language study that aptitude that they'll have for the rest of their career. It's a real temptation for us to get involved in ministry as soon as we can when we get to the field. Because we went to the mission field to do ministry. It's hard for us to be there and not to get involved. But by getting involved in the ministry too early, we don't make as much progress in the language, and this can limit our capacity for the rest of our careers. We were told, to learn a language, you have to make a million mistakes. So you better get started. That also was good advice. We've seen over the years that the factor that most determines how fluent a missionary will become is their willingness to make mistakes in front of other people. The missionaries who do their best with whatever vocabulary they have, knowing that they're probably making a lot of mistakes, those missionaries tend to reach a high level of fluency. Fluency. And those who are hesitant to speak until they're sure they've got it right tend not to become as fluent. And we were told, you'll be surprised at how little happens in a year, but you'll also be surprised at how much happens in ten years. I have to say that we didn't really grasp how profoundly true and important this advice was for some time. The point was that progress on the mission field is slow, but also that God is at work. We had to experience some of the frustration of the slow progress before this advice really resonated with us. But then, in time, we began to see that the second part was also true. We'd reached a point where we could look back and see that God actually had been at work and that he had brought about more than we had realized. Actually, this last piece of advice was initially hard for us to accept. Maybe such advice is hard for many people to accept. We want to see results quickly. We're often in a hurry. Maybe it's because we're Americans, and Americans are very goal-oriented and expect to see results. Or maybe it's because we live in an age of amazing technology in which I can contact you instantly on your cell phone, even though I'm on the other side of the world. We've become used to rapid results. But it seems that God is not in a hurry. He has his plans for what he intends to accomplish, but he isn't in a hurry to do so. Consider, for example, his words to the serpent in the garden. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Genesis 3. 15. But even by the most conservative estimates, It was 4,000 years before Jesus, the offspring of the woman, appeared on earth to bruise the head of the serpent. And when Jesus ascended to heaven 40 days after his resurrection, the angel told his disciples, this Jesus who is taken up from you into heaven, will come in come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. Acts 1. 11. Some of Jesus' followers expected that Jesus would return to establish his kingdom in all its fullness on earth during their lifetimes. But nearly two thousand years have passed since these words were spoken. God had a plan to send a Savior, and He's done so. And God has a plan to establish His kingdom on earth, and He'll do so. But he clearly hasn't been in a hurry in either of these cases. Perhaps he's not in a hurry to bring some of his other plans to fruition as well. There's a verse which reminds me of some important foundational truths which help me to have a right perspective on God's work in me, in my own life, and on God's work in the world around me. In Philippians 1. 6, the Apostle Paul wrote, And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. One thing I should say at the outset. When Paul wrote to the believers in Philippi that God began a good work in you, the word you is plural in the original. That means that the truth that's taught in this verse doesn't apply only to us as individuals. I'm not saying that it doesn't apply to us as individuals. I believe it does I'm saying that the truth taught in this verse was relevant to both the whole community at the church at Philippi and also to each individual member of that community. God has begun a good work in that community. And God has begun a good work in each member of that community. And God will bring each of those works to completion. These are words which give us hope. God is at work. He's doing a good work. And when God is at work, there's reason for us to have hope. These are also words which give us confidence. God will bring the good work he's begun to completion. When God starts a work, he finishes the work that he's started. And these are words which call us to patience. Bringing his good work to completion is something that will take until the day of Jesus Christ. God's work isn't finished yet. It will be finished, but at present it's still a work in progress. So when we notice that there's still more progress needed in God's work in us or in God's work in the world around us, we shouldn't be surprised. We shouldn't become complacent. We should remain hopeful and confident. But we should also recognize that God's work being remaining unfinished will be the normal state of things until Jesus comes back. Let's first think about God's work in individuals. God has begun a good work in each person who trusts in Jesus. What is that good work? We can find the answer to in another passage which Paul wrote. And we know that for those who love God, All things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified And those whom he justified, he also glorified. Romans 8, 28-30. The work that God is doing in each of us is the work of conforming us to the image of his Son. God is transforming each of our hearts to make us more and more like Jesus. This is the work of sanctification. And notice where the work ends. We're glorified. We're made completely like Jesus. That's the completion of the work that God does in each of us. But God's work in us isn't finished yet. I often see the stark reality of the need for further transformation in my own life Far too often, it's my old self which comes out rather than the new self into which God is making me. Far too often, it's apparent that I'm serving myself rather than serving God. Do you experience some of these same things in your life? When we see such things in our own lives, it's important that we take them seriously. We need to acknowledge the sinful tendencies which remain in our hearts, to lament them, and to repent of them. But at the same time, we should have hope. God has begun a good work in us. That work isn't finished yet, and at times we see evidence that more transformation is needed. But God will finish the work he's begun in us. He won't leave us as we are. God is not only at work in us, he's at work in individuals, other individuals around us as well. Perhaps there are some people that you know in whom you notice the need for further transformation. Maybe some family members. Maybe some people with whom you work closely. Maybe some people in your church. The same things are true of those people that are true of us. If they trusted in Jesus, then God has begun a good work in them. God's work in them isn't yet complete, so it's natural that there would be times when we see evidence of the need for further transformation. But God will finish the work that He's begun in them. Let me tell you the story of a young man we know in Japan. I'll call him Junji, but that isn't his real name. Junji grew up in a church-going family. However, in his teen years, he became disillusioned with the church. There were several reasons, including some things related to his own heart, but one reason for his disillusionment was hypocrisy that he saw in the people who attended the church. Their lives didn't match their words. Junji eventually stopped attending church. He disassociated himself from all fellowship and began pursuing his own interests. He made some lifestyle choices that weren't the best. After graduating from high school, he started working a job. But God didn't leave Junji in that place. After working for a while, Junji realized that he didn't want to be doing this kind of job for the rest of his life. He thought he'd have more options if he went to college. So he began investigating his options. Just at this time, Junji heard about an open campus event that was being held at a Christian college. It's probably a little surprising that he would even consider a Christian college because of his earlier disillusionment with the church. But he went to that open campus event. He found that the tuition at this Christian college was lower than many other colleges. And because of some financial limitations his family was facing, The lower tuition was a significant factor. So Junji applied to and was accepted by this Christian college. Some of the things that Junji was hearing in his college classes really began to strike him. In particular, the words of Jesus recorded in Mark 2. 17 had a profound impact. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. Junji began to understand that the people at his church were a work in progress. Of course they sometimes fell short. And he knew that he too was far from perfect, that he needed the forgiveness that Jesus offered, and God's transforming power in his own life. So Junji came back to faith in Jesus. The students at this Christian college are required to do Sunday internships at area churches. And so this requirement brought Junji to the church that I was pastoring, Shin Urayasu Grace Church, and he served there as an intern. In time, he became a member of the church. Then he became a deacon in the church and contributed greatly by serving in a wide variety of ways He married a woman who was also a member of the church. And several months ago, we sent Junji and his wife off to become church staff at a new church plant. The transformation in Junji's life covered a period of about 10 years, and there were some low points along the way. But God carried on the work that he had begun in Junji, and the transformation is evident. Philippians 1. 6 invites us to have hope for others we know as well. God is at work in them, just as he's at work in us. He won't leave them where they are. He will finish his work in them. But Philippians 1. 6 also calls us to patience, recognizing that God's work of transformation in people we know is still in process, just like it's still in process in us. So let's believe the promise of Philippians 1. 6. Let's believe it for ourselves. Don't lose hope. Keep persevering to put off your old self and to put on the new self. Keep trusting that God is carrying out the work that He's begun in you. And let's believe the promise for others as well. Don't lose hope that God is at work in them. Keep praying for them as you wait expectantly for God to further his work of transformation in them. Now let's think about God's work in the community of his church. What's the work that God is doing in his church Jesus said to Peter, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matthew 16, 18 That's the work that God is doing. Building the church of Jesus Christ, establishing the kingdom of God. When Jesus spoke of building his church, he was speaking of his worldwide church. To borrow the words of the Westminster Confession, in fact the chapter that you just finished, This worldwide church consists of the whole number of God's chosen people who have been, are, or will be gathered into one under Christ, the head of the church. That's the church which Jesus is building. That's the church against which the gates of hell cannot prevail. Several years ago I had the opportunity to visit the ruins of Ephesus in modern-day Turkey. I was able to see The theater at which a crowd gathered in opposition to the message which the Apostle Paul was preaching. There are the remains of a house in which it's said that the Apostle John lived with Mary, the mother of Jesus. carrying out the commission to care for her given to him by Jesus from the cross. But there's no active church in Ephesus now. The thriving church of the New Testament times is no longer there. But while individual churches may come and go, the worldwide church of Jesus Christ will always be. As that same chapter in the Westminster Confession says, there will be always a church on earth to worship God according to his will. In each individual church, there will be times of progress and there'll be setbacks. But God is doing a work among us of building his church, building the church of Jesus Christ God is establishing his kingdom, and he will finish that work. There will be a church of God's people for eternity. God will rule over his kingdom forever. And each of us is a part of that work in our various locations. The Church of Jesus Christ is being built around the world. God's kingdom is expanding right here in Laurel. It's expanding in Japan and in other places. And each of us is a part of that work. But we don't produce the results As the Apostle Paul said, I planted, Apollo slaughtered, but God gave the growth. God has begun this work, and God will finish this work. We may plant and we may water, but it's God who produces the growth. It's been said by some that ministry in Japan is like plowing in concrete. That's because of the small percentage of the population in Japan, which are evangelical Christians. The Joshua Project is an organization which measures the growth of the church and the growth of God's kingdom around the world. And they estimate that 0. 4% of Japanese are evangelical Christians. And so more than 165 years after the first Protestant missionaries arrived in Japan, there's still only one out of every 250 Japanese who are evangelical Christians. By comparison, that same Joshua Project estimates that 26. 6% of Americans are evangelic Christians, or one out of every four. Actually, our experience is that it's much easier to get a hearing for the gospel with non-Christians in Japan than it is here in the United States. That's because Japanese people don't assume that they already know what Christianity is. So they're curious and they're willing to learn. But the pressure to conform in Japanese society is very strong, and Japanese people are very slow to change as a result. They're very hesitant to become different than other Japanese. Probably the question we've been asked the most as we visited churches is, why are there so few Christians in Japan when there's been such a good response to the gospel in Korea? There are several answers to this question. The isolation of Japan as an island nation means that it's a very homogeneous place. And so it's much harder to be different when everyone around you is the same. The prosperity of Japan means that the sense of need in Japanese people has been somewhat. And the position of strength which Japan has occupied in Asia is very different than the posture of humility which is needed to receive the gospel. But ultimately, revival is a work of the Holy Spirit, and the wind blows where it wishes. John 3. 8 There has been revival in Japan a few times in the past. In the 1870s, revival broke out in response to the concerted prayer of missionaries and Japanese Christians. And especially in the cities of Yokohama, Sapporo, and Kumamoto, significant numbers of Japanese people came to faith. In the first five years of the 20th century, there was another revival that broke out, and again it was in response to concerted prayer. And in that revival, the membership of the Japanese churches almost doubled. And in the aftermath of World War II, a humbled and broken Japan saw a large number of people turn to Christ. And out of this revival, a large number of pastors were raised up as well. Perhaps you notice the connection between concerted prayer and revival. We're praying for another revival to come to Japan. A broader revival to come to Japan. Please join us in this prayer. And we're praying with hope and expectancy, because when God begins a work, he carries it on to completion. God is working in Japan, just as he's working in Laurel. And all of us have an ongoing part in his work. So let's believe the promises of Philippians 1. 6 for God's work in the world around us. Let's not become discouraged and lose heart. Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. First Corinthians 15, 58. Jesus is alive. God has given us victory through Jesus. And God will finish his work. So let's keep planting and keep watering. Keep planting and watering here in Laurel and keep planting and watering around the world through your prayers and your giving, and hopefully by sending some from your own congregation. And let's trust God to give the growth. And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. Philippians 1. 6 calls us to have hope. God is at work in us and in the world around us. It calls us to be confident. God will finish his work. And it calls us to be patient, knowing that God's work isn't yet finished, and to wait expectantly as he continues his work. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are a proactive God, a God who took initiative and has made a way for us to be reconciled to you. We thank you that by your Holy Spirit you took the initiative to begin a good work in those of us who trust in you. And we thank you that you are committed to carrying on that work and to bringing it to completion. And so we pray that you would carry on the work that you're doing in each of us. Helping us more and more to be conformed to the image of your Son. And we pray that you would carry on the work that you've begun in the world, building the Church of Jesus, establishing your kingdom. These are your promises, and we hold to them with confidence, and we pray that you would finish your work to your glory in Jesus' name.