We are excited about being here, not just spending time with the Maguire's, but particularly to talk about God's word and how it applies in common problems. And so as we talked about putting together this weekend of teaching, I propose that we think about some common problem areas that all of us face. And to do so coming from the Scripture, coming out from the Scripture. Even the other day, as I was teaching a class, I was trying to explain what we believe about biblical counseling. And what I try to argue for and what I want to assume tonight is that the concepts of counseling, the approaches to counseling, the theories of counseling, That we want to practice are things that arise out from the Scripture, where the Scripture is driving our model. The Scripture is helping us think about these key topics that we want to. We want to address this weekend. And so that's the assumption from which I work tonight. I want to begin tonight by having us think about this problem of anger. It's a very common problem. If we're honest, I think we would admit that. I've had the privilege of doing some study and some research in this area of anger. And here's the results of my extensive research. Ready? Approximately one out of one people deal with anger. Now, if you're married, the statistics double. Two out of two. And if you have children, it quadruples. And you know what that's like in some of our homes. You can have a solid Christian home with commitments to Christ and still have that anger that resides in a remnant form. Even in the heart of a believer. And if we're honest before God, I think we would admit that. This is a universal problem. It's prevalent in every culture. I've had the privilege of being in Brazil, a Latin-type culture there many, many times, and we see it there. We see it even among the German and the English, of which I'm Welsh and English, who were we're supposed to be a little more staid and a little more Calm, not the latido crazy. No, it's it's still the same. There's anger that comes out in different ways. Maybe you don't want to call it anger. Maybe we want to call it things like I'm just hurt. I'm just frustrated. I'm just disappointed. But I want to suggest to you that when you peel back some of those more euphemism words, words that are trying to maybe guard the real deal. That ultimately we're talking about a kind of judgmentalism and anger where I react against something someone does. Now, that's the bad news, if you will. This is a very common problem. And all of us deal with it. Here's the good news: the Bible is all about this. We could start in Genesis and see what happened in Genesis 3, the fall. And you go quickly from 3 into chapter 4, and you have a brother killing another brother. And you can go right through and look at the kings and and look at uh the patriarchs and matriarchs. And you can go on into the Proverbs and wisdom literature and Psalms and And see displays of anger and warnings against anger. The prophets speak with passion about the sins of God's people. We come into the gospel accounts. And what do we find there? We see that our Lord displays anger, but he also displays a righteous anger, but he displays it against people who have unrighteous anger towards one another. And toward him. And again, we can go through the entire Bible. So let's do this. Let's start with this tonight. I want us to think about what is anger. And when you get your outline, uh you'll have some more detail here. But you can take notes on this or you'll be able to fill it in later. What do we mean by anger? Let me give you a kind of working definition and then I'll unpack that definition. Here's what I would suggest to you is a working definition of anger. It is a whole person, a whole person response. Of judgment, of moral judgment we make against something or someone that we perceive to be evil. It's a whole person response of moral judgment against those we perceive to be evil. Now, I want to unpack that, and then we're going to look at a bunch of passages tonight as we go forward. Here's what I want us to think about. It is an activity. Anger is something you do. I think there's a wrong concept in our culture that thinks of anger as like a thing. Like a like a liquid? Like a little uh uh uh pus. Sorry, we just ate, I guess, right? A little pus there that that has to be land. It's gotta get this thing out of me. I've got this thing. called anger. And I gotta get rid of it. I have to like, you know, suppress it or control it. It's it becomes a thing. But I would suggest to you that's not what the scriptures tell us. That anger is a response. It's an activity. It's something we do. Not something we have. It's not a thing. It's not a force. It's not a fluid. It's a response. It's something that engages the whole person. We call this an emotion. And by that we mean something that's holistic. It's not just my feeling. It's not merely a response that is just my affect, my emotion. It's much bigger than that. It always involves my thinking, my belief system, what I think is right or wrong, how I discern what you've done that I think is wrong. And so it's more than just an emotion. It's a response to something. No one's making us respond this way. We choose to respond in a certain way. Toward what someone does to us. And so we perceive that to be wrong. Now our perception can be accurate or inaccurate. I might think you're wrong because you cheer for a certain team, like Clemson, for example And some of us might think that that's not a a thing to cheer for, but but see that's not what the scripture that would be an inaccurate, right? Inaccurate perception that that would be evil. I expected an amen on that one here. Very good. In other words, you know, ha how your spouse handles the toothpaste tube, right? Proverbial common kinds of things. But what does the scripture say that is truly right or wrong? My perceptions might be inaccurate. God's perception, of course, is always accurate. My perception, hmm, not so much. And it is a moral judgment we make. Probably the most helpful way to think about anger, I would suggest to you, is to think about it's a form of judgment. I'm making a declaration about something that I think is wrong about you. So that's kind of a working definition. Now, let me pull it together with one other thought. And that is, whatever we do in response to someone else, is something we do always before the eyes of God. And so the most important thing that we need to know about people, that you need to know about me, and I need to know about you, we need to know about each other is we're image bearers of God. In that sense, we all are in a relationship with God And so all the anger that we have, that we display, that we do, is always in relationship to God. God sees that anger. God judges it. One psychologist calls anger the moral emotion. Because of its judgment that we make against someone. Is also being seen by God Himself, who is the one who judges us. And so Jesus tells us in the Sermon on the Mount that you've heard it that was said to the people long ago, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. And the Apostle John says it this way, 1 John 3, anyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life in him. And so I stand before you tonight. As a convicted murderer, convicted by God Based on his word. Because God sees all this anger that can flare up within my soul. The same anger that you have on me. On various occasions. So, this working definition, whole person response against something you perceive to be wrong, something you perceive to be evil. How does the Bible help us think about anger? Let me suggest three categories, three kinds of anger that we can see in the scriptures. The first is God's anger. The righteous anger of God Himself. And we won't turn to power. I'm going to take you to some passages tonight. I'm just going to mention a few as I give some categories tonight. God's Anger. Psalm 7, verse 11. God is a righteous judge. A God who expresses his anger every day. Same thing we learn about God in Romans chapter 1, that the wrath of God, the anger of God, is revealed. From heaven against all forms of unrighteousness. The righteous anger of God. Isaiah says: The Lord is angry with all the nations. His wrath is upon all their armies. He will totally destroy them. He will give them over to slaughter. Well, that's a scary picture, but that's the righteous anger of God. Thankfully, as we turn to the New Testament, it gets nicer, right? No. No, when you read the end of John chapter three, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. But whoever rejects the Son will not see life, for God's wrath remains on him. As sure as this ceiling is over our heads, so the wrath of God is over all those who are outside of Jesus Christ. Not kinder and gentler God in the New Testament. It's the same God. And as I said, Romans chapter 1, the same wrath. And my friends, this is what I deserve. And this is what you deserve. The wrath of God. And I'm so thankful tonight that I can stand before you as a Minister of the gospel, to say to you, there was one, our Savior, who rose up and absorbed The entire weight of that wrath aimed at me and aimed at all those for whom that Savior Died. And we rejoice tonight that that Savior offers Himself to every one of us in this room tonight, where we do not receive what we deserve. Because Christ received for us what we deserved. And we received in turn from Christ that which we did not deserve. The righteousness of Jesus, the forgiveness of sins, the mercy of a Savior who died and rose and ever lives for us. And so this righteous anger of God is one of the main categories in Scripture. In fact, I'll press at one more point that if you were to do a Bible study of the word anger in the Bible, You would find that, in terms of the number of verses, God is the most angry person in the Bible. In that sense, God is the most angry person in the universe. Concurrently, he is also the most loving person in the universe. And it's that anger and that love that came together at the cross. To deal with the sin problem in our lives. And I'm thrilled to say that to you tonight, as my brothers and sisters in Jesus A second major category would be righteous human anger. Now I'm going to skip those examples, and when you get your handout notes, you'll have those. But I want to talk about one form, one person who displays righteous human anger. It's the God man, our Lord Jesus Christ. What's interesting to me when I studied the Gospels and what they teach about anger, this is what I noticed. How seldom Christ in the scriptures displays anger. There's a couple cases, I'll mention them in a minute. But you think of all the many ways Jesus was laughed at, mocked, attacked? In so many ways, verbally and physically, people trying to stone him. This is all before the cross. And then when of course you have the trials and the cross. And uh his him being put to death. How seldom we see an angry response But we do on a couple significant occasions, and I want to mention them now and then bring out some principles of how do we discern whether our anger is righteous or not? So here's a couple of the examples that we do find. Mark chapter 3. Mark chapter 3. In Mark chapter 3, our Lord is about to heal a man who had a shriveled hand, a withered hand. And he's about to perform this ministry, but the Pharisees opposed him from wanting to do this. And there's a dialogue between Jesus and the Pharisees. In verses 1 through 4, and he confronts their wrong understanding of the Sabbath and argues for why it's right to do good to this person. This man. Verse 5 says this, after looking around at them with anger, he was grieved at the hardness of their hearts, and told the man, Stretch out your hand. And so here we see our Lord Jesus as these Pharisees oppose the mission that the Father sent him on, the messianic mission. Jesus displays anger toward them because they're stopping him from doing this ministry or trying to You also see the same kind of thing not aimed at the Pharisees in chapter 10. If you go to Mark chapter 10. In Mark 10, This is not the Pharisees now. These are his own disciples. And we pick up the story in chapter 10 and verse 13. People were bringing little children to him in order that he might touch them. But the disciples rebuked them When Jesus saw it, he was indignant. It's a synonymous term for anger. There's two or three terms the New Testament uses. to think about anger. And here's one of those terms. Jesus was indignant with his own disciples. In the face of this mistreatment of the children, and by extension, these parents, how does our Lord respond? with anger against his own disciples. Those are actually the only two places in the New Testament. Where anger language is used. Now there's a third place where another synonym is used, and it's John chapter 2. Let me take you there. And I'll mention a couple other incidents that don't have the word anger. But would be displays of Christ's anger. Then I want to pull together how this is, what principles we draw from this to distinguish between what is righteous anger and sinful anger. Okay, so if we look at John chapter 2, the cleansing of the temple, there's two versions of this in John. John chapter 2, the early version. It was a time for the Passover, and Jesus goes up to the temple. And we see the story in verse 13. The Jewish Passover was near, and so Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And you'll see in the temple he found people selling oxen, sheep, and doves. He also found the money changers sitting there. After making a whip of cords, uh out of cords, sorry, he drove everyone out of the temple with their sheep and oxen. He also poured out the money changers' coins and overturned the tables. He told those who were selling doves, get these things out of here. Stop turning my father's house into a marketplace. And now John records this insight. And his disciples remembered that it is written: Zeal for your house will consume me. I think that's a picture of this kind of righteous anger we're talking about. Now, there's a couple other places we can look at where anger language isn't used, but we could say when he calls Herod a fox, for example. Or when he turns to Peter and says, get behind me, Satan, I would say that's a display of righteous anger, and we can see a couple places like that. But again, how seldom? Think of all the ways he was sinned against and abused. So when is it and why is it that Christ becomes angry on these occasions? Now I'm thinking of many people over the years that I've talked to. Who will say things like this? Well, listen, I know that I got angry at this situation, but it was righteous anger. After all Jesus got angry, and so we quickly cite our Lord's anger. But it's the anger that we typically feel and express. The same kind of anger here? Let me suggest to you three criteria to measure righteous anger. Three criteria. Okay? First of all, righteous anger reacts against actual sin. Not just my preferences. Not just because of the sports team or the way you handle the toothpaste tube or whether you um serve onions or not. I don't like onions and I think it's wrong to to uh fill food to onionate foods. You see. Onionate. I so appreciate my sister Marg, who served tuna fish today without onions. So thank you. If Jerry were making it it would well that's well that's another discussion. Reacts against actual sin. Secondly, it focuses on God and God's kingdom and God's righteousness Not on me and my kingdom and my righteousness. It's not my kingdom come, my will be done. Now again, think of what you know about the gospel stories. How many times our Lord Jesus was mocked and mistreated. His paternity was questioned. There were some very insulting things said about our Savior. And then, of course, when we think about the trials and the cross, none of those cases do we see him displaying anger in response. Well, what do we see on those occasions where he does? When someone tries to stop his messianic mission of healing a man? Then the anger comes out. When someone tries to stop the children from coming to him, that he might bless them, Again, interfering with the mission that the Father sent him on. When someone takes as John's, as Jesus said here Tries to make my father's house into a marketplace, then you see the righteous anger. Here's what I think our Lord says. If I can paraphrase what I'm trying to say to you tonight. Do what you want to me, says Jesus. But don't go messing with my father. Don't go messing with this ministry of healing people, this messianic ministry. Don't go stopping the children from coming to me. Spit on me, stone me, put me on the cross, and kill me. But don't go messing with my father. It's not about me. It's about my father's kingdom. And our Lord Jesus Christ comes and humbles himself. Even to the point of becoming human, right? Even to the point of death, Philippians 2, even to the point of death on the cross, the most lowly form. And you don't see that anger response. Now, what you do see our Lord doing on the cross, 1 Peter tells us, he entrusts himself and entrusts them into the hands of the Father. And there will come a day, right? When the Lamb will rise up with wrath. But while on earth, and I would propose to you, he becomes at this point our example as we walk this earth. And we wait for the final judgment of Him to come, that we learn to not respond to those mistreatments, but we live instead for the kingdom of our Father. Here's a third characteristic I see of Christ's righteous anger here. It's accompanied by other godly qualities and expresses itself in godly ways. Here's what you don't see in Jesus. He's about to do this healing of this man, and the Pharisees oppose him, and he has this anger. Here's what you don't see. I'm sorry, man. I can't help you today. I'm sorry. These Pharisees are so got me all messed up. I gotta get out of here. I gotta go cool off. No, he proceeds with doing what the will of God is. This anger doesn't paralyze him. He doesn't give up his ministry. Now I want to contrast that, if we're honest. Some of that anger that you and I talk about that might we might say, well, that's just that's righteous anger after all. Jesus. Well, wait a minute. That righteous anger leads to what? Criticism, attacking, alienating, cold shoulder the rest of the night, separation? Leading a relationship. That's not what Jesus did. This righteous anger coexists along with other godly qualities. Psalm 119 is a glorious Psalm for many, many reasons. Some of you, I'm sure, have studied Psalm 119. It's a psalm that is all about God's word. We know that. But it's not about God's word in a cold clinical systematic theology textbook way. If you read a systematic theology on the topic of the Bible, bibliology, we would call that category, you'd read some pretty accurate. But let's be honest, kind of dry, impersonal stuff. This is about the Word of God, but it's about the Word of God where the psalmist is in relationship with God. He's talking to God. And let me press it a step further. It is a glorious display of emotion. If we want to get our emotions, and that's really uh one of the themes we could even have done this weekend, in fact Lauren was asking me as I was preparing this, am I going to deal with Kind of some foundational views of emotion. I said, I don't think I have the time to lay that foundation. But I'll make one comment here that's very foundational. And that is that Psalm 119 displays a full gamut of emotions. Emotions that are Guarded and guided, directed and framed by Scripture, by God's Word. That's the celebration of God's Word. It's in the context of emotions. Now let me give you a couple examples of this emotion. Uh Psalm one nineteen. Psalm one nineteen And uh let me read verse fifty two. Psalm one nineteen, verse fifty-two Lord, I remember your judgments from long ago and find comfort, the emotion of comfort. Rage seizes me because of the wicked. Now, no, hold it. Which is it, psalmist? Or you have rage or do you have comfort? Who uh the wicked who reject your instruction. Your statutes are the theme of my song during my earthly life. Now what is it? Is it comfort? Is it rage? Or is it songs? You see this mix. This is the work of the Spirit of God You can have a righteous anger that's connected, that coexists, along with joy. In your heart. Our Lord Jesus is the perfect model of self-control, the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentle self-control coming out of Jesus. Concurrently with righteous anger on the occasions we've talked about. It's an amazing mix. So let me encourage you to consider the anger that you have that you might believe is righteous anger Honestly, I find very little of my anger is righteous anger. I am too much like Jonah You remember? Who said to God, Don't I have a right to be angry? And God in essence said, No, you don't have a right to be angry, not at all. There's a third category in Scripture. We've talked about righteous anger of God, righteous anger of people, with our Lord Jesus Christ being the par excellence, perfect human. There's also sinful human anger. And I want to focus on that tonight with us as well. And I want to simply ask this question, really two questions on the sinful anger. What causes it, and what does God say we need to do about it? Now, we can turn over to James 4. I'm going to make a few comments before we get there. What causes sinful anger? I want to suggest to you that this is a very key question in the scripture. I love the Bible. It's not just going to give us external behavioral changes. It's going to talk about what's going on inside. I've talked to people who have been involved with various kinds of domestic violence treatment programs. Maybe some of you have been involved in trying to administer that way. And so many of these anger management approaches are not able, whether they want to or not, they're not able to get down to the issue of the heart. Where causation ultimately lies. So, where does anger come from? Here's the kinds of answers the world would give us: past mistreatment. Um dysfunctional families. An angry dad. My daddy was angry. That's why I'm angry. That's the kind of one of the approaches the world might give us. My mother was hyper-critical. That's why I'm so judgmental and critical, says some Or present mistreatment, abuse. Why are you angry? Because my wife. Blank blank blank. Because my husband, blank, blank, because my boss. Because my pastors I've been on both sides of that. Um because we pastors have our anger too I can remember, you know, when you pastor a small church, like It's workday. Like once a year. Like once a year? Can't you all come to work day? We have our issues too. Where's the anger coming from? Well, situational pressures. It's work. It's my children. It's my in-laws. It's the weather. It's my in-laws. Did I say in-laws? Worldly influences. I remember uh Jerry knows this guy, uh John Street, uh pastor, counseling guy. Yeah, he's asked this question. Um Exactly how much MTV did Cain watch before he killed Abel? Oh, it's when they took prayer out of the public schools. That's when anger erupts, right? No, no, no. These are that's not. These are situational, circumstantial. It's not the heart. Well, it's the devil. The inhabiting demons, the territorial spirits, the demon of anger needs to be exorcised. Or it's my physical factors, my hormones, my Whatever physiological explanation we might offer. Now, before I go to James 4 with you, let me say this: these factors that I just mentioned, Are real factors. And they can exert influence. It's very important that we not dismiss these factors. They are important. They're influential. But here's the good news. They're not causative. They're not determinative. Because if the cause of our anger problem is the way our parents treated us, then there's very little hope for you. other than to somehow cope with that. Because the causation can't be changed. If indeed that's causation. If it's determinative, then we're in trouble. The good news of the scripture is that because what happened to us are circumstances Our nature or our nurture, our environment or our physiology, because those things aren't causative of anger issues, therefore we have hope. Because those things you can't change, or not always, but there is something you can change: your heart. That's what the Spirit of God is all about. That's what the Scripture is all about. about for us as well. So I think James chapter 4 gives us some answers on the cause of anger. Where does it come from? James chapter four. What is the source of wars and fights among you? What causes? Anger and fights and quarrels. Don't they come from your wife? Why are you angry? Well, because Lauren. Now, if you ask yourself why are you angry? And if your answer begins with because, which it should, right? Because why should be answered by because, if the next word is another person, You're in the world of blame shifting. Here's what this passage says. Don't they come from your passions? Now I'm reading from the Christian Standard Bible, and the various English versions are going to use different words, desires, lusts. Demands. Don't they come from your passions that wage war within you? You desire and do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight and wage war. Where does anger come from? You can't say it any more simply than verse 2. You desire and do not have. You don't get what you want. I love this passage of Scripture for many reasons. One reason I like this is because James does deal with the cause. He wants to talk about the source. Where is it coming from? I'm afraid that if I was the scripture writer, and I'm not, and I were to write to the congregation, I might say, you know, dear brothers and sisters I hear that some of you are fighting. Stop it Now, why would I think I might do that? Well, because I'm a father. And I had two sons. And they got along well. I mean they're adults now. They're twenty-nine and twenty But you know, there were times back when they were living in the house when you know what they didn't always behave the way they should. I know that doesn't happen with Presbyterian kids, but you know, at least these Baptist type kids, you know. And I could I could wish that I would I wish this was my response. As there at the end of the hallway fighting, I wish this is what happened. That I rose from my chair. And approached my sons and said, Oh sons of mine, why do you so dishonor the Lord your God and violate both the first great commandment and the second great commandment by fighting with each other? No. Will you guys stop it Just quit it. Stop doing the thing that bothers me. That's the anger that James is addressing here. What's she say here? You do not get what you want. I love the fact that James is also um Well, he's not a behaviorist. Stop it. He's also not a deep kind of a Freudian psychoanalyst. Who talks about these deep, murky impulses that can never really be detected apart from the trained skills of the psychoanalysts? You know what? That's not what's going on in this passage, is it? You're not getting what you want. Now, I won't ask you to join me, Lauren. I would love to have you join me because you're a singer. Let me tell you a very simple song. I call it the hymn of the demanding heart. Ready? I want what I want when I want it, and when I want it, it better be there. That's really simple. I bet you can help me with parts. I was lost tonight, by the way. I can't read music. I go up and down when this These dots go up and down. I want what I want when I want it, and when I want it, it better be there. That's the hymn of the demanding heart. That does not take a degree in theology or counseling. That simply requires an honest admission that I'm not getting what I want. That's why I'm upset. That's all that James is telling us. Now I would tell you this week, try it on. If I was selling you a jacket, a coat, I might say, hey friend, take this home and try it on this week and see how it fits. See if this doesn't fit this weekend and throughout the week. I'm upset with you, I'm frustrated with you, I'm angry inside because you're not giving me what I want. There's no list to what we would say we want. Here's something really important about this passage. This passage doesn't tell us what the readers were wanting, but it tells us something about what they wanted. Look at the end of verse 2. You do not have because you do not ask. Now, work with me here, you all. I want to submit to you that the thing they wanted, and we don't know what it is, was not an evil item. Why do I say that based on the end of verse 2? And you can respond. Based on the end of verse 2, why am I saying the thing is not an evil thing, like a pen? Say they wanted a pen. Why am I saying that the thing was not evil? Because why? Because what? Yes. And James holds out the possibility that God would give you this thing. Now here's what we know about God. He's not going to give you evil things. If you are, if your son asks for a fish, you're not going to give him a snake. If he asks for bread, you're not going to give him a stone. No, God gives good things to his people. The problem here is not that the thing was evil. I've done a lot of marriage counseling over the years. I've never yet had a couple come to me where the they're struggling with financial problems. I've never yet had a wife say this to me. Bob, we are really struggling financially. Will you please get my husband to rob the bank next door to our house? It would be simple, he'd just do a tunnel underneath from our basement and go through the wall. Will you get him to do that, please? I've never had a wife say to me that. What do I have a wife say? And this little word just is your giveaway. I just want my husband to now fill in the blank, ladies. Not out loud. I just want my husband to. Listen to me. Spend time with me. Spend time with the children. Care about me. Care about my parents. Whatever. List goes on. Same thing, man. I just want my wife too. That blank. Those are not evil things. James says the problem here is here we don't ask. The problem is that when we ask, we ask with wrong motives, verse 3. And of course, there's other principles about prayer that I don't have time to bring in tonight. You know, according to God's will, and God is sovereign over his uh granting of requests. We we we get that. My point here is that these are not evil things. These are good things. The problem is a good thing becomes a demand. A good thing becomes a controlling thing. A good thing becomes a ruling thing. I want what I want when I want it, and when I want it, it better be there. That's the big problem here that James addresses. Now, let me give you three questions you can ask yourself to help discern when is a desire becoming demand. When is it controlling me? When is it climbing the throne to rule my heart? Let me give you three criteria. First, when that desire consumes me, or said differently, when I obsess over it. When I think about it all the time. Some people have called this the shower test. What do you think about when you take a shower? Taking a shower is a very mindless thing. Doesn't require a lot of concentration and focus. Where does your mind go? Or when you're driving on a country road in in in central Pennsylvania? Um where does your mind just tend to go? What do you think about when you don't have to think about something? If you wake up thinking, I sure wish my boss, husband, friend Wife, whoever, my kids, my in-laws. I sure wish they would. I sure wish they would. Children I sure wish mom would. I wish daddy would. When you're thinking about that all the time, the odds are pretty high. That's becoming a demand. As opposed to thoughts about God or learning to pray for people. The next two criteria are even more obvious. When I sin When I sin to get that thing I want. What does that mean? When I pressure you? When I try to make you feel guilty. I guilt trip you. Would I nag you? I try to get you to do the thing that I want you to do. Or the flip side of that, when I sin when I don't get that desire. Well, you don't give me what I want, and what do I do? I pull away from you, I I I leave you. Or I go after you, I attack you. Or gossip about you or slander you. In some way mistreat you because I'm not getting the thing that I want from you That's at the heart of the problem here of anger. What is it then? That controls your heart. Think about the last time you've been frustrated, angry about something. What is it that was controlling your heart? Let me give you a question to think about. Fill in this blank in your mind What I think I need, or what I desperately want, is what is that thing That thing is becoming a demand. I have to have it. I must have it. I think of this woman that I counseled who had an up and down marriage. She was seeking basically the father of the Lord. It wasn't clear. She wasn't a member of my church. church. Her husband was not a Christian. And she would come to a counseling session very upset and down, depressed. And I knew what had happened. Her husband had mistreated her. Um I'm gonna divorce you, he said. In fact, he left her on a number of occasions. But then the next session she'd come back and she was happy. I say So what's going on? And she'd say, Well, he went out we went on a date last night. He said he's not divorcing me. And I would hear this back and forth every time I met him with her. And I just saw the imagery here of a yo-yo. She was up and down, up and down like a yo-yo. And I said, I think here's the problem. You have tied your life to your husband's finger. And he can lift you up by treating you nicely, and hurl you down by mistreating you. Up and down. That's your emotional life Why? Because you tied your life to his treatment of you. Here's what I said. What if you could come to the place Where you could connect your life to someone else, to someone who would never abandon you, who would never leave you or forsake you, who would be constant in his care for you. Doesn't mean he doesn't gonna confront you, because he will, but he'll do so because he loves you You see where that demanding heart for her produced this emotional up and down. It's anger, it's all these other emotions. What should we do about the problem of anger? Let me give you four Words that start with R. And they'll be in your notes when you get a chance to look at those. Although there's some couple fill-in places in the notes, so you if you want to be taking notes, you might make sure you get these four R's tonight. The first is to recognize what's going on here. That this sinful anger that we display, this activity, this whole person response against someone. We need to recognize where it's coming from. We need to recognize the source is not the other person. No one makes you angry. Nothing happened to you causes anger. Occasions, yes. Invites, yes, provokes, yes, but not causes. Your heart is able because of Christ. To not respond that way. And so recognize that the source of my anger right now is my demanding heart. Secondly, repent. Not of the desired thing. It's not wrong to want your spouse to treat you a certain way, and your kids to treat you a certain way, mommy and daddy to treat you children a certain way. That's not wrong. What's wrong is the way that becomes a demand. Repent of the demandiness of your desires Repent of the inability to rest in Christ for the fulfillment, if ever, in this life. Thirdly, refocus. Refocus on God and His provisions for us. Refocus on the promises of Christ to be for you all that you need Him to be, even if the other person doesn't change. Paul puts it this way in Philippians four. I have learned to be considered Content. In whatever circumstance, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in poverty or in plenty, I've learned to be content. Refocus on God and His promises, His provision, His grace. And then finally replace. Replace the sinful responses with godly responses. Let me give you some examples. These are actually listed in your notes. The responses like prayer. Prayer. Learning to pray about the situation. Learning to learn contentment in the situation. Learning self-control, patience, forbearance, forgiveness. These are the replacements. Why? Let me close with What Ephesians four tells us about anger There are many good reasons why we should deal with our anger. It's unhealthy for your own soul Your own spiritual health, even for your physical health. Some of the research has shown how there's a correlation between anger and all sorts of physical maladies. We could also say that we need to deal with our anger because of what it's doing in our relationships. The way it disrupts our friendships, the way it produces alienation within the home. The way your children are breathing the secondhand smoke, right? Not of your cigarettes. The second hand smoke of your anger, the fuming that goes on. And these are good reasons, and I think reasons that God would want us to deal with our anger, but I want to give you the highest possible reason I believe. It's found in Ephesians 4. I'm going to start with 31, where Paul says this Let all bitterness, anger, and wrath, shouting and slander be removed from you, along with all malice. What Paul does there is he takes six words. It's like he ransacks his thesaurus and comes up with all these synonyms. And by the way, this is not a place to do a six-part Sermon series. This is an accumulation of Paul's just saying, get rid of it all. Get rid of it all. Why? I suggest to you the previous verse. What does four thirty say? And don't grieve God's Holy Spirit. You were sealed by him for the day of redemption. How do you grieve the Spirit of God? Well, verse 30 doesn't tell you. But I think the previous verse and the verse after it do. You grieve the Spirit of God, I believe, within the context here, by sinful speech, verse 29, and by sinful anger, verse 31. So here's the highest reason that we need to deal with anger. Yes, it hurts yourself individually, spiritually, and physically, yes. Yes, it hurts our relationships, yes, yes, yes. It offends and grieves our God, who loved us so much and sent his Son for us. There's your motivation to deal with that problem of anger. Well, let me pray for us tonight and ask God to help us Help us. And you'll have a study guide that will give you some passages that you can study further. Let me let me pray. Our Father We recognize tonight that every one of us has some degree of anger, whether we reveal it or whether we conceal it. Whether we let it out or whether we try to hold it in and just have a bad attitude towards someone or become bitter. Oh God, we repent of this tonight. And we pray that by the power of your Holy Spirit you would expose those causes, those demands within, that we might be a people who own that before you and find in new and fresh measures the joy of forgiveness of sin and the power of your spirit to continue to change So do that for us tonight. We ask and we pray in the name of our Savior Christ. Amen.