I'm absolutely delighted to be here with you and have appreciated the opportunity to greet a few of you and get to know several of you over mealtimes. I hinted the other night that when Jerry introduced me, I wanted to be able to say some words to introduce him, so to speak. But I I I'm sure I have some funny things I could say, but I I want to say two things that have been very meaningful to me about my my dear brother and one of your pastors here. Though I was already in the community when he arrived and had the privilege of greeting him. In so many ways, God used uh Jerry to be a great encouragement to me. There are two incidents that I recall Lauren and I are at dinner one night with them at a restaurant with Jerry and Marg, and somehow the topic of my habits of overwork. Came up at the table. And before I had the opportunity to kick my wife under the table or elbow her, it came out among these friends. And uh Jerry, loving me enough to just not let these things go, pursued me a little bit at the table. And the next thing I remember. I woke up in his pastoral study the next day. Well, it wasn't quite that dramatic, but it was uh I had that feel And what I appreciated about that was his willingness to um help me and challenge me with some areas of my life. One of the vivid memories, I don't know if you'll remember this or not Jerry, but I did my homework as a dutiful counselee should. I came back and I had my homework done and I shared that with him. And uh he said, Bob, I I'm not sure that your heart was really in this. And he was right. And uh I had to go back and work on some things in my life, as I still have to keep working on those same patterns. The other memory was, as I mentioned briefly to uh to skip this morning, I I was, I did serve for a period of time as a licensed minister in In the Presbytery, uh the New River Presbytery. All sorts of reasons, sort of exceptional situations as to why I uh was in that role. But I remember right before my exam, I was nervous because you appear before people who know their Bible pretty well. And uh Jerry sat down next to me. And uh you put your hand on my knee, which is not something that guys typically do with one another, right? And and he prayed with me. And uh it was a very meaningful moment there. One of those things that uh memories that we have of friends that that uh maybe other people won't even notice as important. But that prayer was very meaningful to me. And of course we can tell more stories as any us Ken, who had ministry together over a significant portion of time. But I'm very grateful to Jerry and Marg have been great helps in my life and in my wife's life. There are probably three women. Three, two, three, four women that uh I have said to my wife, you have one hundred percent freedom To share anything you ever want if you're seeking counsel about me and about our marriage with uh two or three of these women, and Mark has been one of them over the years. And just been appreciative of her ministry to my wife as well. I want to focus now on this matter of hardships, of suffering. The theme has been set before us from Romans chapter 8. In Romans 8, of course, we read of the hardships, the afflictions, the suffering of the people of God. There's two mega themes that seem to appear in those passages, in that long passage that we looked at. One is the purpose of suffering. The conformity into Christ's image. And the other is the love of God. And I want to bring those together today as we think about hardship. You have an outline available to you there in which we're going to look at seven ways in which God uses hardship to display his love to us. And display his love to us by making us more and more like Jesus Christ. I'm going to begin with a couple examples of situations. People I know, names have been changed. Nicole married to Dan, a beautiful wedding, in which they both express their love and commitment. But not long after that, Dan's interest seemed to fade concerning his wife, spending more time at work Less time with his wife, and less time at church. And when Nicole asked Dan about that, he withdrew from her Withdrew from God, from the church, responded with anger. Nicole's dream was becoming a nightmare And she began to slip into a deep despair, depression. Clay and Melissa, a couple, married with a high school son named Joel, who got in serious trouble in high school The vice principal called one day to report some of Joel's behavior, which led to a suspension. He had had a fist fight With someone. And all sorts of questions about Joel's future were beginning to hamper Clay and Melissa. And then I think of a young man named Ryan. I'm calling him Ryan. Got a new boss at work. This boss came in with this desire for excellence. Kind of clean up some things about the company and initially liked Ryan. And Ryan liked the boss because the boss and Ryan had some of the same goals. But within a short period of time, it became clear that Ryan wasn't quite what that boss was looking for. And was threatened at this point in time when I first met with him with a termination. The boss said you have two weeks to make some changes. Now, in all those situations, and we can multiply that by your life and my life and others that you know, we find this question will often arise: where is God? What is God up to? What is God trying to do in this situation? Romans 8 gives us some of those foundational truths. The passage that our pastor read here, that we live in a fallen world with suffering and groaning. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit, if we were to look more carefully at the passage, are all intimately involved in these matters. We have a triune, God, working in that passage. We also see that God is sovereign, that God is wise, and God is loving in the lives of us as people, and that He has a good purpose for us. So, what is that good purpose? In Romans 8, 28, a passage with which all of us, I suspect, are familiar, the Bible teaches us that God has a purpose. He doesn't define in verse 28 what that purpose is, not in any explicit way, but he does tell us in verse 29. That the purpose of trials from God's vantage point is to make us like Christ. Now, so far so good. I suspect I haven't said anything new to most of you who've been part of Christ Church for any period of time. Here's the question that I have been confronted with over the years. Question I myself have. As I read Romans 8 and understand 29 in conjunction with 28, that God is making us like Christ through our trials, it's a very simple question. You've asked it yourself too. How? How specifically does a trial, a hardship that you undergo make you like Jesus? It's just the very presence that you're in fact that you're in a trial, the very presence of a trial. Somehow God mysteriously floats some unseen, sanctifying grace into you just by virtue of being in a trial. I don't think that would be the right conclusion. So how? Well, what I've done here and want us to think about today is I'm thinking of the whole of the Bible now. I'm thinking of various passages and portions of Scripture in which we see God's purpose at work. Now, I can never say to you as an individual, That I know exactly what God's purpose is in your hardship, because your name is not in the text of Scripture. But I can say this. There are ways that are clear in the Bible as to God's purposes in hardships. And so I want to lay before you this morning seven of those. And your outline has some passage of scripture. You can pursue that. In order to encourage you to ask this question when you face hardship, the question: could it be that this is one of the things God is up to? And through your own prayer, the work of the Spirit, and brothers and sisters in Christ and pastors assisting you, maybe you can get some clear guidance as to, yes, this seems to be. Why? God has allowed this thing to happen to me in his providence in my life. So they all begin with E as a memory aid, at least for me. Whether that uh you need it or not, I don't know. But it helps me. So what are the ways that God might be using a hardship in your life That we do see God using it in the lives of his people here in the Scripture. The first one is this: God lovingly uses our hardships to enhance. To enhance our relationship with him, to deepen our relationship with him. There's a curious pair of descriptions in 2 Chronicles. 2 Chronicles chapter 28. And you can turn there if you would like. People in hardship, particularly Christians I've talked to, when I ask them, what has happened in your life in response to this hardship? Most Christians say this to me. I've prayed more. I've gone to my Bible more. I've sought counsel from godly people more. I'm more interested in the things of God. Could it be that God allows the trial into our life simply to call us to a deeper relationship with Him? In 2 Chronicles 28, you see an interesting situation. King Ahaz, one of the most ungodly kings. Is being threatened with military attack. And verse 22 says, at the time of his distress, King Ahaz himself became more unfaithful to the Lord. The hardship and trial in his life sent him the wrong direction away from God. But as I was reading further on in the descriptions here in Second Chronicles, I came to chapter 33, and we encounter another godly king, ungodly king, in fact, arguably the most ungodly king In Israel's history, in the scriptures, certainly one of the candidates for the most ungodly king. And we see a similar situation. He's being threatened militarily. And you look at verse chapter 33. Verse 22. When he was in distress, ah, same situation as King Ahaz. He sought the favor of the Lord, his God, and earnestly humbled himself before the God of his ancestors. God opposes the proud and gives grace to the humble. Two wicked kings Facing a very similar situation of military destruction, one turns away from God, even more so, but the other turns to God. How is your response to hardship? Do you tend to turn to or away? We could go into the Psalms all over the place, couldn't we? The entire Psalter is filled with people suffering. And these writers don't hide their relationship to God, and they don't hide their hardships. Enemies rise against them, friends betray them. Competitors plot against them, illnesses burden them, earthquakes shake their world, and worst of all, God sometimes seems silent to them. Incredible suffering. I think of this woman whom I'm calling Nicole. Who faced this sadness and depression as her husband was turning away from her and from the Lord. And she felt this slippage going on in her soul. God used, and for the sake of time I'm not turning to every passage, Psalm 3, where she Saw a God who becomes for her a shield and strength, allowing her, even as the Psalm concludes, to be able to sleep. In the midst of the hardship of being rejected by her husband. She also was helped by Hebrews chapter 4. Verse 16, where by God's help she was able to approach the throne of grace with confidence, with boldness So that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. And so as we face hardships and struggles and afflictions, what do we see here? We see a God who promises to meet us in order to draw us closer to Himself. So could it be that one reason you have faced and your friends, your brothers and sisters are facing Some kind of hardship? Could it be that God is wanting to draw us closer to Him? That's clearly one of the reasons in Scripture. Here's a second. God uses hardships to lovingly Help us experience the suffering of Christ. Now, let's admit right up front that compared to the sufferings of Christ, ours are less. But as we suffer, we can at least taste a measure of Christ's suffering The writer to Hebrews tells us that we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with us, to empathize with us. With our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are. Jesus experienced the trials and hardships in this world. I think of Philippians chapter 3. A passage, again, that perhaps is familiar to many of us, but there's something I want us to see here in Philippians chapter 3. Paul is talking about suffering in the midst of this, and we know that Paul experienced plenty of suffering. I love what he says in verse ten. My goal is to know him To which we say, yes. Amen. I want to know Christ better. That's what I want in my life. To know Christ better And the power of his resurrection. Oh yes, in my weakness, I need that Savior's strength. And the fellowship. Oh, yes, I need the fellowship with Christ. The fellowship of his S uh hm. The fellowship of his sufferings Lord, how about two out of three? Can I know him and the power of his resurrection, but not the fellowship of his suffering? Two out of three, Lord, please. And God's response is, this is a package deal, isn't it? How can you know Christ more intimately without knowing His power, yes, but also his suffering. This is a mega theme, isn't it? In his earthly ministry. What was the problem we saw the other night with the depression and sadness of the disciples on the road to Emmaus? They wanted the glory, but they didn't see the place of suffering here. We will experience suffering But there's comfort in knowing Christ Himself also experienced suffering. Have you ever felt bypassed or dismissed or Just rejected. So did Jesus. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Matthew 23, 37. You who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her chicks, but you were what? Unwilling. In the parallel account, our Lord in Luke 19, it said about him, as he approached Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept. He wept over it Our Lord understands. Have you experienced rejection? He came to his own. He came to his own. John 1. And his own people did not receive him. After pledging to him their loyalty His disciples, his three closest friends, the inner core, the three among the twelve, fell asleep as he suffered in Gethsemane. And all of his apostles ran. They all fled, Mark tells us, after his arrest I think of a couple, in fact two couples. I met with them on two occasions separated by about six months. One was a couple who had a teenage daughter who had rebelled. Another, six months later, had a teenage son. It was uncanny what happened in these conversations. In both cases, at a certain point in my first conversation with each couple, I asked them what. Has God been using to help you through this hardship of your kids turning away from God and getting in trouble with school? One got in trouble with police. And he said, the the dad in both cases said, Romans eight twenty eight. I said, Yes, very good And I said, um, what is it about Romans 28? And they looked and saw verse 29. Well, it's to make us um I'm I'm sorry, I'm jumping the gun. They they didn't say that. All things working together for good. And I said, what is that good? And they both said, Well, I think the good is that God will bring my son or daughter back to him. And at that point, I said, I am very hopeful that that will happen In fact, I want to support you in that agenda. I want to join with you in praying for your son or praying for your daughter. And I want to uh do all that I can to help you as uh parents to be people uh who can reach out to them and Maybe some fresh ways to try to reach your son or daughter. And these are the couples that underlie the Clay and Melissa example that I began with here. However, that's not what Romans 8, 28, and 29 is saying to you. The good in Romans 8, 28 and 29 is not that your son or daughter would come back to the Lord. That would be really good. We've hoped that would happen and we'll pray to that end. No, the good here is what? That you would be more like Jesus Christ. What does that mean for them? Well, it meant that they were able to. Feel something of what Christ suffered when he was rejected. That he was among his own And was not received by them. As he wept over those whom he loved, and they turned away. In fact, I remind my ministry students that people in your congregations will turn away. It happened to Jesus It will happen to you. And in this case, these parents needed to understand this. And so what is it for you? An economic downturn led to a job loss, a Mistreatment from a friend you trusted, a divorce from a spouse, a desire to be married that fell through. In each case, I would submit that there's a parallel to some of the sufferings of our Lord. Third, Deuteronomy chapter eight, Deuteronomy eight God uses hardships to expose our remaining sin. Could it be that one of the reasons God is allowing you to face some kind of hardship in your life is that He wants to expose The remnant unbelief, the remnant rebellion that continues even in the heart of the believer who has a new heart, but not perfected in a glorified heart. Deuteronomy chapter 8, God tells us why he allowed Israel to go through their 40 years. Moses writes in verse 2, remember that the Lord your God led you on the entire journey these forty years in the wilderness. So that he might humble you and test you to know what was in your heart, whether or not you would keep his commands. In fact, the whole wilderness experience, if you look down in verse 5, was a training time for Israel. Keep in mind, verse 5, that the Lord your God has been disciplining you just as a man disciplines his son. God looks at his people and sees this mixture, and God allows them to go through the suffering in the desert in order to expose some of these sins. Thankfully, our Lord Jesus Christ, the greater Son of God, led by the Holy Spirit into the desert. Not 40 years, but I think 40 days. Symbolic I would suggest of the 40 years. 40 days of fasting and of satanic attack. And where Israel failed, God's greater son succeeded. And thereby earning for us this active righteousness of Jesus Christ, earning for us our salvation. For all those times when we have failed. I mentioned this gentleman named Ryan, this young man He also had this understanding of Romans 8. 28 that all things work for the good. And though he was confronted with by this new boss about changes he need to make, he was very confident that all things would work together for good. i. e. , that is, that he would retain his job. But as we talked about that And uh this this false confidence he had that the boss, that he would succeed and the boss would uh would take away this threat He missed the point of the passage. As we unpack that, we begin to ask this question: how might God be using this hardship to make you more like Jesus Christ? And with the Lord's help, Ryan began to see some of his anger and some themes of insubordination that he had. He was not as obedient to his boss. He wasn't a Colossians 3, Ephesians 6 worker the way God would want him to be. He also meditated on Galatians 5 and the fruit of the Spirit. And looking at that ninefold list, asked this question. What are those qualities that I have or that I lack? And as he saw that, he began to see this lack of gentleness, this lack of self-control. And this was a time for him of growth and repentance. I'd like to tell you that the boss changed his direction, and he didn't. A Ryan lost his job. But he did get another job, and in that new job was a more functioning, Christ-like employee than he was. in the former job. Scripture hits this several ways. Where is the vine dresser pruning you? John fifteen. Where is the refiner heating you? Where is he boiling you to bring forth the impurities? Here's a fourth way. God uses hardships to engage us in the body of Christ. There's a temptation every one of us has in hardship to pull away from other people. We want to get at this alone. We're tough. I would suggest that one purpose of God in allowing you to suffer in situations is to lead you to a proper interdependency. Not just on the Lord Himself, but on the body of Christ, to strip away our tendencies towards isolationism and self-sufficiency, I think of a pair of passages in Paul. Romans 12, 15. Rejoice with those who rejoice and mourn with those who mourn. We can probably embrace that first one sometimes easier than the second one. Someone is joyful about something we can share in their joy, but It's sometimes a challenge, and we talked about this free field the other night, that sometimes you don't know what to say to one another, and my encouragement is to Say that to be with the person and say, I'm not sure what to say right now, but I love you and I'm with you and I want to help you Romans 12, 15. 1 Corinthians 12, 26, almost a parallel here. If one part of the body suffers, every part suffers with it. I think of this couple, Clay and Melissa, who had the rebellious son. And they were tempted because of pride. To hide the rebellion. I often wondered as a pastor, I've seen this actually happen when I get to know a family. I'll see a family maybe visit our church. And uh mom and dad and two young children are there. And I'm thinking, oh, here we go, a family of four And no one else knows it's not a family of just four. What they no one else knows, and I don't know initially, is there's another son or daughter. He's at home. He's rebelled. And so out of that kind of shame, they were tempted And uh they they they they talked to a counselor, and that counselor encouraged them to go to five people. That they trust. Five mature Christians and ask for prayer. Share the situation. I'll come back to them when we hit number six here in a moment. But together, these individuals with Clay and Melissa learn to bear one another's burdens. To share in this care load. Number five, God using hardships to exhibit to others. There are a few things that encourage us more, I suspect, than watching people who are in a hardship follow Christ. Aren't you moved by that? One of the beauties of getting older is just more life experience of seeing Christians. I think of people in our first church ministry who just suffered but clung to Christ. And they provide examples, their witnesses, their testimonies. This is the beauty, and I appreciate even this morning this emphasis you have here in your body on intergenerational. ministry of the fact that children are with you here, that you children are having the privilege of seeing moms and dads, but also other adults here in the congregation who are not your mommy or your daddy, but who love Jesus. And can help you in the days to come. It's a good thing. It's a blessing you have, children. I want to encourage you to thank God for that. Jesus gives us an interesting illustration in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, You are the salt of the earth in Matthew 5, 13. You are the light of the world. In the same way, let your light shine before others that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. This is one of those passages that is often used in political and social settings, or in discussions here. We Christians need to let our light shine. And I agree with that. I think that's right. But you know, when you hit it from that angle, you miss something really important about the context. This is a context of suffering. The light we shine is the light of people who are suffering, who are mourning, who are being persecuted, who are being opposed. Don't think of this as primarily a passage about Christian political action, though I do think there's implications, and I'm not opposing that. But I'm saying the thrust of this passage has to do with how, in the midst of hardships and suffering, and mistreatment, you can display the light of Christ to others who are watching. And people are watching. One of the ways that Christ gets evaluated by our world is by the conduct of us Christians. What is unity all about in John 17? Christian unity has a purpose that the world may know. I've had discussions with friends about all the racial issues going on in our country. The church. We are the new community. We are the perfect community that God is forming, and one day we'll make perfect. We're learning that. Here's where it needs to start: where we as the church become the microcosm. Of the new world, the new community, the new creation that God is making. So I think it starts right there with us. Number six, God lovingly uses hardships to equip us. Let me take you to 2 Corinthians chapter 1. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. If you are struggling with some problem in your life, let me tell you the kind of person you would like to talk to. Or at least the kind of person that you should like to talk to. You should like to talk to someone who genuinely cares. You're not going to go to someone who's cold and dismissive of you. Right? Someone who cares about you. You would also want someone you can trust. Someone who's not going to gossip about your struggle and not going to go tell everyone. Someone who can maintain proper confidentiality. And you would also want someone who knows God's word, someone who can bring truth into your life. I've given you what I call three C's at this point. I'm not the first one with that. Someone who cares, someone who's confidential, and someone who's competent to bring God's truth But I think there's a fourth kind of person, or the fourth ingredient you'd ideally like. Someone who has experienced hardship. Someone who understands from some measure of life experience, someone who has been there Paul tells us that the purpose of God's comfort in 2 Corinthians 1 is not just to comfort you. Blessed be, verse 3, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. He comforts us in all our affliction. You see what it now says? So that there's a purpose, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any kind of affliction. Through the comfort we ourselves receive from God. And so if the purpose of God's comfort in affliction is to equip you to be able to help others, Then perhaps in God's providence, that's one of the reasons you are going through the affliction, so that you can know God's comfort and therefore in turn can comfort other people. We have seen this with many people, my wife and I, over the years. People who come to us With some kind of trial and hardship in their life. And God enables them to handle it his way and becomes mature in the midst of this and begins to have a vision. And skill and compassion to help other people. Maybe this is one reason that you are in the hardship you're Maybe this is one reason why you went through a trial five, eight years ago. Maybe you've not thought about how God wants to use that experience. To redeem that bad thing. By the way, these are bad things that happen. We're not at all saying that we should be happy. About the thing. A hardship is part of a fall. It's the fallen condition. It's not the way God intended it, not the way it's supposed to be. But nevertheless, God redeems those bad things and makes them into good things for us. I think again of this couple, Clay and Melissa. While their son Joel, to that point in time when I met with him, had not turned back to the Lord. And perhaps still have not. What did happen is they began to have a ministry with many other parents who had the same kind of situation. gospel-centered care and counsel, they were able to bring that to people. And uh Melissa and Clay were able to pray with and weep with and encourage the hearts of parents who had prodigal children as well. One more way, and I'm sure there can be more, but these are the seven that I've reflected on. Why does God use these hardships? To elevate our longing for Christ's return. Earthly hardships can create and do create a proper dissatisfaction with this world. Surely, even in the midst of God's joy helping us in hardship, we still say There's got to be something better still to come. And there is. Could it be that God is using the trial you're facing to whet your appetite? For something more glorious. Could it be, particularly you've had a lot of different kinds of trials, that you don't say, Lord, just come quickly. Change me, bring me out of this. Lord, change this world First Peter puts it this way set your hope On the grace to be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed. We talked yesterday about capital H hope versus small H hope. There are some ailments, certainly some bodily suffering, and even probably some of the impact of past trauma. In your lives here that will not go away in this life And so we long for that day when we will have a perfect heart in a perfect body, living in a perfect place. James puts it this way, Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial, because having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to those who love him. That crown won't happen today. That crown comes when he comes. And so Peter exhorts us to be a people who are 2 Peter 3, looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth where righteousness dwells. And so when possessions dwindle or get destroyed, when marriages hit potholes, when jobs yield thorns Bodies deteriorate. Earthly homes decay. Our earthly cities show their corruption. These promises from Peter, from James can uphold us. I'm not into prophecy studies I will say this. It seems to me, you can test this hypothesis, those of you who studied the scriptures for years. It seems to me that every place in the New Testament Or I'll give myself a little bit of an out, at least nearly every place in the New Testament, when the second coming of Christ is pictured. It's written to or written about suffering Christians Matthew 24 and 25, and the parallels there, what we call the Olivette discourse, picturing this return of Christ. That's in the context of suffering. 1 Thessalonians and 2 Thessalonians, both the whole letters, all about the suffering of the people of God and the longing for Christ to return. Or the words of Peter and James in context of suffering and trial. The whole book of Revelation. Picturing suffering and the final relief that comes. And this is true, whatever exactly your view of millennial teaching. And I don't know what the views are here, but I would say that any of those views Would always understand that there's some component of suffering and hardship for which these pastures are the answer. We long for those things. As a biblical counselor, I have to remind myself that the answers to problems are all in God's Word. I believe that. But it doesn't mean the answers are all found right now in our lives, or all apply in our lives right now. Because part of the answer of God's word is the return of Christ. That's part of the biblical counsel that we have to bring. Well, let me close with just some practical counsel for you. I know I've covered a large terrain here, seven different themes, and you know, topical text here and there. I didn't dwell down in any one particular one. But here's what I would encourage you to do. You have your notes before you. You have passages. Here's what I encourage you to do: review these seven in prayer. And ask God, could it be? Father, is it possible that this is one of the reasons that you are allowing in my life this particular hardship? Maybe it has to do with your children. Your body, your finances, your job, your friendships, your church relationships All sorts of things. Could it be, Lord, that it's one or more of these? And if you sense it's one of those, then drill down on some of these passages. With all four of these talks, as I conclude, there are recommended resources that I've listed for you. You can get those. There's some things that I've done. I just, for travel packing reasons, I didn't want to bring them samples, but nevertheless, there are a lot of resources for each all four of these topics, and I pray that God would help you to use them. And then lastly, do consider talking with one another. Mature Christian brothers and sisters, and particularly the elders within your congregation. I know there's several congregations represented here, but Those of you who are part of Christ's Reform Presbyterian Church, I know these pastors and I encourage you to be able to talk with them. Let me lead us in prayer. And ask God to guide us as we think about how He might be using the suffering in our life to make us more like Jesus because He loves us. Let me lead us in prayer. Father, we are conscious today that there is a glorious God above. And that you have come to us in Jesus Christ, and that you have given us your Holy Spirit. And yet, Lord, we remain at times confused, perplexed. Not understanding what your ways are, what your will is in the hardships that we face. And so I pray that your Spirit, O God, would help each person in this room. From the youngest to the oldest, to be able to recognize your ways and to be able to see from Scripture how those ways may be directly applicable in Their situation. And I pray you would give to the congregation here eyes that love and see one another and can draw near with that kind of support. And so we thank you today in the name of our Savior Christ. Amen.