It was good to have an email early this morning from our pastor and wife, who'd already worshiped where they are in the world, and be praying for us now, and even for me as I preach. Before our wedding in 1973, my wife Marg and I had a couple of years of getting to know each other through a long-distance relationship Because we lived three hours apart from one another. At the time, phone calls were very expensive. There was no such thing as email or texting. So we communicated through handwritten letters that we would exchange through the mail. Sounds strange, doesn't it? On those days, when I didn't have classes at Penn State, I could hardly wait till 11. 30 and a. m. to see if I could be the first of my roommates to get to the mailbox. And when I got there, I would sort through all of our mail. I had three other roommates, so there was usually a considerable amount, and I'd look to see who it was to, was anything to me, and then of course who it was from. And when I saw something in Marg's handwriting, before I got back to the apartment, I ripped it open because I wanted to know what was inside of it. I wanted to know what one who loved me had to say. As I will have the opportunity, Lord willing, this summer to preach morning and evening for some different times in the morning, I'm going to be working through the book of Galatians, starting in the beginning. And it's a letter that God had given to his church. But beloved, because God has written it down for us, he has preserved it for us. It's not just for the church in southern Turkey. But it is for you and for me. And so I'm glad to rip it open today. Because one who loves sinners like you and me has written to us that we might know him and love him and have a relationship with him. So let's stand together as I pray and I'll read from God's Holy Word. Our Father and our God, we read so many things throughout the day. But none are as important as what we read when we open your word. Because the very one who created us and sustains us speaks to us. And yet we know that there are many with eyes who can't see and ears who can't hear, unless by the power of your word you are gracious. To allow us to see your word and hear and understand it. You've promised to meet with your people when we gather, so would you do that, O God? Would you give me the understanding that I need an ability to share it, to open it, to proclaim it? To your congregation. Oh God, and would you give us a desire as your congregation to wait upon the lips of the one who loves us? The one who has cared enough to write and preserve this letter for your church, for your people, for us. And oh God, would you help us to not just hear and understand? But that you would be gracious enough to help us obey, conform us even to your son Jesus, who would hear your word and said it was his very food and sustenance for life. Would you do that with and for us today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we read from Galatians chapter 1 and verses 1 through 5, you'll see that it was written because it was in the Greco-Roman Empire like their letters. That starts off reading the name of who it's from, who it's to, a word of formal greeting. But then Apostle Paul to his church, to you, is going to begin to express what this whole book is about, the gospel, the good news. That God has a plan to redeem sinners, those who had rebelled against him, to make him his own children. So let us look at God's word and listen. Galatians chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. Paul An apostle, not from man nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father Who raised him from the dead and all the brothers who are with me to the churches of Galatia, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins. to deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father To whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Please be seated. As you read with me this morning, the Apostle Paul is this messenger, the one bringing grace and peace. to the churches of Galatia through this letter. It starts off at, here I am, I'm Paul. And he says that I am an apostle, God's messenger sent to you to to write this letter to you, to bring you God's word. And Paul says that he isn't one of the The first twelve apostles that were picked by Jesus to be his disciples. No. He he is uh brought that way differently. Many were seeking to discount Paul as the apostle because he wasn't with Jesus during that time. He he didn't walk with him like the other twelve did. And so some were saying, Paul, your your message, although you shared the gospel with us before, your message isn't one we're going to listen to anymore. We have others who've come to us. And so Paul is saying why they need to listen. And of course, you could understand why he might not listen, right? Suppose that, well, I've been to Uganda before and I've heard of the killing times when Edi Amin had killed millions of Ugandans. I've walked the streets where their shops were and where they were burnt and all the rest. What would have happened if Edi Amin had come to Christ and then went into the church to speak? How would they have received him? Well, that's the way that it was with the Apostle Paul. Many weren't weren't saying that he could be listened. Listen to Paul's own testimony of what he was before Christ, because He was a Jew who persecuted Christ. He says this in Acts 26. Listen to his own words. I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth. I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authority from the chief priests. But when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. And I punished them often in all the synagogues, and I tried to make them blaspheme And in raging fury against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. And so the world knew about Paul at that time. And so some were saying because he had that kind of a background that you shouldn't listen to him But Paul's claim to be apostle, he says, is different. Listen to me, because even though I wasn't one of those twelve, even though I wasn't like Matthias, who. who was voted in in Acts in the beginning of the book to take the place of Judas, the traitor who betrayed Jesus, he said, God called me. And in Acts chapter 26, we see that as he was with rage and fury going to Damascus, God called him personally to be his apostle. You can listen or follow along in Acts chapter 26. But you'll see how God spoke to him particularly and called him to bring his message. Acts 26, verses 12 to 18. He says, In this connection I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priest. At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun. that shone around me and those who journeyed with me. And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It's hard for you to kick against the goats. Goads And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting, but rise. And stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a service and witness to the things in which you have seen me. and to those in which I will appear to you, delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles to whom I'm sending you, to open their eyes so that they might turn from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God, that they might receive forgiveness of sin and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. And so as we have this letter, remember that it's not just any old letter. God took the one who was persecuting his church. And broke him and humbled him and converted him and forgave him, that he would be the messenger of the same good news of salvation. Where God takes his enemies, rebels against him, and makes them his sons and his daughters, his beloved So that's the one who's writing this letter that comes to you and I. He knows the love of Christ. He knows what it is to know Christ And so he writes this to his church. He wrote it, first of all, to the Galatians. I said earlier it's in modern-day Turkey, southern Turkey, that's the area. He wrote particularly to the churches in Antioch of Pisidian, Iconium, Lystra, and Derby. But we know that the scripture says all scripture is inspired by God. And Peter tells us that it's for we might know, have all that we need for life and godliness. So God has preserved it for you and me that you and I might live a life of godliness and have all we need to follow Him. So, let's begin this letter from the Apostle Paul, whom God called to be his messenger to his church, to Galatia, but to you and me this morning. God then sent him to his church of Galatia, but to us This word is for you, not just far away and long ago, but beloved, it is for you today. And the message is that He brings grace and peace. To people like Paul. Now I doubt I don't know all of you I don't know all of your backgrounds, but I doubt any of you ever persecuted the church or sought to kill Christians But I didn't grow up in the church And I remember in high school when someone wanted to tell me about this Christian organization called Young Life. He was much littler than I was, but I remember in biology class, he said I said, Well what do you do? He wanted me to go and and I was kind of uh the sixties uh before I went to college and my hair grew but uh Uh I was uh I was not into the hippie movement and that's what it was and that's what this guy came up to me was and I remember he said uh I want you to come to this meeting. Well what is it? Well we sing songs and talk about Jesus We usually meet in people's basements. And I just picked him up and threw him across the room. And I said, I don't want to hear about your Jesus. Well, I never killed or particularly persecuted Christians, but I pushed them around. I didn't want anything to do with him or his message. And you might say, well, I wasn't a Paul, and I certainly wasn't like you, Pastor. But we all know what it is to live independently of God as if we were gods unto ourselves. No, you might have been a Christian and raised in the church, but you know what it is to just Use God as your good luck charm, your rabbit's foot, that you call on him when you're in trouble, but otherwise you just live for what you want. And we live autonomously like that, not bowing before the Lord, the one who created us. We're his enemies. And so he calls those who love his gifts but don't follow him, the giver. He calls us and he's speaking to us this day, and he says, for you who've been rebels against me, you can have grace and peace. Now grace means God's riches at Christ's expense Which means that you and I who rebel against God don't deserve his love and care, but he gives it by offering his son, Jesus Christ, in our stead. He takes our judgment and he gives us his mercy and love. He makes us his children while turning his head. From his son on the cross, who says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The only one God deserves to give grace to is his son, who always followed him. But he offers grace to rebels like you and me and Paul. And peace. Peace is that we no longer have to fear judgment day and God and his wrath, because he's given us his love while placing his judgment and wrath on his son. If you want something to do this afternoon, which would be a good thing, just go to the New Testament and look at every letter from the Apostle Paul to another church. They all start with grace and peace that comes through Christ. That's the message. Paul was the messenger, but then you see in the scripture the means that grace and peace comes. It didn't come through this letter. There's nothing in your Bible that's going to give you grace and peace. Something had to happen when God changed his heart. Towards rebels like you and me, towards Saul. What was it that could turn his heart? What was the means that he used? And the means that he used is shown us in Scripture. It's shown right here. It says, Grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, but something happened. And that is the means that God uses, and that's why we call it the good news, the gospel. What is it? The means is, is that God and Jesus gave Jesus for our sins to deliver us. You couldn't do anything to save ourselves. The Apostle Paul was on his own mission to destroy the church. I was on my own mission to build up my name and to live for Jerry. And you all know what it's like to live for put your name in it. You live for your desires and your purposes. Oh, I'm in trouble. Yep, God, I want to live for you today And maybe after this sermon you'll go away for a few hours, or maybe tomorrow and say, I've got to really be a good Christian today and follow after God. And then you find yourself. Slowly turning your own path. And that's why that hymn is so great, because it understands, it says, Lord, prone to wander, Lord to feel it, Lord to leave the God I love. Right? We find ourselves wanting to be gods, but we find ourselves on our own path all so easily. We couldn't do anything to save ourselves. God made the way that He gave His Son. You're familiar, I know, with another scripture that says the same thing in John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Now, when we read that, it's a wondrous truth, but we tend to read it like we're playing kickball. Here you are. We're playing kickball and you're on the team and everybody's picking up sides And there you are, because no one knows, everybody knows you're not very good. You're the very last one to be picked. And when you're there, everybody goes on your side and said, oh no, they can't kick the ball. Now maybe you are great at kickball. But we all know what it's like not to be picked for something, all right? And you say, well, he wasn't any good, he couldn't do it, and so we're gonna have George step in. George Bigfoot, man, he can kick that ball. And every time you're supposed to kick, George stands in for you. He kicks at a country mile, and everybody is kicked in You think, oh, he gave himself. He just took my place. He just stood in. And it's very Clean. Very antiseptic when we read this. For God so loved the world that he gave But what God says is that when this giving, it's an atonement that God, who wanted to put his wrath and hatred against rebels, and it's what we deserve. for our sins towards him. He gave his son who never sinned, who always followed him, who loved him from all eternity. He gave him for us And he takes on God's wrath, and we know his love and are adopted as his children. Well, I know I just said that to you, but it's pretty antiseptic, isn't it? We still. That's one of the reasons God has given us the Old Testament as it pictures All that would happen to Jesus. I want you to turn to the book of Leviticus. In the book of Leviticus, the first chapter, is when God begins to institute all of the sacrifices for sin. The book of Exodus, especially at the end, the tabernacle has been put together where they would worship God. It was it had all this gold and and beautiful curtains and furniture that was covered with gold where they were to use for worship. All this picturing The worship of our God and who he is and his beauty. And so that's set up. And then God comes and inhabits this tabernacle. His glory is there. And now God has to have a relationship with this tent that's right in the middle of millions of Israelites. And he says, you can't have a relationship with me unless you first sacrifice, because you're rebels, you're stiff-necked. I provided water for you in the wilderness every time you needed it, but every time you didn't have it, you just complained and murmured. Man, we don't get any water. You were 40 years in the wilderness. You didn't have anything to eat. I gave you bread. Ah, we gotta eat this manna every day. I'm sick of manna. I wish I had some meat And that's the way we are. We can't come into God's presence because even though he's provided and given everything we need, we're rebels. So he says, before you can worship me in this beautiful tabernacle, you've got to be cleansed, and it's through An animal given for you, sacrificed for you. So Lecotus 1 chapter 3 through 9. It talks about what the priest, the one who's the most holy, has to do, and then this is repeated for all the people Leviticus 1, 3 to 9. If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male bull. A bull, you know, an ox, this big old massive thing. Living strong, healthy, without blemish has to be killed for him. He shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering. It shall be accepted to make atonement for him. Then he shall kill the bull before the Lord, and Aaron's sons, the priests, shall bring the blood, and throw the blood against the sides of the altar and the entrance of the tent of meeting. And they shall flay the burnt offering and cut it into pieces. And the sons of Aaron and the priest shall put fire on the altar and arrange the wood on the fire. And the sons of Aaron priests shall arrange the pieces. And the head and the fat on the wood, it's on the fire and the altar, but its entrails, And legs he shall wash with water, and the priest shall burn all of it as a burnt offering, a food offering, pleasant and the aroma to the Lord. Lord goes on in Exodus and says, Well, if you can't afford a bull, you can use a goat. Can't afford a goat, you can use a sheep. If you can't afford a sheep, you can use turtle doves. But each one is going to be slain, the life taken. So that you can come into my presence. Well, we still read the Bible and we read, you know, Exodus, Leviticus, and we just go, ah. Gotta get through here. So we kind of read it. And he gave a bull. And he gave a sheep. And they finally then later on they build the great temple and it says they offered a hundred bulls. And a thousand sheep. We just read it. Oh, the lovely blue. A thousand, a hundred dollars a lot. We we make it antiseptic My first congregation was in a rural area, and one of my elders, who owned a small farm that he did on the side, he worked in town, but he came home to his farm. He said, Would you like some meat? Oh yeah, baby. Well, we're gonna slaughter a cow. Would you like some? Yeah. Well, bring your family over Saturday and help us. So there we were in his front yard, side yard. beside a tree. One of his sons brings Bessie down. We're there. Another son comes up with a gun, Bessie's forehead. BLAM! There's Bessie. He takes a rope, puts it around a chain around Bessie's neck, excuse me, feet, hauls Bessie up the tree, and then he slices Bessie's throat. And get all the blood out of it so it doesn't ruin the meat. And this guy who came in clean clothes wasn't clean anymore. He was covered with blood. And then he took a knife in the center of Bessie's stomach and Opened it up and it all came out and was on the ground, big pile of all the entrails We decided then to do a little science lesson and see all four of Bessie's stomachs Then we took the skin, the hide off of Bessie And then to before we could come back the next week, we're going to hang Bessie in the barn for a week to let her age. And so he took a chainsaw and took it right down the center of Bessie, cut her in half, and then he took a hacksaw and quartered her. I read Leviticus differently now And then we came back the next week and ground Bessie up and cut her into stakes and we enjoyed Bessie. She was a great old gal. You see, we read this and we say, Oh yeah. Slaughter the wool I was reading today in Leviticus, and it said, these things for were the unintentional sins of the people. That was when they wanted to follow God and just unintentionally they didn't do it. They didn't even talk yet about the intentional sins. Where we say, oh God, I know I love you, but I'm going to go here. I'm going to do this because I want what I want. Of course, we're thankful that God forgives those. We know of our even King David who said, I want Bathsheba. And I don't want anybody to know I was with Bathsheba, so I'm going to get rid of her husband, Uriah. And there was bloodshed for that too. So when we read this, we said, oh yes, Jesus was given for me. And apparently the cross was a horrific thing. I'm not going to go into all that it is and the flailing and all the rest. I'd purpose not to see the Passion of Christ, but I understood that if you've seen that movie, that you understand a little bit of the crucifixion. At least this lady who saw it wrote this. She said that Mel Gibson did not use a delicate artist brush. But a sledgehammer. He crashed through any pious distance we ever have from the cross of Christ and laid it out in meticulous detail, every lash. Every bruise, every moment of agony, it's hard to watch and harder to forget. Beloved, this is good news. The world thinks, what an awful religion. But the world doesn't understand how horrible our sin is to a holy God. The world doesn't understand that God is the only one who is awesome. He is the only one that is set apart from us. He is the one who made us and sustains us and so that he could have a relationship with people who are unholy. Gave his son. Isaiah says he slaughtered his son. It tells us that he was the Lamb of God, and it delighted God to do that. Not in any sense of macabre sense, macabre sense, you know, ha ha ha ha, I gotta give my son. But he says, I love these rebels, and it's the only way. I'm going to allow my son to be slaughtered so that you might know me. This very book Brings up the gospel message. Though we deserve to be slaughtered for our sin and rebellion, God gave His son, that we might know him. We've seen the message We've seen the messenger, the Apostle Paul, as he wrote to his church, as he writes to us. We've seen the message that he, God, has grace and peace. A relationship to give to us, but the means is a bloody, terrible means. That he was willing to express and do to save us, to give his son. And that should cause us. Look at the end of the scripture here To magnify, to praise our God. That He would love sinners enough. That those who call upon him, Jesus would be slaughtered for us. What an amazing thing. Been here six months. Started to get to know you. Have sat down and been in some of your houses. Some of you have been in my house. Some you've sat in the counseling room, we have a more deep relationship, some we've talked more. I wouldn't give my wife, and I wouldn't give my daughter, and I wouldn't give my granddaughter, and I wouldn't give my son-in-law for you. No way. I might like you already starting to get this relationship. And you're nice to me But imagine rebels, ones that say, I don't want you. Thank you very much. I have my own religion or I can do it by myself. For God so loved the world, and he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believeth in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. You see the last part of verse 5. Because of God the Father, it says, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. To be glory forever and ever. Amen. What a God Let's look to him. Our Father, I pray that you would give us who have heard the message over and over again new eyes. We would understand the depths of your love that you would give Jesus for us. And I pray for those who have never bowed before you, but Are rebels, maybe not like Paul persecuting the church or me, even throwing some Christians around, but but haven't bowed the knee, just We've got Christianity in our life, or maybe our parents are, or we've been brought up in the church, or we've heard the message over and over, but we've never by faith Allowed Christ, had Christ, stand in for us to take the wrath we deserve. What a wondrous message. Would you bring that home? To have all of us call out to you today that we might know this wondrous love and give praise to God the Father Almighty. Amen.