I have known Skip for I don't know ten years, fifteen years, something like that, and Bonnie don't know the rest of the family very well, or Bonnie very well, but Love Skip very much. We used to meet every month for just fellowship and prayer, and I never see him that I am not helped. encouraged, uh warmed in my own devotion to the Lord. So you have a wonderful pastor. I um I did study with John Gerstner, and uh if you know him, or you know R. C. Sprohl, who is his spiritual son, which I'm sure you do. You'll know everybody who studies with him has the Gerstner growl at some point or other. And that growl, you heard it last two weeks because you heard Dave Coffin. It transfers somehow, not just people who study with him, but even people who study with those who study with him. So it's it's an interesting sort of business. how that happens. Um I want to greet you also from uh Reformed Seminary. We have our first um uh uh Uh I was gonna say first campus, but we're not. We're uh we are a uh satellite campus and we've just been approved to offer a Master of Divinity degree, which we've been hoping for for quite a while. And part of what we do is teach classes in different um locations, even from the satellite. So I've been driving up uh to Chapelgate the last year or so, uh every week or sometimes on weekends, and um so uh I love the drive. I I love to come up um north here and It's really great to see this country. So it's great to meet you and get to know you a little bit. And one of the great things about Scripture is its realism. Scripture takes the sins of God's beloved people seriously, doesn't sugarcoat them. and is much more open about the sins of God's beloved than most of us tend to be. It tells us of God's permanent, great love for us. And this is an amazing sweet story that we're about to read from Genesis chapter 44. Dr. Bruce Waltke, uh, in his commentary on Genesis, calls chapters 37 through 50, Dysfunctional Family in Canaan. That's sort of a striking title. And it really is true. Think about Jacob and what a mess his life was, and by the grace of God, how his life was transformed. Are there dysfunctions among God's covenant people, among families, in his church? Yes, there are. But the story of this family shows God the Father's amazing healing and restoration, the way the Lord transforms our lives and makes us like Jesus Christ. And it's marvelous to see this because God is committed to us in his covenant. And even though many things about our lives displease him He loves us dearly. And I find this deeply encouraging because the process of sanctification takes place over a very lengthy period. In this case, some 22 years. In chapter 44, which I'm about to read here, the word brother is used 16 times. The word father is used 20 times. And so what we see here is a cruel and heartless family that is brought back together in love, in welcome, in service. And all this brought about by God in his wonderful grace. Twenty-two years. We think perhaps God is done with us sometimes, but Scripture gives us reason for joy. God is sovereign. He is ruling history. He is Lord over everything in the universe. He is Lord over our lives. And he is restoring and healing the lives of his covenant people. Now this family, Jacob's family, was God's covenant people at that point in history. We, the church, are God's covenant family, and God works in our lives as he worked in theirs. So remember the story. Jacob was deeply in love with Rachel, but not with Leah. And he showed that, Jacob did, by favoring Rachel's children, Joseph and Benjamin, even financially. This caused deep envy and hatred within the family, and the ten brothers became angry. indifferent towards their father and so jealous of Joseph that they sold him into slavery. But now, with Judah, brother Judah, in the lead, they beg for Jacob's well-being. And they offer themselves as slaves to save Benjamin. Joseph reveals himself and forgives his brothers their crime. That's the overview of the story. You may be used to thinking about, hearing about maybe sermons about Joseph as a type of Jesus Christ. And that's surely right. Joseph in in uh goes down in the uh terrible treatment that his brothers lead him to, sold into slavery. And then He's exalted. And as he's exalted in God's providence, a blessing comes to the world through him. He shows us what will happen in history. in the Lord Jesus Christ, how he is humiliated on our behalf and then raised up and then through him blessing comes to the nations. It's also true in this story that Judah, the older brother, is a type of Jesus Christ. And in him, what God does in his life, we see something that God does in all our lives. He conforms us to Jesus Christ. He takes us in all our rebellion, in all our undessert, undeserving His kindness, and He molds our lives. So let's listen to the Word of God. um as I read it. This is the holy word of the Lord our God. This is speaking now of Joseph, Genesis 44. Sorry, uh yeah, Joseph. Then he commanded his house steward, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry. And put each man's money in the mouth of his sack, and put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, and his money for the grain. And he did as Joseph had told him. As soon as it was light, the men were sent away, they with their donkeys. They had just gone out of the city and were not far off. When Joseph said to his house steward, Up, follow the men. When you overtake them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good? Is not this the one from which my Lord drinks, and the one which he indeed uses for divination? You have done wrong in doing this. So he overtook them. And he spoke these words to them. And they said to him, Why does my Lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing. Behold, the money which we found in the mouth of our sacks we brought back to you from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold from your Lord's house? With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die, and we also will be my lord's slaves. So he said, Now let it also be, according to your words. He with whom it is found shall be my slave. and the rest of you shall be innocent. Then they hurried. Each man lowered his sack to the ground, and each man opened his sack, and he searched, beginning with the oldest, and ending with the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they tore their clothes, and when the when each man loaded his donkey, they returned to the city. When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there, and they fell to the ground before him, and Joseph said to them, What is this deed that you have done? Do you not know that a man, such a man as I, can indeed practice divination? So Judah said, What can we say to my Lord? What can we speak? How can we justify ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. Behold, we are my lord's slaves, both we and the one in whose possession the cup has been found. But he said, Far be it from me to do this, the man in whose possession the cup has been found, he shall be my slave. But as for the as for you, go up in peace to your father's house. Then Judah approached him and said, O my lord, may your servant please speak a word in my Lord's ears, and do not be angry with your servant, for you are equal to Pharaoh. My Lord asked his servant, saying, Have you a father or a brother? And we said to my Lord, We have an old father and a little child of his old age. Now his brother is dead, so he alone is left of his mother, and his father loves him. Then you said to me that I may then you said to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him. But we said to my lord, the lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die. You said to your servants, however, unless your youngest brother comes down with you. You shall not see my face again. And thus it came about. When we went up to your servant, my father, we told him the words of my Lord. And our father said, Go back and buy us a little food, but we said we cannot go down. If our youngest brother is with us, then we will go down, for we cannot see this man's face unless our youngest brother is with us. And your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons, and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn to pieces, and I have not seen him since. And if you take this one from me, and harm befalls him, you will bring my gray hair down to Sheol in sorrow Now therefore, when I come to your servant, my father, and the lad is not with us, since his life is bound up in the lad's life. It will come about when he sees that Lad is not with us, he will die. Thus your servants will bring the gray hair of your servant our father down to Sheol in sorrow. For your servant became a surety for the lad to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then let me bear the blame before my father forever. Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the lad as a slave to my Lord. And let the lad go up with his brothers. For how shall I go up to my father if the lad is not with me, lest I see the evil that would overtake my father? Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood before by him, and he cried, Have everyone go out from me. So there was no man with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and he wept so loudly that the Egyptians heard it, and the house of Pharaoh heard of it. Then Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. Then Joseph said to his brothers, please come close to me. And they came closer. And he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. And now, do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. This is God's word. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for the holy words that we've been able to hear just now. And we pray that you would have your way with us. Let these words mold our lives as we have fellowship by your Spirit with Jesus Christ. We adore you, Lord God. We ask your blessing on us, and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, there are three things I want us to see as we think about this story together. It's got tremendous power, doesn't it? Tremendous feeling. as these brothers are brought around to a place of repentance and as Joseph brings them there in his wisdom. Those things I want us to see are that God directly weaves events to pressure their consciences Then second, that God's grace has transformed this man Judah. And then third, that God wants us to be reconciled to each other. God weaves events together to pressure their consciences. He used famine, and he used Joseph's severe mercy to move them to repentance and so heal this broken family. Joseph is the man in the Old Testament filled with the Holy Spirit. And he uses his father-like position to test his brothers and ultimately to bring them, to lead them to repentance. Despite the hardness of his actions, which may have caused you to stumble as you've read this, notice the tenderness of Joseph's feelings. And this tells us that Joseph was almost certainly not exacting revenge on them, but disciplining them for their good. There was a leadership vacuum in this family. Jacob wasn't doing what he ought to have been doing in this family. The older brothers weren't doing it, and so Joseph steps in. Now in this book, in his book, a contemporary book, the atheist, Christopher Hitchens uh writes uh his book, God is not great. He says, your religion teaches that before Moses gave the Ten Commandments, the world knew nothing about right and wrong. But don't be thrown off by people like this who say things like this because our religion does not teach that. There was law long before Moses. God is convicting these men of their sins, their crimes of kidnapping and hatred. Because God has written his law on the heart of every person. So we know what is right or wrong. We know that we are responsible before God. And the brothers, the ten brothers here, had a guilty conscience. And God, through these events, is bringing them to recognize what they'd done and to seek forgiveness. How do you do you remember how Joseph had disciplined his brothers? He gave them enough grain to survive But demanded, if you are honest men, that they bring Benjamin back to Egypt if they would receive Simeon back. Remember, Simeon was in Joseph's possession. Joseph also made them look like thieves by returning their silver in their grain sacks. And you see, God uses the pressure on their lives to show them their guilt. They confess their guilt in selling Joseph back in Genesis 42. Then they said to one another, verse 21, In truth, we are guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the distress of his soul when he begged us, and we did not listen. This is why this distress has come upon us. Were they right? Yes, they were right. The brothers are coming to themselves. They are coming to see their crime against Joseph and their sin against God. In verse 28, they say, At this, the scripture says, at this their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, What is this that God has done to us? See, the evidence of their turning from what they did is a new attitude toward each other. And that's what Joseph is after in all this, a new attitude toward each other. Will they leave Simeon in Egypt like they left Joseph in the pit? Now when we come to chapter 43, Judah comes forward. The mere starvation of the family moves Judah to speak wisely and boldly to his father, to release Benjamin. Benjamin now, notice this, is still Jacob's favorite. But Jacob submits to God and sends Benjamin along with them. And the brothers bring Benjamin and the money back to Egypt. And in Egypt, when they return the money, Joseph's servant pronounces peace on them. He says, Peace to you, do not be afraid, your God and the God of your fathers. has put treasure in your sacks for you. I received your money. And then he brought Simeon out to them. Joseph treats them to a feast in his house, and then he very strangely sets them in the he sets them at the table in the order of their ages. And then he tests them for jealousy by giving Benjamin five times the food of anybody else. Now see that would work in my house That would create the jealousy. But they passed the test by eating together joyfully. They eat without jealousy. Now Joseph is going to test them two more times. He brings them to be reconciled to each other through these. And in these crises they respond with compassion and with self-sacrifice. Don't we hear this sometimes that war brings out the very best in people and it brings out the very worst in people. Well tests do that in our lives. And by the grace of God, it brings up the best in these men, the working of God's Spirit. In verses 1 to 13 in our chapter, By putting his own cup in Benjamin's sack, Joseph plots to test their integrity. Have they really been so ungrateful as to steal Joseph's special cup? But they're indignant. No, they say. They have not done anything wrong. And now somewhat rashly they vow death to whoever has done this. But now it really looks as if Benjamin is guilty of theft. So back they go to Joseph's house. And here Judah again comes to center stage. He speaks to Joseph in verses 14 to 34. He protests their innocence in verse 16. What shall we say? How shall we speak? How can we justify ourselves? See, the case against Benjamin is so clear. There's nothing that he can say. But next he says, the trouble they are in is due to God's judgment. for their guilt, what they had done previously. He says, God has found out the guilt of your servants. He can't be referring to the cup because he's just said they were innocent. So this is the second time he has confessed their crime, and I think it's a confession of their crime, you see, against Joseph. Then Judah offers all the brothers as slaves. Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he also in whose hand the cup has been found. God used the famine in their lives to bring them to themselves. He used the pressure of Joseph's tests to open their hearts And he's treating them as sons. God is treating them as sons. For the moment, all discipline seems painful, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. The Holy Spirit uses the events that bring pressure on us, along with the Word of God, to produce change in our lives. We read the Word of God. It has an impact on us. But then sometimes it slides off like water off a duck's back in some respects. But in His providence, God puts pressure on us. He leads us. in such a way to bring the word home into our hearts, the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit working together. Our confession of faith speaks of this and uses the phrase special providence, as the providence of God does in general reach to all creatures. So after a most special manner, it takes care of his church and disposes all things to the good thereof. It's a beautiful statement. It's true over all the world. God is ruling It's true especially for his church, this church, his whole church, that he orders everything in the world, in history, for the good of the church It's true in our own lives as members in union with Jesus Christ, the Lord works all things to conform us to Him, to make us like Him. And the Father shapes the world so he may shape our character and our life together as his people. A very special work of God, and he wants us to be responsive to it. Now Judah is going to uh Joseph is going to test Judah one last time. They can't go home in peace without Benjamin. Joseph says in verse 17, far be it from me. that I should do so. Only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my slave. But as for you, go up in peace to your father. Now notice Judah's speech. Here we see the second thing, how God has in his grace transformed this man. I want you to remember with me what Judah was and now what he has become. Judah appeals to Joseph to show mercy to his father. First he retells the story of the first two journeys to Egypt, and he focuses on Jacob's reluctance to send Benjamin because he doesn't want to suffer. the loss of another son. Verse 22, we said to my Lord, the boy cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die. Then your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons. One is left, and I said, surely he has been torn to pieces, and I have never seen him since If you take this one also from me, and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs in evil to Sheol. And then Judah finishes his speech. Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant, my father, and the boy is not with us, as his life is bound up in the boy's life, as soon as he sees the boy is not with us, he will die. And your servants will bring down the gray hair of our father, your servant, with sorrow to shool. For your servant, now he's speaking about himself, your servant became a pledge of safety. for the boy to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, I shall bear the blame before my father all my life. Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a slave, and let the boy go back with his brothers. For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil. that would find my father. What is he doing? Judah is asking to be allowed to become a slave in Benjamin's place to spare his father the misery. Do you remember what Judah was, what kind of person he used to be, 22 years before this? He counseled his brothers to sell 17-year-old Joseph into slavery. He'd been faithless. He'd been hard and cruel and cold. And when Jacob was mourning Joseph, right to Jacob's face, Judah had comforted him. though he too was guilty of exactly the same betrayal. Then he left the covenant family and he married a Canaanite. He raised two evil sons. whom God put to death. He lied to his widowed daughter-in-law, Tamar, about providing a husband for her. Then He unknowingly slept with her and again unknowingly condemned her for the very crime he had committed. All this is in uh chapter 38. He was about as lost as a covenant child can be. in full adult years. Now what led to all this in Judah's life was this foolish favoritism for Rachel in Jacob and her son Joseph. Now I know we don't have that situation of multiple wives. We can all be grateful that that's long past. Uh uh that that is the worst possible situation I think anybody man could ever be in. But uh th there you have it. Jacob loved Rachel, but he didn't love Leah. He loved Rachel and her two sons, but he didn't love the ten. And there was this leadership vacuum in the family as well. Reuben, who was the firstborn had forfeited his place of leadership by his uncontrolled passions. Simeon and Levi were the next oldest, and they had brutally attacked the city of Shechem. The brothers, all of them, had been so alienated by Jacob's favoritism that they couldn't speak to Joseph and Benjamin. And Jacob here still considers Benjamin his only son. Now think about this. What has happened now to Judah over 20 years? He's a different person. He takes responsibility for the welfare of the family. Now he accepts this unhappy reality of Jacob's favoritism. But now he does so without bitterness. He can quote Jacob's foolish statement, verse 27. Then your servant my father said to us, You know my wife bore me two sons, as though Leah were not also Jacob's wife, and the other ten were not also his sons. But he can quote his father without bitterness, though it must have been a sorry thing to have had to live with. But Judah's whole concern now is to keep Jacob from grief. He has the deepest sympathy for Jacob, whose whole life is bound up with the life of Benjamin. He's become so loyal to the family. Now that he offers himself to save Benjamin, even though Benjamin appears to be guilty He accepts the reality of his father's favoritism without rancor. He just accepts him. And now he just loves his father. He protects, he serves guilty brother Benjamin, whom still Jacob loves more than he loves him, and at his own cost he offers himself in the place of his guilty brother. What has happened to Judah? Well, of course, you know what's happened to Judah. God has made him like the Lord Jesus Christ. Judah will sacrifice himself in order to save Benjamin. He's the first person in Scripture who willingly offers his life for another. He's become what the king of God's people must be, should be, who serves the people rather than having the people serve him. The greater serves the less. The first person in Scripture who willingly offers his life for another, what does Scripture tell us about Judah's transformation? He loved Benjamin for the sake of his father. He was a living prophecy, see, of Jesus Christ. He was a picture of Jesus Christ. through which God was showing us what Jesus Christ would one day do. We call this a type All of Scripture intends to tell us about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, who offered himself in our place, and by his death satisfied the Father's offended justice. Jesus Christ who healed the breach. And we are reconciled to God. Now what happens in this family? Well at the end of Genesis, Jacob confers kingship on Judah in chapter 49. Verse 10, The scepter, he says, shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. Binding his foal to the vine, his donkey's colt to the choicest vine, He has washed his garments in wine, and his vesture in the blood of grapes, his eyes are darker than wine, his teeth whiter than milk. What's Jacob doing? He's prophesying. what a child of Judah is going to be. He's prophesying Jesus Christ. He's saying the scepter will be his and be his eternally And his kingdom will be so rich. And he uses these pictures from the ancient Near East. He'll have so much wine he can wash his clothes in it. And his his face will be beautiful, beautiful white teeth and dark eyes, this picture of a of an extremely handsome Middle Eastern person. These are pictures of the Lord Jesus Christ, the kingdom that he'll bring, the abundance, the richness of the kingdom, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. Now clearly Judah has become the leader of this family. He leads. He cares like a father. What does the father do? He sets the tone, he encourages, he cares for the family's welfare, the family of Judah. David came from the family of Judah. Hezekiah came from the family of Judah. Jesus came from the family of Judah. Jesus gave himself up for us. And now more and more give their obedience to him, Jesus Christ, our King. God is Lord of all that happens in our lives, and He sends us trials, and His purpose is more for us than survival His purpose is that we should show his grace. His purpose is that our lives should change. His purpose is to make us like Jesus Christ. What does he want us to learn? He wants us to learn grace and to be changed by grace. And he wants us to be reconciled to each other. And here I come to the close. And this means that when we've sinned against each other, we must own it and confess as sin against God. And turn away from it from the heart. Now that doesn't just bring us to God. It brings us together. It brings us together as families. Listen to Proverbs 28 verse 13. Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. This is about confessing transgressions that actually harm another person. And so confession means giving God glory by acknowledging sin and acknowledging God's right to punish it. What should we do when we've harmed someone else, injured them, sinned against them? What does the Lord want us to do? Well this passage says, whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. So confession means to say, I was wrong, I am sorry. Will you forgive me? Ten words. Very, very hard for us to say to each other. So humbling. But this is what the Lord wants us to do. And this is what the brothers did do. Judah pleads for Benjamin. And this shows just how sincerely they have forsaken their former sins. Joseph, in his wisdom, had recreated something of the original situation. The brothers are again in control of the life and death of a son of Rachel. And right in that challenging trial, they react in grace. And that's what we call sanctification or change. What we're to do is to confess our transgressions and abandon them. And when we confess, we give God glory because we acknowledge his greatness. We can't hide our sins from the Lord because he knows what we've done. And so, in grace, we don't try. And this is just what the Holy Spirit does in our hearts as believers. The covenant, in the covenant, it's just as important. For us to show faith by reconciling with the offended, as it is to return to the Lord. He who confesses and forsakes them will find mercy. So what do you do? Well if you've stolen something, you should return it. Don't do what I did when I was a little kid and my mom caught me. I took a magic marker from uh one of the neighbors up the street. And she said, uh, you have to take it back. Well, I didn't want to take it back. She said, you have to take it back. She drove me back to the person's house. She said, you take it in there and you give it back to them. And I went in there and I put it on a counter and I ran back out the house. I didn't say a word to anybody. Well, I don't know if they ever figured it out or not. They probably did. But I didn't do what this text says. I didn't confess it, see? I didn't say I did what was wrong. I took this and I'm sorry. If you lie to someone, then confess your lie and ask forgiveness. And what you'll find is most of the time the person will forgive you. And they will trust you more than they trusted you before. If you slander somebody, go back to the person that you spoke to about them and apologize for doing that. See, we can't pull apart the two sides of one coin. Reconciling with people goes together with reconciling with the Lord. Now People may smash their consciences to avoid humbling themselves. I'm sure the Ten Brothers did exactly that. But we can't avoid the reality that God knows and that God will punish sin. How much better to give Him glory and acknowledge this and experience His mercy? Well, The Lord led them in this way in order that they would do that. And that's exactly what they did. And that's why Joseph is so moved. By the change in their lives that he can reveal himself now to them and weep with joy. I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? The power of Jesus Christ enables us to give up selfishness. The power of the Lord enables us to give up bitterness and have tender emotion and sympathy for each other. He makes us able to talk to each other and to forgive each other. And each day as your life unfolds, God wants you. To live with the joy of knowing that He is at work in your life, that He is changing you by His grace, that He is making you like Jesus Christ. There's change. over time as we turn from sin, as we welcome others. And the Father works these wonders in our lives because of his deep love for us. Isn't it a beautiful story? It's an amazing story. And it's the story of our lives in the grace of God, in his covenant faithfulness to us. Praise be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we are amazed at the greatness of your wisdom. We are amazed at the wonder of your patience. with rebels like those that we read about in the book of Genesis, like us. And Lord, we thank you for giving Jesus Christ as a sacrifice for our sins. And we thank you for this spirit of Jesus Christ that transforms our hearts. Make us like him, our Father, we pray We love him. We adore him. We worship him. We thank you for the God man who's given us life. And Lord Jesus Christ, worth these things in our life by your Spirit, we pray. We ask in your name. Amen.