Sections of one Psalm one thirty six and while we have not read it straight through we're reading different sections and there are Twenty-six verses where God tells us that his steadfast love endures forever Sometimes I wonder why God would repeat that so often. Why does he need to say 26 times that his steadfast love endures forever? Well it kind of reminds me of my father's nickname for me when I was a child. He called me Cementhead And because it takes a lot to get that through your head. We forget in different circumstances That God's steadfast love endures forever. We look at the circumstance and rather than God. And we're overwhelmed by the circumstance, and we often forget whom God is and what he does. And so He needs to tell us 26 times and many more times throughout the scriptures that his steadfast love endures forever for us. The bulletin would have us read verses 3 to 9 right now to remind us of that again. Give thanks to the Lord of Lords for his steadfast love endures forever. To him alone who does great wonders for his steadfast love endures forever. To him by understanding made the heavens. For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who spread out the earth above the waters, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who made the great lights, for his steadfast love endures forever. The sun to rule over the day For his steadfast love endures forever. And the moon and the stars to rule over the night, for his steadfast love endures forever. May God's word be a blessing to you always, but tonight especially if you are one who may even be considering and wondering and forgetting the promises of God or Having trouble believing that in your situation right now that God's steadfast love endures forever. From the beginning of God's work with Moses From the beginning of God's revelation of himself to Moses and his call for Moses to lead his chosen people to the promised land. You'll note that it's God's presence that makes the difference. It made the presence, the difference with Moses and his relationship with God, and it made all the difference with God's people, as they went in their wilderness wanderings for 40 years, it was God's presence with them. That set them apart from all the other nations. Wasn't that they were brighter, stronger, prettier, less sinful? Nothing else set them apart, except God chose to be with them, to give them his presence. Just so that you could understand that from the beginning and all through the Exodus, I want you to stand tonight. I'll pray, and then we'll read two sets of verses that talk about God's presence. So let's stand together. My Father and God, as we come to look at your word tonight, would you bring it home? Would you nail it to our hearts that How much difficulty would be, how great disaster it would be if your presence was not with us You are the one who upholds us by your almighty hand. You are the one who is always with your people, and it is Your presence in the middle of the midst of trouble that gives us hope. So bring that to all of our heads tonight. They tend to be cement heads often hardened Sometimes by our own sin or unbelief or just that we cannot see you or feel you or taste you or touch you. We have to rely on your promises at times, but I thank you that they are sure and steadfast through our Savior Christ. Bring them home to us tonight, we pray. Amen. Just to be reminded of God's presence as Moses Began his ministry and God called himself. We'll start in Exodus 30 and read verses 1 to 6. And then we'll look to the book of Isaiah and the prophet as he reminded all the nation of God's faithfulness and presence with Moses and Israel in their wilderness wanderings. First, Exodus chapter 3, verses 1 to 6. Notice and listen of God's presence as personal care for Moses as he begins. Exodus 3, verse 1. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro. The priest of Midian, and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness, and he came to Horeb, the mountain of God And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame, and out of the fire, and out of the midst of a bush. He, Moses, looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. Moses said, I'll turn aside and see this great size. Why the bush is not burned. When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called him out of the bush. Moses Moses. And he Moses said, Here I am. Then he said, Do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place in which you are standing is holy ground. And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God. Now let's turn to the book of Isaiah, because as Isaiah needs to remind Israel as the rebelling Of God's faithfulness, not just to Moses, but to Israel. And as we've looked at Psalm 136 tonight, talking over and over about God's steadfast love, Note, God mentions here his steadfast love and the centrality and all of the blessing that comes of his steadfast love. is his presence during that time with Moses and his people. All of God's blessing comes from God in his presence. Isaiah chapter 63 and verses 7 to 9. I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord, according to all that the Lord has granted us. The great goodness to the house of Israel that he has granted them, according to his compassion, according to his abundance, of his steadfast love, for he said, Surely they are my people. children who will not deal falsely, and he became their Savior. In all of their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and in his pity, he redeemed them. He lifted them up and he carried them all the days of old. God's presence was with Moses and Israel as he carried them in their wilderness wanderings. And may God give us grace as we look at his word tonight to always know. No matter what we see, For how we feel, that God is carrying us, his presence, his steadfast love is what we have, the best blessing that he can give us. Amen. The scripture we're actually going to look at tonight in depth and try to work through some of it, not all of Exodus 33, but is that chapter. And I want you to pay careful attention this evening as we work through these portions This section, the context of Exodus 33, is the people were impatient waiting for Moses. had been up in the mountain for over forty days. He had been up there receiving the Ten Commandments and Their leader was not there, and they were struggling, and they were wondering what was going on. They were afraid of the God who was up there. Because of his rumblings, they weren't allowed to touch the mountain or they would die. And when Moses came down before, his face was shining, and they were afraid of him. And so during this time of their impatience, here we find them choosing to make gods for themselves in the form of a golden calf. And they worshipped it before it, copying the sexual perversions of the nations that surrounded them. In this section we're coming to, they've experienced God's punishment. Instantaneously, 3,000 of them were killed as God sent the priests, the Levites, among them. to destroy those closest it seems to the golden calf in the perversions. But then God had the uh calf ground up, all the gold and put in water, and they had to drink it. And now they had come to the point where God had put a plague among them, killing many of them. All that was hard, hard afflictions. But tonight as we come to Exodus thirty-three God is promising an affliction they can't possibly endure. Tonight, what God has said will happen to them because of their rebellion and sin and worshiping false gods is the most terrible thing that could happen to the people of God. Just think to yourself, what might that be? Well, let's see. Let's turn to Exodus thirty-three So read Exodus 33. We're going to look at verses 1 to 6 to begin with. And here you're going to see what that terrible punishment To Moses and the people was. See if you think it would be too so terrible. It might surprise you what it is. So let's look at God's word and see. Exodus chapter 33, verses 1 to 6. The Lord said to Moses, Depart. Go up from here, you and the people, whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt. To the land which I swore to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, saying, To all your offspring I will give it. I will send an angel before you. I will drive out the Canaanites and the Amorites and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites. Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey. That didn't sound too bad. What are you talking about, Pastor? Come on. The promised land is coming. God is sending an angel to get rid of all of our enemies, and we'll finally make it To the land of milk and honey. Hooray! You could read that all quickly, but miss this next phrase Verse three, go up to the land flowing with milk and honey, but I will not Go up among you, lest I consume you on the way, for you are a stiff-necked people. When the people heard this disastrous word, they mourned And no one put on his ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, say to the people of Israel, you are a stiff-necked people. If for a single moment I should go up among you, I would consume you So now take off your ornaments that I might know what to do with you. Therefore the people of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments from Mount Horeb onward. You see, at first it didn't seem like such bad news. They were going to get the promised land, and it seemed like they could keep their stiff necks. He didn't say repent at first. Right? Okay, it was like God said, I'm tired with you. Sometimes like parents with children You know how it is. They do something and you discipline them, they do something, you discipline them, you do something, you discipline them. Now you do it lovingly and carefully, but they've done it 47 times. And the 46th, you know, 48th and the 49th and the 50th, you just kind of sit there and say, well, kids will be kids. You're tired. You don't want to do it again. Just let them go. And it's disastrous when they then begin living on their own without that discipline And here the disaster was God was going to give them all that they wanted. All his good gifts. They had all the good gifts, but they would miss the giver. They would miss God and he would not go with him. It was really surprising for me to see Israel with their stiff necks though get it. You see what they called the news that God would not go with them? It was a disaster Even though he would send an angel, it doesn't say the angel of the Lord, some angel, would go before and make sure their enemies were defeated. God still loved them and cared for them if they would get to the promised land, but he wasn't gonna he'd had enough of them. They were stiff-necked. Let me ask you, what if God gave you all of what you wanted? Answered every one of your prayers, all of your successful things you wanted, all your dreams, everything for your family. Everybody's fine, good family reunions, they live a long time. Everybody has a house with a picket fence You know, two cars and a garage, no problems financially, no one on drugs, no one mismarrying who, what, and that, and no one rebelling, everybody getting good grades, successful for generation after generation, getting all the good gifts. Yes, but without God, would that be a calamity for you? Or would you say, thank you, Jesus? This is pretty good. I can live in my sin and have all I want. And it just totally amazed me here that the people got it. He said it would be a disaster and they repented seemingly on their own at first. They took off their ornaments. Now, what does that mean? Right? What are their ornaments? They're not like cars. They don't have, I guess cars don't even really have hood ornaments anymore. I guess I'm kind of aging myself here. But if you remember when they left slavery in Egypt, they plundered the Egyptians. And what did they take? All the silver and gold earrings and ornaments and doodads and all of that. Remember that? They took it. The Egyptians said, go, go, and God said, take it, because he would use all those ornaments later on. If you remember when they made the tabernacle and they covered the Ark of the Covenant with gold, where did it come from? The ornaments, right? That had been plundered. They had been getting rich. But what did they also do with the ornaments? Where did they get the gold? To make the golden calf. They all contributed their ornaments, right? And when you have gold and silver, you wear your ornaments. You display it. Right? And instead of in their repentance, they're still walking around with their stiff necks displaying their ornaments. And what God is doing here by having them and themselves taking off their ornaments, it's like what people used to do when someone died, used to go to a funeral and people wouldn't be dressed in their best nice looking stuff. They all had black on, right? And what it was was a picture of your morning outside for what you were doing inside. And so as they took off their gold and silver and jeweled ornaments, they were having an outward picture Of the repentance that was going on inwardly with their stiff necks and hardened hearts. Do you believe As Israel was able to believe here and reacted that the very worst thing that could happen to you would not to be a husband have a husband or a wife or a child die? That's not the worst thing? To have relationships of your loved ones broken up, that's not the worst thing To get sick or have a plague? That's not the worst thing. To lose your Bank account, your retirement, your social security, your standing at work, whatever it is, boyfriend, girlfriend, though your grades, your mind, that's not the worst thing But the worst thing for a believer is to lose God and his presence. And that's what it's saying here Let me ask you. Because we can't see or feel or touch God, right? Are there times you just want God's blessings? And as long as the blessings are coming, you're not even necessarily thanking about Him or thanking Him. So easy for us to do this. So we can understand Israel, but thankfully they got it. And I hope that you get and understand that our greatest need If we're God's people, if we're saved, is his presence. Is that he would sustain us, that he would guide us, that he would direct us But he would be the one as this wilderness wanderings pictures us. We're in the wilderness wandering now, right? We're in the what they call it was the wilderness of sin. That's kind of interesting it was called that, isn't it We're in a wilderness of sin. Sinful world and denim our own sin. And if we don't have God's promise with us going to the promised land, it doesn't matter how many blessings we get. We can go to a milk place of milk and honey now, have all the blessings, finances, and win the publisher's clearinghouse. Two thousand five hundred dollars a week for life and for those who are after you, right? Oh yeah, if I had that, I'd be okay. Oh, if you have that but don't have the presence of God, where are we? And they understood it. And they turned and repented because I thought that was, it just blew my mind that God had worked in them in that way. They understood it. And I said, Lord, do I always understand that, or am I looking more for you the gifts that you give rather than you the giver? Would I be satisfied with no gifts? As long as I had you, my God and the giver. Well, let's continue, and we're going to pass on a series of verses and go up to verses 10 to 16. Because God said, I'm not going with you. It was the worst affliction, worse than the plagues, worse than being killed by their leaders, the Levites Worse than having to drink that awful concoction of dirty water and gold from the golden calf, that God would not be with them How could it change? Of course, what changes is Moses, we're going to look at intercedes, Moses praise for himself and the people. And he says, God, if you don't go with us, we're without hope. We don't even want to go to the Promised Land if you won't come. We don't want your gifts if we don't have a giver. Would that be true of you? Let's look at God's word. Exodus chapter 33, verses 10 to 16. Excuse me, twelve to sixteen. Moses said to the Lord, see, you say to me, Bring up this people. But you've not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you've said, I know you by name, and you've also found favor in my sight. Now therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways that I might know you in order to find favor in your sight. Consider too that this nation is your people. You see what he's doing? He's first saying, Lord, you know me. You've called me. You've been with me. You've been my hope through all of this. And also for your people, we're here. Oh God, don't forget us. Remember, you know us by name. You called us out of all the nations. He's saying, Lord, you're the one that started this. You know us. And he's interceding for the people, not just himself. Then verse 14, and he said, and God said, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. God graciously relented. He said, before I'm not going to go But because Moses, the one who pictures Jesus for us, the one who was known by name and led to people, went and interceded. He says, oh God, you know me. I don't have any hope by anything except that you know me. You knowing me is my only hope. My relationship with you is my only hope. Now look at the response. And Moses said, and he said, Moses He said to him, God, if your presence will not go with me, do not bring me up for here. For how shall it be known that I found favor in your sight, and I your people Moses, first of all, prays for himself. Would you say that if God said, I'm going to give you everything you've wanted and everything I've promised, but I'm just not going to go with you? And Moses says, Lord, you could give me the promised land. I could go to the place of milk and honey. I could have all my dreams. But if you don't go with me, I'm not going any further. So first of all, he prays for himself, because he knows his own desperate need. But notice then he intercedes for the people. Is it not in your going with he said before me? Now he says, do you see it? Us, so that we are distinct, I and your people, from every other people on the earth. For Moses and God's people, Lord, you must go with me. Lord, you must go with us. Without you, we have no hope. All of your gifts are worthless unless we have you, the giver of the gifts. There's much more in this chapter and later on, but the people were rejoicing now. Because God in his mercy had relented and said that he would be with them. My encouragement for you and me being Americans and having so much and then seeing commercials and you know you see something, I want more. I gotta have that. I want that one. Woohoo! I'd only be happy if I got that. No, I know you don't watch commercials and those things don't bother you. You don't go to Amazon and kinda troll around and have to have the best one and look at all the review No, you know, I know none of you do that. You think, Oh man, if I had oh, that'd be great and you can't wait till the gifts comes and you know, and it's deliver it and We get so caught up in that, the gifts rather than the giver. Could we as America lose everything we have, all of our standing before the world and our stuff? And still be happy if we had our God. Well, this promise of God going with Israel With Moses and the people of God is a promise for you too. That God has promised that He will go with you, even though you don't feel them. Even though you can't taste or see him, God has said that he will always be with you. Did you see this promise? It would be easy to This is just for Israel. But no, the God's promise to be with his people is for all of God's people through the ages. Now maybe you like me forget this. Your faith is weak at times. I have places in my Bible that I mark. Because when I start thinking, God, everything is against me, I can think, where is that? Oh, I, you know, Pastor Skip has got the scriptures. And I'm so thankful for that. And I have some, but I can't find them lots of times, and especially when I'm all messed up and I'm struggling. So I got all kinds of notes, little places. Oh, here, here, go there, this, you know And I just gotta have them. So if you need to know if God's presence with you and he won't leave or forsake you, this is a promise not just for Israel. You might mark these down. Some place where you're going to remember, I'm going to read you three, but listen, these are yours. Psalm 46, verses 1 and 7. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. He's present in the trouble right now The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Not President Trump is with you. Not Bill Gates and all his money. You have the living God who's with you, the hosts of heaven. He has promised to be with you. Isaiah 41 and 9 and 10. Do not fear, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Well, Castor, those are Old Testament verses. Okay. Matthew 28, 20. And Jesus said before he went up to heaven to the church for all the ages, Behold, I am with you sometimes. Every once in a while. Is that right? I am with you always. Even to the end of the age, even until his return, and then he'll take us to be with him. Beloved, have you ever prayed? Oh God, please be with so-and-so. If you're a Christian, don't pray that. He is with them. He'll never leave or forsake them. It's a wasted prayer. It's like we have to beg God, oh God, would you please be with them? He is with them. What we need to pray is, oh God. I know they're struggling and they have unbelief and it's a hard time for them. Help them to see and understand your promise that you would never leave or forsake them. Do you see the difference? He's always with our people. You don't have to pray, oh God, be with my son or daughter if they're a Christian. You don't have to. But oh God, they're struggling now. Would you open their eyes? Would you help them remember your promise? Would you help them value your presence more than your gift? That's what we need to be praying. And then on you here, God also says that he'll give us rest too. And there are scriptures there, but I'm not going to go there right now. As God promised the great blessings of his presence to Moses and his people, remember these same blessings are you yours. Not because of Moses. It was good that he did it here. But we have another intercessor, one whom Moses pictured. Who because of him we can always be and come into God's presence Look at verse 17 of Exodus 33. First of all, to remember Moses here and God's answer, Exodus 33, and the Lord said. This very thing that you have spoken, I will do, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know your name. I I had said I wasn't going to be with you because of your stiff necks, but I will be merciful through your intercessions, and I will be with you and Israel. But we have the one whom Moses pictured through the gospel, even Jesus our Savior. And let's end by turning to Hebrews 4, verses 14 to 16. This is one of those places you need to mark. Or no. Because the devil might say to you, or someone else, or your own heart I'm too sinful and stiff-necked like Israel. I understand they're going after your gifts rather than the giver. I found myself trapped in sin. There's no way I can come into God's presence. There's no way God's presence will be with me. I'm too sinful. I've done too many things. I've tried to repent over and over, then I do the same sin again. And there'll be people who tell you, you're not really his. Well, if you stay hardened heart and you refuse to come back to him, you may not be But this is God's promise to you because of your intercession. Hebrews 4, verses 14 to 16. Since then we. Let me tell you, beloved, if you are in Christ tonight, you are part of the we This is for you. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession. Don't listen to Satan. Don't listen to the other accusers. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our own weakness, our own frailties, our own difficulties. But one who has in every respect been tempted as we are, yet without sin, so what happens? Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace. God never departs from us if we're his, but We feel like we're afraid, and through Christ, because of his work, his merit, his love, his sacrifice. We may draw near with confidence. Not Lord, can I come to you? You know I'm stiff-necked like Israel. You know that I get caught in my sin. Oh God, I don't I can't come. Let us, because of our high priest, who has passed to the heaven, who has obeyed, let us with confidence draw near to the throne of grace. Who's at the throne of grace? God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive It's a promise. We may receive mercy and we will find grace to help in time of need. Praise be to God. I was in Mexico. I didn't learn. much of the language when we're in South Texas near Mexico. We're there six years. But I Learn Vio Cundius or Bio Cundius, God go with you, right? He does. And um I was with someone last week knowing that I was going to preach on this passage, and we had lunch for a couple hours and talked about the difficulty and the situation. And I didn't really understand the person's work and what they were doing all that much, you know, but I listened and I asked questions. I learned to do that. But at the very end, I could say to the person what they really needed and say that the promise that God gave to Israel when they were struggling and As I will go with you. And I could say to that person when I was having lunch with you, God goes with you. He's never going to leave or forsake you. You can't feel him, see him, or touch you. You seem overwhelmed right now. But draw near through Christ to the throne of grace, and you will. Receive mercy and find grace in this your time of need. Praise be to God. Let's pray. My Father, how we thank you for keeping the history of You are people that are often stiff-necked going through the wilderness of sin to the promised land And how it pictures, Lord, our own struggle now, as you have called us to be your people, and yet we still live in this wilderness, this side of heaven, where sin is in the culture. It's in our enemy, the devil, but in our own flesh. And how we thank you for your promised present that saves us but also keeps us. And because of you, we will reach the promised land. And you will never leave or forsake us. And for this, our greatest gift, we rejoice. Amen.