It's good to see you today, primarily because that means we get to worship our God together, but it's also good to see you today because it means that I've come to the right place. Here in your new building, I did wonder if I would remember. And it's almost as if the Lord was determined to take me one last time past your old place because I Couldn't get to that exit for 198. So I kept on going up to 216 and it brought back all sorts of memories. And it's a little disheartening to think that now that you have this building, it'll never ever be the case again that I show up to preach for you. Only to find that we're locked out. And that we have to worship on the sidewalk. Although, maybe I shouldn't say that. Because you know you have to remember your keys now. So do remember them. Um but it is a delight to be with you again this morning to worship and to consider the word of God. You can see in your bulletin this morning that we are turning our attention to Jeremiah. Jeremiah twenty-three. And in the bulletin you just have the one verse noted that we're going to be focusing on. I'm going to read a bit more than that on either side of that one verse to fill in the context a bit. I'm going to start reading at verse 16 Before I do that, I think it'll be good for us to get our bearings a bit. When we turn to Jeremiah 23, I think it'll be good for us to remember where we are in Bible history. When we turn to Jeremiah. Jeremiah served as a prophet of God around the time when the armies of Babylon came. Which was around 600 B. C. The armies of Babylon came and they defeated what was left of the people of God. They carried many of them off into exile, and so that means that Jeremiah was serving. As a prophet of God at a very, very low moment in Bible history. And not only that, but Jeremiah himself had a very difficult ministry. In that very low moment, because Jeremiah's message was to tell the people of God that God was angry with them. He was angry with them on account of their idolatry, on account of their corruption, and that's why this was happening to them. So that this exile to Babylon, this wasn't going to turn out to be just some brief year or two, some brief interruption in their happy life. No, God was really angry with them. So much so that this exile to Babylon was going to last for around 70 years. So Jeremiah's message was to tell them: this really is a disaster. And so don't kid yourselves by telling yourselves that it's not that bad. And then to make matters worse, to make his difficult ministry even more difficult than that, there were false prophets. who were saying to the people that Jeremiah was lying to them. False prophets who were saying to the people of God, look, don't listen to this guy. It's really not that bad. That's what they were saying. It's not as bad as Jeremiah is making it out to be. God isn't angry with us the way Jeremiah is making God out to be. That's what they were saying. These are the men that Jeremiah talks about when he says they were saying, peace, peace, when there was no peace. When they should have been saying, repent, repent instead. So that's where we are in Bible history. That's Jeremiah's time. That's his message. That's his setting. And with all of that in mind now, listen to. Chapter 23. I'm going to begin reading at verse 16 down to verse 32. Thus says the Lord of hosts. Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the prophet. They say continually to those who despise the word of the Lord, It shall be well with you. And to everyone who stubbornly follows his own heart, they say, No disaster shall come upon you. Or who among them has stood in the council of the Lord to see and to hear his word? Or who has paid attention to his word and listened Behold, the storm of the Lord. Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest. It will burst upon the head of the wicked. The anger of the Lord will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intense. of his heart in the latter days, you will understand it clearly. I did not send the prophets, yet they ran. I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied. But if they had stood in my counsel, then they would have proclaimed my words to my people, and they would have turned them from their evil way and from the evil of their deeds. Am I a God at hand, declares the Lord, and not a God far away? Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him, declares the Lord? Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the Lord. I have heard what the prophets have said who prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed. How long shall there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies and who prophesy the deceit of their own heart? Who think to make my people forget my name by their dreams that they tell one another, even as their fathers forgot my name? For Baal. Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream, but let him who has my word speak my word faithfully. What has straw in common with wheat, declares the Lord. And then verse 29, is not my word like fire, declares the Lord. Like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces. Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, declares the Lord, who who steal my words from one another. Behold, I am against the prophets, declares the Lord, who use their tongues and declare, declares the Lord. Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, declares the Lord, and who tell them and lead my people astray by their lies and their recklessness when I did not send them or charge them. So they do not profit this people at all, declares the Lord. Let me pray for one second. Our Father, we bow before you, and these are Hard words that we have heard, and yet we do hear them. We do open our ears to these words because they are ultimately your words. They are your words to us and say they are truth and they are light and they are life. So we pray that you would hold us steady today, that you would keep us from shrinking back from these words, but hold us steady and open our ears. And teach our minds and move our hearts. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to start this morning by telling you about an anniversary that is coming up just next month. A 25th anniversary, and you are excused for not knowing about this anniversary until now, because it is an anniversary in my own life. September twenty second, nineteen eighty-nine, I came to Christ September twenty second, nineteen eighty nine, I became a believer in Jesus. Some Christians can point to the day when they came to Christ. Some Christians can't, and that's fine. I just happen to be one of those who can. It was September twenty. 25 years ago. Less than one month before that, I'd headed off from the sunny suburbs of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For Charlottesville, Virginia, to start as a first-year student at UVA. And I have to tell you, that young man who headed off from Pittsburgh to Charlottesville I remember him well. He was clueless about Christianity. Did not have a clue. About Christ. But of course, Christ was not clueless about me. He knew me very well. He knew just what I needed. And so the Christ who knew me well put in my dorm two Christians who were just what I needed. And their names were Jenny and David. And in just the first few weeks after getting to UVA, I was getting to know them, and they were getting to know me. And the more they got to know me, the more they could tell, yeah, this guy really is clueless. Clueless about Christ. And not only was that becoming clear to them, that was becoming increasingly clear to me. You know, a lot can happen in a month. It was starting to weigh on me. It was starting to bother me. And one night it all came to a head. My friend David sat down with me and we got to talking. about Christ. Now, if I remember correctly, the conversation started late on the night of September 21st. But you know, most good deep conversations during your first year in college only really get going at about 1 a. m. And this conversation was no exception. And at some point in the course of that conversation, at some point in the early hours in the dark after midnight, the light went on And for the first time in my life, I had a clue about Christ. And what a clue. What a cross. For the first time in my life, I understood the cross. And that night, that morning with those two friends, I prayed the very first prayer I'd ever prayed as an expression of faith in Jesus. Jesus. Sitting there on the steps outside of Mopendorm at UVA. Mopendorm. M-A-U-P-I-N So there we were, the three of us. I was a brand new believer. My friends Jenny and David, they were not brand new believers, but they were new to you. Just like I was. And so there we were, the three of us. And we were determined that we were going to grow in Christ together. We were determined in those first weeks and months that we were going to take some practical steps. in the direction of growing in Christ together. One of those steps that we took was to seek out Christian fellowship there at the university. I'd say by the way, it just so happens that there was another first year student. who was also taking the practical step of seeking out fellowship at the university, and her name was Christy. And I'll spare you that long story this morning. But another step that Jenny and David and I took in those first weeks of the months was we decided that we were going to start memorizing scripture together. And the way we did it, we took turns. One of us would pick a verse to memorize, and the three of us would memorize it. And then when we got it, we would move on to the next one. And so we took turns picking verses. We memorized a lot of different verses. I don't remember many of them, but I do remember a few. I remember we memorized the end of Romans 8. Memorized it in the King James. For I am persuaded, right? I am persuaded that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ. The end of Romans 8. I also remember that we also memorized a verse in 2 Kings chapter 2. It says this, the prophet Elisha went up from there to Bethel. And while he was going up on the way, some small boys came out of the city and jeered at him, saying, Go up, you bald head, go up, you bald head. I honestly don't remember why we picked that one. And I don't know which of us picked it. I suspect it was because at that point the three of us had this shared fascination with the wide variety of statements that you can find in the Bible. And 2 Kings 2. 23 is about as wide as you can get But then I remember that we also memorize Jeremiah twenty-three, verse twenty-nine. Is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces We memorized that one too. And so as a congregation this morning, almost 25 years later, that's the verse we're going to think about together now. Jeremiah 23, verse 29. You're free to memorize it if you want to. It's quite memorizable, but you don't have to. That's okay. But we are going to focus our attention on it now. Look again at Verse 29, Is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces. Obviously, that is a rhetorical question. We know very well that the answer is yes. The Word of God is like fire. It is like a hammer. That's the idea. And so the point that's being made here is that there is something fiery and there is something mighty about God's word. And if God wants to mix his metaphors, let him mix, right? Who are we to object? He's God, and he has certainly mixed them here. There's something fiery, but there's also something hammer-like. About the Word of God. And let me say, by the way, notice how this one verse, I mean, we're focusing on this one verse, but notice how it fits in the context that's all around it. On either side of this one verse. God is thundering against these false prophets. And so what he's saying in this one verse, in the midst of all that he's saying around it, what he's saying is that his word, his living and true word, is so very much unlike their false and dead words. His word is fiery and mighty, theirs are not. Their words are cold and lifeless. They don't do anything. They don't accomplish anything. They don't change anything. His word is fearful. Theirs are not. There's nothing to fear. There's no reason to tremble when the false prophet opens his mouth. And so he's saying that his word stands out as a word that is fiery like this, as a word that is mighty and powerful and hammer-like like this. Now, that one truth about God's word, that it is so fiery and mighty, that is a double-edged truth. That's a truth that cuts both ways Because that's a truth that has tremendous significance both for those who remain opposed to God and for those who have been reconciled to God. It's a double-edged truth It's a fiery and mighty word, and that truth applies both to those who believe in God and those who do not. And so what we're going to do is just to stop and think about those two applications now with the time that we've got left. Let's stop and think about those two sides of this one reality. And let me say, as you might imagine, what that means is that we've got some hard things to think about here. Some chilling things. But we've also got some wonderful things to think about. But isn't that so often the case when you take some truth from God's Word and make the most of it? So that's what we're going to do now. First of all, some hard things. The word of God is fiery and it is mighty, and that applies to unbelievers. That is to say, those who do not have saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. In the case of those who never come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the word of God will be fiery and it will be mighty unto their destruction. And this is the point, again thinking about the context of our verse, this is the point that comes out most clearly in our passage. Because as I said, in context In Jeremiah 23, what's God doing? He's thundering against these false prophets. He's thundering against these people who are not of the truth. They are not believing his word. They're coming up with some other word that they prefer. And so here's the point, and it is a hard point. In God's time, in God's way, his word will consume and it will destroy. And that is something that we have to come to grips with. So just think about every lie that's ever been told and believed about God. Even the lie that there is no God. Now imagine that lie written in bold strokes on a piece of paper. And then imagine that piece of paper crumpled up, tossed in the fire, and consumed. Because that's where history is headed. Or think about that lie that's been told about God. Picture it as a rock. And that rock is being held onto with a white-knuckled grip by so many. And they're holding on to it so firmly because it's a rock, isn't it? It seems to be so strong. Seems like it'll protect you when you need to be protected. Maybe it's a rock that's so big that it's been set up as a kind of fortress. Or tower, because it seems like it might protect you. And then down comes the hammer. And now that rock is in a million pieces. That's where history is headed. And this is going to come to a head on the last day. This is going to be fully and finally revealed on the day that Christ comes back. Because on that day, like no other day before it, the Word of God will consume and it will destroy. On that day, it'll be the Word of God That finally exposes every lie that's been told and believed about God. The law of God and the gospel of God will come together and they will testify. And they will expose. On that day, it'll be the Word of God that finally exposes those who never believed in God. The word will bear witness about human hearts and human lives. On that day it'll be the word of God, and I mean the living word, Jesus Himself. It'll be the living word Jesus who comes back and who has things to say. When Christ comes back to judge, he will judge by the word of his power. In other words, he's going to have things to say. He's not just going to come back and quietly do things. Like a workman who just quietly goes about his business so that you're left wondering what's really going on in his mind. No, he's going to come and speak. He's going to open his mouth. To those who who claim to do all sorts of wonderful things in his name, but who never really loved him, never really believed in him, he's going to have something to say. Matthew chapter 7 tells us what he's going to say. He's going to say, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. That will be a fiery and mighty word that he's being. To those who never really believed in him and who showed it by the way that they lived and by the way that they treated his people, he's going to have something to say Matthew 25 tells us what he's going to say. He's going to say, depart from me, you cursed ones, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. And that will be a fiery and mighty word. Think about the power of the word. In the beginning, God said, Let there be light. And there was light. In the end, Christ will say, Let there be justice. And there will be justice. Because when the living word speaks the word I think I I I've mentioned before when I've been with you that A few years back, we took our kids through a scripture memory program that I invented on the fly. That's what parents do. We make up so many things on the fly. I was picking a verse from each book of the Bible that I thought captured something of what was going on in that book. And we we made our way through, even through the minor prophets. So it came time to pick a verse from Nahum. What do you pick from Nahum? Here's what I picked from Nahum. Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? Now listen to this. His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him. That's what we memorize. Nahum 1-6. And there you see the same two realities. There you see fire, and you see power. Is not my word like fire, declares the Lord. And that day is coming. A day is coming when the word of God will be shown to be just what Jeremiah 23, verse 29 says it is. So let me say, if there's anyone here this morning Who doesn't know Jesus Christ with a saving faith? This is the day. This is The hour to come to Christ with a saving faith. Because whatever it is that you're believing in this morning, instead of the true gospel of Christ, whatever it is, it's not going to last. It's not going to endure. It's not going to win. You need to understand what you're up against. You're up against a word that is like fire. And like a hammer. Insofar as you personally are holding out on the Word of God, you're not going to win. This is the day to wave the white flag and surrender and to come to Christ by faith. Now, what about those of us who are in Christ? This brings us this morning to our second of all. We've been thinking about how this one truth applies to those who aren't in Christ today. Okay, second of all. How does it apply to those of us who are in Christ? The Word of God is fiery and it is mighty, and that applies to us as well. That tells us something about the role of the Word in the lives of believers. Now, I suppose at this point somebody might say, look, if you're going to start talking about that, if you're going to start talking about the role of the Word of God in the lives of believers, Then you've taken this one verse, verse 29, way out of context, Preacher Man. Because Jeremiah 23 is about judgment. Jeremiah 23 is not about the Christian life. So if you want to talk about the Word of God in the Christian life, that's fine. Just come back some other time and preach on a different verse. So goes the charge. But I say that to make that charge is to misunderstand the relationship between a Bible verse and the context around it. It's certainly true that Jeremiah 23. This whole chapter is about judgment. But that doesn't mean that our one verse and the statement that you find there is therefore limited to the reality of judgment. So for example, if I go if I go to the local ice cream shop, our favorite ice cream shop in Fairfax is Woody's. Although just down the street, is it the double dipper? Is that what I saw? Yes? Add a little local color here. If the Wolf family goes to Woody's in Fairfax on a Tuesday and I get a strawberry milkshake, as I am wont to do. And I turn to my son Philip and I say, Philip, I really like strawberry milkshakes. Does it follow that I only like strawberry milkshakes at Woodies on Tuesdays Let me assure you it does not. It does not. It doesn't mean that. My statement was made in a context, but that doesn't mean that my statement is therefore limited to that context. context. And that's because it's possible within a context to say something that's huge. Something that's far bigger than the context in which it was said, in which it was heard And that's not just true of milkshakes. It's true of the word of God and the statements that you find in it. So, yeah, this one statement is in a judgment chapter. But that doesn't mean that this one verse is nothing but a judgment verse What's being affirmed here is something that's true of the Word of God in general, and it is doing no violence to our verse to stop and think together now about how it applies to us whose sins are forgiven, and who need not fear the judgment that comes. So it's true in our lives as well. The Word of God is fiery and it is mighty But here's the difference. In our lives as believers, it's fiery and it is mighty unto salvation. In our lives, the Spirit of God uses the Word of God to make us more like our Savior. God uses the Bible as one of His instruments to cause us to grow in holiness. So think about think about the sin that you're wrestling with in your own life now. And then imagine it like the dross, like the tarnish on a beautiful vase. And now imagine the fire. That burns it away. The word of God is used by the Spirit of God to do just that in your life. Or to switch the metaphor. We can mix the metaphors too, right? Think about the hard-heartedness, the stony-heartedness that you're wrestling with in your own life. And now imagine the hammer. That's in the hand of your Father, your wise, loving, Heavenly Father. And just think about how He uses it, how He wields it to tear down your idol. In our lives as believers, the word is fiery and mighty unto salvation. And the reason that's true The reason that the word of God means salvation for us and not destruction for us is that Christ Himself bore the fire and the hammer of divine judgment on the cross. Christ went first. The fire of judgment was poured out on him on the cross. The fatal blow of judgment was brought down on him on the cross. Remember, it was the will of the Lord to crush him. So says Isaiah. And that's what makes all the difference. Now the word comes upon us, fiery and mighty, not to ruin us, but to remake us, and that's because we're saved. We are sheltered. We are protected in Christ, who bore it all on our behalf. That's what makes the difference. Those who are not in Christ, the word will consume and it will shatter, and the outcome will be dreadful. But for those who are in Christ, the word will forge and it will fashion and the outcome will be beautiful. The word of God is used by the Spirit of God to make us more like our Savior. Now Now, obviously, it is not easy, it is not pain-free to be forged and to be fashioned like that, but it's worth it. It is life. It is real life. To have the word in your life at work in that way. So one of the things that's interesting to me now, now that I'm kind of looking back on all this 25 years later, I can picture myself as a brand new believer. September of 89, memorizing this verse. What would it have been like if at some point in those first weeks and months, what would it have been like? If I'd have had the opportunity to have a conversation with some older, wiser Christian. And I'm just bubbling over with excitement. Let me tell you what's going on. I just came to know Christ. And my friends and I were memorizing these verses because we want to grow in Christ. Let me tell you about these verses we're memorizing. Like Romans 8 and 2 Kings 2, 23. Jeremiah twenty-three, twenty-nine, is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks a rock in pieces. And what I can imagine is that older, wiser Christians Looking on that 18-year-old with a knowing, older, wiser Christian look Maybe even a a smile on his face. Because what he's thinking to himself is brand new believer, you've no idea. Or you have very little idea. You have barely begun to grasp what you've just memorized. Because at this point, brand new believer, you have barely begun to grasp what this life is that you've just signed up for. Do you realize that what you've signed up for is a lifelong Christian life in which you walk with Christ in which the word of Christ is at work in you. And for the rest of your life, that word is going to be burning. In your life, burning away the dross of your own sins. For the rest of your life, that word is going to be hammering away. at the idols that you have taken 18 years to set up in your own heart. Do you have any idea what it is that you've memorized? And twenty-five years later, I think I have a slightly bigger idea. And Lord willing, twenty-five years from now, it'll be even bigger than it is today. And in fact, I suppose there's even a certain irony about this that we chose this verse to memorize, and it must have It must have been the case that we picked this verse in part because it inspired us to do the scripture memory that we were doing. Think about it. What were we doing? We were taking this word. That's fiery and mighty, burning and destroying. And we were deliberately taking that word and getting it as deeply rooted into our souls as we could get it. it. We were going out of our way to memorize a word that's like fire and a hammer. Who does that? Because look, there are all sorts of things you can memorize. And some people are better at memorizing things than others. For whatever reason, I've always been pretty good at memorizing things If you want, go for it. Memorize the periodical table of elements. But that's not going to burn. It may bore you to tears. But that's not going to burn like this. If you want, go ahead and memorize the capital cities of all the nations in the UN. Knock yourself out. But that's not really gonna hurt. But when you start memorizing scripture, you know what you're doing. You're taking a word that's like fire. taking a word that's like a hammer and you're saying that's the word I want. And I don't want it at a distance. I I don't want it just down the street at the library. I don't want it just sitting up on the shelf gathering dust. I want it in me. I want it to have free reign in me so that it burns. Burns away the dross of my own sin, hammers away at the idols of my own heart. And that doesn't just apply to scripture memory. You think about all of the ways in your life in which you're taking the Word of God and seeking to have it dwell in you richly. Every sermon that you hear. Every time you you read your Bible and think about what it ought to mean in your life, every time you read some book about the Bible so that you can grow in your grasp of it. Every time you sit down over a cup of coffee with a Christian friend and talk about Scripture, in every one of those situations, do you know what you're doing? You are handling fire. You are wielding a hammer. And you're doing it with this goal in mind that you should be forged. Fashion. That you should be made more and more like your Savior. So I want to challenge you this morning. Have you lost sight of this? Have you lost sight of how wonderfully dangerous is the Word of God in your life? If you have, I urge you to look to Christ. Look to Christ to learn again from Christ, to tremble at his word. And then for the very same reason, don't just tremble, but rejoice. This is great news. God has spoken And what he has spoken is a word that's not going to leave you as you are. I hope you don't want to be left as you are. And so it's very good news A fiery and mighty word. There's an interesting epilogue to this whole story. I I mentioned before that it was on the steps of Mopendorm on the grounds of UVA that I I sat down with those two friends that night, that morning, and prayed my very first. Real Christian prayer. Here's the epilogue. Mopendorm has since been torn down. A lot can happen in twenty-five years. Smashed into pieces. The way a hammer breaks a rock in pieces. I wasn't consulted. They just went ahead and did it. I never did join the Alumni Association. Maybe if I had, I'd have had more of a say. But they just knocked it down. And they knocked it down for a reason. And the reason was they were determined to put something new and improved in its place. And And I say I've no doubt that what's going up right now is going to be new and improved compared to the muffin I knew. Let me tell you, boys and girls, when I went to college. There were no amenities. Putting up a beautiful new moffendorm. But you see that's the point. Torn down. So that they could replace it with something far more glorious. Because there is a wielding of the hammer that is unto glory and not grief. There is a fire that burns not to consume but to refine and to make something beautiful. And brothers and sisters, that's what the Word of God, by the Spirit of God, by the grace of God, is doing in our lives. The word of God is fiery and it is mighty. And so for that very reason, don't run from it. Run to it. And take that fiery, mighty word and get it in. Get it in you. And watch it go to work. Amen. Let's pray together. Our Father in heaven, we tremble Because your word is fiery, it is mighty. And yet we tremble not as those who would run from it. But as those who would firmly grasp it, grant our grasp to be firmer, grant your word to be even more deeply rooted in us. May your word have free course in us, forging and fashioning us. To the praise of your glory, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.