If the locked doors in the upper room, for fear the Jews, couldn't keep Jesus from entering, uh he he can't uh your distance and your quarantine won't keep him from entering your heart either. Hear God's word from two verses from Psalm, first Psalm 36, 9. And they have their purposes. They have this intense light so they can see everything as as clearly as possible so they can do a good job. They always had that big light up there and and I usually don't stare into it, but I can tell it's pretty bright. Sometimes we're having a question about something we don't understand, and somebody tells us some information, it's like, oh, now I get it. And all of a sudden, our insight has been increased because of this new information. There's benefits to his words. And we always think of a new year as a new starting point, you know. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. He reveals himself to us through the created order as well, but we only know that in light of his word. But ultimately it's pointing to Christ. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. That's what we deserve. Through this light God would s God would by the Son's innocent sufferings and death reconcile us to Himself, that we might pursue the light from heaven and safely enter into the presence of God for all eternity, because nobody could enter. outside of the building zoom. And then Psalm 119, 105, Your Word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Because it's a universal light. from the night. And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night, and the stars. And overnight to separate light from darkness. We know that our sovereign creator gave us this gift. And you know, because there is no light, you can't see things because of the lack of the the power that light executes on your hand to be able to see it visually. But profound, I hope, as well. The effects of light. uh brighter than a flashlight. Sometimes x-rays aren't enough. that shone around me and those who journeyed with me. Timothy 3. Bind them on your heart always. And you have to make some decisions. Psalm, I'm sorry, Proverbs 21, 16. Beginning from Jerusalem, you were witnesses of these things. Death and resurrection of Christ, rising from the dead on the third day. And so what was the point? who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. we've seen in John's gospel is to receiving life in his, that is Jesus' name is the Messiah, the Son of God. Through his own human body as the Son of God. Working together with him, then we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. Uh passages will be easier for me to read, so let me pray for our time. And so, Father, we ask for your tender mercies now that your word would enlighten us and that your word would conform us to the image of your Son. And over the course of the last couple of weeks I had all my all my children were able to come for Christmas and all the other things we did. But it's not just people in the United States, it's in other countries, it's around the world. Or today when we have the rain, he tells us in Isaiah 55 that just like the rain and the snow come down and nourish the ground and accomplish And so he does the same thing with light. You know, I when I was uh living with my father at at home before I got married, oftentimes I would be in a dark room and my father would go to the light screen, he'd go click. And the benefit of these tools, these gifts that God has allowed man to have and create, is that it gives us better penetration into what's really the problem. characteristic of helping us to see things, but it also helps us to see things better. theme throughout the scripture and particularly as we've just been in John's Gospel. For darkness is his light with you. As God's people that he does not know about us. Brighter than the sun. But that reality, that knowledge of knowing that he knows me so well is a great comfort. He already knows. in our society, the bombing in Nashville, you know, recently. And he speaks about a time where, you know, before you're a Christian, the Bible's a book that you read I ha I have to rebuke myself. Because the word doesn't come return low and void. And everybody has different digestion rates in terms of learning. And to say, I don't want to be corrected is foolish. And that's why we need the Word of God. Twice he Jesus refers to himself from the Old Testament. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures, and said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer, and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance for the forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations. And the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. And believe it or not, it's the same sun. And if they were to look outside, and I was to look outside, we would see the same sun. Because God is the one who has put it there. its purposes in nourishing and providing food, his word is the same way. aspects of his created order to communicate realities, truths about himself that are totally without error. And so this morning I I want us to consider four points regarding light. Or I think I've spoken to you about the absurdity of taking a flashlight to the beat on a hot, 100-degree, cloudless day The third is the word of God is light. And I I may have used this illustration before. in July. But we see these operating principles of light. I've had a lot of physical tests over the course of my life, most of them due to athletics. You could have a broken bone and everything seemed normal on the outside. uh treat you and find out what's really wrong. Proverbs 15, 11 says, Sheol and Abadon lie before the Lord. No darkness at all. But it's so bright, you know, you kind of wince because it hurts your eyes. He knows what I'm going to say. And in Acts 22 and 26, he recounts this interaction that he has. He understands everything. And they know a great deal, but they don't know what God knows. It never lies. Again, we get back to this definition, penetrating mental vision or discernment, faculty of seeing into inner character or underlying truth. Interacting with the word as you're taking up the word, it starts to talk to you. I heard a wonderful sermon by Sinclair Ferguson on Romans 9. But then you come to Christ and it's a book that starts to talk to you. God's word is 100% accurate, 100% precise. I have more understanding than all my teachers. And usually you go there because these men know something more than you, or milk women. understanding of my teachers because I'm thinking about your word all the time. And I've just found so many benefits to doing that. And Ligoneer Ministries has a variety of different reading plans, but just to go find one that you think you might be able to manage. How's that going to help you, really? And that's part of our problem before God. And God has been pleased to give it to us freely in His Word, the whole scripture. Or woman or any person is subject to gravity. People take the wrong medicine. And so we need the Word of God so badly. That the light of the world is the subject of the word which gives light. As I've said before, we have the characters of the Old Testament. To use later on as witnesses of who Christ was. one to three. This word radiance, it's in a it the definition is in a sense of brightness from a source, that he was the exact brightness pointing to his father. Shining back to his father, glorifying his father. No one could enter glory as we read earlier. For our sake, he made him sin who knew no sin. not counting their trespasses against them, and entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. But by his grace we grow in that. And uh I want to apologize for those on YouTube. And uh and so with that let me let me pray for our time. in relation to us, and that he is a being of light who speaks light and who sent his son who is the light Giving us insight. is under God's control and he knows where it is. light in a very poignant way. It's always perfect. And the reproofs of discipline are the way of life. I can't explain it. In the knowledge of God. despises himself. And light, how great is that darkness? Showing loss? In John 8:12, again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. that our our great uh truth is that Christ has become a life-giving spirit. And yet it's the same for us, one early application, it's the same for us. All of his troubles, all of his sins, the status of his heart, everything was so clear to him. You're opening the pages of God revealing himself, of God speaking light into your darkness. And so as a way of application, this is part of why I wanted to say this, bring this word this morning, is we begin a new year. You know, don't set any great goals for quantity, but just that I'm going to read through the Bible. Reproof, we know we tend not to want correction, but it's like it's a gift. And as we take up your word this week, we ask that you would, by your spirit, shed light on it, that we would see it afresh, as Christ is the subject of your word. Put our faith in him. with other believers, but you're still part of the body of Christ. If we were to go to the window, although it's cloudy, we would see the effects of the sun. As bright as it is to us, he's even brighter than that. It's always true. It gives us a knowledge of things as they really are in a way that nothing else can do Proverbs 6, 20 to 23 says, My son, keep your father's commandment and forsake not your mother's teaching. But I have to say there's also a warning as well, because there's no neutrality with this. If you think what is what in reality is false and a lie is true And being deceived is horrible. Afterwards they say, did not our hearts burn? That glorious person, the Father. And Christ will not lose one, and he will minister to you as as necessity necessitates. Uh again, addressing our YouTube friends and people here right now as we gather And so our sovereign God, our sovereign creator, made these things. can see our hearts in such a way there is no darkness to him. God knows you. That is his people, we just worship him. But in some measure, in some degree, God's word will give us light as to what to do and how to act and how to view things. As God's teaching that we would not lose it. It's the only true word that we have with a true source of truth, God Himself. Because it's the word of light, it brings clarity to things that those who don't meditate on it won't have. Because they would have read the whole Word of God full of its light, and in some ways, whether they like it or not, it had its impact on them. I'm not dishonoring McDonald's, but just like, is that really what I need to know now? You know, if you eat healthy, you'll probably be healthy. That's self-destruction in some sense. The eye is the lamp of the body. To reconcile man to himself. What's going on there? This display of light was that we might be reconciled. You're imbiding the light of the revelation of God. Well greetings to everybody here in the building and greeting to those of you on Zoom. And there's a place where we just stop in Him as the one who knows all. Well we have a we have this wonderful source, the Word of God. With perfect 100% accuracy. I don't say things I shouldn't say, hopefully. And if I could push it, I'd say they have to read through the whole scripture out loud. Apart being clothed with Christ and being reconciled to him. So first we have the effects of light, second, God is light, and then for the word of God is light. of what is true and what's not true, of what's the right way and not what's the wrong way. But that you would be saturated, saturated with God's word. But is there any comp is there any comparison? You know, you can go to a you can go to a smorgasbord restaurant or a buffet, and there's things on there that aren't any good for you probably. And we've just seen that the word of God is our source here. They didn't really fully comprehend it, but it was a glorious work because Christ would have no people for himself. So the first are the effects of light, and then secondly, we want to consider God is light. It gives insight into life. You will have had your eyes before the light of God's Word for all that time That this wonderful display of God's glory in Christ was not just for a display, but to an incredibly glorious purpose. Who who would have to die for his people? One of them's in the Eastern time zone, one's the next one over in Memphis. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. And I think it's helpful as we consider praying that before we go to prayer, that we bring that reality, that truth before our eyes, it's like God already knows. It's all clear before his eyes. He says, where shall I go from your spirit, or where shall I flee from your presence? 16 tells us it comes out as rays of light. Because God's word is light, but it gives you this incredible insight. And God has been so kind to give it to us. When the Apostle Paul was converted in Acts 9, he had this interaction with the risen Lord I'm sorry. That Jesus is the most important interpretive tool of all the scripture. It says, and through him, to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. We see it in the created order, as your word tells us. They accomplished their purpose. Is he is this the writer to the Hebrews is trying to uh stir up these people who are sluggish and dull. Perfectly representing God as a man, Jesus did. Why did, what was this display of glory in Christ? And I have two main effects that we should consider here. We'll hear later how Jesus is the light, but it's so important to see that God is a being of light. What an amazing statement. Paul in 2 Corinthians 5, 18-6. You know, I knew somebody used to when they had their television they would turn down the volume during commercials. We're told to love our neighbor as ourself, but if you ignore instruction, you despise yourself. Insight can be defined as penetrating mental vision or discernment, faculty of seeing into inner character, underlying truth. We've never experienced that in any degree like God. Isn't that a problem sometimes communication, trying to communicate something to someone, you just can't get it across? If it's true that sometimes we're in darkness, where do we go? Psalm 119, 99. It was to the glorious purpose that we might believe in him or believe into him, be united to him, and be new creatures in Christ. I mean, there's times where I've been trying to read a uh the chapter of Proverbs for the date. Proverbs 15, 5. No. And it in light of God making the Son, he is the one who's given us light. As he goes on at the end of his psalm, he says, If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night. Tie them around your neck. He came with a purpose. There would be no reason for me to walk around with my flashlight looking for a place to put my towel or my blanket because the sun is so bright you can't even really see the flashlight's light. You need an MRI. It's just it cancels it out. You know, you don't know what the next day is going to hold. You know? It's no surprise that the God of light speaks words of light. The first point is the effects of light. You don't have to worry about a spin on the reality. If I had the opportunity to rewrite a seminary curriculum, I would recommend that every year, every student had to verify they'd read through the whole scripture. And on whose authority do I take this? Here's some verses to show how great is the revelation that we have in Christ. You know, even his disciples didn't get it. We want to obey him. They thought it was going to help them. We need the light of the Word of God. It's always penetrating to the to the to the reality of the way things are. I've seen uh Facebook Live and uh and uh YouTube so greetings to those who are on YouTube John 1, 1 John 1. That's a very sobering statement, just in itself, that first part. I've got all these jingles on my head from the years. We see this in Genesis 1, 14 to 19. He makes us new creatures. You may have gone to LaRay Caverns or someplace like that where they turn off the lights when you go to a very dark part of the cave, and it's pitch black. No, it's not. Because it's the word of God. And so our first verse, this thing about we see light in your light, is one way that God communicates who he is. Do you do you think about the glorious reality that when you open the pages of Scripture, And we we know where the light comes from. It just gives us general visible clarity. Proverbs 15, 32, whoever ignores instruction despises himself. But in these last days, and those prophets spoke of Christ, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his son. He knows what you need. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. It's like I just want to obey the Lord. Last week I didn't greet you. The word of God is light. A new day is a new starting point, a new month is a starting point, a new year, you know, you can go down the line. If you don't eat healthy, you probably won't be healthy. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light It can't. One who wanders from the way of good sense will rest in the assembly of the dead. You know, and we could just meditate on that for a while. No one could enter glory on their own because they're all fallen in Adam. They've accomplished their purposes over this last year, even in the midst of the COVID situation and everything else that is going on. When you walk, they will lead you. We all need to be corrected. It's the same sun that shines light on all of us because it's a universal light. And he sees it with perfect clarity, perfect justice, perfect understanding. Again, an amazing statement in the true sense of amazing. And that is such a great comfort. I'm not brilliant. Or I say things I should. Is there any comparison to the word of light that is the word of life that will make us wiser than our teachers? A fool despises his father's instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is prudent. It's one thing to know something's bad or wrong. And God saw that it was good, and there was evening and there was morning the fourth day. And that can penetrate to show the soft tissue damage to an even greater degree of clarity so that the doctor can rightly You know, some people they they read it, they've got photographic memory, they get it like this, and it sticks. You know, if you're wise and you have self-control, you you eat things that are good for you. He makes us new creations. That's an amazing statement. He knows our fears, even before we speak them to him in prayer. I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. It's still the light. Because as Paul goes on in Colossians 1, 19 to 20 But it gets back to this Psalm verse we just considered. So we're walking in darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? I did do point three. They do an x-ray, they say, oh, it's broken. He knows exactly what's going on in our hearts. It hurts them. Please stand for the reading of God's word. There's no one who knows us like that. It's of such value as your We see how they interacted with the living God. So first the effects of light, second, God is light, and then third, the Word of God is light. Christ makes your heart burn in a glorious way. Was it like fireworks, you know, it's like, wow, it was really cool. And so light has just a a general uh It's so bright. That there's this importunity that we're to hold You know, we're getting close to tax return times here, you know, four months. They saw these things. And then finally, the subject of the Word of God. He gave us the gift of the sun and the moon and the stars. We're all subject to this. I have to look to the Word of God. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. 5 says, this is the message we have heard from him and proclaim to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. I won't go there, but in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 to 4, Paul is talking about the center of his gospel. Our brother Tom did, but I did not. And when the dentist comes in after the hygienist gets done cleaning your teeth, he'll bring it down and and she uses it too, but it's so that sh they can see inside your mouth very clearly. It gives us insight into things, and that's how we we talk about light. I'll be corrected to my last breath. We see the same thing in Colossians 1. As he took his people's sins on himself on the cross that was due to them. You know, the Holy Spirit speaks to you, imparts light to you. So how do you avoid the darkness? That the scripture is about Jesus, ultimately. He knows where it is perfectly. You deserve a break today, so get up and get away at McDonald's, okay? And even as you are a part now, you still get the benefits of Christ because Christ dwells in you through faith. It has shed light on a problem or a situation. And as Cliff said, there's great comfort in that. Because he knows everything. It's probably the best sermon I've ever heard on that passage. And then we have this very, very sobering word from Jesus in Matthew 6, 22 to 23. He is the radiance of the glory of God. I don't care what it costs me. Two of them are there. And in 26, 13, he's speaking to Agrippa, and he says, At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun. I'm just trying to follow the directions a little bit. He seemed like a king. But we see it first and foremost in your Son Jesus Christ. It wasn't an idle display of wow. And let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. Or maybe when you've been to the dentist, you remember those lights they have. It's the true word. I'm meditating on your word So the the the third is the word of God is light. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. When you lie down, they will watch over you. It delivers us from that deception. And Father, we ask that to his glory we might fully trust him and believe into him, that we might be firmly established. John's Gospel and his epistles speak about If you've ever had your eyes towards the sun, we're always told not to look at the sun during an eclipse or things like that, because it really can be very dangerous. You don't know what's what's the next uh how many more cases of COVID, all those kind of things, and then you have all the other things that have happened. It's still sticking with me from many years ago. Exact brightness, perfect. It doesn't mean we still don't go to him in prayer, but It's a gift we heard earlier as Cliff was leading us in worship. It'll make you wiser than your teachers Not even the New Testament, from the Old Testament. Where do we go to get light shed on our darkness? Or the word has so enlightened me it's like I have the courage because I realize God's in control. I would think that if they went to seminary for three years and did that, it would just radic it would radically change their life. But God has given us His word to shed light on that, to deliver us from our darkness. And because he's made them, he can communicate himself through their characteristics, such as light. It's just two verses, so you really don't need to um go to any It starts to speak to you. He would lay down his life for his friends, his own people. This display of glory. I wanted to, I mean I zoom. His word never goes out null and void. I've had x-rays, I've had MRIs How much more the hearts of the children of man, the God We may have a best friend or a dear spouse who's our best friend or whatever. And there's no neutrality with God's word either. And if my YouTube friends would go to their window, they would look out and see the sun as well. And then I have one in LA. The effects of light. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. We could just think on that. They all have their turn with the same sun, the same universal sun that shines its light And God said, let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the light. You don't have to worry about revisionist history. I can tell you where it's broken. His knowledge of us is so perfect, so intimate Just like any man from any country That's what they had their calling. And your word is always speaking and it's always accomplishing its good purposes. First of all, light generally gives visible clarity or visual clarity. Rays of light on life. There's no neutrality. So, you know, even Jesus warns us about this. Where does he reveal himself? It's on Jesus' authority. In John 1, we've already looked at this to some degree. It's the same sun shining its light upon us, even though we're many, many miles apart There's no darkness to him, where there is to us often. There's no darkness in him. Like, really, what do you need? For with you is the fountain of life. There's nothing And so again, just let me ask as an application, do you see the Word of God like that? And he's saying, I have more Maybe you can read through the Bible in five years. People get wrong diagnoses of cancer or other diseases. You go to the word. Delivered from our darkness and rebellion inherited from Adam in his rebellion. It's the word above all words. And it will be a blessing to you. We can only say something about the sun because God has said something about the sun and light. We learn about God. 1 explains this to us. Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. So I want to greet you and say welcome. And I'll get there in just a second And yet Paul is saying to us, I saw the risen Jesus, and he was brighter than the sun. But to think it's good He seemed like this Messiah, but why is he on the cross? It wasn't a pleasure trip And that even though you're far away and you're not as close as some of these people in this room, you're still, as you're in Christ, you're part of the body of Christ. And so when God says in your in when the psalmist says in your light we see light that there's there's there's degrees of light It's a glorious reality of the gift of regeneration, is that all of a sudden the Bible's just talking to you all the time. The more that we have the word in us, the more light we have. That there's nothing that's hidden from him. And there's benefits to his word. We're all subject to this. Holy. And these are the four points. But the second thing we talk about light is giving insight. David in Psalm 139, when he's considering God's knowledge of him, he's overwhelmed when he thinks about how well God knows him. Because it's speaking of him. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule the day. Let's pray. And Paul goes on. The second one is God is light. Just as we heard earlier, the last molecule God knows there's no darkness in him Amen. It was his idea. 15. In your light we see light. A second application would be, as Cliff alluded to, our time this past year. Wow. All of us, I assume, have been to school in one way or another, whether homeschooled or college, or you know, some of you have your doctrines. But it's a glorious correction. You go to the word. We learn about man. The subjects of the Word of God. We can see it right here on the x-ray. It imparts light into your soul as to what way to go. The apostles had this eyewitness accounting privilege that they had to This incredible act that Christ did on the cross. Now I understand. Nowhere. And when you awake, they will talk with you. I think sometimes often we don't get that other side of it. That everything about David was known to God. He reveals himself to us in the Word. And finally, the subject of the word of God. Please be seated. It was it was great. Now, part of that is going to mean you're going to have to say no to some things. What do you me what what do you need to listen to that for? So just want to encourage you that as you're having to be apart and missing the Lord's Supper maybe regularly or not being able to get The word of God is light That all scriptures God breathed a second. Was it just for You don't have to worry about, I don't know if I can communicate it well enough to him Try to minimize the other things. And then later on he rec he speaks to those in the upper room. Hebrews 1 There's no darkness in him You don't have to Holy with new hearts that want to obey him, who love his commands in some measure. God is light. It's like and the other person says, I don't know what you're talking about. And it has been such a blessing. I've been a part of different uh types of vehicles to get the message out. And sometimes we'll Skype after evening worship or before evening worship on the Lord's Day. They're absolutely accurate. So I would today for the third, I'd read Proverbs 3. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. All this is from God. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. I haven't been to the dentist in a while. And David, as one who loved God, was overwhelmed with this knowledge. You want them to be, if somebody's doing your taxes, you want them to do it accurately It delivers us from our darkness. He speaks to the two men on the road to Emmaus. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. That wonderful chapter in Luke, Luke 24. And so he uses, God uses It's a very simple sermon, hopefully. But as you bring your eyes before the Word of God, He's the most important one to look to. It was his idea to give us the light. Some people need more time, and that's okay. But usually we talk about resolutions. That wherever you are, this this moment in your life, really, literally moment in your life, Even the darkness is not dark to you. In your light do we see light. God didn't pull any punches on that. And uh I was thinking about you all this week, and I thought This is a very prevalent He knows our hopes. That's what God's Word does. Either you're going to grow in wisdom or you're not. I've already pretty much touched on this. And God is holy. And on a regular week, my four kids spanned three time zones. John the Baptist witnesses, I'm not the light. Is that better? Just one, just five years. There's no source that's hidden from him. God is so much brighter, even that is created in order. And it was so And as God speaks, his word gives life. Probably I need to make an appointment, but God is light. So first You know, the fall brought us into darkness. Being conformed to the image of God's Son, growing in wisdom. He starts off his epistle like this, long ago and at many times and in many ways. We pray all this in Jesus' name. You know? I don't understand. This glorious death and resurrection of his, where he is reconciled us to himself. You know, it's just junk food. It's no surprise For the commandment is a light, and the teaching is a light. But it's the same thing in terms of what you put before your eyes and your mind. When you look to the cross and you see the pain and you see the agony. We pray all this in Jesus' name. We implore you on behalf of Christ. This display of light in Christ is not to lead us to idle speculation, but is to And it was better. He knows our confusions. I can say this hard thing. I'm going to just take my time. And so this wonderful, glorious King. You can't even see your hand in front of your eyes. It's so bright. He's the light. The night is bright as the day. That's not true for God. Is there any comparison? We thank you for all the revelation that you've given us of yourself. There's no neutrality I had more brightness, I had more light, I could see where things were. There's no cause that's hidden from him. And I I speak to myself. Then he said to them, this is Luke 24, 44 to 48. It's like Before a word's on my lips, he already knows it. That he would make us new creatures as we Amen. There's things that are nourishing. It's so much He's the light. He says the same thing. And I would just encourage you. Amen. Be reconciled to God. Jesus confirms these words. What a time of uncertainty. I'm not, I haven't arrived. It's it's over