It's a privilege and a blessing to uh return and speak to you again about Speak to you again about a relationship that we have with God. Let's pray. Our Father, we come to you with just so many different feelings and attitudes. We have glimpses of joy and also jogs of pain. But above all, we know that you are indeed, O loving Heavenly Father, you care for us. And you have designed our life in such a way that those that surround us are looking to us to reflect your image because indeed you are. Conforming us increasingly to the image of your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, it's our prayer, my prayer And each of us that we would be faithful in looking forward to the way that that occurs. so that your name would be honored, and that our successes through the ministry of your Holy Spirit would not point to ourselves but would point to the mercy and the grace of Jesus Christ and to your glory. Amen. So we're back in Psalm 19. Still in Psalm 19, perhaps, and on the back of the handout, are three verses that we will focus on. Last week we kind of did a survey of all 14 verses, and tonight we'll focus just on these three verses Let's read that together. And if you'd stand as we honor the Lord, as we read Read His word together. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right. Rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. Amen. Be seated. The title of this evening's Discussion and thought, meditation, is God's gifts have purpose and power A couple of weeks ago on Sunday morning at 7 o'clock or earlier, actually I was up much earlier than that, but at some point uh there was a bit of rowdy-ness in the kitchen. We have twelve people in the house. And one of our granddaughters had a birthday. So there were presents on the kitchen table. Now I was in the living room, but that's kind of around the corner, and I could hear. These exclamations. Hey, this is real Anybody opened a gift? Been surprised and said, This is real. This is perfect. I really needed this gift. How did you know? Thank you, thank you, thank you So, as we think for a minute about the last gift that you gave someone, I think I mentioned last week. Maybe. Uh I asked my grandkids and I asked other people, what is the best gift that you gave this Christmas? And why So, as we look at these three verses, which actually we're going to look at in terms of six gifts. From God. What we're going to do is look at this gift in terms of The way that they're designed to increase our relationship with our Father. When you give a gift to someone, a friend, a parent, a child, One of the purposes of the gift is to have that have a better relationship. You're not trying to buy their love, you're not trying to do that. But when we gift things to people That really puts some energy into the relationship. It's good to do that. Now, the version that we're reading from is the New American Standard. And I was taken to task recently by someone who said, you should always mention the version that you're reading. Well, it is a New American standard. And there are only a few words that are are are uh variants with other other versions. But the reason I like the New American Standard is that in the New Testament, all of the Old Testament quotes are in lowercase caps. Now in every Bible that I know of, the New Testament, Old Testament quotes are referenced. But that means you have to look over in the column. And in the New American Standard, you just look at it and then it's if it's if it's lowercase caps, you know that it's a quote from the Old Testament. And that kind of g is is the way that I'm trying to educate myself. Well, if that's the way that God had the New Testament authors Use the Old Testament, then why isn't that a good model for me to use in terms of how I use Scripture? Does that make sense? So that's sort of my idiosyncrasies. Everybody has their own ways of looking at things, and God speaks to each of us differently in different ways. So I don't want to go there too far, but I guess in these six verses you may find in different versions some variation in the words. But they're not significant. There happen to be the way that God was motivating and ministering to and through the people that were developing that. So let's if you t if you uh take out this sheet on the back. It'd be good to underline the six gifts. Now the first These gifts, in every case it says the law of the Lord, the testimony of the Lord. So we understand the source, we understand the giver is the Lord. So, the six gifts are the law, you can underline it, the testimony underline it, the precepts underline it, the commandment underline it, the fear of reverence of the Lord underline it, and the judgments. Of the Lord. So this is gifts. But every gift has a purpose. So let's go through it again. The purpose of the law of the Lord is to restore the soul, to convert the soul. That's why he gave us the law. I mean, that's what it says. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting or restoring the soul. So once you circle, restore the soul. And make wise the simple. That's the purpose. Circle rejoicing the heart. The purpose is to enlighten the eyes, give us a spiritual understanding. Number nine, enduring forever. This is not Something that is whimsical. It doesn't come and go. It endures forever. And they are righteous. So righteousness is the purpose. So that we will be righteous as we understand God's judgments are righteous and we respond that way. Now If I have a gift and I give one of the kids over here uh a game, most games have batteries, right? And if I give you the gift without the battery, it's not going to do much good, is it? Huh? Not going to be much good if you don't have a battery. So you have to have power. Right? Battery has power. So, in the purpose, says the law of the Lord, how do we know the law of the Lord is going to restore the soul? How we know that it's going to convert the soul. Because it's perfect. There's power in the perfection of the law. The testimony of the Lord is sure, so you can mark sure. The power is in the fact that it's sure. The power is in the fact that the precepts are right. And we don't think much about power in this context, but I invite you to think about it just differently. The commandment of the Lord is pure. The power is in the purity of the commandment. If it wasn't a pure commandment, then we could take it or leave it. It'd rust just like a piece of metal in your car over time. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. Cleanness and cleanliness. And we're talking about not just in our terms of being clean, we're talking about in God's word. Of being clean. There's power in that. And finally, the judgments of the Lord are true You know, truth is powerful. People can deny it, people can lie, people can use innuendo, but the fact of the matter is there is where there's truth There's power. So we see we have the gifts, we have the purpose, and we have the power. Now, I'm not sure that we're going to have time to go through all of these in as great a depth as we would like to, perhaps. But I'd like for you to make a note. Under the law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. Think about that a little bit. Ask yourself: what is the health of my soul right now? The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Ask yourself, what is the level of my wisdom today If the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise is simple, then it's ask yourself, what is the level of my wisdom today? And I ask myself these questions, and I invite you to share in that process. Uh rejoicing the heart. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, would would it be Would it be a reasonable thing to ask ourselves, how much does my joy depend on my situation? If things are going right, I just got a raise, or I just had a good meal, or the weather's great, or if the kids uh have joy, if it's snowing outside and they can sled and so forth. It's joy. But how much does my joy depend on my situation? And then next, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. What kind of spiritual eyesight do I have? How are the commandments allowing me to see not only my eyes? own sin, but the glories of God and the truth of Christ. So is it it would it be helpful to ask ourselves this question, how well can I identify my inner motives? What are my inner motives? And verse nine, the fear of the Lord is clean and during forever Hmm. Would it be fair to ask ourselves in regard to that, is God relevant to everything in my life? Is God relevant to everything in my life? And finally, the judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. This is a strange question to ask yourself. Am I successful being good? That has huge ramifications, so we'll we'll look at that in a little bit. But as I was preparing and and and actually not preparing for the message, but actually studying in Psalm nineteen some time ago, uh I began to ask myself these questions and uh it was a it was a uh it was an interesting exercise And more than an exercise, it allowed me to have some discussions with some other people, including my wife and a couple of my kids, about some of these inter So let's take a look maybe a little more in depth at verse seven. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. So the purpose of the law of the Lord is to restore your soul's relationship with To restore the soul or convert the soul has a sense that there's something dead that's coming back to life. And whether it's and and you can look at it in in a lot of different ways theologically, but But the fact is, the goal is that God is restoring something that is dead in Adam back to himself in a relationship. So t I got to think about that. I said to restore a dead soul in life, to restore a dead soul to life is an amazing And it's a joyful thing when you see someone that the Holy Spirit has introduced and said, Hey, here I am. I am your God. And this law, this law of the Lord is perfect. The law is so perfect that it it covers every single detail. In your life, day by day, minute by minute, as well as mine. We can't hide from this totality of the law The law provides a very comprehensive set of instructions, and it reveals our relationship with God. Because it reveals Reveals his perfection. And in the law, I'm thinking about more than just the Ten Commandments, but that's a good way of looking at it. But it's more, the law is more than the Ten Commandments. Amendments, but the power of the law is in its perfection. This has huge implications for how we approach evangelical Evangelism, or rather how God has called and equipped us to be His representatives That's another way of saying evangelism. Okay? Evangelism may be presenting the gospel to someone who may or may not be interested in hearing it. But the third commandment says, don't take the name of the Lord in vain. So as we take and carry the banner of the Lord Jesus Christ and say, I'm a Christian. And live a lifestyle that is a forgiving person, and people see that. And I've had people ask me, how do you do that? So the law allows us to it equips us not only to see our sin, but it also equips us to be his representative. And although it is the Holy Spirit that awakens us, he uses the law first To help us understand our hopelessness. And you look at the Ten Commandments Actually, I start with a big two. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, and soul. And likewise your neighbor as yourself. So you start with a big two and then go to the ten. And when we really come to grips with that, when someone out there, or maybe in here, before Christ announced himself to me, You lay out you shan't steal. Have you ever stolen? Well, yeah, I probably did. I remember when I was a little kid and uh perhaps took something from one of the dime stores or something and I my mom found out about it and she helped me go back and return it. Ask forgiveness. So I'm a thief. So God and the Holy Spirit uses the law to reflect our hopelessness. And only when we completely comprehend our fallen condition can we bow down in this absolute awe to the magnificence of our grace and mercy of being forgiven in Christ. It starts with the law. And we're saved from God's wrath, the Creator of the universe. Because the law totally engulfs us. The law totally engulfs us both before we know who Christ is. Christ is, and He's revealed Himself to us. And the law totally engulfs us after we become a Christian, because it is an example not only of Christ's perfection. But if I'm being slowly conformed to the image of Christ, then it tells me what other people should be seeing in me. And that's not in my own strength But it's through my prayer that the Holy Spirit and I've left left a number of conversations saying, hmm, maybe I said too much uh of the wrong thing, I didn't say enough of the right thing, uh etc, etc, etc. So I second guess. But the only way you can do that is just say, pray for God to pray for the Holy Spirit to uh help that other person sort out. What God wants them to hear through the Holy Spirit. So in Romans, Paul remember says, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. Hm that's a pretty strong statement. I would not have come to know sin except through the law. So uh that that's that's that's Pretty pretty powerful stuff about the necessity of the law. And again in Romans 7 12, so then the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. that through the commandment sin might become utterly sinful. So it's pretty clear that Paul sees that That indeed the law of the Lord is perfect and it restores the soul And after I think about these things, I have to ask myself again, what is the health of my soul right now? Do I see elements of the law? Is God showing me elements of the law that I am still rebelling against? Or uh there's a dust bin in the corner of some closet that I need to work out in my mind or My daily actions. What is the health of my soul? But it's in the hands of God, it's the hands of the Spirit of God, so to speak But you know that's a huge uh everybody understand what a G force is? All right? Mental G forces is when Things come into your mind at such an incredible velocity that you just have to shake your head and what is going on? And when the Spirit of God comes into our life and we say, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul and reviving the soul, and I say, I'm different. When I read the scripture, it it means something different to me. These mental G forces are really, I just, they're they're what's going on? So the answer, the question is, how can I understand such a change? Well, let's look at the next line. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. So the purpose of the testimony of the Lord is to give wisdom to you and to me. The testimony of God is his revelation through his word of his relationship with us since Adam. His testimony witnesses to the truth and to all that is false. You see, God is a hands-on Father. He's not absent from your life. He's engaged at all times. And the amazing part for me is that his purpose is that we don't have to go to seminary. We don't have to have a PhD or an MDIF to recognize our Heavenly Father. The Holy Spirit awakens, enlightens, and enables us to believe the simple message. That the law that reveals our sin is the same law that Jesus in his perfection Has covered our sin. It's not necessary to comprehend all of the things of God in gifting us this very simple but excellent wisdom. That's not to say that we shouldn't study to show ourselves approved But his ways are above our ways, yet as far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our sins from us. And Jesus answered and said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou didst hide these things from the wise and the intelligent, and did reveal them to babes. I'm a babe. And then 1 Corinthians, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things that are wise. And Psalm 119, one of my favorite shorter parts of the Bible, verse 130: the unfolding of thy word gives light, it gives understanding. I'm simple. I like to figure out a simple way to understand things. And sure, there's power in Sure. The testimony of God will stand the test of scoffers. The testimony of God will withstand the attack of scoffers. For one thing Somebody says, I'm just going to suppose that somebody here has a next-door neighbor named Bill. And you know Bill. You've known him for five years. And somebody comes up and says, you don't have a neighbor named Bill. Hey, wait. Wait a minute. I've had lunch with him. We've had meal together. I know Bill. We're buddies. We have a relationship. When somebody says there can't be a God, they're trying to tell you that you don't know Bill Because you know him. It's a simple. Maybe I'm making it too simple. You know, I I I don't I don't mean to belabor this, but How can someone tell you that your father or your mother doesn't exist? And that's basically what the attack of the world is saying. There is no God. You don't know what you're talking about. But we've had that experience. And Jesus said, remember, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give eternal life to them, and they shall never perish, and no one Shall snatch them out of my hand. Jesus desires to have communion with us in heaven And that's based on his perfection, because he says, Be holy even as I am holy. God says, be holy. Every one of us has to be holy. He said, Be holy as I am, but be perfect as I am. Man, you're looking at God that's not perfect. Perfect, I'm not holy. But through Christ we are. And we can be confident that the testimony of God Is not going to deceive us. We're not reading a magazine article. We're not reading a book by human hands. We're reading God's Word. So if we begin to think this way, then we have to ask ourselves again: what is my level of wisdom today? What is my level of wisdom today? Do I see the hand of a loving God? At work in my life, whether things are going well or things are not going well. Psalm 119, verse 50, was a whole message that I had an opportunity to develop. It says Uh, this is my comfort in my affliction that your word has revived me. This is my comfort in my affliction, that your word has revived me. How many people do we know that it's in their affliction that they spend time in prayer, Bible reading? Developing a personal relationship with other Christians for encouragement and so forth and so on. And when everything's going great, you got time to go to the ballgame, you got time to go to this, you got time to do that, and so forth and so on. How much time do you spend in the Word when everything is just free and relaxing and just having fun? Well, maybe a different name. But I think that verse, God put it there because it's true. And it's not only true, but I think it's a design for our life. This is my comfort and my affliction that your word has revived me. So in our affliction, we go to the word and we're revived. And that is comfort. Verse 8. The precepts of the Lord are right. Well, rejoicing the heart. The thought occurred to me, I know people, I know Christians that are just plain happy. They smile, they greet people, and and they're just plain happy Half mile here. How many people are happy? Not many How can we be happy? I mean, he just said, you know, the uh talked about, you know, this is my comfort in my affliction. In your affliction, you're happy. Joyful? The precepts of the Lord are right. Rejoicing the heart. Hey, rejoicing the heart. God's purpose is to give you and me joy inexpressible in every single situation. God's precepts describe in detail his oversight and care for details in every aspect of my life and yours. His precepts define exactly and precisely the rules and principles of good and evil. Our life situation changes constantly. At least mine does. Yet God's word never changes. And he never changes. His rules. His precepts are always applicable. Only in Christ do we see total consistency of purpose and fulfillment. In every detail, Jesus followed the precepts of his Father Again, Psalm 119, verse 27, make me understand the way of your precepts, so I'll meditate on your wonders. Hmm, make me understand the way of your precepts, so I'll meditate on your wonders. Well, how about a little affliction? Will that work? When do you use three and one oil? When there's rust. Right I have rust in my life, and I need more than 3010 all. I need the Spirit of God and the word of His Spirit ministering to me. So when you're joyful. Have you ever thought about this? That's kind of kind of interesting here. It says it says the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. If you're rejoicing the heart, you're a happy person. Hmm Have you ever seen a person that's totally happy, that has no expression in her voice? No expression in their face, and can lay totally still and say, I am, I am so happy, I can't contain myself. Does it work that way? I don't think so. I don't think so. Rejoicing the heart. When our heart is happy, it creates energy. It's coming from the inside out. When you're joyful, you have energy, and you usually move some part with vigor Our speech is exalted and amplified. I wave my arms. My wife goes nuts because I wave my arms when I talk. I'm not Italian But you know, we're set into motion by joy. I don't mean painted on joy of the world. No ice cream cone. I had a Wendy's on the way and I talked to the lady that I talked to last week. I took her or a C D uh that had a little discussion on about the gospel of forgiveness. And we had a nice discussion. She's gonna listen to it with her husband and maybe perhaps Lord willing she may send it to her mom. Mail it to her mom. who is unable to forgive her mom. Or her sisters, pardon. So anyway, it's I mean How many people do we see that just needs joy? How many people, I mean you can tell, they're just hunkered down. And the precepts of the Lord are right. Every situation that we come into in our life We know that they are complete, they're total, they're correct, they're right. And that should give us great joy in our heart. And right is powerful because the law is always applicable. These precepts are administered by Christ and give cause for joy. Even even everlasting joy. I mean you can see people that are joy you know, you can say something to them and they smile And then all of a sudden your mind goes back to whatever it was that didn't work the last time and you can see the the the facial expression go back. But this is a forever, everlasting joy, and it's written on our heart. Y'all ever sing Nehemiah 810? It's the self-annotating song. You're nodding like you know it In Nehemiah 18, it is written there. In Nehemiah 810, it is written there. In Nehemiah 80, it is written there. The joy of the Lord is my strength in Nehemiah 8:10. It is written there in Nehemiah 8:10. It is written there in Nehemiah 80. It is written there, the joy of the Lord is my strength That's sort of a fun thing, especially for the for the young ones. And I'm thinking about asking myself, how much does my joy depend on my situation? How much is my joy? Uh some time ago uh I had an interchange with uh somebody and they basically did something that I thought I was responsible for doing. And I was really upset. I mean, upset, upset. I called on the phone. I said, hey, we need to I need to I need to talk to you about this. And I came, I left the car, I was driving, and I was not a happy camper. And on the way, I was praying, and I thought, wait a minute, the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever How is this what I consider to be a terrible bad situation with regard to a relationship? How is that going to bring glory to God? I don't know. But I started to ask the question. And when we got together, I said, This is what I understand, this is what happened, do you understand how I feel? And I want to forgive you for Doing that. And then the other person asked me if I would forgive him for doing that. And we began to work together. We began to work it out. out. So here's a situation where there was no joy. There was anger on my part. But This this joy of the Lord is my strength is more than just a song. We really have to understand how is what is happening to me going to bring glory to God. The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. So to glorify God is something we've got to think about all the time with regard to joy. And let's finish the second part of this next one, the second part of that. You know, how much does the joy depend on my salvation my my situation. Then I have to ask the question with reg after I've gotten the joy bit taken care of Maybe. Why is the power of God's word to give joy sometimes difficult to recognize? Is that a good question? Let me say it again. Why is the power of God's Word to give joy sometimes difficult for me to recognize? A good question? And we look at the next next part. It says, the command of the Lord is pure enlightening the eyes. So one way of looking at that is God's purpose is for you is to see his heart. God's purpose of the commandment is to see his heart. And I'm taking commandment here in terms of the Big Ten. It can be taken in other ways, but for the purpose of the discussion, because the commandments affirm God's authority over his creation. Have you ever thought about the Ten Commandments that way? The commandments affirm God's authority over his creation because they function as a powerful searchlight into every dark corner. Of my life and yours. And Jesus taught our heart must obey You see, other people see our acts of sin. God sees our hidden desire to sin. Other people see our acts of sin. God sees our hidden desire to sin. Yet at the same time, the commandments show us Christ in his perfection. And knowing that as our high priest, he was tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin, we can come to him. For him, it's no big deal. He said, Come to me, all your heavy laden, all ye who are weary and heavy laden. Now notice the word pure. The commandment of the Lord is pure. The power of the commandment is its purity. Nothing is hidden. It's open for all to see. There's nothing outside of how how can I say this differently? Consider that nothing outside of God is pure. Only God is pure. Nothing outside of God can be pure if God is pure. These are the definition of purity. And I forgot to bring something up to the table with me. Excuse me. Most of us have our own definition of what pure is This is a gold coin. A real gold coin. Small, but it's a gold coin. 99. 9% pure. That's what a gold coin is. 99. 9% pure. If you really want a pure a really pure, pure gold coin, it's 99. 9% Nine point nine nine nine. That's that's the highest degree of purity that you can get. Now it turns out in Psalm twelve, verse six It says, The words of the Lord are pure as silver tried in a furnace on the earth refined seven times. You see when you Purify something, a metal, you heat it up, the dross comes to the top, you pour it off, and you go through another problem. You heat it up, and the dross comes to the top, and you send it off. Go through that seven times. I'm not sure how long it takes to get five to get three nines. But let me give you an idea of what five nines mean. Ninety-nine point nine nine nine. That's five nines. It's sort of the ultimate number for reliability for anything that you find. It's one second out of a 24-hour day So that means if you're 99. 999% pure, 59 is pure, then that means that you can only sin for one second. in a 24-hour day. Actually, it comes out a little less than that. That's amazing But when it says the commandment of the Lord is pure enlightening the eyes, we're talking about We're talking about a purity that is so far beyond anything that we can imagine Jesus Christ is a hundred percent pure. Everything that you see in the commandment even can imagine that the commandment And covers, he has accommodated perfectly. He has resisted perfectly. And not just one second a day And not just for a year, and not just for your lifetime or mine, but Jesus Christ is sinless for eternity. Eternity. He's a Savior that we can trust in And the commandments, again the commandments, in the commandments, the Holy Spirit shows us the depth and the horror of our own sin. And the Holy Spirit shows us the perfection of Christ who met all the conditions of the Christ. Commandments, and he alone has satisfied God's wrath. So our spiritual eyes really rejoice when we discover how much we're loved by our Heavenly Father as He reveals to us. How to live our new life. How to live our new life. D. A. Carson has a quote in the uh the the the uh the holiness the uh The holiness of God, excuse me, for the love of God, says the way we live in response to the mercy of God lies at the heart of Christian worship. We're here tonight and we have an hour, hour and a half of worship. In the morning you have an hour, hour and a half, two hours of worship. But just think. The way we live in response to the mercy of God lies at the very heart of Christian worship because it's all the time, every day, everywhere. So the commandments can be the commandments can really be considered a jackhammer on our hearts of stone as they are proclaiming, Thou shalt not. Yet it's the soothing balm of Christ's mercy and grace that reveals and heals our hidden motives. So I have to ask myself at the end of this, how well can I identify my hidden motives? What are inside of me? What is inside of me with regard to my hidden So uh it's it's time we've run out. I've got two more verses, but we can share those Next week. And I'd invite you in this next week to take your notes And make some notes to yourself. Take the questions that we asked and kind of meditate on them, ruminate on them, discuss it with folks in your household, folks at work. and and and see how they respond to some of these questions as well So we'll take the words again at the end of the Psalm verse 14, and we'll close again with that. I really pray that the time that we've had here together tonight, that this is my prayer, and I pray that it's your prayer. Let the medit the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Let's pray. Oh Father, we again come to you as your children. We're so grateful that you have revealed yourself through your word. The magnificence of your creation fails, as beautiful and magnificent as it is, to continue. Communicate who you are and the love that you have for us and the perfection of your Son Jesus Christ and the eternity that we have for you Lord help us to live in such a way that we're really seeking and praying and asking to be Be more conform to the image of your Son, and that we are seeking the work of your Holy Spirit in our life so that those who Give a who ask us to give an account for the hope that's within us that we can point to Christ and His perfection. We also need to point to To your requirements, which we can never meet, and therefore we have great thanksgiving. In Jesus' name, amen.