I want to make that point. And we're privileged this morning to have our beloved brother and father in the faith. uh the message you have in it for us. I think it is. And I will put enmity. And as it makes this ecliptic, this circle, it passes through twelve areas. I can't use it here, but in your uh dictionary or your encyclopedia or on the web, you can find these You see, early people had a lot more time than we do. Any true believer knows the fierceness and the wiles and the reality of our spiritual enemy depicted in the stars as a scorpion. It's looking to the heavens to get under the right sign that will determine your day or your month or your decision. Well Paul wrote to the Philippians to hold fast to the word of life, and that's what the Bible is. And then to have opportunity to bring some messages is the cherry on top of the Sunday. And grant that what is of the Holy Spirit may go deep into our souls, we pray. God says, now wait a minute, Job. I put a belt around to keep those stars in place. And it was remarkable to them. uh that you've already done in school. And they came upon these figures. And what the ancient people l learned out of that was that none of our righteousness is enough to purchase our salvation, no matter how much we may be full of good works and good intentions. because these scorpions would come on the walls and want to fall on the child. that there's an abounding s uh water uh uh gift of refreshment and quenching of thirst and strength given to us in the water of Christ. We have to scatter as God's people did in the early church and are doing even now in some of the countries of the world. I don't like to use that word in the pulpit, but it is the picture of the crab grasping. That's why I think in Psalm 19 you have the the connection between, in the first six verses, between the word in the heavens and then the word in our hearts as scripture from the rest of the Psalm. But we'll be like the Bereans who search the scriptures to see if these things are solved. And we lost these wonderful people through astrology. The heavens declare the glory of God. Uh no, no merit involved. I'm grateful. And it's not always true that retired pastors are welcome, but you sure made us feel welcome from the first day. Now as we read it, lift up our hearts to receive its truth and to be given And the firmament shows his handiwork. And there is nothing hidden from its heat. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Let them not have dominion over me. He's put a theme and a glorious thought there in the heavens for us, if we will but look for it We stand in awe and wonder and we glorify God if we are believers at the wondrous handiwork He has shown us in the heavens. And that we so much need to hear. Which God paints in the heavens. He made the stars also. How they are signs. They see the curse as being the theme of this drama played out in the stars. You are cursed more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field. almost warring kind of word. Than Abraham or other beginnings of sacred writings. all of which I have enumerated and pictured with a constellation in the zodiac. Last week I gave to some of the dear friends here that word as an assignment. But what God did with that path, he demonstrated the path, the way of salvation. constellations and study them and I hope you will. All kinds of leisure to study the stars, to figure out the meaning of the stars. Seth, Adam, Methuselah, these are nine hundred plus years old. And yet she has the signs of fruitfulness in her. Which says to us that it is a supernatural birth. Not our modern scales, but the kind that used to have balances. And all of that. This is a dreadful insect, maybe the one most dreaded. put this scorpion in there and said to my son, I gathered our children around now. would have a scorpion in it. Stands for the devil, the dreaded enemy of mankind. Our Savior has overcome him and will overcome him, that he will bruise his head, he will destroy him, even though the Savior himself will know a bruise in his own heel. For the sacrificial Savior. And a scapegoat is one sent off into the desert with the sins loaded on his shoulders. The waterman has an urn of water under his arm, and this flood of water comes down into the mouth of fish. And you ask, why is that? We're still bound in the love of Christ, and often we have to flee from persecution Now this Ram has got a big head. Christ is the conqueror. It's a little like some of the pictures you see today of a furious horse And Taurus is to remind us that there is a day of judgment coming, coming a day of reckoning. And the ancient people reminded themselves as they looked at Taurus in the heavens. I think Gemini means that Christ and the believer are twins. No one can snatch you out of my hand. This powerful paw that the lion has. That's where everything ends. I think, as I have read, taught him some of the realities of the zodiac. There the wise men, the magi, gained some knowledge of astronomy, which guided them to the Savior's side at Jesus' birth. and his work even in the heavens preaching to you. and who of whom they were very afraid and who were whimsical and evil at times and engaged in terrible things. That the devil and the judgment day will become more real to you than ever before. And his angels will become brighter and more hopeful and joyful to you than ever before. How much evil has it done? And many of you are too young to remember the 39 people of Heaven's Gate in our American Southwest, these 39 dear people. And how the ancient people, even with Job, had some knowledge of it were so misguided by their leader that they read in the stars that if they were to take their lives they would immediately be blessed in some strange way O Lord, keep us from every corruption of it, every misunderstanding, every lie that Satan has planted. The stars are to depict the path of salvation, not to determine our destiny. That horoscope you see in the paper, don't even look at it. Knowing this ancient path of salvation, you may be rejecting it. And then I don't know if there'd be any here of that mind. And fall at the feet of the Savior. You think of human life as developmental, not at all existing in that primitive ooze that started everything off. to come and uh bring God's word to us. And open the hearts of your people to receive your truth. great creative power of God, but what about his suffering, his sacrifice, his redeeming power? The Lord said to the serpent, because you have done this, that is deceived Eve and Adam Uh have you been able to draw out the Nazareth? And that same combination of woman and lion is seen in other ancient antiquities. And another sheaf of wheat, showing that there will be fruit and blessing from her offspring. And so on. of the gospel here being played out. And the Greeks and the Romans still keep that word in their slang. Is that it came from Covenant College, our own PCA college, in an act of pure grace The way that word has filtered into every cell of our brain, our being, and transformed them. Lifting them out of darkness and depression into joy and peace and light More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, and sweeter than honey and the honeycomb Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. The night hours have great truth in their hearts, if we look for them. And God's here saying, I put these heavenly bodies in place to point to something, to get you to look at things. saw the same figures in the heavens and agreed upon their identities. forming a picture. And so if you think of the sun rotating around the earth, which it does not do, but to our human eye it seems to do, in that way, that path around Where does this circle begin? ecliptic was in the Sphinx. of the zodiac. And so Virgo begins in the place of honor, which Mary is always given in the scriptures. Fish are there symbolizing the believers. And they picture the fruit of Christ's suffering. Now you've seen that in Aslan, have you not? It is pristine. somehow these pictures in the heavens began to be attached to these mythological or pretended beings that the Greeks and Romans worshipped. And he expects us to entrust our souls to him as to a faithful creator. But the Greeks and Romans and all who had a mythology of their own, that is, a sense of gods who weren't really gods, pretend gods, who ruled their lives. It was a tool of the devil by which he could bind people. caught up in any of its wiles. And rejoices like a strong man to run its race. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether And the firmament shows his handiwork. Said the disciples. The sign may resemble the object, but often it does not. The curse of that was put upon the devil and upon the seed of man as well after the fall After the fall, God is much displeased, even angered, with Adam and Eve, and of course with the serpent. This old book, this ancient book, and in it God reveals when Job seems a little bit proud and self-pitying and saying, Why am I suffering like this when I am a good man? Zodiacsa Hebrew comes from a Hebrew word Seda, which means a path, a way. and uh find Leo, the lion, and so on. uh to quickly acquire as much as we could and then give it all up and it's over. And go back now in your mind. In fact, we won't pass the offering plate to you if you have an answer. And on the other side, the light side, it said the price is deficient. And we dreaded them. in the heavens. And half man. And he pictures the abundant resource that the sacrificed Christ gives to his church He's saying that the Savior is full, and we had in our hymn this morning like a river glorious. And the fact that he is part goat and part man speaks to the two natures of Christ. Divine, he's God, and he's also man. And uh that's uh that's a lovely picture of us. Because Ares is the head of a man, the head of a goat. And not letting anything go. Foot that can destroy an ox or a cattle You may be refusing to be born again, unwilling to surrender to Christ. And now you're being preached to by human tongue, which is the great weapon of the church You have breathed out your word. changing motives and actions, desires and prayers, all because of your infallible word. And night unto night reveals knowledge. Their line has gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. Moreover, by them your servant is warned, and in keeping them there is great reward. It's a silent word spoken. Well, we're helped there by the little word in Genesis 3, 14, 3, excuse me, Genesis 1, 14 or 20. And they began to love that story. You'll remember that curse, but perhaps for our children or newcomers, let me remind you what it is. The story of God's overcoming of evil and of his redeeming love in the Lord Jesus Christ. He placed them there. believers, and even people who are not related to revealed religion We get a hint of this from Job. Around where the sun seems to take its path. That the sun makes around the earth is the path it follows. And ancient people saw this. of interpreting these stars. Historians have seen how the ancient people handled this question of the starting place and the finishing place of the zodiac, this path, this But um and what was the body? An amazing kind of discovery. Perhaps unable to stand. Now it's interesting that in the scripture Jesus is often called the branch. The heavy side said the price covers. I remember we don't as far as I know have scorpions in America, maybe somewhere, but where we lived in Iran, scorpions were a daily challenge. Going forward as these twelve signs move through the experience that we have. Can't take the time to do all of them with the same way, but I can touch on some. Whoever drinks this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks the water that I will give him will never thirst. And the body of a man. Fierce. Our twins. That when we're mature in Christ, you can hardly tell one from the other. That was the name you'll remember given to Thomas, the twin. and who rules over all things until the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. And I pray that as you search the scriptures, even with the gospel in the stars, in your mind and heart, as a way of salvation depicted in the heavens. and which is now presented to you in a slightly different way. May we pray together. We give you thanks for this psalm that tells us to find your glory in the heavens and supremely in our Lord Jesus. And so he's drawing our attention to the pictures he has made with the stars, the moon, and the planets in the heavens. And there we find some amazing stories. Of course I mentioned Virgo is the first Virgo, a reclining lady. in the firmament of the heavens, to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs and seasons and for days and years. The Pleiades are a group of stars that he made, God made into a constellation, which is a group of stars. Four or five times we could cite places where the Messiah is prophesied as a branch to come. Oh Dad, we see those all the time. With your plan, that you've garnished the heavens with the delicate beauty of your gospel. We're gonna stand for prayer and the reading of Psalm nineteen. Who can understand his errors? A remarkable series of things. And every night uh before we kiss the kids good night and pray with them, uh I'd turn the light off and shine my flashlight on the walls. At the end is Leo, the lion. Let us pray. Different from the other animals. They cause us to stand back in awe at the immense distances, the sheer volume of stars, planets, and unknown galaxies. That was planned, you know. This lady is a virgin, it means to the young people that's an unmarried woman, but she's giving birth to a child. Then there comes Ares. And so they go on. Astrology has many in its grip, even today. That was a corruption of the primitive message of the heavens. And take us to a new adoration of the plan of salvation, we pray. But I say to you, there is no hope in that. And so the question became or becomes to anyone interested in astronomy. Well, let's take a few minutes and and look at some of these constellations. We're not to despise the words of preacher. In them he has set a tabernacle for the sun, which is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber. And that's what Psalm 19 is calling us to. But that does not bring us to the redeeming love of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the next is Pisces, which is Latin for fish. That this is a very primitive, early uh picture of design in the skies. Well, the stars, the sun and the moon, the planets all give glory to God if we will admit and follow it. Our destiny is to become more like him every day until we are in his likeness. Now those pictures, those objects in the heavens, sometimes of an animal or a person, they their meaning is fixed by God. And he says, can you, could you have arranged these constellations as like a belt? Position of the twelve constellations that make up the zodiac, the path, the way If you want to know where the Zodiac starts and where it ends, you go to ancient Egypt. Pardon? And Christ declares in Revelation that preachers are like his hands May I say to you lovingly, you have no excuse not to receive the gospel. The glory of God is supremely in the Lord Jesus Christ. Settled upon the same meaning of each of these twelve constellations. After her comes Libra. Those are good things. That's sagittarius. Thomas is our example, to think of ourselves as a twin to Christ and to walk and live like him. Are not perhaps interested or desirous of And there may be some who are convinced of evolutionary theories The only part of the of the doctorate that I uh am proud of That is an amazing fact when you study it. Now let me bring you up to date a little bit in how we got to where we are. Ancient believers saw in the heavens the story of God's redeeming love played out. Well, Libra had an uneven scale. But Daniel taught Zoroaster, Middle Eastern religious leader Thank you for unfolding to us in the scriptures the wonders of the zodiac. Well, I know that some perhaps in our assembly today He shall bruise bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Thank you. You know, for the children enmity means an anger, uh uh some kind of disagreement between people and enmity. Offers speech and utters speech to us. Then there is Sagittarius, which is the archer, man with the bow and arrow, pointed at the scorpion's head. Where were you, Job, when when I did that? It begins with the woman, Virgo, and it comes around to Leo the lion. Why aren't they swimming together? Now the way that Force. It is God's original revelation to us, even before his word is given to us. But now how is this glory to be known and found? God made two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. They are not randomly thrown into the heavens, those billions of stars. As if God, after introducing the reality of the devil, shows us that And they showed them to me. He's a picture of God's judgment, of Christ as the ruler, as the judge of the nations, as the judge of us all. And we had, you'll remember, uh one of the astronaut trips was called Gemini, because there were two in it. In the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, our Savior. Christ butts his enemies. Adolf Hitler was being guided by his own ideas of astrology. You came pretty close, fifty percent of the way. I'll put enmity between you and the woman and between your seed and her seed. And where does it end? I've never yet learned why it happened. And it's a joy to be part of this fellowship. And in his face the apostle said, the glory of God shines in the face of Jesus Christ. In Genesis one, God says He's fierce and forceful. And I believe the Holy Spirit led them to see that as for a foretaste of the gospel of Christ written in the heavens. Goats, as you'll remember, you're a well-taught church in the sacrificial system of the Old Testament. What was the head of the Sphinx? But they're deficient. The heavens are talking to you. Day and night you are being preached to from the heavens. So dear brother, come and welcome. Now they're not easy to interpret. Lord, anoint the words of your servant, lest they fall to the ground fruitless. Ares is uh a ram. It's a picture of the eternal Christ's hold on the believer. He's saying that he has a message for us in the heavens. She's uh an unmarried lady, a virgin. It's a virgin birth. It is the perseverance of the saints. Why? Well, it's saying to us there that God calls the believers in different directions. It is not the primitive meaning. And uh one day I was able to catch one. And there is the crab, sometimes called the cancer. I'm sure you've noticed that uh human beings walk erect. And even perhaps more remarkable is the fact that the different races and cultures of the ancient world all You've seen Leo, the defiant yet lovely conqueror, who has the victory in the end. We've been seeing these. He depicts the suffering of his son in figures of animals and people. Long before the scriptures were written, they began to see God's plan of salvation unfolding in the heavens. The lion with one stroke of his paw can break the skeleton of an ox. Now you studied the Sphinx in Egypt, in the temple of Asana. So we're not left with the question, where does this thing start and where does it end so we can figure out the story? The word of God. We know how the heavens give light and how they divide days and years and seasons, but do we know Job's the oldest book in the Bible, sometimes thought to be 2,000 years older. Two natures in one entity, one person, and that is uh Capricorn. A sign points to an object. That Arabic word means the price covers. Cleanse me from secret faults. Then I shall be blameless, and I shall be innocent of great transgression. Can you do anything about that? They are God's instruments. The heavens declare the glory of God. If you have a circle, I have this wedding ring, I'm not sure that it has a beginning, and I know it has no ending. No, no, no, no, no. A lady a lady's head. Are you able to cluster the Pleiades? So what am I saying to you? If you ever had any question about the reality of the devil, give that up. And we go forward to Taurus. They lived, some of them, almost a thousand years. And we have breathed it in. She has in one hand a branch But I say to you There are going to be believers who are energetic and yet they're going in two different directions. One side was heavy, the other side was light. And so we have this uh They're very active. Are you vital and fresh, energetic, swimming against the stream? He triumphs over them. You'll hear them say, Jimone. What? The crab has hold of us, and we are his forever. They cannot weigh up to the guilt of our sin and the penalty we must pay. The next one is the Scorpio. They saw in the drama of the story When I made that constellation in the heavens. It looks as if it's traveling around Earth. Libra's a picture in the heavens of a scale. You'd have to put a weight in one side and see uh if you had enough meat on the other side yet to make a pound. But it's not easy to look at the heavens and find, for example, uh any one of them. Filter out what is only of man I think the reason is that God wants us to look up and not down. What is Mazorov? But it points to it. Capricorn stands That's Satan insinuating his way into your trust in God. Earthly tongues are talking to you. Night unto night reveals knowledge. We're bound in deep love and destiny. Um, the Reverend Doctor Glenn Connect. But anyway There is no seed of man in it, but only the seed of the Holy Spirit. Don't let yourself be. Its rising is from one end of heaven, and its circuit to the other end. It has this tail with a venomous sting in it that can kill. You may be rejecting the plan of salvation itself. There is no excuse in that. And we read there, let there be light. The lion. You will see it as a many faceted, beautiful thing, and embrace it with new love and joy. Day unto day utters speech. Well, that instituted the whole cleansing process. The main star in Leo is Regulus. All this by the ministry of the Holy Spirit among us. May it never have an ending. Anybody remember? There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Skipper. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The stars were never given to guide us. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. Don't think about it. But uh Scorpio I put into my Bible here a diagram, but They don't they're not immediate. Astrology is an evil thing. They are angels in the church, he says. When they were going up the steps to bed, that little crack in the riser between the riser and the next And uh if I ever get a chance again to preach on Thomas, How is that to be understood? It's a Bible word. We are held by this mighty We're looking forward to your ministry. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. I wanted to show them it to my children so they'd be on the watch for it. So the goat is a picture of Christ's suffering. They're vital and strong. But my prayer is that we'll all have open minds It gets your attention, shows you what to think or what road to take The heavens declare the glory of God. Now how can that be? I'm I'm trying to say to you that there was this fixed That Christ's great victory over the devil That redeeming power is shown to us in some of the pictures. Of course not. And he's a picture of that Christ is not always going to be the meek and mild one. They weren't in the big hurry, we were. God wants us to study the heavens. On your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life Job is a thousand years before Homer Pardon? The pastor was very right. So there they're saying we have figured out the starting and stopping place. God says, I will send to you, in Zechariah, I'll send to you my servant, the branch. We may be living as if there is not one, but there is one. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. She's uh limp, relaxed. And so this is utterly, utterly foolish to you. You have opened your arms to us, welcomed us in an unusual and marvelous way. Uh Scientists have called this the ecliptic, that belt, that way. Think of the time they had to make of the creation in the heavens, and they did it. And we thank you for the life-giving power of it. These realities Zoroaster took back to Persia or Iran. Taurus is the bull charging It's really not, but that's the way it appears to us. It's in Genesis 3. So do not follow that theory. What excuse could you have before the great God, the great judge? God tells us clearly of his creative work. That's the drama that's played out in the heavens. You're allowed to give out an answer. Kids, you gotta watch for this and tell me right away, don't touch it, but come and tell me if you see one of these. And we are to have that confidence as we go forward. Day unto day. No, they weren't like that. Gemini Jimone. Anybody remember what the head of the Sphinx is? Aquarius is the water man. I know you'll be very careful about that. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. From ancient times In Hebrew it means the zodiac. Scorpion. That we have such a bond with him. And my prayer is that this gospel we treasure Glenn is a Reverend Doctor, but he doesn't make much of that. Thank you. A woman. Because astrology, which that really is It's not just what I happen to think it is. It takes study, it takes imagination, it takes a pencil to connect the dots. That's Aquarius. And that is this. We thank you that you have adorned the heavens. Let us all pray together. We have seen his glory, we've beheld his glory, his grace. Now this is a remarkable thing. Capricorn is a half-goat. A disaster. Our Heavenly Father But And here she is beginning the story of salvation. Are you able to loosen the belt of Orion? They studied this question. They're going back to that. Now Virgo is They had many years. That's a waste of time. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. I you get half credit for that. Who said that? Yeah. He is both Pisces, the fish. And we must listen to them. Or It's heavy enough to make the purchase Amen. Regulus means the Goats were often used as sacrifices. That's quite amazing. Well There must be a covering upon it. I hope you're doing that. Enoch What does it mean spiritually? This was an agreed upon set. Embrace the creative work of God. In Jesus' name. We see the And I found a little matchbox It is It's a very strong, ferocious What power there is. Heavenly Father. Find Virgo, which we'll discuss in a moment. Please be seated. Thank you. Amen. So you are responsible. You can see already the four gleams. Um Amen. Look up.