Then there's Israel's action to respond to what happened, and then Israel ends by losing the Ark. And let us with confidence that all that may be puzzling in life, that God Himself is at work for our good and his glory. And Israel suffering and becoming miserable and then crying out and God raising up someone to l deliver them. And when they learned that the ark of the Lord had come into the camp, the Philistines were afraid, for they said, A God has come into the camp. And they said, woe to us, for nothing like this has happened before. And when the man came into the city and told the news, the city cried out. Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes were set, so that he could not see. And there has also been a great defeat among the people. And that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed and gave birth, for her pains came upon her. uh to the front lines, they will be victorious. And so the ark pointed to the Lord, to the place of atonement, to the Lord who was present, who was ruling, who was speaking, who was the forgiving God. And so they send for the ark, and then there's this dark music that's playing, as the narrator mentions, who's carrying the ark. How we try to get him to rescue us, to solve a problem, to act in the way that we want. It could be change my ways or come to church or be more generous, whatever it is. God, you've just got to notice what I'm doing here. And so they have to turn out right. uh I'm a faithful employee or I'm running my business in a manner of integrity and therefore I should enjoy uh m success and material prosperity. But the thing you're supposed to see, and you you you'd have to kind of speed read the book in some ways and think about what's being said, is that what's happening is that the judges uh character and integrity. And it's really told masterfully. Even for the moment, it seems that in Philistines the Ark will be dishonored. The power of God that is stronger than the power of men is being revealed. to who you are and what you've said you will be and the promises you've made to us, Lord. that we might have hope. The Philistines drew up in line against Israel. These are the gods who struck the Egyptians with every sort of plague in the wilderness. And the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hothni and Phineas, died. the same day, with his clothes torn and with the dirt on his head. For the man was old and heavy, he had judged Israel forty years. And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory has departed from Israel, because the ark of God has been captured, and because her father-in-law and her husband And she said, The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured. the an idea is important uh to a people is how many words uh they have for it. Quandary, setback, reversal, upheaval, drama, trouble, dire straits, hard times, hardship, adversity, extremity, distress. But crisis can also be a place of great change, of deep learning, where new direction is gained, and where you encounter God. They s they start very small. Am I asking for myself, no, this is for God and uh for uh his kingdom and and for other people? but not actually to be it. Now, Israel's relationship with God seemed to be one thing, but in fact it was something else all together. And then there's those moments when there are just these very uh strange providences. What they did actually only served to deepen the crisis, and it exposed a very deep problem in them. And they were aggressively spansionistic. And so the Philistines attack, and Israel loses 4,000 men on the battlefield. Now the ark the word ark is just a box. Now, the arc it wasn't very big. Not cherubs, but cherubim. in there. The box was also the place where the blood of the atonement was sprinkled, and sometimes it was called the lid, the mercy seat. And you'll recall in the Battle of Jericho, it's the ark that's marched around the walls of Jericho. All of this is on their minds as they say, well, the way we'll turn things around is we'll bring the ark up to the front lines. Or how we might use them to try to avoid a problem. Sometimes people do it in kind of a blatant way when they bargain with God. We engage in a kind of a uh a spiritual lobby. um the what we're doing to try to address the ills of the nation. Now, Israel shouts just like they did when the walls of Jericho fell, but this has exactly the opposite effect on the Philistines as they expected it to. And God will allow you to be disappointed in him, to awaken you to the reality of who he actually is. of reaping and sowing. And the next morning, the young man told him that while on a business trip, he had stayed too late at the hotel bar uh with a woman colleague. And so to make the young man to think biblically about his situation, he posed some questions to him. uh forward and said, uh, Pastor, I came for grace. And the words cut the pastor to the heart. That would lead him to conclude that there were no consequences for his wrongdoing. The death of 34,000 people was the consequence of what was wrong in Israel's relationship with God. And so they turned to God in repentance. as a means of dealing with Israel's problem is increasingly ineffective. the last chapters from 17 to 21 that leaves us seeing exactly what happens when everyone does what's right in their own eyes. So the elders should have stopped and they should have begun repenting. A God who you know that you have betrayed, who has every right to be angry with you. And so how you think about God, how you conceive your relationship with Him, will drastically impact what actually happens. You see, if you believe that God is not harsh and condemning a perfectionist who can never be pleased, you'll come to him one way, you'll be soft. It's external, and they seek to uh bring about some change in their uh behavior versus turning to Christ Tells him that there's been a defeat, that his sons are dead, and the ark has been taken, and he falls over backwards and breaks his neck and dies. You know, she doesn't seem to care that she's giving birth to a child, even a son, for her eyes seem centered almost exclusively on the loss of the ark. And it seems that everything is lost. And Jesus, who is the true King, in whom the fullness of God dwells, hangs on a cross. A new covenant where the people of God are not only forgiven for their past, but are granted a heart and a mind that loves God's ways and is enabled to obey Him. And we all struggle in the midst of our suffering and sin to want to put the best face on it. We'd rather seem to be people of a certain sort than to actually be the people we are. Let us bring the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord here from Shiloh, that it may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies. So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of hosts, who's enthroned on the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were there with the Ark of the Covenant of God. All Israel gave a mighty shout so that the earth resounded. So the Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and they fled, every man to his home, and there was a very great slaughter, for there fell of Israel 30,000 foot soldiers I fled from the battle today. As soon as he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate, and his neck was broken, and he died. And about the time of her death, the women attending her said to her, Do not be afraid, for you have borne a son. as a time of intense difficulty, trouble, or danger. Cataclysm, Emergency, Disaster, Predicament, Plight, Mess, Dilemma Crisis can uh be experienced by us as a place of discouragement, defeat, uh uh uh even a sense that all is lost. And not all crises are these big moments that are filled with trauma. And then the 11th hour arrives, and still we see nothing. when we thought he would send blessing and comfort and peace and gain. This is Israel's story in our texts. How it faces this moment tells us a lot about not just them, but how we ourselves face a crisis. God does not answer. Israel's defeat was a crisis. They were materially more advanced than Israel. that we think about battles. It was the most important religious symbol that they had as a nation. Because they are not worshiping God, they're not seeking God, they're using God. And what takes place is a decisive defeat. The Lord will allow you to suffer shame rather than allow you to carry on a false relationship with him. rather than allow you to carry on a false relationship with it. And here's a corollary, another lesson. It's to Philistine in the hands of the Philistines. Now what should the elders have done? demands of the covenant. But if you believe that you are his child and he is a father who is good and gracious, and yes, we'll discipline you when you do wrong. He'll be humble, but if you think he's turned his back on you, you'll do something entirely different. And Eli's there watching at the gate, but Eli, remember, he's blind. And we're told that he's infirm and passive and incapacitated. But she has the presence of mind in her travail to name her son for the crisis that it is. Ralph Davis comments perceptively, on this day, it seems that the Lord, the God of Israel, has been dishonored. But in fact, he is beginning to protect his honor and restore it. The ark holds the covenant, the ten commandments, and Jesus in dying on the cross is inaugurating a new covenant The Ark was the place of atonement. And we are sinners who in our acts cause others to suffer. who became sin for us, the one who's become our righteousness. And what he's done for us in his living and his dying is rising again. And when the troops came to the camp, the elders of Israel said, Why has the Lord defeated us today before the Philistines? difficulty fix. It's the desire to seem and not to be. Notice the title. It's not entirely unlike the way the Ark is portrayed in Indiana Jones, the Raiders of the Lost Ark. that God will have to fight for them and he will defeat their enemies. And as the easy laughter and the alcohol and the evening wore on, the inevitable happened. Now what? Well the young man listened to each of these questions and he didn't show any response at all on his face. forsaking their sin, hating their sin, and growing in a love for God. Where where it really means where the glory. And there the glory of the giving of God, the God who redeems and rescues his people, is being revealed, though it seems hidden from people at the moment. But in fact, all of the Exodus and all of those events pointed forward to the one great redemption, the work of rescue that God was actually accomplishing through Jesus on the cross. No, uh the stories told masterfully in their three scenes. Why has the Lord defeated us? But the elders and the Philistines believe that battles are determined by God. And the Old Testament tells us that God was enthroned above the cherub. The Ten Commandments were written on these tablets. This program, we're doing this for God. The Philistines, as they hear the war a cry and acknowledge that a God has come to battle, they resolve to fight with all that's in them. But the very name by which they call it, the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, points to their covenantal obligations. They're really without excuse. Early on in that book, you'll see that Israel recognized their military failure was linked to the sin in their lives. But in that book, that book progressively goes through cycle after cycle of Israel falling into sin. Where they act on the basis of their wisdom and what they think is pragmatic instead of what's been revealed as God's principles. If you think that God is angry and wrathful towards you, that he's abandoned you, he doesn't care for you, that he's neglecting you, then you will come to him in one way. And the man brings the report, and there's an outcry. And the outcry is such that Eli asks, what's happened? At that very moment, Phinehas's wife who is expecting goes into early labor. And in another sense, she was wrong about this. Because the ark symbolizes the loss of their unique relationship with God. All of this points us to Jesus. The Ark was built in the wilderness, and the Ark played a role in leading the children of Israel through The counselor and author Larry Crabbe, I think, put his finger on it when he said, We follow God thinking he must give us the life we want. And if he doesn't, we are disappointed with him, and we conclude that Christianity doesn't work. God's box is taken. You see, their false expectations are allowed to fall completely apart. And if you haven't done that last step just yet, have you made arrangements to have a test to be sure that you won't bring some terrible disease home? Now repentance is at its core turning from myself and turning from my idols the things I think I absolutely have to have to make life worthwhile. It is not promising that I'll do better next time. And we see, first of all, in the last scene, that the word of God is fulfilled. The very symbol of God's power is lost in this day as the ark is carried away. And so we give you thanks, Father, and ask that all the folly that we have within us, trying to use you, manipulate you, are expectations that are false. The very tokens of the past are in the art. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. The elders believe as they bring the ark up, the very power of God is going to come up to the battlefield. To seem rather than to be. He thinks that's a terrible thing to get this pattern of deception started in this man's life. Had you confessed your sin to the young woman and told her it will never happen again? It it's not like buying something at the store or fill in your gas tank up. God's glory has departed from Israel. You see, Jesus is the fulfillment. because we are sufferers in a fallen world who respond to our suffering with sin. There was no image of God there, but God was present uh there. I think, you know, in his mind he's thinking about all the consequences for his marriage and the children, and he says, just cover it up. But just consider how it's told. Gracious Heavenly Father, fill our hearts and minds, the theater of our hearts and minds, with the glory of Christ. And there's one thing that almost always guarantees that a crisis will develop. Nephilistines are on the move. The Philistines believe the nation with the strongest God will win. What happens over here is people uh begin to say, oh I'm gonna be I'm gonna do the right thing next time. Now, you may be troubled by this passage at a number of levels. And if you stop and think about this, we're kind of prone to this ourselves. Phineas and Elias, excuse me, Hophney and Phineas, Eli's wicked sons. Every time it was lifted up, Moses would say, Arise, O Lord, and let your enemies be scattered. Now the second scene is Israel's solution to its crisis. God desires that we live lives of conf repentance and faith. We all are in a low intensity spiritual crisis every day asked the man. So let's turn uh to 1 Samuel chapter 4 and receive encouragement and have hope awakened in us. To seem and not to be. Paul says, Whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction and through endurance and through the encouragement of scriptures. First Samuel chapter four. They're almost imperceptible. And so the last judge is Samson. And it wasn't because he thought he'd said the wrong thing to this man. Israel is stunned by what happens next. Just remember, I keep saying this every week. It was a box four by three by three feet. Or we have a pressing need. That's the first four verses. And he said, How did it go, my son? You have to cause them uh to turn out right. In fact, the book of Samuel is like the story of Joseph, the most masterfully extended told story in all of Scripture. And the pastor took a deep breath, and for a moment he thought, just don't tell your wife about it He must come uh and bless this or our efforts to reach uh the community should be uh met with effectiveness or To maintain an image, to create a self for others, to project to others what you want them to think about you. So a man runs from the battlefield to Shiloh, his clothes are torn, his dust on his head, he's uh showing all the visible signs of mourning. Well, they should have taken stock of their relationship with God. Now there was a young man who called his pastor late one night and asked if he could get together with him, and they set up an appointment for breakfast in the morning. He foreshadowed everything that the ark represented. Now the Philistines are people that came originally from Crete, and And when they repented, they experienced military victory. We think battles are won or lost by military strategy, superior numbers, and better weapons. Your two sons also, Hophni and Phineas, are dead, and the ark of God has been captured. And the cross, which in Mark is in fact Jesus' throne, is the place of atonement. It points us to Good Friday. They wanted more land to live on, just as Israel did. They call it the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of Hosts. If they had considered those covenant obligations, they would have recognized that their relationship with God was not what it should be. Now the Philistines attack and Israel suffers a battlefield defeat, and this is a crisis for the nation. These uh were fierce creatures who actually uh were known throughout the ancient Near East associated with the throne of kings. It's just unimaginable that God would allow that to happen There is a jar of manna and Moses' staff, all pointing to the moment of the Exodus where God rescues them. Take uh, for example, unanswered prayer. This was the very heart of the covenant, and it explained how it is that a redeemed people should live in a relationship with the Holy God. Absolutely God has to act. Now it's a good question, and it's really foreign to the way Now there's a couple of lessons here for us as well They say, God, if you'll step in here, I'll blank. They should have asked for God to reveal what was wrong. Now Israel went out to battle against the Philistines. But in fact, God is acting in those very moments to do what would seem so strange to us. Crisis comes to everybody and we need a well, we need a lot of words to try to describe it. They knew how to forge iron. Where is the glory? Now, why would they think such a thing? You see, the loss of the ark is the lowest point in Israel's history since their enslavement in Egypt. That's what ark means. God will allow you to be disappointed with him if it will awaken you to the sort of God he really is. To, you know, well, to purchase some kind of spiritual insurance policy. 30,000 more Israelites die on the battlefield. When he arrived, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road, watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And we ask, we seek, we knock, and the tenth hour comes, and still there's no answer. When Eli heard the sound of the outcry, he said, What is this uproar? And let me say that again. That was Israel's problem. You know, and it might be with our spiritual disciplines, it might be giving ourselves uh to prayer or fasting or or doing good works, uh thinking. And when the battle spread, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about 4,000 men on the field of battle. And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, What does this great shouting in the camp of the Hebrews mean? Woe to us, who can deliver us from the power of these mighty gods? The very last word of the report is about the ark of God. There's Israel's initial defeat The narrator right at the very top mentions Samuel, and then Samuel's gone. Now, in one sense she was right. You disappoint me, Pastor. We forsake them. We'll see in the next couple of weeks. He who brought the news answered and said, Israel has fled before the Philistines. And in the box were stone tablets. Parents do this with our children. The background for this story is the period of the judges. As a result, we are made more than conquerors. And it's 11. The way God responds uh to us just seems well just seems wrong to us. That's a good place to pause and reflect on what they're doing here And now his daughter in law, the wife of Phineas, was pregnant, about to give birth. The dictionary defines crisis And so the elders decide to bring the ark. To repent means to turn toward a God who you know you've offended It's the desire to seem to be something You might be troubled that 34,000 people die. He's fearful for the ark In fact, some of the most difficult crises kind of sneak up on you. And after that, uh we see Israel who's no longer repentant and uh And the man comes over and tells him. But in the weakness of Christ No, it was that he wondered what he'd said in the years that this man had been under his ministry. Take courage and be men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews as they've been to you. And then she finishes, rounds it off with the glory has departed from Israel. We are suffering sinners and sinning sufferers. Or we expect God to bless whatever we're doing. But I want you to hear this, because repentance is not transactional. You see, Israel is using the ark like a magic weapon. And beneath the definition are these synonyms, calamity. Because on Good Friday, the Lord's Messiah is dishonored and degraded And the elders think that if God's ark God's box is brought up The Ark is gone. And now he's ascended on the heavens. Please take your seats. It wasn't a very large box. Let's not be afraid of recognizing that we are still sinners, but we've been declared righteous. And the man said to Eli, I am he who has come from the battle. And one of the ways you can tell It was the symbol of their relationship with God. The ark comes up into the Israelite camp. 30, 11. They had chariots. And when the troops come back, the elders gather together and ask, They probably should have asked Samuel to come, but they didn't do any of those things. Have you confessed your sin to your wife and asked her forgiveness? He said, had you come to God and asked for forgiveness? No, it's relational. The evil sons of Eli will no longer dishonor the name of God. They see the ark as a weapon that they can use uh at their own discretion for uh their own military ends. When the pastor was done, he pushed his plate And she names her son Ichabod. That language, Lord of Hosts, speaks of God as a warrior. And for them, the ark is a weapon The Lord will allow you to suffer shame The judges are increasingly people that lack They should have asked God to reveal to them where they actually weren't living out the God actually inhabited the empty space. God does what they couldn't imagine he would do. Well, because of what the ark is, what it represents. He is the seer of Israel. And it leaves their future as his people in question As soon as the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came into the camp, A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh. You are enough for us. We want to seem like we're something we're not. But then The word of judgment against Eli's household. The ark represented God's presence, the footstool of his throne. We uh set our hearts to asking for God to act, and and we do a heart check, you know. It's the source of power. Or we pressure God. And because they acted out of that, it brought a crisis for them. They encamped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped at Aphakh. But she did not answer or pay attention Just think about how it is that we approach God in a crisis. And yet It had a lid on it and had two cherubim. Just fill in the blank with whatever you like. And when Israel shouts, they fall down. They ended up as you would expect in bed together. That's not true. And so let's turn to the one. So they possessed superior military technology. We thank you that he's ruling and reigning in us. 50, 11. We think, God, I have done everything right with my kids. Let those who hate you flee. We think, well The very last thing is told at the end. But there's another reason why they are also thinking about the Ark, and that has to do with its history. And they think they're committing God to battle. And then the man hurried and came and told Eli. 59. He can't function. That means glory. We pray this in Christ's name Please pray with me. Midnight comes, and there's still no answer. Uh God sends trouble, hardship, conflict, and loss. Actually, we won't see Samuel till chapter 7. That's how you win. And when she heard the news that the ark of God was captured, Or churches think, well But there's a spiritual principle here. He lets his fox be exiled. It's the mercy seat. If you would, would you stand for the reading of God's word? He's not functioning as he should. And His wife was expecting. Israel Then you'll respond in a different way. You just get disoriented. Be men and fight. God has not acted.