It's a pleasure to be here again. And this is our our third and and last series on Psalm nineteen. Let's come before the Lord in prayer. Father, we are so delighted to come as your children and be refreshed by your word and your spirit. Most of the time, Lord, we're famished because we need to be fed the solid food of your word. And we need the aroma of your spirit giving delight to our lives, even though we are in circumstances in many cases that Are not really delightful in the eyes of the world, but in your strength, we know in whom our foundation and our forgiveness And our steadfastness and our eternal life is grounded and given. Lord, be with these words as we And review what you have given us. You've spoken these words, Lord, through the pen and through the through the written word, but also through your Son. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this is the third and last of a series on Psalm 19. It it started out. The original intent was to have a series of three. Our first look was to look at creation and the whole of the Psalm. Because the creation declares the existence of God, he says, I am, through the creation. But Sometimes we ignore the creation, and there's a specificity in the Word of God that He communicates with us that's far and beyond what the creation will Give us. I'm not sure that you can really find the the Trinity in the creation. I'm really not sure that uh you can find uh other attributes of God such as forgiveness and love through. the foundation, but the the heavens declare the glory of God, and he says, I am. But we've turned our back on that. But we looked at three verses, seven, eight, and nine. of Psalm 19, specifically with regard to the gifts of God having purpose and power. So we're going to turn tonight to verse 9, which is the third pair of verses. Third pair of gifts, and we're going to examine the purpose and power in verse nine. Which really amounts to the fear and honor and respect of his judgments. Even though we're all guilty, forgiveness is possible. And forgiveness is accomplished only in Jesus Christ as we bear his reputation. We too must forgive. So, as we begin, let's stand and read the three verses, seven, eight, and nine again, in honor of God's word. Let's begin with verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. Amen. For God's word may be seated. So we're going to focus on verse nine, but there may be some alliterations back and forth, so I asked for all three to be uh projected there. So the two gifts, if you underline in verse 9, underline fear and judgment. It says, of the Lord. So anything of the Lord that we have access to is really a gift of the Lord. So the two gifts that we're going to look at tonight are fear or respect and judgments. As we spoke last week, whenever you give someone a gift, the gift has a purpose. And the purpose of the gift of having an honor of God, the fear of God, the respect of God. is to know that this endures forever. That's the purpose. In our current life Everything wears out. I'm wearing out. My coat wears out. My shoes wear out. Uh all sorts of things wear out. But With the honor of the Lord is endures forever. And forever Forever is not just a long time. Forever is not just a long time. Because God is not constrained by time. Because if God were constrained by time, He wouldn't be God. So therefore, God created time, so therefore, God is beyond time. And I think the idea of forever is really important. in terms of its purpose. And we're going to look at clean in a minute. The fear of the Lord is clean. Clean is the power. The power is in his cleanliness. The next gift is the judgment. And the judgments of the Lord, they're righteous. The purpose is for us to know That they're righteous judgments. That means they're right. How many of you have heard someone say, don't be judgmental? Yeah, that's all over the place. But God's judgment is always true. So the power in his judgments is that they're true. Absolutely true. There's no change in God's judgments. They're always true. So we've looked at in this verse two gifts, and each has a purpose And there's power in each one. So let's dive in a little further. Before we start out, we said the law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul, and we asked, what is the help of my soul right now? And after God restores me to love and love Him and to hear Him and to know Him, how can I understand that change in my life? So I can't understand the change in my own strength. So what I have to do, the next verse says, the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise a simple subject. So we have a wisdom. The Holy Spirit gives us wisdom through the testimony of the Lord, hearing who he is, telling us who he is, loving us, showing his love for us, and that may helps us understand what this new life is all about. And then in verse 8, we kind of come to this and we say, hey, I think I understand that. But that's huge. I mean there's a lot of things going on in and when you talk about a new life and you talk about knowledge of of God, uh you you kind of hunker down a little bit and say, what's really going on here? So the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. So our joy comes from the Lord because we know that his his precepts are completely adequate for everything. So we get joy. So Then we have say, okay, well now that I've got joy, I'm joy sometimes, I'm joyful sometimes, but I'm not joyful all the time If you drive on the beltway, there are times when you're not I'm not joyful. Now I don't know, maybe you've overcome that, but I'm still working on it. There are other things, illnesses, sicknesses, all sorts of what I'll call interruptions in my life. It's hard to find joy in that But as I've told Louise, my wife, it's it's I'm learning slowly to deal with interruptions. But it's the interruptions to the interruptions. They're giving me a problem. And then you get interruptions to the interruptions, to the interrupted interruptions. And it's hard to find joy. I don't know, maybe you guys don't have that problem. But God in his precepts covers all of that And it's hard to recognize that. So the commandment of the Lord is pure enlightening the eyes, so we need spiritual eyesight to see beyond what is we can touch, taste, and feel. So we need spiritual eyesight to understand what his principles are that are really at work. Changing me and Maybe by God's grace in the way I react, changing someone else through the work of the Spirit in both me and the other person. So God's purpose is for us to see his heart. We want spiritual eyesight. And then we come to the point of how can I identify my inner motives? in going through all of this. What wh how do I really feel about myself? Because it's so easy to get in caught up into situations I don't know about you guys, but it it it is for me. I mean situations change, it's dynamic. So in in light of change we need something that's a rock. That's a hint. And Jesus is our rock. So we can trust him all the time. So whatever the situation is, even if it's an interruption to an interrupted interruption, to what I really think I want to do. The solid part in all of that is the fact that I can trust in Christ. He's not surprised. He knows what's going on in my life, and your life, and all of the lives of the folks that are around us. So we come again to verse 9. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. So one way of looking at this, I've written down here that the God's gift is an eternal reverence for him in your life. It's another way of saying that, the fair little God's gift is an eternal reverence for Him in your life. This may sound a little strange to some of us, but Can we say it this way? God holds himself in highest esteem. He has to. He's God. Jesus said he did only what the fathers told him And Jesus, when he returned to heaven, why'd he do that? Well he did it for a lot of reasons, but one thing he said is He said it's necessary that I return to the Father, that the Father and I can send you the Holy Spirit, the helper. Hmm. Your helper and mine has been sent on purpose. It wasn't an accident. So in in in this sense Jesus himself is here with us now and and we talk about it that way, but but sometimes it's easy to talk about something without understanding it Let's try to understand it. Because in the person of the Holy Spirit, Christ and the Father sent the Holy Spirit to us. Here, now. And I think that in that sense Christ is with us through the Holy Spirit And as we're looking at what's going on around us and all the confusion that often exists, that gives us a stability of understanding that cannot be achieved any other way. And we know that God says he's no respecter of persons, there's no preferential treatment for anybody. We know that he tells us all that sinned and comes short of the glory of God. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. That's both convicting. And it's also comforting. You thought about it. It's both convicting and comforting because Christ satisfies both sides of that. It's convicting because everyone is included. That's why it's convicting. It says everyone is included, myself. Human effort becomes worthless. There's no one who's above anybody else. Uh now I don't know, but if we're all in the same boat together, then everybody's included. Um and and when I know my effort rowing the boat isn't any better than anybody else's effort rowing the boat, then why should I need it's worthless for me to try in my own strength. So the only one that is above everyone is the Son of God Himself. We're all in the same boat, but the Son of God is above everyone Else and the Father sees what does the father see for you? The father sees my sin, the father sees your sin, or does he? Does the father see your sin? I think we understand it that the father does not see my sin. The father does not see your sin, but he sees the righteousness of Christ. in our place. And that deals with forgiveness. So this respect is is Essential to really understand that that's a forever parameter. God is eternally true There's no change in him. So our acceptance of Christ will endure forever. And that means his mercy endures forever. And his mercies are sufficient for life and godliness, standing before Holy God, and they cover our sin. And we're seen before the Father as Christ presents us. Now it says there's power and clean. But the interesting thing here, what do you think of when you think of clean biblically? Uh you couldn't offer unclean animals as a sacrifice. As a matter of fact, you couldn't offer Even clean animals, if they had a blemish. So we're talking about the power here is clean. Jesus was the perfect sacrifice. So think of clean here as the perfect sacrifices in Hebrew said, I offered once for all. is Christ. And that's that's huge. He's completely acceptable. And he's com he's not just acceptable, as it said, You know, the the priest kept going, you know, every uh every once in a while and the high priest would go once a year and they did it over and over and over and over again. But Jesus is our high priest, and he died once for all. So, and once for all, go back to this enduring forever. There's no time limit on what he did. In my mind, I'm constrained to think of time. So he alone is worthy of total trust in our life. In Romans, Paul writes, I urge you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. So, this idea that not only was Christ's body the perfect, pure, clean sacrifice before God, But we're told, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God. Your sacrifice, your body, my body, is a sacrifice. That's an amazing challenge. But it's not amazing simply because it's amazing. It's amazing because God's Word says it's possible. So we need to ask ourselves: is God relevant to everything in my life? If if you see how that works together. Is God relevant to everything in my life? Well, an eternal perspective to re is is to reveals his continuing judgments. In other words, is he relevant? Well wait a minute. Every single day there are judgments that affect me, and I can ask God to forgive me. The judgments of the Lord are true. The second half of verse 9. The judgments of the Lord are true. They're righteous altogether. So God's purpose is for you and me to rely on Christ. The judgments of the Lord are true. Hmm. God has no hidden motives. He's very clear about what his judgments are. The gift, you see, are the judgments. And the penalty is clear, the penalty is simple, the penalty is easy to understand. And the penalty is altogether righteous because God is right. So when he says, guilty, we're guilty. Now let's look at the power of that. The judgments of the Lord are true. True has power. We can believe and fully trust in God's commandments. And if we believe in God's commandment And we believe in his judgments, then we then reflect the image of Christ. And we're warned not to be a false witness. Now, how do you put all that? How do you put all that together? I really meant the third commandment, not the eighth. The third commandment warns us don't be conformed to the uh don't take the name of the Lord in vain. And I don't know if I mentioned that before, but if the don't take the name of the Lord in vain. Eighty percent of what you find in the exegesis of the third commandment is about in the name of God. Which reflect his attributes, Jehovah Jireh, and so forth and so on. And that's wonderful. And about another 20%, it deals with the vow. And an oath. In other words, don't take the normal name of the Lord in vain. But when you walk around in the word take, and I've tried to do this, I'm not a Hebrewist, but What I've learned is that to take means to hold something that's special, maybe even to hold it high. Like a banner. So what the third commandment is warning us about is carrying this banner that says, I'm a Christian, and then living a frivolous lifestyle. And as you go through the scripture in the Old Testament and the New Testament, you find time and time and time again, the word says They have blasphemed my name because of what you did. Go through Kings, Chronicles, Judges, all over the place. New Testament, over and over again. What you did caused the pagans to blaspheme my name. So what that is saying is that God's reputation was trashed by the way his people were living. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So when we carry this banner that says, I'm a Christian in our daily life, that's a good thing And when people see us, they're going to see the reputation of God in the way we speak truth In the way we're honest, in the way we're even polite. Uh at at the store I've I've I've a number of times somebody's given me the wrong change and I've given them the change back. Or at a restaurant they uh forgot to uh uh uh include an item and I said, hey, you forgot to include the item You see, the way we live is what causes people to say, give me a reason for the hope that's within you You don't have to preach. You don't have to give the gospel presentation. But just by our normal life and the way we live. What we're doing is saying, I want to obey God's commandments. John advises us, he says, this is the love of God, that we obey his commandments. and they are not burdensome. So the issue is not that we obey. I mean you hunker down. You've heard of the white knuckle Christian. You hold on. And you're going to do it in your own strength. Christian moralism and all sorts of things are wrongly occur when you do that. D. A. Carson's quote says, we are lost when human opinion means more to us than God's opinion. That's a terrible indictment. So anyway, the the judgment, uh our judgment The judgment of God in our sin was rendered to Christ, and He died to satisfy the wrath of God. Yet, since Christ had no sin, he took the sin of those the Father gave him, yours and mine. And suffered death for us. He just doesn't suffer death, he overcame death. So the righteous judgment of God is written. For each one who believes in him, not guilty. That's the only thing you want to hear when you go before a court. The judge says, it was an accident, not guilty. But we know we're guilty. But in Christ we are not guilty. Because God welcomes us to come to Him with our guilt and to confess and repent. There's now therefore no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Romans 8. 1 is one of my it's an anchor verse. Because God what he's saying is, I know like you're going to screw up Now, come on, come home, confess, and I want you to be at one with me. Our relationship is more important than what you did. Come and confess and repent. You see, we are forgiven. And at this point, I'd like to inject something here. The forgiveness is the heart of the gospel. And if you begin to look as you go through Romans, uh as you go through at this the whole Bible, what you find is that the the the foundation, the the the Not just the foundation, but the footers under the foundation is the forgiveness of God. That's the good news. And I'd like to give you an illustration just for that purpose. The gospel is forged on the anvil of forgiveness. Write that down. The gospel is forged on the anvil of forgiveness. How many of you know what an anvil is? Some of the young ones. May or may not. The anvil is a big piece of metal and it has a shape on one end that's square and sort of a round shape and cone on the other side. And and an anvil is big, it's heavy. And it's used to shape metal. But in order to shape the metal, what do you have to do with the metal? You have to get it hot, usually red hot. And he put it there with a pair of tongs and he beat on it. And you say, well. Well that's that's that's a little way it looks like we're we're getting there. Put it back in the heat again, red hot again, put it back on the anvil Oh, that's getting better. Well, that's getting closer. So the the the the Smith that's designed this has in his mind what the finished product's going to be Could be a s uh I saw a video of someone making a beautiful brooch, ladies brooch pen. Yeah, it was delicate. It was just fantastic. But it started out as a hunk of just plain old metal and it was shaped. It got hot and it was shaped and it was trimmed. And stronger metal, you actually have to get hotter and you have to beat more. And it's the Smith that understands what that's supposed to look at, look like at the beginning. Has that in mind? And God knows exactly what we are to be as He is conforming us to the image of Christ. So this anvil, preparation. Is to me a wonderful story, illustration that that all of the pounding blows that shape my red hot sin of rebellion. God understands what he's doing. And what seems to be affliction is really him shaping me. And like this anvil, it's Christ that's taken these blows on the cross for me. He's taken these blows on the cross for you. So Christ bore all of our sin, our imperfections. Christ was afflicted. Every single sin of not just you, not just me, not just up to our current age, but for until he calls us home and for all eternity. Every single person who God calls to Himself, Christ has taken those blows and forgiveness. Every blow is a for is is illustrating to me the forgiveness of Christ. So I have to ask Christ sometime. And I asked you to think about this. What am I supposed to be as your finished product? You look at at the look at the smithy and you say, I'm on the anvil, Lord. This doesn't feel good. It hurts. What am I supposed to look like when you're finished with me? And the answer is the image of Christ. He's conforming us to the image of Christ. Hmm. Now, once we think about a little bit of this, if we are being conformed to the image of Christ through this mechanism of forgiving us, Slowly, poundingly from our own rebellion. If we're being conformed to the image of Christ, then I have to ask myself, what kind of an anvil am I? Ask yourself that. If Christ is an anvil that took every pounding bit of pain to forgive us, to forgive you, kind of a an anvil and I. This is a huge thing to consider for me. To be like Christ, you and I have to say take the same kind of pounding that Jesus took for us. And we're not God. And I want you to consider that in too much death. But forgiveness is painful. Forgiveness hurts. We have to absorb the blows of forgiving someone. When we forgive someone, it's like sustaining heat. But we have to remain steady. We have to, above all, stand. the scripture says. Stand above all, stand was Paul's prayer. And this is just impossible for me. To forgive someone. And it's very difficult, almost impossible for me to f ask others to forgive me, much less forgive them. I don't know, maybe it's easy for you, but it's it's not easy for me. Yet like Christ, who is obedient to the Father, we need to be obedient also. And and we can't do this. We can't forgive easily or at all. And we can't ask others to forgive us without the helper, the Holy Spirit, enabling us to do what we cannot do. And that's forgive. Lord help me forgive this person. Lord help me understand as I forgive this person, how are you conforming me to the image of Christ, and I know it hurts me, and I don't like it. They're not even thanking me. They're not even glad. They're not even happy. I may have to do it three times. They're probably going to do it again. What'd Christ do? He said 70 times 7. So I really believe that the gospel is forged on the anvil of forgiveness. All of the pain and but the final joy. So as we go through life, if we consider ourselves Being called of God, where he's saying, I am conforming you to the image of Christ, we should look beyond the pounding and see the beauty. We should look beyond the pain. And and have the confidence that God knows what He's doing. He's not surprised Because we can hear him in the prayers that we had earlier, where we're lifting up people in all sorts of situations. They're prayers of praise, prayers of thanksgiving, prayers of supplication. And in my way of thinking, He is hearing us. And we can hear him assure us, because his grace and his mercy are ours. And that's just that's very comforting. It's convicting, I said, and it's also comforting. So now is the time to evaluate life. Every moment actually is a time to evaluate life our life? Are we relying on our own works or on the accomplished perfection of Christ? And we look at at what is good and we say, am I successful in being good? And and there's nothing wrong with asking that. Go read Joseph, the Trials of Joseph. He had a lot of afflictions, but he had a goal. He had a mission. He had a vision. That he was God's man. Man, I've understood all the details. Your life and mine are not about being good or being successful with regard to the standards of the world. The demo may put, we may pull off the demo. We may get a raise. We may actually have a job. But our life is really about bringing glory to God in every single situation. This can only be accomplished because of the perfection of Christ. So again, I pray that we will seek together these following things. Is the health of my soul right now in Christ? Is the level of my wisdom today in Christ? Does my joy depend on my situation or in Christ? Are my inner motives in Christ? Is Jesus Christ relevant to everything in my life And is my definition of success based only on my forgiveness in Christ? Again, our judgment in Christ is not guilty. And God welcomes us into his presence at any time. We are forgiven members of the family of God. We demonstrate the reputation of God by the way we forgive others. I had to ask myself again, kind of an anvil am I? And I ask you to ask yourself that. What kind of an anvil am I? And Christ will enable you, and he will enable me to be an amazing anvil of forgiveness. when we turn that over to Him. And we'll close again with verse 14. Let the words of my mouth And the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. And that's really a prayer. And again, it's it's not a prayer about God, but it's a prayer of our relationship with God. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart. And I hope that we've been able to meditate. A bit on his word in Psalm 19 and these three times together that this will really be acceptable in the sight of God. And we only know that it's acceptable when we claim God as our rock and our redeemer. He wants our relationship with us. And we need to offer that to those around us by the way we live our life. Let's pray. O Most Gracious Heavenly Father, we again have turned to your word. We've heard your word. We understand your word. At least a glimpse that your Holy Spirit allows us to understand as it applies. Who you are to our lives. Lord, I pray that this family, this body of Christ here in this location um would really be gripped with an understanding of who you are as they represent you As we each represent you in our daily walk and our family and our community and those we work with, and we can rejoice in the fact that you have already proclaimed that it is Finished. We are forgiven. In Jesus' name, amen.