We continue then in this third session, a little review. Scripture teaches the surprising proposition that conflicts are means of grace. It would be, however, be easy to have too much of this good thing and to become overwhelmed. And thus we continued our study of the place of conflict in the Christian life by considering the wonderful preemptive strike. that the gift of a gracious disposition is that is ours in Christ, that means that most conflicts that might take place in other contexts don't among believers. Because they have this wonderful calling that we are to forbear with one another in love. And we urge that it was crucial to this calling to understand who we are in Christ. As Paul puts it in Colossians, chosen, holy, and beloved. It's from that place of being that then we go out into becoming. We become more of what we are in Christ. And so we hear the call of our Savior to forbearance, and we come to learn that we have been granted all that's necessary to fulfill that call. That divine love gives us the glorious ability to overlook an offense, a magnanimous heart. It is the glory of believers to overlook an offense God doesn't intervene in all the circumstances of our lives, and neither should we in the lives of others. He is patient that we might come to repentance. And this shows us that all discipline, properly in the Christian church, believes with self-discipline, not with other discipline In congregations where other discipline is the chief cause for conformity to the ways of Christ, it is not a mature congregation. Discipline in the Christian church begins with the preaching of the word. We're all under discipline in that sense, under the tutelage, the discipling of Christian. And the reception of that word belongs to each one individually, as his conscience is convicted that this is what Christ calls him to, and he begins to order his own life in that fashion. It is only in a responsive manner that the discipline of others is brought to bear on the life of others. for the church. And that's when there's real health, there's real maturity, because self-discipline is the foundation of the behavior of God's people. And others are merely a help to maintaining that self-discipline. All discipline in the church begins with self-discipline. We hear the word, our heart responds in love, and then we order our lives according to that word. Thus Paul exhorted Timothy in 4. 7 of the first epistle. Train yourself for godliness. The word that Paul uses is the Greek word that gives us the English gymnasium. He wants Timothy to go to the gym for godliness. Uh the uh in the workout craze that we're uh experiencing right now in American culture The uh just think of what it would be if we had the same number of gym uh workout places that we have around the uh communities uh for gyms of godliness. It would be a remarkable change in uh what we're about in the world. Um Paul spoke of this as his own uh manner, one Corinthians nine twenty seven. I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest having preached to others I myself should be disappointed. But there's more to understand here. If our faithfulness to the Lord is to be complete, we need to return to this Colossian passage that we've been looking at and consider the words again. Put on then, as God chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. Bearing with one another, and if anyone has a complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you must also forgive. And above all of these, put on love, which binds everything in perfect harmony We should look particularly at verse 13. Bearing with one another, and if anyone has a complaint against another, forgiving one another. If anyone, anyone among the brethren, has a complaint, a complaint concerning their behavior in some way in some way. Against another. We're to forgive one another as the Lord has forgiven. But Paul here is kind of compressing the whole process We're clued into that by the phrase, forgive us, the Lord is forgiven. Because when the Lord has a complaint against us, And wants us to come to terms with it, he has to identify that in our lives. And that's what he does by his word. Through the power of the Spirit, we're brought to conviction of sin. We come to understand where we've erred. And by his grace, we repent of that, and repenting of it, we ask for his forgiveness and find his forgiveness. That's the pattern that adheres Between we and God. And that's precisely the same pattern that adheres between us and other people. We have divine love. We're to put on love to this end. Love that leads us to forgive as the Lord has forgiven. But as I say, here Paul is moving beyond forbearance. Raising the issue issue, he goes directly to the outcome, forgiveness, without mentioning what would have been well known as the means. To that end, as taught by the Lord. For Jesus taught his disciples in Matthew 18: if your brother sins against you, go to him and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. And if he listens to you. You have gained your brother. The patience that is willing to overlook a fault in hope that it might become the occasion for repentance, is now superseded by the calling to go for the same purpose, to go to try and now show the fault so that the person will come to repentance. And so we conclude there comes a time when forbearance with an offending believer must end. And we must heed the call of Christ to go to our brother, to show him his fault, to seek his repentance. and then to grant him forgiveness and be reconciled. This too I want us to think about together in two parts. What is the time and how do we go and show? What is the time and how do we go and show? For the last session together, tomorrow morning on the Lord's Day, we'll look at the nature and necessity of forgiveness. So there comes a time when forbearance with an offending believer must end. And we want to ask ourselves, what is that time, generally speaking? And the answer, uh, Ken Sandy has wonderfully set before us in a series of propositions, uh little diagnostic questions that I think are quite helpful, scripturally grounded, and full of common sense. The first that he points out is this, that when the behavior is seriously dishonoring to God, when the behavior is seriously dishonoring to God, It's a violation of God's ways in outward behavior that becomes publicly manifest and as such becomes dishonorable to the cause of Christ and the Christian community. It's not something just displeasing to me. Not a matter of human weakness or immaturity. Not an irritation or a somehow a reflection of habits of background, family, or culture that are different than my own. These things are covered by our love for one another. Leads us to forbear. Loving for w loving one another fervently, we offer the judgment of charity, not taking into account the wrongs suffered, but bearing all things, as Paul speaks of love in 1 Corinthians. 13. 5. A precious phrase. Offering the judgment of charity, not taking account of wrongs suffered, but bearing all things. In this case, the sinner is caught in some behavior and of need in need of being restored. This is the language of Paul in Galatians 6:1. He's in a devilish snare. As Paul puts it in 2 Timothy 2, 25 and 26. The sin is not only dishonoring to God, But it's a sin, the idea of caught means to be caught up in or wallowing in. It's unrepentant sin. It's not a sin that the person is in an ongoing struggle with respect to. Seeing that struggle, we're help, glad to be a help. We're especially glad to forbear while the struggle's taking place. That's the point of the repentance, the patience that it might be lead to full repentance. But here a person is wallowing in sin, and this is the place of our warfare against sin. And he's put up the white flag. He'll surely be wounded seriously. It's our Lord's purpose that in most cases we come to conviction, repentance, and restoration. Through the work of the Word, through the Holy Spirit, in the context of personal spiritual disciplines. That's the way our Lord works for the most part. But when a brother or sister begins to pursue a deliberate pattern of disobedience to Christ, such a way of life provokes a crisis in the community. No Christian is perfect. In fact, as John points out in 1 John 1. 10, if we say we have not sinned, the truth is not in us. Yet serious, unrepentant, wallowing, surrendering to sin is incompatible with the Christian's calling Christ has said that a good tree bears good fruit. Invariably, every serious sin in the community must lead to one of two ends. Either repentance and forgiveness or hardening in death. That's the solemn truth of the matter Every serious sin in the Christian community must lead to one or two of two ends, either repentance and forgiveness, or hardening and death. Every sin is a challenge to the reality of our profession of faith. And the outcome either proves faith's true character or it demonstrates its hypocrisy. It's only an appearance. True faith, of course, can never be overcome. It can never be hardened in death. to death. But there is apparent faith. There is faith that is only professed. The faith of those who did great things for the cause of Christ, but who on the last day will hear from him, depart from me, I never knew you. And the great need is that persons who are in that condition, they must discover it now, not on the last day. There'll be no recourse then. So, when it's a serious sin, a violation of God's ways in the world, wherein we've just surrendered the fight, it's visible plainly in the community and it must be corrected. Two, when the behavior may bring serious harm to themselves or to others. Here the wisdom of the wise man in Proverbs 24. 11 can be brought to bear. Rescue those who are being taken away to death. Hold back those who are stumbling to slaughter. Here, a general responsibility we have, that if we see someone falling into some danger, some harm for themselves or about to harm others, we have a responsibility to intervene. James speaks of this as a precious calling of brothers and sisters together. In 520 of his epistle, he said, let him know. that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. To be the means, the agency of the Lord to intervene in another person's life, to bring them back from some serious error that will do harm to themselves or others, is one of the great privileges in the Christian community. There are two special cases, I think, that we can add in these reflections. One, when for whatever reason, you simply cannot forbear. Because there has grown to be a wall between you and another person. When Jesus says the goal of going to your brother is that you have gained your brother, We can deduce logically from that that the antecedent conditions are that you have some way lost your brother When you find that your relationship with another person in the community can be described aptly as that, I've lost them. In some way, we have become disconnected. In that case, then Then you want to go in order to regain them. And the fourth instance is when you hold some office of accountability As a parent, as a church officer, as a civil magistrate. In that case, you have a positive duty to correct in the appropriate circumstance. James Ferguson, a great older writer commenting on Colossians 3. 13, put it this way. It is not only required of Christians to forbear avenging of themselves, but also to forgive and to pardon those who have done them wrong, besides ceasing from private revenge, Doth import the banishing of malice and desire of revenge out of the heart, yea, and loving those who do us hurt. Luke 6. 27. Only the magistrate is not hereby bound up from executing his office against public offenders. nor yet private men are discharged from having recourse to the magistrate for the attaining of the restoration of their right and reparation of their wrongs. providing that they be not acted with private spleen. Isn't that great? Should say our children, I don't want you to act from private spleen today. Look wondering at you. And a spirit of rigor. That's a uh the uh you you cannot act from private spleen and a spirit of rigor. Citing Philippians 4 5. But with a zeal to justice and pity to their party, lest he and others also be hardened in mischief. For the magistry is God's ordinance and may be employed by Christians. So you see the point that when you intervene, because you have some office to intervene, it's perfectly appropriate. It's appropriate for others to have recourse to it. But even then, it isn't out of some personal spite. Or rigor, but out of a sense of duty to God. In many cases, we suffer the loss of our own interest for the sake of peace rightly Rather than doing what me may be defensible in my own interest When I see that the defense would bring about a greater evil to the one who has harmed us and no good end, I shouldn't do it. That's not looking only to my own interest, but to When the defense will provoke hostility rather than friendship. You see, there's no good end to come to this Point. So prudence leads you to forbear. But even where defense is necessary, it's to be pursued in the spirit of long suffering, always seeking the good of the sinner, not the same. his hurt. When you go to someone, you're seeking to act in belev benevolence, well-willing, not seeking to show them up, to have them dismayed or humiliated or in some way. uh uh revealed as inadequate, but seeking their good. Here one acts as one who, as Edwards put it, desires to deliver the offender out of his error. More than to be even with him for the injury he has done. That's a great statement of it. I have a desire to see the person delivered from what he's doing wrong. More than I have a desire for me to escape from the injury that's done to him. Do you see the other orientation that moves us in this whole matter? So in this case, we must go to him and show him his fault, seeking to bring him to repentance. If your brother sins against you, go to him, tell him his fault between you and he alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. Now, this going is a serious business. It's a difficult business. And rightly, there ought to be with God's people a preparation for going, a readying of the heart. in order to go and intervene in another person's life. The purpose of it is love, and thus we need to make sure that our hearts are oriented toward the love of Another Leviticus nineteen eighteen, this was the calling of God's people. Why? Because The context of Matthew 18 is interesting. In chapter 12, Jesus says, What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, And one of them has gone astray. Does he not leave the ninety nine on the mountains and go and search for the one that went astray? He find and and Dave finds it, he truly, I say to you, rejoices over it more than the ninety nine who never went astray. So is not it is not the will of my Father in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. We don't often connect that with Matthew 8. But do you see the significance of it? Often when we're finally going to a brother, it's because we're just so fed up with them to see how bad they are. But the context is Jesus saying, here's one who has many sheep and one is lost. And he's willing to go in order to reclaim that one. It is out of love to see him restored And when it comes to pass, he rejoices in it more than the ones who had never been in that circumstance. That's the context. Jesus having us go. That we have our hearts set on we see this person in some way as in danger, and we have a deep desire to see them to be restored to the flock. Secondly, the heart is sensitive to one's own struggle with sin and need for grace. We not only prepare ourselves by stirring the chief motivation in going is out of love, but second, we see ourselves as needy of such love. That we ourselves are often struggling and wounded with respect to sin. That's clearly evident in the general standard we have to forgive as the Lord forgave you. As we hear in Luke 6. 42, how can you say to your brother, Brother, let me take that speck that is in your eye, when you yourself don't see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out that is in your brother's eye. Here our Lord uses quite vigorous language to insist on the idea that we ought to be mindful of our own sin and the ongoing battle of sin in our own lives. Before we can be useful to another person. The point here is that you ought to clear your conscience before the Lord in preparation for seeking to be helpful to another person. And that conscience clearing includes a number of items. First of all, you need to be committed, absolutely committed, to see things in this matter the way they are, not the way they are. appear. Judge not by appearances, but judge in righteousness, says our Lord. Of course our great temptation is always to judge in our own case favorably and in another. persons not favorably. And so we need to go with the mindset of the justice of God Himself, who sees things as they are. and distributes according to what is required. It is that sensibility of one who is acting in perfect fairness, willing to understand every mitigating factor Willing to understand where you might have been at fault, to prepare your heart to see things as they are. This is Paul's warning in Galatians 6. 1. If anyone is caught in a transgression, you who are spiritual restore him. In the spirit of gentleness, keeping watch over yourselves, lest you too be tempted. Paul's point is that whatever you see somebody else in, you yourself could be caught up in. Because you know, at the end of the day, we don't have sins. We have sin. We have one disposition that remains, not no longer prevailing, but nevertheless there, to disobey God. Sins are but manifestations of that disposition. Sins particular may die, others may grow up, but they all come from the same root, various kinds of fruit And since I know I have that root in my heart, it is but in the providence of God that it's been permitted that it bear a particular fruit, and I know I could just as surely as another person. That's the truth of that famous phrase there, but for the grace of God go I. And the believer needs to understand that about himself. That means that we have to be empathetic and humble, knowing our own weaknesses, prepared to act with gentleness. To speak the truth, but not harshly, but in love so that it will be received, desiring reconciliation, a heart prepared, spiritually ready to forgive, to confess your own sins. And going not in anxiety, but rather with trusting prayer, strong that is in the strength of Christ. So, you need to prepare your own heart to go. You prepare by reaffirming the purpose of love. You prepare by reminding yourself of your own struggle for sin and the need for grace. And then you go and you show. It's interesting that um Jesus in 17 of Luke, verses 1 through 5, similar passage. He said to his disciples, pay attention to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him Pay attention to yourselves. In Leviticus 19, 16 and 17, we read this. You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people. You shall not stand up against the life of your neighbor. I am Yahweh. You shall not hate your brother in your heart But you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. The point of going is to try and reason frankly. to carefully point out what you think about what they have done and how it might be in conflict with God's word We may reprove, but never with contempt, never with unreasonable anger, but reprove as an expression of love The wise man in Proverbs beautifully captures this in 27, 5, and 6. Better is open rebuke than hidden love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, profuse are the kisses. of an enemy. And when you go, your aspiration is that by God's grace, whoever you've spoken to, words of reproof, they would say to you, faithful. are the wounds of a friend. That would be their testimony, their experience in you having going to them. That should be the framework of your aspiration. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. The word here used to correct, to lead to the right behavior, to what is good. You're not there simply to commend, condemn. You're not simply there to command. You're there to persuade by the word, to try and bring the mind and heart under conviction, to bring this person's judgment in conformity with the word. And the only way that can happen is if they themselves are persuaded, not just badgered or belittled, where in some way you you use emotional or other kinds of force to bring them. into conformity. The only kind of real repentance can be grounded in a real, rational conviction of the truth of the matter. In some senses, the word reprove may not exactly communicate the Scripture's sense here. The sense is to come under an inward conviction. And embrace correction. Sometimes reproof can just kind of refer as saying you're wrong or something like that. It's much deeper, it's much more powerful what our Lord has in view You see this in Luke in Jude 15. The Lord came to execute judgment upon them all and to convict the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds. That's the idea to bring them to conviction. A real conviction. This is the work of the Word of God. You recall Paul speaking of the Corinthian congregation in 1 Corinthians 4. 24. He speaks of how all prophesy, and an unbeliever enters, he is convicted by them all. The speaking forth of the truth of the Word of God, empowered by the Spirit, penetrates into heart and mind and brings a new place of stability on the part of the one who is in error. Thus the work of the ministry of the Word, 2 Timothy 4. 2. Preach the Word. Be ready in season and out of season to reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience. and instruction. That's what you ought to look for in the preaching of the word. You ought to come ready to be reproved, rebuked. Exhorted with patience, receive instruction, because these are absolutely essential to the health of your soul. And that word, attended by the power of the Spirit, brings wholesome conviction of sin, not destruction of personality, not humiliation and embarrassment alone but a wholesome conviction of sin. That's the work of the Spirit of God, John 16, 8. Thus, this is not the manifestation of a critical spirit toward others. On the contrary, it's simply a matter of trying to show a deed for what it is, a word or action contrary to the revealed will of God Here we attempt to bring the one who has wandered from the truth back to the right path. So it means that we, if we're to be useful in this exercise, Have to not only have a heart prepared, that motive love, we've taken the log out of our own eyes, and so on. But it means we need to have thought carefully about what the scripture teaches. one, so we have the word to employ in the reproof. We have to have thought carefully about what the facts are of the case We need to think through how do I know what was done? What were the evidences? What were the mitigating factors? To have a clear sense of what the circumstances are at hand. And then we've thought through carefully what God's word should have required in these circumstances and how it was failed, how the person failed to live up to it. And it means furthermore, you have to go, having thought through that, ready to be corrected if you were in error at any part in that three-step process. Word, facts, application of the word to the circumstances. That in some place you might have misunderstood, and you're ready to hear that in the conversation that you have with the brother Impartiality is of the utmost importance here. You are not going to plead your own cause. You're going to plead the cause of your Savior in the Lord. Life of your brother. You're not going to please your own, plead your own cause. You're going to plead the cause of your Savior in the life of a brother I act not for my sake, but for the sake of God and for his erring child. This is done, Jesus insists, in private, not conversation with others. Boy, he's really in a bad way, isn't he? Here, the Lord protects us from the sin of the slanderer, James 4, 11. It's done in private. And this follows also because it's done for his sake. And what do you know about when someone comes and publicly accuses you? of something. How likely are you to Oh yeah, yeah, that's true. No, much less likely It's one of the reasons why parents properly, though there may be an occasion for discipline immediately at hand, If it were performed in that instance, it would be humiliating to the child because it would be public. And that's why parents wisely take their children aside and discipline them in private. It's done in private for his sake. It's so much harder to respond well when publicly accosted, if wrong in the charge. That is to say, if what we've said is wrong, then we've publicly accused a person unwarrantedly and it affects his reputation. That's another reason why Christ would have us go in private. So uh this privacy is for your sake so that you can be corrected if inaccurate. It's for his sake that his d re reputation will be damaged if you're inaccurate. It's the for the sake of all of God's people. That a scandal not be publicly a potential for sin or discouragement in the community itself. Public scandal does harm to the body of Christian. Christ. And if it's possible to keep it private, it ought to be kept private. That's a wholesome principle. And it isn't undone by some of the ways that people have criticized scandals in the church today. I don't think worldly wisdom is better than our Lord's wisdom. We go and we seek to correct them. And the goal, then, is to bring them to repentance. Now, repentance is absolutely necessary to full restoration. There are those who think that you can forgive a person regardless of whether there is repentance. I think that's a failure to grasp the nature of biblical forgiveness. It certainly implied in that we're to forgive as the Lord has forgiven you. And you are not forgiven by the Lord, apart from repentance. That is, apart from your own acknowledgement that you have done wrong. And saying, I turn away from this as wrong, and I desire to do what is right. That state of heart is an absolute prerequisite of the Lord's forgiveness. It doesn't earn it, but it is a necessary prerequisite. And if we're to forgive as we have been forgiven. That it means we cannot forgive unless a person comes to a place of heart where they acknowledge what they have done and they desire to be forgiven. As it is with divine rep forgiveness it is in our relationship with others. Now, this is not simply the implication of what Jesus teaches, although it is certainly that. Forgive as you You've been forgiven. But it is found in express statement in Luke 17, 1 through 5. Jesus talks about going to another, and he says explicitly: if he repents, forgive him. It's just another way of saying what he says in Matthew 18, 15. If your brother sins, go to him and reprove him in private. And if he listens to you, you have won your brother. Obviously, Jesus has much more in mind than simply auditory nerves being jangled by the waves that have come out of your mouth. It means listen, appreciate, agrees, and complies. That's the only way that the brother could be one. Only if he repents. As I say, this is startling to some people. But nevertheless, I think it is the Bible's teaching that you cannot forgive apart from repentance. We ought to see this if we just think about the nature of the case. If no sin is acknowledged, forgiveness is meaningless. It is the sin which separates Forgiveness reconciles. But if there's no repentance, there can't be reconciliation because there's no acknowledgement of the sin. In fact, for most people If you accuse them of sin and say, but I forgive you, they're going to be insulted. Forgive me. What I need your forgiveness before I haven't done anything wrong to you. Yeah, you're a actually adding fuel to the fire of the problem if you try in some kind of super spiritual way, imagine that your your your forgiveness can uh Soothe the waters here. That there might be reconciliation. We are to long to bring about the conditions whereby forgiveness is possible. To find this as an ect an occasion for the exercise of grace. Now what does that repentance include? It includes confession, a heartfelt acknowledgement of the wrong and the sorrow that their harm has done And it includes, where possible, restitution, a willingness to make things right, if possible. There could be hardly a better example of this than in the tale of Zacchaeus in the Gospels. There, Zacchaeus not only acknowledges his wrong, but he says, I want to make it better, right, and double if I can. That's the repentant heart. Now, what if there's no repentance? Well, there are two paths before us here. If he does not listen, go to the church, says Jesus, if there's sufficient evidence. If he will not listen, take one or two others with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church Now, I will say here, I offer a dissenting opinion on the meaning of this passage. Most people today, for some reason, take it that Jesus is talking about bringing. a couple of people to witness that the encounter has taken place. They're there as kind of mediators or arbitrators. It's almost uniformly interpreted in that way. I'll just say here that uh I don't think that's remotely the case. I don't think it's possible as an interpretation. People try to get away from the straightforward meeting by saying, well, Jesus doesn't mean it rather in strictly legal usage. Rather, it's a principle adopted from legal usage, applied now to the new Commonwealth of Israel. Here, the point is not to be witnesses to the infraction, but to the attempt at reconciliation. Now, I will say I've agreed with that for many years, although things, a number of things always bothered me about it. But with continued reflection and experience These minor doubts have become major, and I've now changed my mind completely. Here are the reasons. Jesus is citing the Old Testament law in Deuteronomy 19, 15 through 21. one. That law says a single witness shall not be sufficient against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed, but only on the evidence of two witnesses or three witnesses. shall a charge be established. It goes on to say, a malicious witness, if a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of wrongdoing, Then both parties to the dispute shall appear before Yahweh, before the priests and judges in office in those days. The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness, And accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him what he had meant to do to your brother. So shall you purge the evil from your midst. And the rest shall hear and fear, and never again commit such an evil among you. Your eyes shall not pity, and so on. The point of this passage is that if you intend to bring a person before the authorities, in this case civil, in the New Testament ecclesiastical, You have to be able to prove that the infraction has taken place. The witnesses are there to witness to the truth of your reproof, not to the reality that it encounters. And in fact, if a person bears faultlessness in this matter, they've committed a quite a grave crime. If there's an accusation without witnesses, Paul, in fact, insists that an elder in the church can't even, that the court can't even hear a charge against him except on the basis of two or three witnesses. Now, um in this context, it's interesting to note Charles Hodges' context. He says, In the judgment of God, therefore, it's better that many offenders should go unpunished through the lack of testimony than that the security of reputation and life should be endangered to allow a single witness to establish a charge against any man. So do you see that? There would be many cases in the life of the church where you think someone's done something wrong. It's worthy of reproof. You've tried to show them for their sake, they deny it, and it can't go any farther. Because there you don't have any witnesses to that effect. The limit of the church court depends the limits are established by the possibility of witnesses. to bring conviction. Now, there are many who think that's a strange thing and don't like living with the idea But that's our Lord's system. Our Lord's system is, both in civil matters and ecclesiastical matters, that the arm of the law cannot bring correction apart from appropriate wisdom. And that means that most guilty people are going to get off, both in the church and in civil society. My sister's a prosecutor in Baltimore County. She has some pretty tough duty. She's pretty good at it. She's only lost two cases in her whole career. But there were many cases that she never brought, even though she was morally convinced the crime had taken place, because she knew she didn't have the evidence to prove it. court. Now does that mean the state of Maryland isn't interested in justice? They're playing fast and loose with criminals. No, it means we have a system that in some ways is founded on the biblical system that requires that before the power of the state can intervene in a person's life, there has to be adequate evidence that in fact they're deserving of it. So God himself has set up a system where most guilty people are going to get off. Does that mean God doesn't care about justice? Three considerations help believers here. One is that nobody ever gets off. Everybody will finally face the all-wise and omnipotent God in heaven. And God will bring about justice. Nobody ever gets off. The second point is this sets up a wholesome limitation on the powers of any government in this world. And that's a good thing for us. Church government should not have too much power. Civil government should not have too much power. It ought to be a limited power. It ought to be a power that itself Is under law. And that's what the evidentiary standard that the Lord established provides for. Limited government. But the third thing is this The person who gets away with their crime has not had a good thing happen to them. To be called to account Is a good thing for you. It gives you an opportunity to come to repentance, to see your criminality, to find forgiveness. It is a disaster for you if the means that God has appointed in the world to correct you. Aren't capable of bringing that correction and you escape from it. It's no good thing. It's a terrible thing for you. And if it isn't remedied in this world, there will be no remedy in the world to come. So that's why if you don't have such witnesses, you have to just live with the reality that circumstance and leave the matter to God who finally will judge all things appropriately. And you you see this run uh right through the New Testament. I won't take the time this morning to go through the instances. But the point that I'd like you to conclude is that these witnesses are to be those who can help bring conviction. can help the person accused first to come under conviction, and then if he will not admit to it, they are there to offer evidence to the church court. They are not neutral mediators. They are not those who they are those who go agreeing with the one who goes as to the facts and to the law of Christ applied to the facts to help bring conviction. These will continue to be witnesses, fulfilling the evidentiary standard of the church court, should matters eventually go before the L. The point is here that without repentance we cannot forgive. On the contrary, if he refuses to listen, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. He must finally be put out of the church. That's the meaning of what I said at the beginning. In any serious violation of God's word in the community, there are only two courses repentance and And forgiveness and restoration, or hardening and death. If he repents, the church is a body, forgives Paul, in fact, had to insist upon this. The Corinthians were lax in their discipline at first. They got rebuked and got a little overzealous in the matter. They were hurting them. the guy now, beyond what he deserved, and two Corinthians Paul had to correct them on that. He said, uh for such a one the punishment of the majority is enough, so you should rather turn and forgive and comfort him, that he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. I beg you to reaffirm your love for him, and so on. And where this doesn't happen, uh of course, uh there's been A wounding of the Church of Christ. Lacking the evidence of witnesses, one must seek the grace to forbear and to pray for the erring one's repentance. You cannot seek revenge Concerning the unbeliever, if he ever comes to faith, his sin is covered by Christ, and he may well come and seek faith Forgiveness. If not, his sin cannot be forgiven and will be avenged by God on the last day. But in the meantime, we are nonetheless to respond in love, meaning willing to do good for that person Beloved never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, says the Lord, I will repay. We are to love even our enemies. In some get instances, ignorance mitigates. The person really hasn't understood what they've done. And we should look for this. It's part of judging righteous judgment. And if their ignorance is a mitigating factor, we ought to even more be willing to find it. This was a beautiful example of our Saviour in the Luke twenty three, thirty-four. Of their crime. And out of that ignorance, Jesus sought the mitigating factors to play a real role in the Father's judgment of them So too in Stephen, the first martyr, he cried out, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And it was precisely because they were in utter ignorance of what the reality of the sermon was. Circumstance was. But upon repentance, we must grant forgiveness and be reconciled. This is our concern