Here we have before us a very familiar story. Scenes from Christmas pageants, children's programs, films. This story was once the focal point of Christmas celebration, but now in the United States it is more of a cultural holiday. expanded to include the old pagan festival for this time of year, as well as festivals from other religions, Judaism and so on. In fact, the nation was all abuzz last week when one of the political candidates for president mentioned the birth of Christ in his Christmas message, and people were shocked at the cheek of the man to make such a reference in our pluralistic society. Of course, we don't really know when the birth of Jesus took place from any primary source. In fact, our primary sources, the writings of the New Testament, give no indication of a celebration of Jesus' birth among believers. Two of the four gospel records, in fact, ignore the event altogether. The date of December 25th was appointed long after the event by a converted Constantine to coincide with the pagan festival of the sun. It was not widely celebrated among believers until the fourth century. There's very little agreement, in fact, about the date of the birth of Jesus. The Eastern Church celebrates it on January 6th. Modern scholars have urged September or perhaps October. In fact, historically, no month of the year has been neglected. We have testimony from the third century in favor of May 20th. Well, that would put a damper on Christmas celebrations, wouldn't it? But today the tradition of the 25th remains, though perhaps little else. Consider a weekly commentary brought not too long ago by the news chief of CBS News. It was entitled Merry Christmas. Listen to what the commentator had to say. If I wished you a Merry Christmas, some would say. Well, how improper. He's throwing his religion in my face. But I I hope I'm not, because to me, the Christmas story is a message of love and forgiveness. To me, that means tolerance and respect for others. These are wonderful thoughts, but no more admirable than Judaism's emphasis on values or Islam's command to help the poor, which to me are just different ways of saying the same thing. I have come to believe that all the great religions are basically true, all part of the same piece, a conclusion that I neither ask nor expect anyone to share. If it matters to you, I am a believer. But like Kierkegaard, I am suspicious of all organized religion because too often it professes to know the mind of God. And who could know that? To me, the greatest misunderstanding of religion is held by those who try to impose their beliefs on others and teach their children that they are somehow superior to those who do not believe as they believe. which would seem to miss the point of all religion. Rather than arguing over the details, wouldn't we all be better off to focus on the values that all great religions share? We'll find out later who got the details right. One sure thing I know about all of this is that the Christmas story helps me. It reminds me that I'm happier when I try to be forgiving rather than revengeful when I try to be helpful instead of judgmental. And so I do wish you a Merry Christmas, if you know what I mean. Well, here this commentator strikes a blow against political correctness, a defender of Christmas. But such a defense. He sings not once in David's royal city, of events in time and space. The chorus of this modern carol is to me, to me, to me, to me. There is a kind of professed modesty here. We might ask. If you neither ask nor expect anyone to share your views, why are you bothering to tell us about them? If it matters, he says, he's a believer, but does belief matter? Shouldn't it matter? Apparently not for the broad-minded believer. All the great religions are basically true. Should we ask true in what respect? The answer is clear by way of contrast, certainly not in the sense of organized religion. Because like Kierkegaard, he's suspicious of all organized religion, name dropper. I think he does want it to matter to me. He's citing his authorities. He's suspicious, like the great Dane, of all organized religion. Because they claim to know the mind of God. But isn't it a mark of religion, organized or not, to profess to know the mind of God? Who could know that? He asks. Well, perhaps one whom God revealed his mind too, presumably. Is that unthinkable? Apparently so for the broad-minded Here's his alternative. Rather than arguing over the details, wouldn't we all be better off to focus on the values that the great religions share? We'll find out later who got the details right. Here, this seems to be the heart of the commentary, the most important point to be made. Without reference to the mind of God, we learned from this man's mind that the Christmas message. is a message of love and forgiveness. But may we not ask love from whom? To whom? Forgiveness for what? By whom are these irrelevant details? And what good are shared values? Values that are not. That have not, perhaps cannot, be lived. Suppose our problem is not a want of knowledge, but a want of disposition to do the good that we know all too well. Untroubled by such thoughts, our commentator concludes, returning to his me chorus. I am the certainty in this world. The Christmas story helps me. But what is the Christmas story? More forbidden details? How does that story remind you to be happier in trying to forgive? The forgiving one, in fact, got crucified. How does that story make you any better off in following such a pattern? Merry Christmas, he says, if you know what I mean. That is Christmas on my terms, with the meaning that I determine. So Christmas is not a celebration of something that happened in time and space with a fixed significance to be embraced or rejected, but rather it's a celebration of myself and the things that I value. This is not Christmas cheer. This is Christmas folly. Such folly notwithstanding, Christmas in our culture does continue to occasion a general sense of benevolence, warm feelings. So long as it's not during the shopping hours when people are trampled by mobs full of bargain-buying zeal, giving gifts still distinguished from mere commercialism In fact, it's often argued that the true meaning of Christmas is in giving. Even among Christians, the birth of Christ is taken to be the model Christ was God's gift to mankind, so we should give gifts to one another. This is, however, a dangerous half-truth. that becomes wholly a lie, apart from all that the scripture reveals concerning the coming of Christ. The babe in the manger is indeed a gift. But what does the gift tell you about our condition? Imagine if you opened your presence this week and found a wooden leg or a kidney dialysis machine. most unwelcome gifts, if the gifts were somehow prophetic or revelatory of our condition, we might well suppress the truth that such gifts as that imply. Well, this morning, return with me to the context of the coming of Christ, not simply the events of the Christmas pageants. The stage is set in the Bible's picture of human history. as rebellion of the creature against the creator. In judgment, God abandons men and women to the fruit of their own sin, darkness and depravity. The Apostle Paul in Ephesians 2 writes about those who were separated from God, strangers to the covenant of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. And yet from Adam's rebellious race, God called a people for himself, and by covenant he established a relationship with Abraham and his family. And those who would be heirs according to the promise. And yet now even the children of Israel are in bondage and in disarray. They too are under the judgment of God. His promises have grown dim in their memory, hope is largely abandoned, and blind guides are leading the people into further darkness. Suddenly, glorious beings come upon poor shepherds at night, and the sky is filled with the brightness of the glory of the Lord. And they're filled with fear and awe. And this terror, in fact, is the proper response to such an extraordinary thing on the part of sinful men and women Calvin rightly comments here, God's majesty would inevitably swamp the entire world if its inherent awesomeness were not tempted with a degree of gentleness. But there is gentleness in the words of the angel. He speaks words of comfort to relieve their terror. He says, Fear not. Behold, for I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you this day is born in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. This is, as it were, the first preaching of the gospel. The mystery revealed. The languages rich. The most frequently used words in Luke's gospel are here. The bringing of good news, joy, these used by Luke more than Mark and Matthew combined. He speaks of the people, the Christ and the Lord, the Savior. This term is used only here in the Synoptic Gospels. The message, the cause of this joy, a Savior is born. The Messiah Lord has come, a greater king in the city of David, the great king, fulfilling the promise of God and prophecy. The angels respond to this news by glorifying God. Glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth among those with whom he is pleased. Here is the key to our understanding of the message of salvation. It's to bring glory to God, a mystery for ages, now revealed. the mystery of Christ, that we should be partakers of the promise in Christ through the gospel. The purpose of this is that sinful men and women might have peace with God through Christ. To those whom God favors and calls according to his purpose. He intends to show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Apart from such peace with peace with God, Calvin comments, any other happiness is transient. And false. This is the start of real joy, a sense of God's fatherly love toward us, which alone can comfort our minds. The shepherds go quickly to spread the word, and people are filled with wonder. Perhaps one would like a gift from God. But perhaps not what this gift implies. Simeon saw this immediately. Later we hear of him Commenting on the Christ and noticing that He is appointed for the falling and rising of many in Israel This is a hard truth associated with the Christ. Many followed Christ wanting gifts from on high, but not the truth about themselves that the gift revealed. Joy for all the people, well, not quite all, because we've heard of Herod's response. Herod was not filled with joy. But it led him rather to a murderous rage to try and blot out this king. Thus it is perfectly plain. That from the beginning, not all can rejoice in the coming of Christ. Jesus shows us who are the only ones who can have joy He explains it in Luke chapter 7 at verse 36 and following. He was anointed by the sinful woman. And he speaks of the same in the parable of the two debtors. He says, her sins, which are many, are forgiven But he is forgiven little, loves little. One who grasps the enormity of the problem is the only one. Who can have joy in the solution offered? Only those who recognize their hopeless and helpless condition can receive the news of Christ's coming with great joy. He came to call sinners, not the righteous. And the righteous take no pleasure in his person and work. And thus we can see. that the coming of Jesus is a message of joy only for those who know and confess themselves to be sinners in need of a Savior such as He. Now, this proposition, this truth, is demonstrable if we contemplate together the Jesus revealed to us in this story. We consider this morning how fully the Scripture testifies to this truth and to see its importance by considering together the names given to Jesus and what they imply about who he is and who we are. He's called Emmanuel, God with us, Christ or the Messiah Lord and Jesus. Think with me for a minute about the significance of each. In the Matthew portion we read this morning, you saw The prophecy recounted, a virgin will conceive and bear a son, and they will call his name Emmanuel which means God with us. Here citing Isaiah chapter seven at verse 13 and following This was to be a sign from God, but a sign from God about a coming judgment in the context of Isaiah's prophecy. In chapter 8 we read, The Lord of hosts, him you shall regard as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread, and he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling. to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and many shall stumble upon it, and they shall fall and be broken, they shall be snared and taken. This coming one would not only be for the rising, but also for the falling of many in Israel This God with us is a fearful thing to contemplate. Peter takes this point up in his first epistle at chapter 2. Citing the text, the stone the builders rejected, has become the chief cornerstone, a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobey the word, as they were destined to do. There were some who will find this presence of God a fearful thing, because as the writer of Hebrews reminds us, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. God with us is bad news as we are of ourselves, intolerable news. We need to hear something more than Emmanuel. Well, what of Christ? The Messiah, the anointed one. This one, too, has a peculiar role with respect to a sinful race For he comes in judgment both against the oppressor Gentiles who had put down the people of God, but he also comes in judgment against the apostate house of Israel How terrifying is the language concerning the Messiah found in the Prophet Malachi. You remember in chapter 3, the prophet says, Behold, I will send my messenger, and he will prepare a way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come into his temple. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming? And who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and a fuller's soap. I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be swift in witness against sorcerers, adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker and his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner. Against those who do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. The prophet saw a day coming like a burning oven. when all the arrogant and evildoers will be stubble. A day set will set them ablaze, says the Lord, and leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness shall rise with wings in healing, and you shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. Well might Herod have thought it was worth destroying the young boys of Israel in order to protect himself from such a messiah. He is the one appointed by God to judge the living and the dead. Emmanuel, God with us, a fearful prospect. The Messiah coming in judgment. He is the one who is also the Lord, the sovereign, ruler of all things. He is the one, the Lord. who rules over all the works of his hands, who is the very coherence of creation. Paul insists to the Colossians that in him all things hold together. He is the meaning of all things. And he has the perfect right to rule. He being set at the right hand of his father, Peter preached the gospel, saying that The Father would make all of his enemies a footstool. This is a mighty, conquering Lord who will come and put down his enemies. This text hardly will qualify as a text to be used in friendship evangelism. And yet the psalmist contemplates this Lord and the opposition of the world to him. Why do the nations Rage, he asks, why do they plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves against the Lord and against his anointed. But he who sits in the heavens laughs. He holds them in derision. He will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury. This is the Lord. And yet the psalmist sees a note of hope. He counsels, kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is kindled quickly. Blessed are all of those who take refuge in him. This last titled Jesus. Perhaps this will put us in a better place for who is Jesus but the Joshua, the Savior I am the Lord, the prophet declares in Isaiah 43, and beside me there is no Savior. The angel's announcement to Joseph in Matthew brought this comfort. His wife would bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, because he will save. His people from their sins. To a people who could not save themselves, to a people who were dead in sin, worthy justly only of the wrath of God. This Savior brings death, the death to self, the death to pride, the death to self-righteousness, and he brings them alive unto himself. Isaiah prophesied, In that day you will say, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for you were angry with me, but your anger turned away, that you might comfort me. This is the God of my salvation, and with joy he will draw water from the wells of salvation, and thus his people sing for joy. For in your midst is the Holy One of Israel. So Paul could rejoice. In 2 Corinthians 2 he writes, Thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession Though he spreads the and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere. For we have the aroma of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To the one a fragrance of death to death, to the other a fragrance of life to life. Who is sufficient for these things? Paul cries out. The gospel is death for some. And life for others. It's triumphing always because it has this dual effect without fail Either to glorify God's mercy in the salvation of sinners or to glorify God's justice in the condemnation of the self-righteous. Thus we can see that the coming of Christ and the annual reminder of his birth is no message of joy to the self-righteous It proclaims them to be sinful. It is no message of joy to the self-satisfied. It proclaims them to be helpless, and under the judgment of God, it proclaims that God is not satisfied with them. On the other hand, it's a message of joy for all of those who see the true implication of the gift and confess that that implication is true. God's presence is fearful of itself. His anointed one brings judgment and justly deserved punishment. He is Lord and rightful ruler and owner of all things, and we are at best unprofitable servants. And yet he is Jesus, the Savior for just such as we have seen ourselves to be. Do you realize? Do you not see that the more fully you grasp the meaning of the coming of Jesus, only to that degree can joy truly be experienced? He has forgiven little, loves little. But he who is forgiven much, his joy is abounding. In fact, it is joy inexpressible, full of glory. Thus we've seen the coming of Jesus as a message of joy only to those who know and confess themselves to be sinners, in need of and seeking a Savior, such as He is. Out there any today who don't know this Jesus? You may well have heard the message of the angels, but without the kind of understanding that we've unfolded this morning. Perhaps this morning for the first time you've understood that this is a revelation from God by the Holy Spirit through the words, from his word that I have explained. The Lord has come to make his blessings flow, but it's only so far as the curse is found. Do you see yourself justly under the curse of God, that you are a foolish rebel in his kingdom? Then I call you to repent and turn away from self-righteousness and come to Emmanuel. The Christ, the Lord and Savior, trusting in Him and you will be saved. Then you can enter into the joy of salvation. Then you'll understand why it is believers only that can truly sing joy to the world. The Lord has come. Now for those who profess faith, let me encourage you first. There may be some this morning who have gathered here who find that their joy in Christ is dimmed Perhaps you've come to be caught up in the world, the lust of the eyes and the pride of life, and you've forgotten your condition apart from Christ, needy in the things most needful. helpless in the things most necessary. To have joy in Christ, you do not need self-esteem, at least not in the way that it's so often put today. What you need is Christ esteem and genuine moral self-condemnation. This is a relative judgment. It doesn't mean that you're deficient with respect to others. It means you understand yourself with respect to God and his moral purity. You remember, at the heart of your profession of faith, as you've used the words that are used in the PCA for such a profession, you confess that I am a sinner in the sight of God. justly deserving his displeasure, without hope, save in his sovereign mercy. It is from that place only that you can come to experience the true joy of the gospel message. Second, let me encourage you this morning. Consider the obligation that comes with such a gift as this. An extraordinary film from not too many years ago. Saving Private Ryan. A small squad of soldiers are sent out to rescue a fellow and restore him to his family. But at the end, the leader of the saviors, the leader of the band that came for the rescue is killed. In his dying breath, he says to the private, earn it. In other words, he'd given his life for this fellow. He'd given him a gift extraordinary. And in his dying breath, he said, earn it. Now, of course, he couldn't earn it. The gift had already been given. What did the captain mean but this? that you ought to live showing that you value what was done for you. You ought to try to walk Worthy of this gift. What is this other than the language of the Apostle Paul, that he called believers to walk worthy of the calling wherewith they have been called? And how shall you walk worthy of that calling? Well, all who recognize themselves in need of a Savior Surely, chiefly you walk worthy by joining the angels in your life, proclaiming joy. To the world, the Lord has come. Glory to God in the highest. This must be your testimony. A testimony that transcends suffering and sorrow, disappointment and discouragement in this world. The joys that come from the world are ephemeral In fact, in some ways, the people of the world tend to look at the world as if it were a game of musical chairs. And the question will be, will your life stop at a point of sorrow and tragedy, or will it stop at a point of satisfaction and joy? And there's this uncertainty as we have this ebbing and flowing of joys and sorrows in life. But the fact of the matter is, the music is going to stop. Death destroys the hope of joy for all who see death as the final word of the subject. But of course, this is not true for believers. Joy to the world, the Lord has come, and the Lord has conquered death Therefore, we have a gift that transcends the sorrows of this world. Calvin put it beautifully this way. He said, This gift is so great so unbounded that it outweighs by rights all of the griefs and troubles and worries of this present life Hence we learn to be so pleased with Christ alone that the sense of his favor surpasses all the afflictions that we may face in this world. Such transcendent joy, to be manifested in all circumstances. So the apostle urges believers, rejoice, and again I say, rejoice in all things. So today I call you to look to the Lord for such joy, that he would grant it to you by the Spirit. Pray that He would so work in your life through the means of grace, that you would embrace the source of joy. that you have a Savior who's conquered death. He is strong to save and the salvation that he has accomplished will never fail. And thus you can enjoy the presence of God, not fearful, but basking in the presence of one who is your heavenly father. Shout for joy Great is God in your midst, the Holy One of Israel. Embrace him as the Messiah, the anointed one, who comes to judge, but judgment has passed. Now for you there is no condemnation. Rejoice in the Lord. Delight in the rule of your heavenly King. He has conquered your enemies, and all his enemies will finally be put under his feet. Joy to the world. The Lord has come, and He will come again, bringing endless bliss, joy. Joy Jesus Christ was born for this. Christ was born for this.