Well, if you would, would you open your Bible to Galatians chapter one? And if you would, would you stand and pray with me before the reading of the word? Father, we come to you and acknowledge our need for your word to understand and interpret all of life. Even Adam and Eve, in their sinlessness and innocence, needed a word from you. And so how much more do we? Let your spirit make alive to us what the apostle has written. Help us to see its implications for our lives. And may you grant in your kindness that faith would well up in our hearts. And for those who are here who may be looking from the outside of Christianity, we pray you grant them the grace to listen. and consider what they hear. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Beginning in verse 11. For I would have you to know, brothers. That the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. For you heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God violently and tried to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers. But when he who had set me apart before I was born and called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. I did not immediately consult with anyone, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus. Then, after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days. But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. And what I'm writing to you before God, I do not lie Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia, and I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. Their only work hearing it said, he who used to persecute us is not preaching the faith he once tried to destroy. And they glorified God because of me. You may be seated. The best argument for Christianity is Christians, their certainty, their completeness, their joy. But the strongest argument against Christianity is also Christians, when they are somber and joyless. When they're self-righteous and smug in complacent consecration, when they are narrow and repressive, then Christianity dies a thousand deaths. Now that quote is from Sheldon Van Alken. It is contained in his autobiography, a Severe Mercy, which tells the story of his and Davies romance. and marriage. When they went to Oxford, uh, they fell in love with rural England. And he captures uh uh this moment this way. He says, We were welcomed to Oxford by one Lou Salter. whose kinswoman I had known in Virginia, and his pretty wife, Marianne Lou, a brilliant theoretical physicist, was in my college. He and Marianne were also, we discovered later, keen Christians. Through them met almost at once their English friends. Peter and B. Campion, B. Tall and Swift, impatient with nonsense. Peter just out of the Royal Navy, pipe smoking. Nice grin, bright blue eyes. Peter was a physicist too in Exeter College. At the same time we met another friend of theirs, Thad Marsh, lanky, witty, intelligent, who was reading English. These were our first friends, close friends, and more to the point, perhaps, all of them were keen, deeply committed Christians. But we liked them so much that we forgave them for it. We began hardly knowing what we were doing, to revise our opinions, not of Christianity, but of Christians. Our fundamental assumption, which we've been pleased to regard as an intelligent insight, had been that all Christians were necessarily stuffy, hidebound, or stupid, people to keep one's distance. from. And we had kept our distance so successfully indeed that we didn't know anything about Christians. Now that assumption collapsed The sheer quality of Christians we met at Oxford shattered our stereotypes. An astonishing fact sank home. Our own contemporaries could at once be highly intelligent, civilized, witty, fun to be with, and Christians. The best argument for Christianity is Christians. Their joy, their certainty, their completeness. But the strongest argument against Christianity is also Christians when they're somber and joyless. When they're self-righteous and smug in their complacent consecration, when they are narrow and repressive, then Christianity dies a thousand deaths But though it is just to condemn some Christians for these things, perhaps after all it is not just, though very easy, to condemn Christianity itself for them. Indeed, there are impressive indications that the positive quality of joy is in Christianity and possibly nowhere else. And if that were certain, it would be proof in a very high order. As Paul writes this letter to the Galatians, He claims that he himself, his life, confirms the truth of the gospel, and they glorified God. because of me. It might be easy to read it out of context and conclude, well, it's just because, well, they were relieved that he was no longer their persecutor. But it's far more than that. And if you reflect on this life, you start to realize Paul's joy, the quality of who he was. Caused him to win people who naturally would be hostile to him over, people who would be indifferent to him. uh people he just won people by who he was and his joy was a deep part of that you see Paul was set free by the gospel He's free. He's not bound to his past. He's free from his former values and way of thinking. He's free from being controlled by his emotions, his feelings. He's free from having to please other people. And this freedom welled up into great joy in his life. Now, Paul's life supports the claims that he makes in this letter, that the gospel brings freedom. And this freedom includes deep personal transformation, massive, ongoing change. Free people can and do change. Now many people I have talked to now want things to change in their lives, but they feel stuck. They feel like change is actually not possible for them. And behind their words and feelings are that the things that hold them in bondage are things like this. He enrages me. She makes me sick. His criticisms upset me. He frightens me. She hurts my feelings. I can't get past what he did to me. They act as though other people or situations control them, control their feelings and their actions. This is not true, but it feels this way. The gospel frees us from being controlled by others in our emotions. Free people can choose how they respond to a provoking situation. Would you like to be free? Maybe you doubt it's really possible. Well, consider Paul. We have in the first two chapters of this letter Paul's autobiography. Paul writes about himself mostly in these two chapters. And Paul describes his life before Christ in verses 13 and 14. When he says, For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God violently and tried to destroy it. I was advancing in Judaism beyond many my own age among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my father. Paul can say without boasting or exaggeration that he was aggressively seeking to. to keep the traditions of his followers. Fathers. You see, Paul was uh a follower of a sect of Judaism known as uh Pharisaism. It was a strict version of Judaism as the forerunner of Hasidic Judaism. today. And by the phrase traditions of his fathers, he's referring to the oral law, which is was a detailed roadmap of how to be sure you never violated the 613 commandments that are found in the first five books of Moses. You couldn't even get close to one because this prescribed a way of living. So you couldn't say the name of God. That way you could never take it in vain. hundreds of pages describing how to do that. And he was passionately seeking to destroy The church. In fact, the language he uses here is the language of warfare to destroy. Saul of Tarsus was so intent to further the cause of Judaism that he didn't hesitate to cut down all the opposition. And this is part of how he outstripped his contemporaries. Paul's hostility to the church was Founded upon and flowed out of his devotion to the law. Now, why would that go together? Well, the cross of Christ was the deepest source of offense to every Jewish. First of all, a crucified Messiah utterly crushed their national political messianic hopes. They wanted a Messiah who would deliver them from their oppressors. In Paul's say it was Rome. But it also was an incomprehensible absurdity, because the Messiah by definition was the one who was uniquely favored of God. And the law said that anyone who hung on a tree was cursed. by God. And so it's very straightforward. Jesus having died on the cross could not possibly be the Messiah. And Paul was not only zealous, but he was happy as a Jew. He wasn't dissatisfied. Many people who leave their childhood religions Often are because they're dissatisfied. Perhaps it's some disappointment that happens to them, some difficulty comes into their life Sometimes it's because the way Christians interact with them that they feel excluded or ashamed because something has happened in their life. lives. And they go off to college, and then they meet a whole circle of people who seem to enjoy a kind of freedom that they've never enjoyed. And they decide that, especially when a professor comes along and attacks Christianity, that really there wasn't much to that anyway, and it's keeping me from a life. Of fun. Paul wasn't like that. He wasn't frustrated being a Jew. He was a person of integrity. He believed you should pursue your faith wholeheartedly. And he was excited about it. And he was angry with those he perceived to be betraying it. And so his conversion to Christianity is all the more remarkable. And there's only one explanation that can be given for it. It's an encounter with Jesus Christ. Paul describes this encounter in the book of Acts as he stands before King of Gruppa and gives his defense. I'm reading from Acts 26. Uh I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposition to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authority from the chief priest, But when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. I punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme And in a raging fury against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. In this connection, I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priest. On midday, O King, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun that shone around me and those who journeyed with me. And when we'd fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads. And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. So it's clear that Paul did not seek this encounter on the Damascus Road. He was on a business trip to persecute Christians. And he says on that road that God was pleased to reveal his son in me. That's Galatians 1. 16. That phrase in me, which is actually in the footnotes of the ESV Bible, we need to understand the full force of in me. It stresses both the inwardness and intensity, the personal character of God's revelation of Christ to him. It was both an inward illumination and a physical vision. It was both subjective and objective. Now, most people, either by temperament or philosophy, tend to fall on one side or the other. They want their religion to either be subjective or they want it to be objective. Some people want religion to be soft, without clear content, no dogma, no rules, after all that's inauthentic, and they actually want it to be spontaneous and maybe a little unmanageable, a little unpredictable. And others want their religion to be external, objective, with absolutely clear teachings and codes for behavior. They want it manageable and predictable. Christianity transcends both of these. Paul's encounter with Christ was inward illumination and a physical vision. And there's no tension. between these. It wasn't merely mystical or merely objective. It was both It wasn't wish production, fantasizing, daydreaming, or a mystical experience he saw. It was personally piercing Now, there's nothing in Paul's psychological makeup that disposed him to leave Judaism and embrace Christianity. Paul describes himself as a bigot. He hates Christians. and as a fanatic. You know, his zeal advances beyond, beyond measure. That's the intensity of his zeal. That's what a fanatic is. someone who's uh excessively zealous in his devotion to Judaism and his hostility to the church. John Scott observes this. Now a man in that mental and emotional state is in no mood to change Change. Change his mind for even to have it changed for him by men. Only God could reach him, and God did. God called him before his birth, as he had Jeremiah and many others. And when God revealed Jesus to him, he was called to a unique role to advance the gospel among the Gentiles, to finish the task of the servant of the Lord in Isaiah's prophecy. And Paul was changed by that revelation because that revelation was the gospel itself. And so we can say the gospel changed Paul. Paul. Well, let me just walk you through it. It might not be obvious to you, but it's actually the gospel that changed Paul. Paul's being set apart as an apostle before his birth. shows us it had nothing to do with Paul. God called Paul freely out of his undeserved love and grace. The fact that Paul didn't make this choice himself, but that it came to him itself, was grace. In revealing Jesus to Paul, The very principles of grace and faith were made known to him. And in that, he inherently recognized Jesus is Messiah and Lord. It involves grace for him. His entire thinking about Jesus was reoriented as he understood who Jesus really was. He came to realize that legal righteousness the righteousness of rule keeping of Torah observance was a dead end. And for at that very moment his zeal is reaching its zenith. He's showing the logic of his Pharisaic Judaism in pursuing the church. It's the very implications of what he believes. And it's at that very moment it's revealed to him that he's persecuting the Messiah in the persons of Jesus' followers. He was therefore in rebellion against God. That's what the metaphor kicking against the goats means. He was resisting God. And Paul grasped that he was called by God's grace and that law-keeping as a way to be in a relationship with God was obsolete. It was never God's intention that the law be viewed as a way to be in relationship with God. That's a distortion of the religion of the Old Testament. The way to be right and stay right with God is through a believing dependence on Jesus Christ. A reliance on grace. It's so important for you boys and girls to understand this because your mom and dads are naturally wanting you to understand right and wrong. But you need to understand the basis for your relationship with Jesus is not on whether you are good or bad, whether you do these things. Things, it rests only on Jesus and the grace that He's shown you. For Paul, this is a paradigm shift. And he expresses it in the letter to the Philippians this way, in chapter 3, verses 7 to 9. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss. because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I've suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith. Paul grasps the gospel and it reframes the entire way he sees his life. His life story is now told in a different way. What mattered before no longer matters. What didn't matter before now is central. Paul sees himself in an entirely new way. And this is true of everyone who's transformed by the gospel. It's not just Paul's past, but his present is changed. Now I want to thank you for listening carefully. And it's natural for you to ask, well, what does all this have to do with me? Sounds like a history lesson from the New Testament and the Apostle Paul. But the implications for us are large. Because Paul's conversion was both typical and normal, as well as atypical and abnormal. It's both. Now, few of us have had a heavenly vision, have been stopped on our tracks as Paul was, but all who believe in Jesus Christ have Christ revealed to them. And their life is transformed as a result. Paul's task to preach the gospel to the Gentiles and to found dozens of churches, none of us has this task. Yet all of us receive a calling even if it's not obvious, or the one you choose. You see, all Christians, regardless of their theology, ultimately can see amazing grace. They say, it's not me. It was God. God this was God who brought me uh to himself. It was God's uh grace that set me uh free. And every Christian, when God chooses them, receives a calling. Now, you boys and girls, if you've responded to Christ, as your parents undoubtedly are pointing you to. As he's revealed in the gospel, then you too have received a calling. Now it may be that it'll take some time for you to recognize this calling. Let me tell you a story There was a university student in Vietnam who decided to become a Christian, a choice that proved to be very costly for him. He fell out of favor with the communist leaders And as a result, he was turned down for a job that he very much wanted and forced to do menial labor. That means he had to work with his hands At first, he was very angry with God and his parents who'd raised him in church, and he confronted them and he said, you work only for the church. Why don't you help me? And his father gave him this simple answer, you are for God. In other words, you don't live for yourself anymore, my son. You belong to God. You can't go and seek some great position for yourself. You must receive your place in life as a gift from Him. And that's true for you, boys and girls. It doesn't mean you shouldn't, as you try to understand what that is, pursue your desires, you most certainly should. But in the end, God Himself uh has a purpose and a goal for your life. And it's not always what we think it should be. God may have a very different plan for your life than you have. I can certainly say that's been true for me. And this question remains, and it remains for all of you who have been Christians. Are you for God? Have you received your place in life as a gift? Sometimes it can be very hard to do that. We want our life to be something else. In fact, all around us, the voices tell us life is about you feeling fulfilled in what you do. But God might not call you. He might not gift you with a life that's entirely fulfilling. Like Paul, every Christian experiences a change in how they understand their life journey, their story. Once Christ encountered Paul, Paul no longer is writing his own life story. God is. And this is true for every Christian. You no longer get to write your own life story. God does. And that can sound very, well, scary. But here's the here is the truth. God is a better story writer than you are. And this means that the gospel gives a set of glasses to review our own lives and see that God is preparing us and shaping us. And that God is still writing the story of our life even now. And Paul tells us not just the past, but his entire life story changes. And this is one of the litmus deaths. on where you are in your journey. It's one thing to be able to say that suffering comes to everybody, Christians and non-Christians in this world. It's another to see that the suffering that God allows in your life serves a higher purpose and to embrace it, even if the suffering remains. And the consequences are permanent. This means that the gospel gives us an entirely new way of seeing suffering. Some of the suffering that comes into our lives is because we follow a suffering servant, a suffering savior. We suffer when people resist God. When they reject the gospel, when we lose a relationship because we've borne witness to Christ. Some of it is to eradicate sin. and pride in us. Even a small sin has the power to make us hard. We can lose everything as a result. Sin is far more serious than we think. And if you don't believe that, then really you have a cheap version of grace. And suffering is diagnostic. It actually shows us that we haven't made as much progress as we'd like to think. It shows us that how much our happiness in life and our joys dependent on our circumstances. And it exposes our idols. The gospel, the freedom it brings, brings real and lasting change. But Christians get stuck. The chain stops, halts, or slows, slows. It's so slow it's imperceptible And one of the reasons why this happens is because of disappointments. We become disappointed with God, with the church, and with other Christians. You see, there's an idealism that comes uh into our lives because of Christianity. As we read the scriptures and the more we understand what God's design and desire is for life, uh the more we think life should be like that. And we pray for it, and we work toward that. But when it doesn't happen in our relationships, it's uh we fail really and we become disappointed. Uh our expectations are unmet. We fail to take account for how much we're still in progress. We're still incomplete. In fact, we're still strugglers. We're all strugglers. Sufferers and sinners. We're not going to leave that state. We're going to live with that the rest of our lives. And it's not just those people out there, it's us. We ourselves, we ourselves are not who uh we desire to be in our idealism. But because we know what's right and wrong, because we have the truth, And because uh we have a religious life, our moralism and our religious life is deceptive. It's deceptive because we actually tend to think we're doing all these things that we know, that we're actually living out the implications of what we believe. And it's that claim, it's that attitude that many people encounter in the church, especially young people, that results in their leaving the church. Because they conclude, like many in the world, that in the end these people are hypocrites. There's a reason why people say that about us, because there's truth in that unpleasant chart. Another implication is this is that the change that Paul happens should be continually that Paul experiences should be continually realized. As new life comes, as Christ shapes our lives every day. And that means that no matter how long ago it is you came to Christ, whether it was recently or a decade Ago or many decades, the question is: does your life exhibit ongoing change? Are people glorifying God because of you Now, very often change stops because a religious and moral life can be a cover for deep-seated rebellion. You see, Paul is both of those things. He has it in space, a moral and religious life And yet there's a deep-seated rebellion in him. Now it all starts off instantly enough for us We're just trying to work out the new way of life, breaking with a bad habit, perhaps needing to break with a relationship that's uh a influence in our lives that's dragging us down. We start coming to church, reading the Bible, uh taking it seriously. But soon we've shifted our weight. The weight of our life from dependence on Jesus Christ and his righteousness in our relation to God, to we've shifted over to a dependence on our activities. Our record of participation, our service, our good works, our prayers, our Bible reading, our giving. Have you suffered the loss of all things? Paul let go of all those. Things to have Jesus. What are you holding on to? Rule keeping, obedience, the religiously ordered life can be comforting and numbing. It can be a way to actually hide from Jesus, to keep him at arm's length. That might be a new idea for you. It's actually true. It's a profound insight. Paul is actually hiding from God in his Judaism. I couldn't hear the voice of God in the words of Jesus Christ. You see, it can make you very zealous. And also make you very hard a moral and religious life. It can make you blind to the bigger things. Materialism, gluttony, you name it. And Jesus harsh criticisms of the Pharisees are because they become blind. Even though in reality he agreed with them about almost everything. And It makes you blind to how much you lack compassion and tenderness. Because it constantly reinforces to you that you're doing the right things, you believe the right things, and therefore you must be right. You're right in yourself. You're right with God. Nothing could possibly be wrong. Does joy so characterize your life, our life together, that when people encounter you, their impressions, perhaps their prejudices, their preconceived ideas about Christians, is shattered, is changed. Like it was for Sheldon and Davy. That can only happen if our hands are empty. Lay down your deadly doing and flee to him. This table points to that way because he emptied his hands. And suffered for your sins and mine. He came that you might truly be free and that you might have. Have joy, the fullest joy possible. For this he gave up his freedom He became a creature. He was born as a child. He experienced all the limitations of being a child. small child and having imperfect parents direct his life. He served as a slave and died a slave's death. He chose at every moment along the way not to end this. He could have, at any point in his trial, at any point as he was being whipped, at any point on the way to the cross, Said, stop. But he did not. He chose not to exercise his freedom. He chose to ex receive into his person all the sorrow that we should have for our sins, but barely recognize. He became sorrowful.