Paul writing to his child in the faith, Timothy said, From childhood you've known the sacred writings which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation. Through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scriptures inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for approval, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. And we often quote verse 16 and sometimes 17, but often don't quote verse 15 that Paul told Timothy. the scriptures that he had known from his childhood, remember he had a Jewish mother, the Hebrew Bible, were able to give him that wisdom that leads to salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. The Hebrew scriptures pointed to and anticipated the work of our Lord Jesus Christ. Before we hear God's word this morning, And uh we're uh blessed and privileged to have Reverend Stephen Atkinson minister the word to us in just a moment. Uh Reverend Atkinson is a native of Northern Ireland, and after serving in several pastorates there in Ireland and in England uh a few years ago, uh accepted the call from Christian Witness to Israel to be their church representative in Ireland and other parts of the UK. Recently it was appointed to come here and do that work in the U. S. and we've been praying for him. continue to pray for the Lord to open the doors for him to move with his family here. But in any event we're grateful that Stephen could be here to minister to us. But before he does that, let's confess our faith. And we're going to pray the Lord's Prayer following the sermon. But I wanted to use this confession from the least known and least appreciated of the three great doctrinal standards of Westminster, the larger catechism. deserves to be much better known than it is. In our days, anybody who's memorized the whole shorter catechism is considered to be a spiritual giant, but you realize when it was drafted, the introduction said this is for those of a smaller capacity. And the real meat is here in the larger catechism. And Question 191 expounds the second petition of the Lord's Prayer, Thy kingdom come. And so I'd like us to use it as our confession of faith this morning. Christians, what do we pray for in the second petition of the Lord's Prayer? In the second petition, which is, Thy kingdom come, acknowledging ourselves and all mankind to be by nature under the dominion of sin and Satan We pray that the kingdom of sin and Satan may be destroyed, the gospel propagated throughout the world, the Jews called, the fullness of the Gentiles brought in. The church furnished with all gospel officers and ordinances, purged from corruption, countenanced and maintained by the civil magistrate And the ordinance of Christ may be purely dispensed and made effectual to the converting of those that are yet in their sins and the confirming, comforting, and building up of those that are already converted. That Christ would rule in our hearts here and hasten the time of his second coming and our reigning with him forever, and that he would be pleased so to exercise the kingdom of his power in all the world as may best conduce to these ends. Now I would commend this to you, just this one question, and you got the scripture. proofs here it make a wonderful uh meditation this afternoon or some other time when you're praying particularly for the church, but I'll simply call your attention to uh that point that's in bold face that one of the things our uh the framers of our confessional standards believed was properly implied or to be included in that second petition for the coming of Christ's kingdom was the calling of the Jewish people. Well, uh this morning uh I'll let Reverend Atkinson elaborate on that point. His text is from Romans chapter 11. which in some respects is the climax of the the doctrinal portion of Romans after Paul in the first eight chapters has set forth the glories of justification by grace through faith And chapters 9, 10, and 11 deals with what some have called the problem of the gospel, the mystery of the gospel. Has God his covenant promises in fact failed? because of the uh the large unbelief among the Jewish people. And so Paul deals with that in chapters 9, 10, 11. Our text this morning is the conclusion of that section. And so please stand for prayer and we'll read beginning in Romans 11 and verse 28. But first let us pray. Again, our Gracious Father and through Jesus Christ, our covenant God, we thank you that your gifts and calling are irrevocable. and that your purposes and your promises cannot, will not fail. And we acknowledge that your ways are not our ways, your thoughts are not our thoughts, as the heavens are higher than the earth. so are your ways higher than our ways and your thoughts than our thoughts. And so the way in which you accomplish your purposes and fulfill your promises is often profoundly mysterious and inscrutable to us. And yet we know that you always remain faithful to your word. And we thank you for that word In Holy Scripture, we thank you for the gift of the Holy Spirit and pray now for our brother as he preaches for us as we listen that your Spirit would work in a powerful way to glorify Jesus Christ. And to build us up and in time through our prayers and efforts build up the rest of your holy church, which we pray in Jesus' blessed name. Amen. Reading God's word beginning in Romans 11 and verse 28. As regards the gospel, they are enemies of God for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. For just as you were at one time disobedient to God, but now have received mercy because of their disobedience, so they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you, they also may now receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience that he may have mercy on all. Oh, the depth of the riches and the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Brothers and sisters, these are the very words of God. Please be seated. Well, dear friends, it's good to be with you this morning. I have traveled afar to be with you. It's been a few years since I've been here. So we're right back with lesson 101 regarding Christian Witness to Israel. But certainly I trust not lesson one oh one with regard to the scriptures and their understanding in Romans eleven concerning the Jewish people and God's purposes yet for the ancient people. Just very quickly by way of introduction in a nutshell, I have been working for Christian Witness to Israel for seven years in Ireland. My task is to develop and uh represent that work and that mission all over the churches in Ireland. I also do that a little in Scotland, a little in Wales and once or twice a year in the States as well. Our ultimate desire is to move to the US to really make the work grow large here. Uh we have a passion for Jewish mission and we also have a passion for reaching the church with a more reformed and sober understanding of the whole subject of Israel, because it does seem to us that there is a lot of Uh dare I say it's silliness, a lot of craziness, a lot of mistaken focus regarding uh the Jewish people and regarding the subject of Israel and the politics and the prophecies Our main purpose is to get the focus back on the people who need the Lord. They need to hear of their Messiah. Christian Witness to Israel began in 1842. uh through the burden of Robert Murray McShane and Bonner and other good Scots Presbyterians. And if you're interested in reading McShane's sermon, that he preached when he came back from his mission of inquiry, sent out by the Church of Scotland to the land to inquire into the situation of the people. Uh McShane's sermon, Our Duty to Israel, is at the back and it's one of the freebies. Uh the right hand side of the table uh are uh are all the the free literature, please take as much as you can helpfully use There's sermons by McShane, by Spurgeon, and by Bonner are all there, so please take them. McShane's burden really became the birthing of our mission And our mission in a nutshell has two aims, to reach the Jewish people and to teach the church. And I am doing the second of those all over Ireland and I trust later by God's grace in the U. S. Can I just give a little more information regarding the literature and then we'll get into God's Word. The magazine is this one. There are a couple of issues. The old issues of the magazine are there. Please take as much again as you can helpfully use. I often say in places the more you take, the more it will help my gas mileage because the trunk will get a little bit lighter as I further along my way. But uh I also say that gas is so cheap here. Um Because it really is compared to our $12 a gallon back home. So um $3. 50, $394, whatever it is, I can't remember here. But that's okay I can live with that. Certainly if we're paying twelve dollars back home. But please take the the literature. If you don't take anything, take this one. This is the one little leak l piece of literature that in summary tells you about Christian witness to Israel. I'll say a little bit more later. I'm going to do a PowerPoint presentation at the Sunday School Time and uh give a fuller and more visual uh picture of what we do on the ground. But it is it is good that we have opportunity to do both because My burden is that sometimes we get interested in Israel at a superficial level. We have a a sort of romantic notion. We see pictures of Israel or Jewish people and and we go, ooh, and ah But we don't realize the importance and the theological reason why we should go ooh or ah. And so what we're going to do this morning is get into the scriptures, see the theological undergirding. for Jewish mission. And then later we'll look at the practicalities of what we do in our mission and how you can be with us in prayer and supporting our mission to the Jewish people around the world. Skip told me that he preaches for about an hour and he then has about half an hour for the Sunday school. Well I said to him if if I preach forty-five minutes, maybe I'll have forty-five minutes for the Sunday school. I think on balance we'll we'll work it out uh in an acceptable manner. Uh so please turn with me to Romans chapter 11. Romans chapter 11 and reading from verse 28. Romans 11 and reading from verse 28. Let us hear the word of God As regards the gospel, they are enemies of God for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. You will see from your outline on the back that we are breaking this passage down into three sections. We're taking our first point from verse 28. To verse 32, our second point then from 33 to 35, and then finally that closing doxology in 36 I have enjoyed meddling with computers for some time, and I always enjoy that moment when you get a new computer. And uh I don't know how many years your computer lasts before you upgrade or you eventually say this is gone defunct and I finally uh need to go and buy the latest model and you come and it's got all the bells and whistles and uh you just wonder and uh are are amazed at the technology uh and the speed and all such things in the new computer. I remember uh some time ago, probably back in the early nineteen nineties, getting a new computer. These were in the days before YouTube and Google. And all the things that we have now at the click of a button or even at the the the the the press of your finger on on your iPhone But in those days you got a new computer and you got a bundle of CDs along with this computer, all sorts of applications. and uh all sorts of stuff that they were trying to sell even the larger version of. This particular new computer was uh very exciting for me because it came with an encyclopedia Of course, you just Google it now and you you get the answer. But this had an encyclopedia, so so many volumes of the encyclopedia was on this disc And not only all the text of all the volumes, but it had audio clips and it had video clips, and I was I was just amazed that that here we have this now and I have to hand uh some uh audio and video of momentous periods of human history. And so I had a friend of mine come round from the church to to to view my new toy. And we sat down and we uh put on the encyclopedia and we were watching um Hitler give his speech in a little tiny square about this size on the video screen 30 seconds or one minute video. Then there was another was one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind. Again, we were fascinated watching this little video screen. But then I realized that he was fascinated to a deeper degree than I, because this gentleman was a computer programmer in Cambridge University, or at least he was studying that at Cambridge University. And so while we were fascinated by the little story that was being told on screen, he knew everything that was going on behind the scene. He knew all the bits and bytes and dots and dashes of computer programming. He knew all the sequences And all the numbers that were being churned in the box that was bringing to us this little story. When we watch a movie today, we we put in the DVD, we watch the story, we don't really think of all that technology that is going on. The technology is not unimportant, but we just tend to watch the story The hymn says, I love to tell the story of unseen things above. Twill be my theme in glory of Jesus and his love. In the concluding verses of Romans chapter 11, we have technological wonderment coupled with the greatest story ever told. And what we're going to try and do this morning is to uncover something, as far as our tiny minds can grasp, something of the divine technology. That makes this story possible, at the same time not missing the simple yet divine story of Jesus and his love. It begins with elect enemies that are embraced. It progresses on to tell us of the divine wisdom that demands worship And progresses then to display a determined purpose that deserves our praise. Verse 28: As regards the gospel, they are enemies. of God for your sake, but as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. Our first point, therefore, concerns the elect enemies. that are embraced. They, in this verse, means Israel, ethnic Israel, the Jewish people. Some people believe it means other things. I cannot see from the text, anything more plain than that this simply means elect Israel, the ethnic people Israel. They are enemies, but they are beloved. Or as we put it in our title, they are enemies What is being spoken of here? What the little storyline, let's say, if we go back to that illustration, the story is of the Jewish enmity to the gospel. But it's all the while surrounded by a divine care and an embrace. They are beloved. If we were to take another sermon title or another point title, it could be They Are Hostile Yet Holy. They are hostile and yet holy. This doesn't mean they are saved, don't misunderstand. This doesn't mean that there is a back door into heaven for them, not at all. What it simply means is that there is a particular embrace of God upon this unsaved Ethnos, this unsaved ethnic group, for the sake of their forefathers. True to himself, God remains in covenant, true to himself. Verse 29, the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. In other words, there is no undo button with God. We are very much used to the the pressing the undo button or or the backspace or when we when we shape our documents or shape our our uh PowerPoint presentation, we can Mix and match, we can lift this out, put that in, and we can press buttons and and we can shape it and then it's in the finished article. Or we're making an email perhaps. And before we press the send button, we can adjust the sentences. Adjust our wording so that we just get it right, then we press the button. Or if we're doing a text message, similarly, we can have it just right and then press send I heard just a few months ago of a pastor back home in Northern Ireland telling the story in church of how he was going to leave his pastorate. and go to the mission field. And he needed to break the news to his congregation. And so the morning he was going to break the news of his decision before God to leave his pastorate and go to the mission field. He decided he would call in a friend to pray for him that morning. And so he sent a text message. uh to his friend across town uh to pray for me. I'm going to to say this uh to my elders and to my congregation this morning. The problem was when he had the text message, the names on his contact list, one of the names beside the one he was supposed to send to was one of the elders. So instead of pressing send to his colleague in the pastorate, he sent it to one of his elders. Have you done it? Maybe you have. You can't undo that. It's sent. God has sent an irrevocable message. To a repeatedly disobedient and rebel people, the Jews. They are elect enemies. That nonetheless are embraced because of God's irrevocable covenant and promise. Let me contrast two commentaries, two two commentators rather. Luther said this, a Jewish heart is so stock, stone, devil, iron, hard that it can in no way be moved. They are young devils damned to hell. To convert those devil brats as some fondly wean out of the epistle to the Romans is impossible. Unfortunately, Luther forgot that, well with man it may be impossible, but with God all things are possible. John Bryan, on the other hand, said the Jewish people in their unconverted state have been marvelously kept distinct, have often experienced remarkable deliverances And no Gentile people have ever injured them without being punished for it. And he goes on to say, as a people chosen by God for particular purposes, they are, even in their state of unbelief, the object of his kind regards. the subjects of his particular providence from a respect of the covenants entered into with their ancestors. And I say precisely The Jewish people are an embraced enemy. I wonder if you in your home enjoy movie night. We enjoy back home and uh our kids are growing up and flying the nest, but uh in previous days uh we certainly enjoyed having family movie nights and you had the popcorn and maybe a few other snacks and treats as well. But in our family we had several folks who did certain things, and one of them is with us already today. My son, my 21-year-old son, is studying at Texas and University of North Texas, and uh so there is another Irish accent among you today. But one time we were watching this movie. In fact, we'd planned the movie night and I had had a meeting on and so I couldn't see our usual movie night The rest of the family watched the movie and I watched it on at the second sitting. The movie was Mission Impossible One. I'm showing my age now and you can point back to the whatever year that was that it came out But at the second sitting of this movie, a little voice piped up five minutes into the movie, he's the bad guy So that was an interesting movie for me that rest of the evening. We also have another one of our family members. She doesn't do that, but she asks why. Why did he do that? Why did he say that? Why are they going there? Just be quiet and watch the movie. You'll find out later in the story. Why? Why the Jewish rebellion? Why did he come to his own and his own received him not? Why did God bear with them so often? And yet still have they not gone too far in crucifying their Messiah? Why? Verse 28 gives us the answer. For your sake I want you to notice that. I want indeed even to underscore that in your mind. Gentiles. Strangely, in the technology of God, in the story of his redeeming love for fallen mankind. Their rebellion was for your sake so that this morning in Laurel, Maryland, you could hear the gospel of Jesus, the Jewish Messiah. It is for your sake. There are those who, of a perhaps a dispensational mindset would suggest that the Jews should have received their Messiah, but they didn't receive their Messiah. And so God created a sort of plan B, a sort of parenthesis, a bracketed church age. My friends, this this that doesn't fit in with this. In the mystery of God's mercy, according to Romans 11, verse 11 and verse 12 and verse 15, read those perhaps for homework, their failure has meant riches for us. Their trespass has brought salvation to the Gentiles. Their rejection has brought the reconciliation of the world. Gentile, you may even in a strange and wonderful way thank God for their disobedience. Their enity was for your sake. You have received mercy, says verse 30, because they have been disobedient to God. You've received mercy because of their disobedience. Subject of these verses are the Jews. The object of these verses in the little story line are the Gentiles. Now, were we more worthy? Were we so wonderful? Oh, those stubborn rebel Jews, but the Gentiles, they are so much better at receiving God's grace and God's word and God's revelation. What were we, my friends? What were we But pagan devil worshippers in our unbelief, darkened in our understanding, dancing around stone, but God in his grace, through a crucified Messiah, sent the light to the world Through Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, unto the ends of the earth. Ephesians 2 would speak of us. Your minister has already referred to that in prayer. We were. outsiders. We were strangers. I've learned the term uh for those who are seeking uh to immigrate to to to to that immigration status. I am an alien in your country. We were aliens, strangers, foreigners, but we have brought been brought near And before the Gentile Church gets on its high horse of arrogance against the rebel stubborn Jews, which sadly it has done so for almost two thousand years. We need to remember that in the story of God it was for your sake. Who killed Jesus? We all killed Jesus. Our sin killed Jesus. But ultimately, if you want to take it right back, it was in the predestined, forordained plan of the Father. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. So let church not say they're the Christ killers. In the mystery of mercy, in the weaving of his web of mercy and judgment We need to be humble and recognize that we are unnatural stuck-on branches. And let's not invoke our Calvinism and make the threat there in Romans 11:18. We are to be afraid. Do not be arrogant towards the branches, the Jews. If you are remember, it is not you who support the root, but the root supports you. We got mercy because of their disobedience. Therefore be thankful, therefore be humble. But that's not the end of the story. The programmer of the computer will program the sequential lines of computer code, one leading to another. Let's carry on down the lines. Let's see the story. Verse 31 as it continues. There is an in-order that. There's another sequence. There's another line. In order that by the mercy shown to you, they also may now receive mercy. It's an essential part of the technology, the mechanics of the divine redemptive story. That as a result of the mercy shown to us aliens, that the Jews would be made jealous. That the Jews would be brought in again through the proclamation of their Messiah back unto them. Charles Hodge says, as the restoration of the Jews is not only a most desirable event, but one which God has determined to accomplish. Christians should keep it constantly in view. Not only a desirable event, but one which God has determined. One of my family recently said to me, You don't do you know that you work for the easiest mission in the world? What God has, and what you desire, is what God has already determined. And that's right. That's what Hodge says. That's what these verses are saying. Because in the technology of the redemption story, God has consigned all to disobedience, verse 32, that he may have mercy on us all. There is a universalism, but don't misunderstand, it's not in the absolute sense. There is a universalism to God's mercy to this world. God so loved the world. And we Gentiles, no longer strangers and aliens, but fellow citizens with the saints, members of the household of God. It's a wonderful story, is it not? I love a little phrase you have. I'm going to start using it. I don't think the folks back home would understand it, but are you tracking with me? That's an Americanism. But are you are you tracking with this? I haven't time to go into detail with some of the applications and implications that I would want to But just to raise a few issues and things that you could think of in greater depth. Under this first heading, we need to reckon with the continued preservation of ethnic Israel. They are still here. They are dispersed but not eradicated. They are being gathered for a purpose. They have been threatened with extinction, but they have been divinely kept. And if you want to write down a couple of verses on that subject, Psalm 124, you will know. And Jeremiah 31, 37. Jeremiah 31 is basically saying, is the sun still shining there? The stars still there? Is the natural order still in place? If so, my people will still be here. The ethnic Israel will still be here. We need to recognize that there is a continuance of these elect enemies. Under the embrace. We also need, and we can again could take it at a fuller measure, church, be humble. Church, do not be arrogant Replacement theology, I would suggest, comes from that gentile overbearing arrogance. Be afraid, says the scriptures. And then in result of that, we should be showing mercy. We should be showing mercy to Jewish people. The scriptures are clear. We got it because they failed. Now what do we do with it? We are to show them mercy. God has consigned us all to disobedience so that Jew and Gentile might hear this amazing grace. Elect enemies that are embraced. The covenant of grace is a glorious, glorious theme and story. Moving to the second point, what effect does this have on Paul? What effect should it have on us? When Paul sees the little story, when he considers so far as his greater mind can contemplate the technology of what has brought that little story to us. What happens? Well, we find that divine wisdom demands worship. Divine wisdom demands worship. Second point When you hear a great story, or when you read a great story, or you watch a great story, you may be moved by it, you may be gripped by it, you may be engaged, you may be drawn to tears by it. You may be brought to the amazing wonder of it all. This is what we ought to be when we consider the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Jew first and also to the Greek. not only in time, but also in terms of our continuance of mission. I travel a lot. I travel all over Ireland. Beautiful scenery in places, beautiful scenery in in Scotland and Wales and and America and I've I've Now I travelled I think something like uh five thousand miles in the two and a half weeks I've been here. Crazy, crazy driving. Well I think the driving was okay, but the mileage is crazy. I hope so When you drive through your your wonderful country, there there are parts of it that that, without being disrespectful, there are parts that are pretty boring. And then there are parts of it that are just the woe factor. You come over a ridge and you see the beauty. of the Lord's creation. Paul has been rising through the book of Romans by the Spirit's inspiration. Paul has been guided to declare some of those unsearchable riches and the wonders of the story, and he comes, as your pastor has said, to the theological climax. of the book of Romans. He's at the top of Mount Everest. He's looking over it all. Or he's he's at the Grand Canyon and I'm looking at the non-ceasing flow. of God's grace and mercy. And uh he's looking at the Grand Canyon of God's wondrous grace, and he says, Oh the depths Of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God. If Paul were an American, he would say, Awesome. But then you say it all too frequently, and it means nothing. But this is something that is full of awe Due rebellion, Gentile inclusion, due engrafting again. Grace. Grace. Grace. Kuiper wrote these words, deep in unfathomable minds of never-failing skill. He treasures up his bright designs. and works his sovereign will. These are treasures, friends. These are riches. This is God's unsearchable, inscrutable governing of time and history. This is this is unsearchable. This is off the charts stuff. And I don't care if you've got a prophecy chart on your wall. This is off the charts. This is inscrutable. This is beyond the words that I can put on my tongue. The angels are longing to look into these things. The angels are poking their noses. They're getting their PhD, looking at the technology. of the ways and wisdom of God, Ephesians 3. 10, that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly places. And so in a parallel passage in Ephesians, Paul says, Ephesians 3. 14, he says, For this reason I bow my knees. Because when you are grasping the divine technology or when you're grasping the divine wisdom here, it demands worship. I studied maths or math as you say at university. I sometimes wonder. But I I got out my old notes recently and I I looked at some of my notes. And I just how did I understand all those little squiggles and symbols? And I have no notion. It's another language to me now, and I need to go back to lesson 101. I don't know if uh it sounds as if all we do is is watch movies, and that may well be true, but I don't know if you've uh seen the movie A Beautiful Mind. Russell Crowe, he is a mads uh a great and brilliant mathematician and and he uh suffers from delusional images. But there's There's one scene in the movie I remember very vividly. He doesn't uh really want to go into the classroom. He just wants to sit and study uh as as as a lot of these research professors want to do. I hope there's none present, but uh he he wants to to just stay there. But he comes into the class reluctantly uh and he sees the textbook, he opens the textbook He closes the textbook, throws it in the trash can, and then he puts one line up on the board. And he says, for some of you That one mathematical problem will take the rest of your time in college to solve. And for some others of you, it will take the rest of your natural lives. The technology of God that brings us this little story, it will take the rest of our natural lives staring at the blackboard and on into eternity until God gives us a new mind that we may see the wonder of redeeming grace in human history, divine wisdom. Demands our worship. John Murray makes the point in his inimicable fashion. He says that this praise is not prompted by what was unknowable in God. but by the incomprehensibility of that which God has revealed. In other words, it's not so much that Paul is looking into the deep, he's looking into the Grand Canyon, and he can't Get right down into every nook and cranny. It's not that. It's that Paul is looking at the Grand Canyon of God's wisdom and ways and grace. And that first rock that he's looking at, he doesn't even understand. G. B. Wilson in the little banner commentaries, which are excellent, he says, when finite understanding encounters infinite wisdom, the only proper response Is one of unqualified wonder and worship. Again, by way of application and just briefly throwing out a couple of thoughts for further contemplation. Are you baffled by this? Maybe you're baffled because I'm not explaining myself very well. You're baffled at this preacher and wish that he would end soon. Are you baffled by this? Are you baffled by God's ways and wisdom? Enough of this silly superficial gospel that we present. I like to think of God as this. You hear that from people, don't you? Well, my God wouldn't do that and be dumb, sinner. Do we need God to sit us down as he did with Job? Put your hand over your mouth and I will show you what I am. The Godness of God. We have so boxed God in small. And we package him up and we present him to the unconverted world and say, This is God. Jesus loves you. Smile. Have a great day. Enough of the shallowness, the trivialized gospel. Are you puzzled? Are you baffled? Are you in wonderment? Be so, be amazed. Be in wonder, this is awesome stuff. And then also by extension are you baffled by heavy providences, those dark clouds that come over us. Or even the tornado and the flood. We had a family wedding on the twentieth of May. My older son got married. to his South Missouri sweetheart. The wedding was in Joplin on the 20th of May, Friday We sat at the IHOP on Saturday morning, said our goodbyes to all the family and the friends and visitors. They drove south. I drove north to Kansas to preach on the Sunday, and various others flew home. We didn't know what was coming 36 hours later Are we baffled by that? Do we stand in awe of God's amazing grace so that I'm here this morning? And others aren't. And we pray for them and we wonder: are you baffled by some strange and heavy providences in your own life? My friends, if his wisdom has this depth, if his wisdom and technology For this story is of such an extent, if his skill is never failing, if his works are sovereignly all for good. Then behind the frowning providence there remains the smiling face. Don't try to counsel God, says verse 34. Don't try to fathom the depths of his mind. You you won't be able to. You know, sometimes peep people talk about natural occurrences and then supernatural things and and it's almost as if God is is sitting in in in the in the back room and everything is Going along and ticking over just wonderfully well, naturally. And then sometimes God may break in supernaturally and help us. I want to suggest that the fact that you are breathing is a supernatural work of God. The sustaining power of God, the holding the stars in the sky. I'm ever amazed when I read in Genesis of the creation. And how God takes that piece of dirt and how He has that special interest in this earth And scoops the dirt and makes man and breathes into man. And at the same time in the scriptures, you have a little half-verse that says, He also made the stars. And you uh who investigate such things, who look at the the the the millions and billions And and the size and the extent w which is again mind-blowing. He he also made the stars. But God is here in the natural, supernaturally, because without his moment-by-moment interference, there would be no existence. So says Psalm 139. So he's there in the midst of whatever you're going through. From the history of the people of Israel, the mysteries of divine mercy shown to rebels. Through into the history of your seemingly insignificant human life, he says, look at the birds of the air, look at the flowers of the field. And you are more precious. A people rebelled and didn't receive their Messiah for your sake. While we were yet sinners and strangers and aliens, Christ died for us. The promised Savior of Genesis is the prophesied servant of Isaiah, is the proclaimed substitute of 2 Corinthians 5 The hymn writer says, O loving wisdom of our God, when all was sin and shame, a second Adam to the fight. And to the rescue came. This is the will and the works and the ways and the wisdom. Of an awesome God. Elect enemies embrace divine wisdom demanding worship. I must conclude finally, briefly, though not unimportantly. The culmination is a determined purpose that deserves praise. Verse 36, From him, through him, to him are all things. We hear far too many sermons today that are self-help, man-centered. Five points to being a leader, ten points to having an abundant life, seven points to a happy marriage, you can have your best life now. Tell the world, friends Tell this gospel to a needy world that God the Father is not a fairy godmother that we summon Jesus is not a divine truth fairy. The Holy Spirit is not a heavenly santa that we can give our lists to. We need to restore the God-centeredness of God to our worship and our witness. And our very existence because without misunderstanding me God is not there for us. We are from him, through him, and to him. A world began, man was made, a people was called. Through him, every atom in the universe is being sustained, and the purposes of God for Jew and Gentile are being Worked out, and it is to him because creation is groaning for that day. Saints are longing for his appearing. I trust And so the atheists and the evolutionists, be dumb. Panzeists who'd call us to go and hug a tree because we're all gods and trees are god, be dumb Humanists, don't flatter yourself. It's to him the praise, the glory. And as we contemplate the wonder of this story. The glory must go to him. My computer friend and I were awestruck. by the little story and the technology he greater than I. But we ultimately ended up just watching the the one minute clip, one giant leap for mankind. And we got the story. The technology involved in divine redemption for fallen man will take A seminary professor, a lifetime of study, and remain unfathomed. But the wonder of God's grace is that it can also be known by a little child. Says Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so Or it may be known by the more mature that says and sings, tis mystery all. Mystery. The immortal dies. Who can explore this strange design? In vain the firstborn seraph tries to sign the depths of love divine. Tis merci all, let earth adore. And let angel minds inquire no more. Earth adore. Because God's determined purpose. Demands our praise. There's a book you will recognize, The Purpose-Driven Life I could go off of the tangent, but I'll not. It's a good title. The title could have been better It could have been the purpose-driven God. There's a story to tell. Because God's glory drives him. We had a family wedding, as I said. It was a day in which the heavens poured forth and the thunder and lightning gave their amen. It was a day in which God was very real and very present. I remember very vividly my oldest son standing at the front And uh watching as his bride came up the aisle. You need to understand my son, uh older son is uh I'm trying to convert it into pounds. What two two twenty pounds, something like that. Uh 200, 220, maybe uh rugby player. Solid. He looks round and he sees his bride. And I'm sitting at the front watching him. And seeing the uh filling up of the eyes. And of course that has a contagious effect on everyone else. And so the whole wedding party is all wiping away the eyes, and everybody is is a mess. The picture is of Christ receiving his bride. And Isaiah says that he will be satisfied. And the bride has made herself ready. I'm amazed that he may look at me And well up and be satisfied because of his redeeming grace Because of those purposes of God, that He would take this worm, that He would take the fallen scum of the earth, and renew by his grace and by Calvary's cross, make us a praise unto him This is the story, my friends, that we need to be telling pagan America. We have so sugar-coated the gospel. We've so trivialized the gospel. The depths of this are unending. So tell it forth, tell forth my soul, the glories of the Lord. We will give him all the praise and all the glory forever and ever. Amen.