If you haven't opened your Bibles yet, if you would um turn them open to um where we are currently studying, and that is from First Peter, and we are in the first chapter. What I think is a very interesting and uniquely human enterprise is the fact that we ask ourselves questions about our identity. We don't really see this much in the animal kingdom where they wonder what their identity is. Questions arise about so many aspects of our being. Which is ultimately reflected in the way that we lead our lives. Identity is not a a mere question for a parlor game. That we may find mildly intellectually interesting or amusing, only for a couple moments, and then we we discard it or set it aside from our minds. And ignore it until the topic comes up later on in life. The question of identity impacts so many aspects of our lives We sometimes run toward and embrace an identity. Sometimes we chafe against specific identities others have. And sometimes we even recoil and reject against our accepted identities. There are many of us here today that may have gone through this in our lives. But we all search for, ascribe to, or create an identity for ourselves. This, I think, is a lifelong human enterprise. If we're not actively engaged with this question, the tapes, if you will, are running in the background of our souls. Always there, accepting, rejecting, evaluating all of life's experiences and then acting Acting would fall into the realm of ethics, the way that we behave. This is a powerful feature, I think, of what it means to be a human being How we identify ourselves can be a source of joy or elation. For example, if you identify yourself as a Los Angeles Dodgers fan. Joy was a response when they won the World Series last year. Or identity can be a source of sadness. If you are a San Francisco 49ers football fan, it was a source of sadness last February the 11th, when at the Super Bowl game they lost in overtime. Now last week, we began our study of the book of 1 Peter by looking at the notion that as Christians Part of our identity is defined by us being sojourners in this life and on this world. This, of course, has consequences for the way that we are to live and plan out our lives. Today, we will study the second verse of Now it's important for us to be reminded that we are still within the greeting portion of the epistle itself. This means that first and second verses inform us of a couple of things. The first is who the writer is, to whom he is writing, and his personal salutations. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's Word? The following is from 1 Peter, and I will include from chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. Hear now the word of God. To those who are elect aliens of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia. Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit For obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And join me in prayer. Holy Spirit. Be with us now as we continue our worship of our great God by attending to the preaching and hearing of God's holy, inerrant, and inspired word Open our eyes and ears to the truths given to us by your hand, so that we may understand who we are to God How we have come to be Jesus's, and what you are doing within us each and every day. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So within the greeting, Peter has carefully crafted for us a summary of how we are to see our identity as Christians. I will focus on three aspects this morning. Now, I'm going to use $50 words, but I will explain them as we go along the way. The three aspects that I see in this text is ontological understanding, existential understanding. Enteleological understanding of our identities in Christ. And this will be followed by some takeaways that arise from our identities in God. So the first concern that Peter has is that of helping us understand who or what we are as new creatures in God or in Christ. Christ. Peter begins the second verse with really three prepositional phrases that detail how believers came to be, well, what they have become. This, of course, refers to us as well. What I mean immediately, or what I have immediately in mind, is the fact that we have been chosen by God and have now become aliens. And sojourners. The first of the three prepositional phrases defines for us our ontological identity. What we are now as human beings, or should I say more appropriately, what we have become. When Peter uses the word for God the Father's foreknowledge He is referring to more than just mere prescience in the lives of those whom are chosen. No, it's referring to the beginning or origin which is in eternity past. What we have to recognize is that when we are applying the word foreknowing to a being like God, we are not just saying that he has prescience. Just sheer knowledge. It includes in its meaning a choice, a determination, or a judgment The conclusion regarding knowing or foreknowing is that the elect of God are those he foreknows and chooses for a particular. End. Does this mean that those that God doesn't choose are unknown to him? Is he ignorant of them? Well that's silly. And it's illogical. How could a being that knows all things not know those whom he has not chosen to be his elogi We must conclude that for those that God calls the elect, and for knowing them has to include A specific, predestined outcome by God for them. Therefore, we are chosen by God to be aliens Sojourners who have been not just in the mind of God from eternity past, but also upon his heart. From eternity past. God set you apart, Christian, for his mercy By his extending his grace to you. He has chosen to make you part of his household and to extend and to embrace you and to shower you with his love. Now the second phrase introduces us to a non-eternal aspect of our salvation. It is the consecration. It is the setting apart of the elect of God for cleansing, for salvation, by none other than the Holy Spirit. Now, before we move forward, let's make a very slight detour. If you're paying close attention to the text, we've already seen a reference to God the Father. And now to God, the Holy Spirit. And the next one, in the same text, you will have maybe seen the Son of God, who is referenced next. All three persons of the one triune God. The reason I take the time to point this out is that over the life of the church, especially the first Three to four centuries, the church had to define and defend the doctrine of the Trinity. This was and continues to be the textual evidence. Of the fact that the apostles believed and taught that God was triune. Let's return. The Holy Spirit is the one that in time has consecrated, called us from our previous identities, whatever they may have been as unbelievers, and given us a new birth Where we acknowledge and recognize God as our Heavenly Father. But at the same time, although He may have not taken us out of our physical homes or our countries, we have suddenly become aliens. Christians, sojourners who have a home we are looking forward to seeing one day. This is the existential reality of what it means to be a Christian. It is in some sense passive on our part. Let me develop this thought. We had nothing to do with God choosing us. It is nothing in us that compelled God to choose specific individuals. We were all destined and deserved to go to judgment before Him The Bible teaches us that we were dead spiritually. We needed to be resurrected from the dead. Otherwise, we couldn't do anything of any spiritual value before God. So the first is that God chose us, and we were passive in that. The second passive thing was that the Holy Spirit regenerated us. We were made born again. We were resurrected from being spiritually dead. We were made alive. As part of being born again, we were given not only a proper understanding of Christ's crosswork, we were also given the faith to trust God, not ourselves, for redemption. The only thing we did in this entire uh activity was that we did the believing. We placed our faith in Christ. You could say that Christ was and is irresistible when we saw him for what he truly is. This was all done in time, in our lifetime. And this is what the Westminster Confession is referring to. That yes, we were chosen in eternity past. But it was in time that the Holy Spirit applied Christ's cleansing blood upon our souls. It is when we put our faith in that that we were justified. In time. Now, a fair question to ask at this time was: Was it God's intent to do this wonderful work of salvation in our lives? And then let us sink or swim on our own. This is not an uncommon question, even within a lot of different churches. And this gives rise to the following: Can a genuine Christian who has been chosen by God to be his child sink or lose his salvation? Now we're not talking about someone who hears the gospel and then later counts the cost and says, this isn't for me. This would be one of the elect as we understand the word elect. Well, the answer to our question is simply no. Neither can one lose their God-given, God-chosen. God accomplished salvation. But this passage also tells us that we are not saved, that we are not saved, and also left as orphans on this world. The passage tells us that we are sanctified by the Spirit for a purpose. It is for the purpose of. Obedience unto the king, of whose kingdom we are now citizens. This sanctification or sanctifying has two parts to it, or more properly, it has two parts. Participants. The first is the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. The Spirit resides within all true believers and is constantly working in them. to become more and more holy and to become more and more obedient to God's revealed law as found in the scriptures. As we discuss the second party of this sanctification, we enter into our next point, that of teleologi-h. hard one to pronounce teleology. Our purpose and end goal in life. Obedience And holiness are really entirely two different words and have different meanings. But in the context of the Christian Life, you cannot have holiness without obedience. Greater holiness in a believer's life leads to a stronger desire for obedience unto God's word. The word obedience, however, has had a bad rap in our society of late. The reason cited for this bad rap is that it is considered to be associated with a blind following. And related to this, blind following is to a dictatorial authority who is abusive. And finally, it is associated with a lack of independent thinking. Most people don't want to be told what to do. And so obedience is a word that is more and more rarely used in our society And the truth is that there are those in authority who have been abusive. And outside of that, there are many people that really are not critical thinkers. But abuse of anything doesn't make that very thing bad in itself. It's like carrying out the baby out with bathwater. But when we think about it, obedience is considered to be a very important, critical, crucial, and safe thing to exercise. For example, we really must obey traffic lights and signals. Soldiers, for example, must obey their commanders, especially in war. A medical professional must follow the orders of a doctor. An automobile mechanic Must follow the instructions to fix a vehicle, or it can cause damage to property and person. Being obedient to the instructions on our medication bottle. is equally important. Obedience is important when it comes to God. The scripture teaches that in the household of God everything must be done decently and in order. Order. God demands obedience because he is not a God of chaos. Peter will be spending a bit of time later in the epistle speaking about obedience. And how God has designed it to be implemented within society and the church. But the truth of the matter is that whether we choose to obey or not to obey God, God's ways, it usually has something to do with love. What I have in mind is what the Lord taught in John chapter 14 and 15, where he said. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. If you love me, you will obey my commandments. Following of commandments speaks of a pre-existing love. Basically, it's what we love more when we think about it. Do we love Christ more? Or when we are tempted to disobey, do we love that thing more? In order for love to be present, There must also be trust. If there is no trust in a relationship, there cannot be genuine love, which of course does not produce the type of obedience that is filled with the desire to. These are all dynamics that we will dive into later on in this book. But for the moment, what we are to understand is that God chose us unto salvation in eternity past. Which was applied to us by the Holy Spirit in time, so that we can become holy and obedient to our King, His Royal Majesty. Jesus. Now let's note for a moment that the final phrase of the sentence is obedience unto Christ. Not unto the blood of Jesus Christ. That certainly wouldn't make sense for us to be obedient unto the blood of Christ. We're to be obedient unto Christ. This obedience has a starting point, and it is a willing obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ. This willing obedience to the gospel continues throughout the remainder of a believer's life. And the gospel becomes the foundation upon which one stands in their sanctification. Peter ends the sentence making reference again to this sprinkling of the blood of Christ. Now, this is referring to the cleansing power of Jesus' sacrifice for us, the means by which we receive forgiveness and redemption. At the Last Supper, if you recall, he referred to the cup as the cup of the New Covenant. And it was the and by the shedding of his blood. To understand this, we have to go back to the historical and formal connection within the scriptures. We have to go back to the time when Moses At the institution of what is called the Mosaic Covenant, sacrificed cattle, he threw half of the blood upon the altar, and the other half he placed before the people. He read aloud the Lord's commands, and after the people promised to obey, he took the remaining blood and did what? He sprinkled them on the people. Now, this is recorded for us in Hebrews chapter 9, which I'll read for us, beginning in verse 19. For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took the blood. of calves and goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you. And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship. Indeed, under the law Almost everything is, here it is, purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. So the purpose of Peter placing this phrase at the end is to remind us that the way in which God executed his plans in eternity past. Was through the implementation of it by the Holy Spirit in our time, so that we may be obedient unto Christ and His gospel is the covenant. The new covenant, which was inaugurated by the sprinkling of Christ's blood, by the shedding of his blood. blood. This means that we as believers, as is given to us in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 22, tells us We can now draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience And our bodies washed with pure water. Our confidence in our salvation comes from the covenant Given by God, which was ratified by the sacrifice that Christ made of Himself. But it is simply not the covenant alone. Our confidence Lies additionally that our God is a covenant-making God, yes, as well as He is a God who keeps his promises. He is trustworthy to his word. Peter ends his greeting by writing that God's grace and peace be yours multiplied. Whereas some translators have it, which I personally prefer, many times over. May you receive God's peace and grace many times over. How warm that is. This is a greeting that was common in the earliest days of Christianity. Its roots are derived from the people of God before the cross. It is referring to the shalom, the wholehearted serenity that one can have via being in a proper relationship with God. Historically, grace was provided and given by God, and that has not changed. But Peter, along with the other foundation stone. Are conveying that the grace that was now connected with the Lord Jesus was what makes peace with God a reality. In the introduction portion of his letter, the Apostle Peter provides for us a powerful statement about the identity of a Christian. He provides a basis by which we can recognize ourselves ontologically as new creatures, existentially and teleologically. Not only that, he gives us the basis by which we can enjoy peace in this life. It is the grace of God, all accomplished by the work of Jesus through the shedding of his blood. blood. So I have some things for you to consider as we are continuing to sojourn in this life We have been chosen by God to have a special relationship with Him. We can delight in Him. We can enjoy Him in good times. And in bad times. Consider how blessed you are as God's elect, being plucked from the fire by our Heavenly Father. To be cleansed of our sins by the blood of the Lamb, so that you can be presented as pure and sinless As a consequence of this reality, commit to a life of loving obedience to God's law Rejoice in becoming more and more holy as you die more and more unto sin. Rejoice in reflecting Christ more and more every day. Live in the relief, knowing that you are not alone. The Holy Spirit is working in and with you to overcome sinful behavior. Live in the joy of knowing that you have peace with God, and that this peace is a secure peace. It's not a tenuous one that may fall apart at any moment. We continually see that within the history of man and even today. As peace has been declared in certain parts of the world in the Middle East, it could unravel so quickly over and over again. The type of peace that we have with God. is secure. Live in the comfort of knowing that God will never abandon you nor forsake you. Live in the security of knowing that the foundation of this peace is through the ironclad, irrevocable Sacrifice Jesus made of himself for you. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We pray, Heavenly Father, that we take to heart. And treasure up what you have taught us. That indeed you have chosen us from eternity past to be your children. And that you have sent the Holy Spirit to apply the crosswork of Christ upon the lives of those whom you have chosen and granted us the faith to be able to believe. And so we thank you, Father, as we consider that all of this active work that you have done is passively received by us. To be enjoyed, to be thankful for, and in turn to give you thanks for what you have done for us. Us. We pray, Father, that we would take comfort in knowing that you are a Father who is the perfect Father Who cares for us, who pities for us, who understands us, and guides us, and provides for us and protects us throughout all of eternity. And we ask that you would help us to glorify you with the reality of what we are and what we are to do. And we ask