Thank you, brother. If you haven't already done so, would you open your Bibles to the 90th Psalm? And as you're turning to the 90th Psalm, I don't know if you're aware that the book of Psalms is a compilation of 150 Psalms, but it is broken down into five. sections or commonly called books. I don't know if you're aware of that, but uh book one is from Psalm 1 to 41. Psalms 42 to 72 is the second book. Book 3 is Psalms 73 to 89. And as you have opened up your Bibles, you'll notice that on Psalm 90, somewhere perhaps on your page, it'll say book number four. And so book 4 is from Psalm 90 to 106, and then 107 to 150 is the final and fifth book of the book of Psalms. Obviously our book study, our psalm study this morning is going to be from the 90th Psalm. I think it would be helpful for us to understand its location within the book of Psalms. as we will go into the exposition of it in just a moment. It's coming off the tail end of the third book of Psalms, as we have just identified. uh which is uh ending in Psalm eighty nine. Uh uh to describe it just a little bit. It really is uh the book the third book of Psalms is uh is really dealing with crisis of faith that Israel has. The book itself, the major themes there is that it addresses issues regarding God's faithfulness and sovereignty in the face of national disaster. and the prosperity of the wicked are major themes within that book. There is a lot of doubt that is expressed in some of some of the Psalms that are in the third book. Uh basically the doubt the the doubt that comes up is that uh an emphasis on why it is that God is a holy judge over both Israel and the nations, uh but yet there are people who are evil that are getting away with things. There is a great deal of lament and there's exile, a lot of psalms that talk about the exile within the third book, which uh uh takes a great deal of the uh uh the time there. And then there is hope amidst despair when it comes to that. So Psalm 90 thematically begins a new chapter, if you will, in the life of Israel. And you'll notice that perhaps in some of your subscripts there it'll say that it is a prayer that is offered and is attributed to Moses himself. It's interesting that the compilers of the book of Psalms, in order to maintain a uh a thematic unity as well as there's a direction that it's going in, uh, begin Psalm sorry, I should say, begin the fourth book by going looking towards the future by going backwards. And that is going to a a psalm that was written by sorry, a prayer that was written by Moses. And so this is happening at a much later time that is entering into the psalmity itself. In contrast, basically the psalm itself is in contrast to God's eternal nature is the frailty and the shortness of human life. Acknowledging sin's role in suffering, but pleading for God's wisdom, favor, and a renewed joy to find meaning It ultimately stakes its hope on seeking refuge and purpose in God as an everlasting home. It's a call to number our days wisely, to live purposefully, seeking God's blessing and also for lasting significance. Those are questions I think that we we as human beings, if we, and when we get contemplative, we ask those really deep questions of life, don't we? What is the meaning of life? Why am I alive? Those are questions that, you know, the people spend a great deal of time pondering and write many treatises on these things. But I think that Moses goes a lot further than that here. He he actually tackles the other side. of that question, what is the meaning of life? He asks the question, why do we die? Why is there even death? You know, we we really don't ask that question, right? There's many philosophers, uh spiritists, and so forth that that answer the question, what happens after you die? They'll propose ideas, but no one really asks the question, why do we have to die? And I think it's a very profound question. And Moses offers here not only what it is that we are supposed to do in life, the meaning of life, the purpose of life, but he also answers the question. Why do we die? That is a very profound question for us to consider and then give it some thought and see what the scripture says. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? It is Psalm 90. Hear now the Word of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations, before the mountains were brought forth or ever you had formed on the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You return, man to dust, and say, Return, O children of man, for a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. In the evening it fades and withers. For we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty, yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us And establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Join me in prayer if you would. Heavenly Father, all flesh is grass and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers and the flowers fall, but the word of our God endures forever. We pray, Holy Spirit. That you would open our minds and understanding to this reality as we study through the 90th Psalm. Equip our minds this day with what this psalm teaches us about God, ourselves. And the joy that His Son has set before us. And we pray this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. As we read through this psalm, there is one theme that immediately juts out, doesn't it? It's about time. And there are different ways in which time is referred to in this psalm. The psalm wants us to reflect upon time as it relates to God and mankind. There is time everywhere in this psalm. Psalm is filled with all sorts of anxieties upon which many books have been published. Can what we do, what man accomplishes in life be established? Will what I do matter? Will I be remembered? What must I be doing while I'm alive? So it is my hope that by the time that we finish this morning, we will see that Jesus is the answer to all of these anxieties. So the Psalm is broken up into two major sections. The first is from verses 1 through 12, and the remainder is from 13 to 17. It appears that the first section is a is a lament over human mortality. And the second is a series of petitions. Let's not forget that this is a prayer. It's a series of petitions that the man of God For whom the title is given to Moses. There's also the title that was given to the rest of the prophets in Scripture. They were known as the man of God. The quintessential prophet that the people of God were looking for was none other than Jesus himself. It has been suggested, and I think suggested well, that this psalm may be a way in which the church can pray along with Jesus as a petition to God for the church itself. So let's take a look at the first two verses It begins, verses 1 and 2, begin with an assurance that the abode of the people of God is with our God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations, even before the mountains were brought forth Wherever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Moses says this, he repeats this in a sense in Deuteronomy chapter 33 and verse 27 to the people of God. He says, the eternal God is your dwelling place. When this word usage is employed, it suggests a hiding place. Hence, it can be used as a refuge. When we consider this in the context of the church, obviously post the cross, we think of Colossians 3. 3 and see ourselves as hidden in Christ in God. That is, Christ is our refuge and our strength. The words to be brought forth and formed are words that hearken to birthing themes. To be formed, to be brought forth. Just like God birthed Israel into existence Deuteronomy 32, 18. The themes of this psalm suggest the creative power of birthing all of creation. into existence. These immediately should move our minds to the immenseness, the power, and of course, the eternality of God Himself. This will, later in the Psalm, come into direct contact with the contrast with the transitoriness of mankind. The idea of God's people fixing upon God as their dwelling place is an important notion for this psalm. Moses begins his prayer with this very important thought. He will contrast this. With the doom and gloom and hopelessness that man now finds himself, and it also is the escape from it. Now the second part of this first section begins with verse 3 and goes through verse 6. Let us not lose sight that this is a prayer to God. And this section is petitioning for us to recognize our limited time. This is what we need to take away from this, to recognize our limited time. We are just transient. In comparison to God. So Moses is searching his mind to make comparisons for us to understand really the difference. However, as we come into recognition of the fact, the hope is that we see our need, our desperate need for a dwelling place with Almighty God. Once you recognize the difference, it is hoped that you will see your need for a hiding place, a dwelling place with God. Now may it Moses lays all of this down before he reveals the cause for all this, which of course is ultimately sin. Dust means matter that is crushed. We see this word again appearing in Isaiah 53. 10. prophesying that it will be the will of the Lord to crush him. The Father spoke these words, didn't he? Return to the dust to his son on the cross, as he was crushed for us. The second line in verse four emphasizes the first, you know, the first the the the it is the reality That God is the one that ordains when any man or any woman or any group of people will have their lives end. We don't have an appeals process. None of us knows when this is, and there is nothing that we can do to delay it. Verse 4 provides three comparisons for us to consider the temporal distinctions between man and God. Starting from 1,000 years. This is an unimaginably long period of time. It is simply unimaginable for us to think of living 200 years or 300 years. But the idea is that There is an immense difference between who God is and what we are. Now, it's not saying here that 1,000 years is literally a day for God, but rather it's making a point. that life is very short for us. He then moves on to yesterday, something that is past and gone. So soon, so quickly, and we can't have it back. It's funny, fortunes can be made Fortunes can be lost and fortunes can be remade. But our days are gone and they won't come back. And right down to finally a night watch, which was known as a third of a night, again goes by so quickly. Now verses 5 and 6 are more images to show us what it means when God decrees return to dust. In verse 5, we're told that God sweeps them away as with a flood. The flood, coming as Calvin puts it, is an invisible deluge. coming and sweeping us away. Dreams are fleeting, are they not? They disappear from our memory. Even as we come out of slumber, desperately hoping to cling on to the events of that dream, it just disappears. Gone. Life is so fragile and something that cannot be held on to We have to then recognize that our lives are brief and at the Creator's will. Verses 7 through 11 brings into stark reality of God's justice and his holiness. Mankind is under the wrath of God. May I add, under the restrained wrath of God, man was rebellious and disobedient when sin entered into the world. So did death. These verses bring forth the realities of mankind's existence. We are brought to an end by God's anger because of sin, because of our rebelliousness. Nothing is hidden from an all-knowing God. Our secret sins are before Him, and so are our fears. And in broad strokes, they really are two, two fears. The first is our sin before God. And the second is the certainty of death. They are, of course, related to one another. Man's conscience knows that there is a price to be paid before a holy God. When man sins His conscience is pricked. His soul is pricked because he knows that he is being disobedient. But is it in the light of understanding our condition that we are destined for death? That the grace of God and the comfort of the gospel can be embraced and enjoyed by those who receive it. Seventy years was considered in Moses' time as an exceptional number of years. And he continues in that passage by saying, and by reason of strength suggests a sort of like a remarkable vigor along with that. And thereby a person tries to extend their life with perhaps a decade. So if one lives a long life with vitality and even superior intellect, Those years of life are filled with toil and trouble. And they flee so quickly. They pass so swiftly. They are gone before we know it. Job says in 14, 1 and 2, man who is born of woman is few of days. And full of trouble. He comes out like a flower and withers. And the verse ends with its completeness. And we fly away. Verse 11 completes this section and asks, who, who considers Literally, it means it states, who knows? Another way of saying this is the following. Who grasps the message of what is behind God's anger? Isn't this so important for man to get perfectly correct? If you are able to grasp what is behind the wrath of God Well then you will know why we die. You will know that you need help You will know that you don't stand up or measure up. You need help It is so important for man to grasp why God is angry. Now in the next line here, trying to understand this, there's really two choices. What may behind this is the following. The first one is that we are right to be very frightened. of you, God, because you are very angry. Or the second one, which I tend to lean on, is if we grasp the intensity of your righteous anger against sinners, then we will live in irreverent fear of you. I think that that's both of them are plausible, but I I think that the latter is the appropriate one, as the next verse seems to fit well with the sentiment and this petition, which is so teach us to number our days that we may get A heart of wisdom. Now this portion of the prayer is the response to verses 3 through 11. Numbering our days can be interpreted as knowing the number of days we have left. Indeed, they have been foreordained. For in Psalm 139, 16, it is revealed that God has ordained all of our days, even before a single one was ever lived out. But to number our days is so that we may know that each day we have is but a gift from God. However, death should be a realization that it is punishment for disobedience to our Creator. that he is a God who should be taken seriously. And that a heart of wisdom is not so we can know how to have our best life now or Wisdom to be wealthy or wisdom to be prosperous, it is not so that we can learn the secrets of being healthy for a long life. But this wisdom looks back to verse 1, seeking in the eternal God, who is Our dwelling place. That is the wisdom that we need Dr. Derek Kittner, in his commentary, states of this theme in Psalm 90 the following. Perhaps nowhere outside the book of Ecclesiastes is the fact of death so resolutely faced. Or the fear of God explicitly related to it. And here is the tragedy. Here is the tragedy of the knowledge of death for mankind. It is that it does not lead to repentance. Death has written upon its chest sin, disobedience, righteous punishment. When mankind ponders death, does he arrive at the fact that he has sinned against God and needs to repent from his sin? Or be rescued by God. You see, we as human beings, we are to make good use of this time that we have. To understand this and to come to this truth. We must accept God's grace in our lives before the night comes. And then we must make good use of the day while there is still daylight. Now, the plea here Is that, in verses 13 to 17, is that God would turn. Do you see that in the passage? That God would turn or return. Within the context of Moses' time, remember this is when it's being written. Moses' time, and this prayer is constructed in that era, is for a restoration. Of the covenant blessings to Israel who had plucked, who had been plucked out of Pharaoh's hand. Y'all remember that? In verse 14, the word satisfy is used and has the meaning of experiencing satisfaction after a delightful and filling meal. It is an image of a desire fulfilled. The morning in Scripture has the imagery of bringing hope. It is in the morning that hope comes. And God acting with mercy. So verse 14 asks for God to return so that they may experience joy and gladness. Now, this is the opposite of what has already been described as we've gone through of being God's wrath, right? Moses is asking for a reversal of their situation. It is no less than a resurrection of relations provided by God. Now being in the light Of being under the New Covenant and in the Interadvent time. We as Christians should pray this prayer as unto His Majesty. Return, O Lord! O how long. Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, for us to suffer, being in a world that is godless. and the stench of spiritual death is all around us as we see evil daily Suffer at the hands of it daily. See our neighbors suffer at evil's hand daily. Verse 15 continues, that by his favor upon us we can be glad. even when we see or experience troubles and disasters in whatever number of years that we have left. What we can see from this prayer is that Moses Well, really, he's praying in a prophetic way for God's remedy for sin, is he not? We cannot enter into a relationship with God to dwell with God without a remedy for sin. Impossible. He is way too holy. Moses is praying for that remedy. Do you not see it? How interesting is it not that the compilers of the book of Psalm place this as the head of the fourth book right after? Exile and melancholy and lament is what is experienced in the third. There's hope that is being offered to the people of God in their song book, in their prayer book. The remedy for sin. That's what they're being reminded of. The remedy for your sin, for your sin, is none other than the Messiah. The Christ, the Lord Jesus, he is the remedy for our sin, is he not? This is when you guys say amen. All right, all right. We'll start the new year off that way It is he, Jesus, who bridges us to God, so that we may rejoice and be glad, even in the troubles of life. And the reality of death. And that death has yet to be swallowed up as the return of the king comes. For those who see an understanding and have an understanding now of the meaning of death. Now would be a wonderful time to repent, to turn away from your sins. And to go towards that remedy that God has given to us for our sin, the Lord Jesus. Verse 16, you see in the petition, he continues, Moses is asking God that he may reveal his work of salvation. his rescue operation to his servants and their children. This is covenantal language, is it not? And God has done that, hasn't He, in Christ. His work of rescue and restoration is the gospel. The good news of Jesus Christ. And he has revealed it and will continue to reveal it to his servants and their children. Now we should look at verse 17 and pray that whatever it is that we do in this life That it is something that has lasting implications. Not for us, not for our memory. Not for our glory, but for the glory of Christ. And that is where we come to a church community. That is where we come to us as a church community. Right here in Laurel. Let us pray that the Lord Jesus would use this church to bring glory to himself, that he would bring glory to the Father for many generations, and that perhaps it would be a vibrant and viable community of believers in Christ, even till the return of Christ. Now wouldn't that be wonderful? Verse 17 uses the word favor. Now this word has the flavor of beauty and pleasantness. And the line ends with, Let it be upon us. We can look at the first line of this verse as Christ Himself, can't we? In verse 17. The phrase, the works of our hands, refers to anything. that the community of God does under the covenant blessings of God. To establish, continuing on in the verse, means to construct something that lasts. It can be used in the context of a building or perhaps an even long-lived dynasty. This is the answer to the question of what will last. What will be established? What will have an eternal impact? It is to pursue the Christ. By God. This is what we must do in order for all our works to not be in vain. As the perfect and greater Moses prayed this prayer It was answered at his resurrection when he is seated in the position of power. And we can see it All written out for us in 1 Corinthians 15, 58, which is what I will finish with today. Therefore, my beloved brothers Be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord Your labor is not in vain. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for your grace. And we thank you for answering Moses' prayer. And we thank you that we see it. In your Son, the Lord Jesus, who has come, who has rescued us from our own sins, who has rescued us from eternal death. We have life now because of his sacrifice. But more importantly, From escaping hell. More importantly, we have you You who are our dwelling place, that we have refuge in you, For with you there is life. There is steadfastness in you. There is satisfying love in you. May we, as we enter into 2026, Heavenly Father, Be reminded of that each and every day for the rest of our lives. Looking forward to serving you. Glorifying you in whatever we do, looking to see you to establish the works of our hands for your glory. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.