And so this morning we begin with First Corinthians. Before we get into this text a little bit more specifically, I'd like to begin by giving some background information on a couple of things on the book of First Corinthians. I believe this is helpful for us to orient ourselves in the broader context of Scripture, the gospel work of the first century as well. Now, uh I'm going to first focus on the date of its writing, what the history of missionary work was in Korin. The number of letters that Paul wrote to the church at Corinth, and a bit about the city, its history, and culture that will give color to the book as we go forward. We will then go into the first nine verses where we will consider our second point, which is calling. And then afterwards we will get to our third point, which is perseverance. So the second is calling, and the third will be on perseverance. So, the letter itself was written by the Apostle Paul to the church at Corinth. Many scholars have placed this book to be approximately anywhere from 53 to 57 A. D. and believe that he wrote it when he was ministering in the city of Ephesus. Paul is known to have had three missionary journeys, and this is the very near the end of the third journey. as uh is uh found in Acts chapter 19. When he first arrived, that is Paul, when he first arrived in Corinth, he began to preach in the synagogue as he was prone to do. He was in the city for approximately a year and a half. After having proclaimed Christ in the synagogue, it got to the point that he was opposed by the Jews. And Acts 18 says he was reviled. So he left the synagogue and continued to proclaim Christ to the Gentiles. Local Jewish leadership gathered to get a local Roman authority, his name was Gallio, to go after and try the Apostle Paul. They were refused and told that they need to handle it themselves. So in verse 17 in chapter 18 of Acts, they seized Sosthenes. the ruler of the synagogue at that time, and they beat him in front of the proconsul, who, by the way, did nothing about that also. The reason I bring this up is because in the greetings from Paul, which we will read in just a moment, he gives greetings along with a Sosthenes. We have to say that we cannot be 100% sure that is the very same Sosthenes that's being mentioned here, but it could very well have been him Crispus, as we see in verse 8 in chapter 18 of Acts, was the previous synagogue leader who had converted, not only him, but also his family had converted. It could have very easily been, uh, that is, for Sosthenes, after the beating he got, perhaps because he was uh as some have said that he was soft on Paul when he went before the the procurator. And so what they did was they turned around and beat him for that. And that perhaps may have been a reason why he went sour on Judaism and said, let me reconsider Christianity. Now the as far as the letters go, the Holy Spirit has preserved for us, 1 and 2 Corinthians. But it is believed that there were a total of four letters that Paul wrote to the church at Corinth, the first of which is not preserved for us. It's ought to have been written because when we look at 1 Corinthians 5. 9, that's 1 Corinthians 5. 9, Paul states I wrote to you in my letter, and then he goes on to say what it was. And so that is perhaps the reason why we have uh that is the first letter that was sent. The second letter, which we do have, which is what we're going to be studying now, that is 1 Corinthians, was written perhaps in 54 to 55, I mentioned earlier. Then we have what's often called the sorrowful or the severe letter. This would be the third that I'm referencing It's conjecture to be the third letter that was written after a painful but short visit to the city. We get this from looking at 2 Corinthians. Uh chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, and then also chapter 7 and 8. There's a reference made there, and I'll I'll try to get read this for you here. Um It says, For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit to you, for I c if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained? And I wrote as I did. There's the reference again. So that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice. And he says in verse 4, For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart, and with many tears, not to cause you pain, but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you. And then in verse 8, for if even if I made you grieve with my letter, there's the grieving, right? I do not regret it, though I did regret it. It says, for I see that that letter grieved you. And finally, written from Macedonia, we have 2 Corinthians, which would be the fourth book that I referenced. This is after Titus brought encouraging news. That the church had responded positively to the so-called sorrowful letter. Nonetheless, we have what the Holy Spirit wanted the church to possess Private letters, specifically meant for the church in Corinth, have stayed, well, private. We can see this when he says, that is Paul, basically, that there are other things I need to address, but those things I will deal with you when I get there. In the second half of 1 Corinthians 11. 34, he basically says that. Second half of 11 Corinthians 11. 34 states, About the other things I will give direction. I will give instruction when I come. What we have in 1st and 2nd Corinthians is the circular nature of the letters. That is to say, they are for the entire church. Throughout all ages. Other possible letters are private to that church. And that is how they remain to this very day Now, let's take a look at the city of Corinth very briefly. The city of Corinth was leveled by Rome in about 200 BC. And it stayed level for approximately 100 years. About 100 BC, Rome decided that it was going to rebuild the city of Corinth And it did. And it became a major city of commerce. The city's patron god was that of Poseidon. It was populated by retired Ligoneers, Legioneers, and their families. Its geographic location made it a natural economic powerhouse, as it had roads to the empire as well as an important port for trade. The city itself had 500,000 inhabitants. That's a tremendous number for a city back then, and quite frankly, for a city today, 500,000 is a lot of people. Keep in mind that in the city of Rome itself, the most populated, they had one million inhabitants. In the ancient world, There were what's called pan-Hellenistic Games, of which the most well-known is the Olympics. Well, there was another that was held just on the outskirts of Corinth, known as the Isthmus Games Now you try to pronounce that fast four times, and you'll see it's rather difficult. It was held every other year. That means every two years the games were held. It was second in prestige to the Olympics as we understand them at that time. Not only were there competitions in athletics and fighting, but there were equestrian Musical competitions, poetry. And under that category, there were oratory competitions as well as rhetoric competitions. All of these areas were highly prized by the Corinthian citizens. But the issue of oratory and rhetoric will become a gospel concern, and also it will be a source of attack upon Paul's credibility. But we will get to that when we ultimately arrive at those passages. Finally, Roman culture was a culture of patronage. Honor and shame. Wealth came from patronage. Gifting was a very important thing for political relationships As well as personal relationships. Honor also came from wealth, and people lived and made decisions with the fear of being shamed publicly. With all that in mind, let us turn our passage this morning, which is from 1 Corinthians 1, verses 1 through 9. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? This is the Word of God. Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes. To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who are in every place. Call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours. Grace to you, and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. I give thanks to my God always for you, because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. That in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge, even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you. So that you are not lacking in any gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would be with us this morning as we study the Word of God. We thank you for it, and we thank you that you have preserved it. And we pray now that you would help us to understand more and more of what it is that we are. Of who we are in Christ and how we have been called to serve Him. And we ask all of these things for the glory of God and in Jesus' name. Amen. So Paul's occasion for writing this letter is that he has gotten word that there are problems in the church at Corinth. And he has set to address these issues by writing this letter. These are issues that Well, since then, many churches have encountered, and all churches are susceptible to And instead of getting right to those issues, we have Paul expressing his belief And confidence that there is a power and an ability to resolve these issues But his hope and his confidence is not in himself, and neither is it in the Corinthians. Now I think that should give us hope. That should give us hope. When we see that things are not going the way the scripture says a church should. Our hope should not be in ourselves. So let's take a look at this confidence and hope that Paul has. First, he says that you were sanctified. Past tense. Completed. Done. This is not referring to the continuous act. This is the in the next thought that we will see that that's what he means. He also has that in mind. But here, sanctified means to be set aside for holy purposes of God. They were called, they were set aside for holy purposes. I think that uh many of you know that I used to work in healthcare and I used to work in hospitals. And so whenever I would go into work, I would, on occasion, most of the time actually, bring my own meal with me, and at time to time I needed to have a knife. to be able to cut whatever I had. And if you have ever been in hospitals and work in hospitals, you will typically find that there are those plastic knives. that are very easily broken when you have um, I don't know, second day or third day leftovers. And so, um, now I'm not saying I did this, but hypothetically, you know, if I said to myself, you know, I this is just not working out for me, I need a nicer knife to be able to cut. Well, you know, I work in a hospital, so I could go into the operating room and get a really nice knife to be able to cut my meat, right? But if I were to do that and walk in, I'm certain that the nurses would look at me and say, stop, you can't do that. That's for a particular purpose. It's been set aside for another purpose. That's what we have here when Paul is saying that we have been sanctified. We have been taken out And set aside for a particular purpose as the people of God. We are sanctified. Then the introduction we have to Paul's confidence comes from his giving thanks. He says that he gives thanks to God for them. However, he expresses his thankfulness, not for anything in the Corinthian church. Did you notice that? The recipient of his thankfulness is God for what God has done in and to the Corinthians Now, this puts the focus back on God and what God has accomplished. They're living in a society that gauges honor and success by what you accomplish. Paul is about to point out that there's a level playing field in the church. And it should continue to be a level playing field also throughout the church's life Basis for this is, as we back up now from verse 4 to verse 1, we see that Paul uses the word call or calling several times in these verses. Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle, verse 2 to the church, called to be believers Verse 9 again. God is faithful by whom you were called into the fellowship of his son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. The call that he has in mind here is that it is God who is doing the calling into his kingdom. When we come across the word call, it generally means the proclamation of the gospel, the call to repent and to place faith in Christ so that you may be saved. Hearing the gospel does not have the power in itself to save. Many people hear the gospel, don't they? But not all are saved We see this in the parable of the soils very clearly. And Matthew chapter 22 and verse 14 tells us the following: For many are called. But few are chosen. Please note, it says many are called. That's the gospel call. It doesn't say, but few choose. It says, few are chosen. It's passive. It is God's choice. So the proclamation of the gospel is a general call. But for it to save, it must be what we call an effectual call. It must be a call given, issued by God The effectual call is empowered by the call of Christ, and it is applied to us by the work of the Holy Spirit, who resurrects us from the dead. That is, we are spiritually dead and unable to do anything about it. The example that best illustrates this is that of Lazarus' situation. He was dead. But came to life when Jesus gave him to call to arise. The Bible tells us that we are spiritually dead, and we need to be raised from that deadness. Salvation is all from God. It is a work of God from beginning to end. So Paul says that even his call to be an apostle was by God. He did not get saved by God and then decided on his own that he wanted to be an apostle. He was called to do what God called him to do. He reminds us. It was nothing in them that resulted in salvation in their lives. It is nothing in us that leads us to our salvation. He says that it was because of the grace of God which was given to them. It was a gift. So let's think this through Scripture doesn't convey the notion that the motivating reason for choosing you, myself, or placing his love upon you is based upon anything in you or me or in us. Or anything that we've done in this life that earns us God's love. It is because He is love. And is merciful that he even chose to make a way of redemption. Not only are we the object of his love, but the beneficiary of the fact that he is love. Now if you're thinking to yourself, wow. I can't believe how blessed I am. I think you're thinking the right thing. I didn't deserve it. I didn't earn it. What I deserve is condemnation from God. What I have earned is condemnation from God. But I have been gifted grace instead through love. This is what Paul wants them and us to be thinking as well, especially in this part of the book. Paul's confidence does not end in knowing that it was God who started a work in them. He's about to deal with some very thorny issues within the church And what he next expresses in what he has confidence for working out and working through those issues is his hope and confidence is the very same. It is God. He says in verse 8, He will sustain you till the end. Guiltless in the day of the Lord. This, of course, overlaps a couple of doctrines. For example, it talks about the justification of the saints. It has reference to eschatology But it also speaks of the perseverance, the perseverance of the saints in faith. This means that true believers won't in the end apostatize. That is, leave the faith. And how is this so? It is because God keeps his word. God is faithful. But we humans not so faithful. So for example, when we make resolutions, our track record is not so good. And frankly, that's an understatement, right? The Fisher College of Business, part of Ohio State University, conducted a study on the percentage of New Year's resolutions. They discovered, here's some of the findings, by the first week, approximately 23% of us give up on our resolution. By the end of January, it's between 43 and 64 percent. That's almost two-thirds. And what did the Fisher study discover regarding those that carry out their New Year's resolutions? Only from 1 to 6% actually achieve their goals. One final thing I discovered. There's something, those that are resolution researchers, they have a term. They call it Quitter's Day. Do you know, like Secretary's Day or whatever it might be, they have an official Quitter's Day. This is the day that most people abandon their goals. You want to guess when Quitter's Day is? It's nowhere near April 15. It's the second Friday in January. I guess we can only handle one weekend before we say, I'm not so sure. I need to do this. God will always accomplish what he has set out to do. He chose you before the foundations of the earth He sent his son to die in your place. He called you out of death and resurrected you to life. And he will persevere you in faith to the end. Not until the second Friday in January. Till he tells us the day of the Lord Jesus. It is God who finishes the job. Jesus will keep us to the very end. Let us not despair, brothers and sisters When we see the church in disarray today. Let us not be sorrowful when we see the church take a gut punch In parts of the world that at one time were perhaps even the stronghold of our faith. My hope is not in myself. You see, I have throughout the years, my years that I've been a Christian, doubts because of my sin. I have throughout my years had doubts because of others' sins. And I know that if I had hope in myself to persevere, I would fail. I am thankful that he will persevere me to the end. I will not fall. I will not fail. I have, and I probably will be shaken. I have, and I will probably be tempted. I will have doubts But God is the one who keeps me in faith to the end. Do you sometimes think something along the line of I got this. I got this. I have been a Christian for years now, well, frankly, decades now. I've had some pretty challenges in in my faith, but I have survived. I got this Be careful. Remember, you are called to faith. And you are sustained in faith by the work of God, not in your own ability. Your hope is not in your ability to abide in God. It is because of God's ability to abide in you. Well, I don't know about you, but I need to be reminded of this. Frankly, over and over again. And when I am, it brings relief to my heart and it brings relief to my soul. It causes me to consider why I had doubts in the first place and then to address them. Are you today having doubts about your faith? Are you having doubts about God's faithfulness in your life? I want you to know that they are not unnatural. They are carefully placed traps at times by the enemy. wanting you to be fruitless in your service to God. Well, frankly, wanting you to just give up I want you to see them as opportunities. Opportunities to address the cause of the doubts I don't know about you. But I can have joy in the midst of sorrow. I can have joy in the midst of physical pain. I can have joy when I'm in very difficult circumstances and situations in life. But I'll tell you that it's very difficult to have joy when I have doubt. In God. Doubt is such a joy robber. When I am remanded that my calling was God's And he will persevere me to the end. That salvation is of the Lord. I have my joy back. So what are we to do then when we know what is causing us to have doubt? Well, we need to be re we need to go through repentance. We need to identify. We need to confess and we need to repent. God is faithful. He doesn't start something that he does not finish. This is simply because of his character Nothing can prevent him from finishing what he has started. He is trustworthy. This is the hope in which Paul has This is his confidence. So God is faithful God is faithful in the midst of all the problems that we will face and that we are facing Paul says God is there. He is trustworthy and he is confident. And he wants the church to be confident in God. We must be careful to not place our confidence in the wrong place. When I say we, I'm talking about our church. Our confidence for the success of the church, our hope in the future of the church, should be placed firmly in God because he is faithful. Our confidence should not be placed in programs, leadership, methodology, and so forth. No, it must be placed in Jesus. Who also said that the gates of hell shall not prevail against his bride. This is a great reminder to us. We have to remember that the hope we have as a church is not in what we can do individually and corporately. It's in what God will do. through us. And we should be confident that we have what we have, what we need, in order to do whatever it is that God has called us to do. Within the church, because we lack nothing. And Paul is bringing that out in his first nine verses. Each of our and combined gifts and talents that the Lord has given us all that we need in order to do what He has called us to do within this body of Christ. And as we shall see, none of us should think that I am just able to do such and such. As if to say, you know, I'm only a hair follicle. I'm not an eye. Or a finger, just a stinking hair follicle. You know, many of us need hair follicles. We are all equal in God's sight and equally important Let us not think too lowly of ourselves in God's economy, nor should we see ourselves too highly either. No. This doesn't mean that we just stop and do nothing and wait for the Lord to do all things. We continue to serve the Lord. And one another with confident hope that God will do what He wishes to do in our midst for his glory. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we thank you. And we are relieved that it is salvation of the Lord. We thank you for extending it to us. For giving us a call, an effectual call to trust in your Son, the Lord Jesus. We pray, Father, that you would help us to remember all these things. Not to think too highly of ourselves, not to think too lowly of ourselves, but to see Us as you see us, equal in Christ, for which we are so thankful We ask that you would be pleased to glory yourself amongst your people here at this embassy. Perhaps even until the return of Christ. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.