If you would, remain standing while I read from Proverbs chapter 4, verse, starting at verse 20 and going to the end of the chapter. This is again Solomon speaking My son, give attention to my words, incline your ear to my sayings, do not let them depart from your eyes, keep them in the midst of your heart, for they are life to those who find them, and health to all their flesh. Interestingly enough, what is this first admonition here? Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it spring the issues of life. Put away from you a deceitful mouth, and put perverse lips far from you. Let your eyes look straight ahead and your eyelids look right before you. Ponder the path of your feet. Let all your ways be established. Do not turn to the right or the left. Remove your foot from evil. Please be seated. This is the word of God. Amen. As I said before, I hope this is actually a little bit of a twist on what maybe you think I may be going, but I'll I'll let uh time tell whether that's the case or not. Uh many of you probably remember that word, uh that movie, Silence of the Lambs. Uh Hannibal Lecter is played by An actor that cannot remember his name, but he plays a very evil man who uh uh kills. And uh Jody Foster plays an FBI agent who's trying to tap into his mind because he is a serial killer. She wants to know the mind of a serial killer because they're trying to track one down. So she continues to visit him to try to understand how is it that a serial killer thinks in order to try to prevent the next death from occurring. And I think many of you, if you've seen that movie, you know where this goes. What is his answer? She says, he says to her, he comets. And in those two words, she pieces together that the first victim must have been somehow in plain eyesight to this serial killer. So she goes back to the grounds of the first killing. and eventually solves the crime. Now I'm bringing this up to you because I would suggest to you that there's something that comes before coveting. Before we even covet something, we must do something else. And I would suggest to you that we have to have an affection first. That in order for me to covet something, there must first be an affection for that thing. And as that affection is allowed to grow and to build, I think it then becomes a coveting. So even preceding coveting is this affection. And what is Solomon saying? He's saying, guard your hearts. Guard your hearts. Which has to do with the affections. We'll get more into that. But let's look at a couple other examples of those who did not guard your hearts. And I think these are straightforward examples. I'm sure all my young ones could could easily rattle these off, but in 2 Samuel Chapter 11, verse 1 and following. What do we read? It happened in the spring of the year, at the time when kings go out to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him, and all Israel. And they destroyed the people of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David remained at Jerusalem. And the scriptures seem to speak that he should not have remained at Jerusalem. But what do we read? Then it happened one evening that David arose from his bed and walked in the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman bathing, and the woman was very beautiful to behold. So what is being started in motion here? God gives a good thing, right? He gives the beauty of the woman. And there's a certain sense in which affection is not evil, but what does he then do? He covets, right? He covets that which is not his. Point number one. Actually, I'm still in my introduction, so if you're trying to take notes, I'm in the introduction. I have five points total. This is still the intro. Let's read about Solomon. Now I think you probably know the story of Solomon as well, but I'll see if we recap. Another ugly scene from the scriptures. God obviously he pulls no punches. He paints his saints in all their ugliness, which I think is a testimony to its truth. And what do we read of Solomon after reading of a number of chapters? of his wisdom, of his desiring to lead God's people, what do we read in chapter 11? We read, but King Solomon loved many foreign women, as well as the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites from the nations of whom the Lord had said to the children of Israel, You shall not intermarry with them, nor they with you. Surely they will turn away your hearts after their gods. Solomon clung to these in love. So what do we see once again? Well my point, or at least a point here, is that they are not, these two men did not guard the affections of their hearts They took something very legitimate, didn't they not? Something very God-given, something very good, right? They allowed it to go beyond that which God permitted They didn't guard the affections of their hearts. Now in this particular case, I know I've chosen the situation of men going after women If I thought more like a woman, I could probably cite some things that are more, women are more prone to, but you'll be spared from that, my dear sisters, because I'm I'm not able to think like a woman all that well. So pardon me if I give examples that are more suited for the men One of the other reasons why I wrote or I read those two is that David and Solomon also represent situations that I think somewhat mirror our own. Do we covet food? Do we covet clothing? Do we covet shelter? Are we so poor that we lack these basic necessities of life? I would say not. That's not where our coveting goes. That's not where the inclinations of our heart leads. That's not where these desires go. In a sense, I think we're more like David and Solomon. And we are more likely not to be lured by these basics, but by other things. We have these basics, praise God. He has given these things to us. But we're learned, we are tempted with other things, are we not? Well, with that as an introduction. Let me get to point number two. What is our heart? Okay? We're talking about guarding our hearts. What biblically is the heart? And what we find, for example, is that We can look at that text that I just read about guarding our hearts. And if we do a more careful study, and I'm not going to go into great detail here, but what I'll say is that The heart is more than the seed of emotion. We tend to take it as the seed of emotion in this day, but it's more than that in the Hebrew literature It is not only the seat of emotion, but the seat of the will. It's the seat of of the mind. So the mind, the will, the emotions are all bound up in the heart such that it becomes the basis then of that outward working of our character We outwork from that, but it is the source of that which we speak, that which we do. It is that essence of us in Hebrew literature. So again, keep in mind it's not just emotions, but but it's also our central being. And what does the scripture say about our hearts? Well, it it has some good things to say, but it also has some bad things. So for example, Perhaps some of you can quote to me Jeremiah 17. 9. Jeremiah 17. 9 reads, The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? I, the Lord, search the heart, I test the mind, even to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings. We are given here a text that shows how wicked the heart can be. And indeed, we know that by nature we are wicked. So one of the things that we dare not trust then is some sort of an intrinsic goodness in that heart. Such that we never stop guarding that heart. And that's my point here. We need to not stop guarding. That even as believers of turned hearts, we still have inclinations and patterns that remain such that we are still reminded to guard our hearts. I know of no New Testament text that says, Now that I've changed your heart, you no longer have to guard it, says the Lord. Well I'm not familiar with such a text. And from that, I can only infer that even though we have new hearts, we are still to guard those hearts because they can be turned ever so deviously, right? Ever so slightly, ever so slowly, ever so deceitfully. Correct? But what else do we read in Psalm 37 We read of the heart in a slightly different way, and now we read in Psalm 37, verse 30 and 31. The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom and his tongue talks of justice. The law of God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide. So We see the heart here spoken of in two ways, correct? It's spoken of as deceitfully and as desperately wicked, but at the same time a heart which can be informed by the Word of God. And in fact, that's one application I would give to you today that you would take from here is don't ever stop reading your Bibles. That those of you who do not regularly read your Bibles, I'm afraid you are placing yourself in that situation where the enemy can subtly deceive you away. And that's why we're encouraged to use the means of grace, to participate in worship, to read the Word of God daily, that this word continues to work in our hearts, right? And we're not deceived. Remember the Lord of the Rings? What was the ring? It was a symbol of great power. Now, in the Lord of the Rings, in the picture that it paints, were men attracted to it because they wished to dominate the earth in wickedness. I would suggest to you no. I mean, certainly Sauron may have wished it, wished for it in that way. But what we find is that men who are ordinarily civilly righteous men, men who seek to do what is good, who seek to do what is right, they are tempted for it. They are tempted to gain it. Why? Because they wish to use its power for good. But what is the problem with that ring? Now, Tolkien seems to rightly understand that when we gain such power, what happens? The human heart is such that it becomes subtly seduced, such that the use of that power is then towards evil. And we have the maxim today, correct? Power corrupts, but absolute power corrupts absolutely. We tend towards such evil very easily. We are easily seduced. That's why we must guard our hearts. And by the way, I think the Groundhog Day, that movie The Groundhog Day, and I'm sure it was a dismal movie night for the teens that we had. I gave them my analysis of that movie and I I'm as I left it I'm sure it was a very downer of an evening. But as delightful as that movie is, a man lives every he lives Groundhog Day over and over and over again. until his behavior becomes good. And then all of a sudden he's able to get outside of Groundhog Day. And I just still would suggest to you, I don't think that'll ever happen. I think that mankind in that situation would use that power for absolute wickedness. And he would never emerge from that pattern outside of the grace of God. He would continue to descend and descend and descend. And in that sense, I think the movie is deceptive. It's a very pleasant story. It's a beautiful love story. But I think its theology is quite inaccurate, to tell you the truth. So we are speaking of the heart. And we must guard it because it is deceptive. We guard it by putting in the Word of God into it, right? There's certainly one avenue of it. Okay, so point number one is what is the heart? What are we to do then? I would suggest that we are to love God. Now I know this is not saying anything new to you. What do we know from the scriptures? We are to love God with all our heart and soul and strength of mind. If you go back to Deuteronomy 6. 5, which Jesus quotes, what was the point of saying, Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one, you shall love him with all your heart and soul and strength? What was the point there? The Hebrew point was totality, right? I mean it's not hard to understand, but that was the point. You were to love him with every ounce of your being, with every capability you have, with everything Right? And Jesus echoes that. Jesus echoes that in Mark 12, chapter 12, verse 29 to 31. Love him with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. Where I want to proceed now is still talking about loving God, but let's I let's let's let's go to a verse that I I would bet you not many Christians ponder. Because I think it's actually not the easiest one to ponder. But it is a theme here that you'll hear as I speak. After these things, this is Genesis 15, 1, this is after Abraham has rescued Lot. Uh Lot? from the from Sodom and Gomorrah. I believe I got this right. But then he meets, he has to recapture Lot. He meets with Melchizedek. He and Melchizedek Have time together, and as he's coming away from Melchizedek then, God visits him in the night. Abraham Abraham has just rejected every reward that the king of Sodom would have given him. So I guess this was he was captured. Lot was captured by someone else. What does the Lord say? He says, after these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield. And if you have the New King James Version and I think other versions, it goes on to say, I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward. Now, how many of you take lots of time to ponder that? your exceedingly great reward. Now when we think of our the delights of our heart You'll notice I'm going to come back to these things very in piecemeal and various flavors and forms as you ponder the delights of your heart. What do you think of? For many of us who have clothes and we have shelter overhead and we have food and we have cars to transport, what do we what do we think about? A promotion, uh child children that obey well on a particular day, children that grow to become Wonderful people of God? A car like Alexis? What is it that's the delight of your heart? I guess my question to you is, is it God as your great reward? Now I'm not going to tell you to dismiss those other loves. And one of the places, one of the directions where I'm going with this is I think that there's a theme in Scripture that says we don't diminish the loves that God give us. But rather we use those as stepping stones to delight yet more greatly in God Himself. That we take the rewards that we do see here and use those as analogies then to say, the Lord is my greatest reward. You could be a newlywed. You have given me the greatest spouse imaginable. But Lord, you say that you are my great reward. Somehow the Lord is even better. than that spouse. You have a great job. You like what you're doing. But somehow service to he God Almighty, the great King, in the new heavens and the earth, new earth, that service will yet even be better. The greatest things you can imagine. A marvelous vehicle, marvelous clothes. The clothes of heaven shall be even more marvelous than those here. Everything that we have here needs to suggest, I think, a deeper reality, a reality that says, for I am your very great reward. We need to look at this world as that place that suggests realities that are beyond the greatest we can imagine here. Now we men stumble over many things, as I suggest, you women stumble over. And what we ought to do then is see those stumbling points. as simply vehicles to carry our minds more loft more uh lofty and upward. Okay Another text that we could bring to bear here is Revelation chapter 2. Does anybody revel any anyone remember which church he's writing to in Revelation chapter 2 verse 1? It's one of seven, right? There's a New Testament book that's written after it. Ephesus. Ephesus is writ is written. And there's many good things written, but what does the writer of the Revelation have against them? Do you remember? You have left your first love. You're doing these things. You're doing these good things. But you've left your first love. Somehow you've allowed your love of that great reward to diminish. It's in this way that we that we are to guard our hearts. What is our love tonight? What is your love tonight? And is that love being kindled for he who has said, I am your great reward? Does everything that I do seek to please and honor him that I might in some way Have him become my reward ever more greatly. Enjoy him more for eternity. Okay We've talked about, I had an introduction, we've talked about what is the heart, and we've talked about what does God command in terms of the heart. And and that an extension of the heart is loving God with all that heart, right? What are we tempted to do? Now I've already alluded to many of these, so I may not even have to elaborate on this. What does 1 John 2 15 to 17 speak of? Let's dissect this verse a little bit. Not greatly. Fortunately, that's one of the uh the blessings of just being a ruling elder and not a pastor, is I can Put things together in a sense in an easier way than that Skip has to do. If he's going to preach exegetically and systematically through the scriptures, he has to do a lot more work. than I have to do. Now by God's grace I pray that this would be useful for you to hear, but my job is easier than his. That's my only confession to you I am no less responsible, though. But what does 1 John 2, 15-17 say? Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world is passing away, and the lust of it, but he who does the will of God abides forever. Let's take a step back then and actually just look a little bit more carefully about what he means by the world. Is he saying that I'm not to love the substance of what is around me? And I would suggest to you the answer is no. He's not saying, do not have any loves or affections for the things that are here. When John uses that word world, he is meaning the fallen world, a world of rebellion, of sin, of lust, of coveting. So again, he's not saying that if I open a glass of beer like some of Todd's IPA and I love it, I must suddenly I need to confess this because I enjoy it. He's not saying that. He's not saying we cannot enjoy those things which he gives. He's saying do not love the world and its fallness. So they're saying be especially guarded against this temptation to love in a wrongful way these things around us. He's not saying do not delight in what he does give, in the good things that he gives. What does Jesus say in Matthew 6, 19 to 21? He says, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. What are treasures? That which I love, right? Now, commentators, I I read two commentators, one was John Stott, and one was Just vanished out of my mind. The uh Englishman from the early 1900s. Excuse me? J. C. Ryle, thank you. Was Ryle. Thanks. Excellent, Rob, thank you. But Scott mostly spoke of the treasures in earthly terms. as we consider wealth. But Ryle said, no, it really can be extended to not just material things. It can be extended to those those things that are not just earthly things. I can love excessively something else. I can love my own position before men. I can love things that are not of of the substance uh you know of the of the material of the earth is what I'm getting at. What are your treasures? What do you store up or are tempted to store up here? You know, the proud man, what does he want to store up? He wants to store up The adoration of those around him. He wants to store up the accolades of people. He wants to store up their respect and honor for him. And Jesus is saying, don't do that. Work for treasures in heaven. Now it can be physical, yes. I can store up wealth and money. Or I can try to store up other things. And Jesus is saying, no, no, no. Make your treasures in heaven. Store up for heaven. So again, what's my point? My point is that we're tempted then To love in a wrongful way the fallen world around us, we're tempted to store up treasures. But let's get back to the point. How do we guard our hearts? So let's talk now, and this is point number five. How do we do that? And if I could offer some practical applications then. It was said that in the when the Puritans preached, that they would go through the text, but then when they got to the applications, then the real guns would be brought to bear. So I'm hoping that something of that is reflected here. Employ the means of grace. I said that before. Obviously, that word cannot work in this heart. to wean it away from the evil net the evil inclinations that are there, the evil tendencies, without regular reading of the word, without contact from the preaching of the word Without the means of grace, all these things are meant to assist us. We need to recognize the evil one is going to try to seduce us, right? The parable of the sower or the parable of the grounds. He will do everything in his power, and we are in that category, the what the wealthy, where he will so seek to choke The faith that we have with thorns. And we have that's what we have to guard against. And we guard against that, at least to a first step by employing these means of grace. Young ones, if you do not read your Bibles regularly, I strongly recommend you establish that practice. Now, right now, you are somewhat guarded, being in your families, being in this church, being in a setting that is fairly benign. That will change. You will find yourself in a world that is more difficult. The attacks will grow stronger. Now is your opportunity to build the practices that you will need later on. One of the things that I have learned now that I am 51 is I desperately need to read the word. I desperately need to keep reading it because I so forget. I so forget So you employ the means of grace. Employ the world rightly Now what do I mean by that? As I said before, we do not back away from the good things that God has given. We use every good thing as a symbol, as an analogy of something greater. When God gives wine, I can enjoy that wine, but I could say, Lord, this is so wonderful. Do I use it to enhance my love for him, the giver? When my wife, Pam, makes a wonderful meal to eat, not you all necessarily, but it should be that thing which uh which uh which brings my heart heavenward. Oh Lord, how divine is such food. Come up with your own situation. What is the situation that you delight in? Does that delight distract you? Or are you working to train your mind such that it is used as a vehicle then? to grow in your appreciation and delight of Him, used as a means for making God your very great reward. All these things are from Him Right? If he is the giver, then we can use every single delight we have to delight more in him. Lord, thank you for making things this way. Let's push that thought even further. For those that are tempted in various ways, you're tempted Because it's a delight that you do not want to cease from in a way that you judge God wants you to cease. Is there a pleasure that we enjoy in this world that would not be exceeded in paradise? And I would suggest to you it is inconceivable. It is inconceivable. that there could be a single delight in this world that would not be far exceeded by that in paradise. Now those who are married There are some pretty good delights here. Those who are children, there are some pretty good delights here, correct? None of those things can possibly exceed What God has fid us for ultimately in heaven. These things are pictures to increase our delight in Him, right? And everything that we enjoy here has to be a foreshadowing. What does foreshadowing mean? In a movie, right? It's a clue as to what will happen in the end, right? So it's something that goes on and it seems significant at the time, but you're not quite sure. Well here we can do the same thing. Every delight we have can be a foreshadowing to what yet comes later on. When a man is tempted to overly covet an attractive woman, what can he do? Lord, the delight of beauty in that way cannot possibly Exceed that of paradise. And what do we read in the Beatitudes? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Now, we don't know a lot about this, do we? But I think we can infer that the sight of God may be something that we just we just we just go into spasms You know, a a certain scene or a certain setting to be so breathtakingly beautiful that it just takes our breath away. Well imagine what it's gonna be like looking at the Lord. We might find that it takes our wind out, but we actually have to lie on the ground a little bit. You know, because the wind's been knocked out of us, and the Lord has to say, oh, okay, a little a little a little smaller measure for you for now. You know? But the point is this, that everything we see Simply a foreshadowing of something that's far greater and far better. And in a sense, God is using us perhaps to condition us for that day. So employ the world rightly. With every temptation, I think we can use it as a means of saying, wait a minute, I'm tempted to use this overly. I know that heaven promises it in greater measure than I will ever imagine. And maybe that can be used to stop you at that moment from pursuing that covetousness a little too far, from pursuing that affection a little too far. Somehow that is simply an aberration of a legitimate love. So the point is, employ that world to send those loves where they rightfully belong. And I think that the other thing that I would say is that I don't think we are ever to, in a sense, to delight in what God gives us less. I don't think he calls us to delight less in those blessings he provides. He simply calls us to enjoy more in him. Okay? So I think that an asceticism is really misguided. It may be well-intentioned, but I think misguided. God gives pleasures and delights, not because he wishes them all to be snares to us. that we are somehow to go into some great denial of, but no, their means of furthering our own love for him foreshadows of something greater. Why is so little written about heaven in the scriptures? Probably because we can't bear it. So what we receive here now is that preparation. For that time when we will be able to bear even greater sights and sounds. Who knows? Maybe rather than only the five senses, we will have sixty-eight senses later on. And maybe we will be far more discerning of all of them than now. We will be exquisitely sensitive to all of them. And the process of heaven will be to be able to discern and to enjoy endlessly from all these things. Again, this world is very limited, is it not? It is simply a foreshadowing of what is to come. For I am your very great reward. Are these empty words from you? Or are they beautiful words? For I and your very great reward. Every one of these things is saying something about that God who says, I am your great reward. Do your experiences of life take you away seduce or do they march forward in making me more in that place where I look forward to entering into that Time when I can see him face to face and enjoy him, I reward that much better. What do you love and treasure? What is it that you look forward to most? Men? Is it a promotion? Well, it's not a bad thing. But what ought you to treasure maybe even more than a promotion or a better job? Ladies, what is it that you treasure most, most look forward to? No? I'm simply saying, let that love be extended to heaven and seek God as your great reward. If you find your love for God cold, then let's go back to Revelation chapter 2. Return to your first love. Your first course of action then be to repent that your love, you've allowed your love to grow cold. Lord, I have allowed this heart to grow cold. Will you forgive me? Get into it again, Lord. Grant me my first love once again. Grant me to so desire you that I could see you as my great reward, as that greatest thing. And use the things of the earth not to allow Satan to seduce, but rather to see them as stepping stones to greater and deeper truths that I'm sure he has in store. For all of these things are but foreshadowings of something to calm