So, as I mentioned before, today we're starting the study of a new book of the Bible. Of course, we have just finished 1 Peter, and today we begin studying 2 Peter. Although it's a new book that we are studying, it's the same author. Now, that seems to be the center of some controversy as it relates to this book That is the idea of it being the authorship of Peter This morning it is my aim that we will go over some of the background information regarding the letter of 2 Peter. Is there something going on with the mic? Don't worry about it. I just want to make sure it wasn't me. Okay, so what we're going to do is take a look at 2 Peter in the following ways. First is who the author actually is and the scholarly debate that is associated with it. Number two, its journey into the canonicity of the New Testament. Third, a preview of the book and its intent. And finally delve into the first two verses of the book itself with what is commonly known as the greeting that Peter offers. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? And the following is from 2 Peter 1, verses 1 and 2 Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. This is the word of God. Oh man, please be seated and join me in prayer as you do. Holy Spirit, minister to us now as we enter into the study of second letter that Peter, the Lord's apostle, wrote to the church. Help us to gain understanding through its teaching and grant us the grace to conform to it. Help us to not add or subtract from what the Lord Jesus has revealed to us through the Word of God. Help us, Holy Spirit, to love our beloved Father's very words and thoughts given to us and enscripturated in the Holy Bible. And help us. Holy Spirit, to treasure them up within our hearts. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So let's begin this morning with the issue of authorship. The internal evidence, as it's called, of the book clearly provides for us an author Verse 1 clearly states that it is Peter. And he tells us that it is none other than the Apostle Peter. The very same Peter, along with James and John, who made up the inner circle from the Twelve Apostles. It is argued by many scholars that it was not Peter who was the author of this book, and therefore that it should not be part of the New Testament canon. Of the arguments that are offered, one of the major ones is that there are prominent literary differences between 1 and 2 Peter. As it relates to this, three reasons are offered, and we shall look at each one in turn. The first is that the Greek style, the style of Greek, that is used is obviously different. First Peter is much more polished writing. These scholars point out that it's not possible for the writer of 2 Peter to be the same man as the one who wrote 1 Peter. In response, I would agree and disagree. What I do agree with is that it is not a polished Greek that is we find in 1 Peter But where I disagree is perhaps it may still be fresh on your minds as as it uh we just closed out 2 Peter by pointing out that Peter used a secretary. Sylvanus to write the letter of 1 Peter. Sylvanus is not identified as such for this letter that is 2 Peter It may well be that Peter either penned this letter by himself or used yet another amenuensis. Now, second argument used is that there are what is called too many hapaks legomena. This is a term that is used to describe the use of the word only once in a body of writing. So it is argued that there are so many words, 57 in total, that are used only once in the entire body of not only in Peter's writings. but in all of the New Testament. The implication is that it is a different author who is not in line with the other apostles and their verbiage. Furthermore, that this can be evidence that it is an entirely different author who has some peculiar or particular theological teachings which he wishes to put forth in the broader church and can do so by appealing to the name of such a revered apostle, such as Peter. Now, I don't understand how such learned men can come up with an argument like this to try to disprove Petrine authorship. Not only does Sylvanus, or for that matter, Mark, have a different style of writing, presumably and each different from Peter, may I add. But are we to think that Peter or whomever the amenuensis may have been Is so restricted a personal vocabulary that they could not use different words to perhaps say the same thing? Now the third literary reason is that the content or subject matter of 2 Peter is so different from 1 Peter. Now, I've given this some thought, and I honestly don't understand why this would be put forth altogether. If Paul, for example, sends a letter to, let's just say, the church at Corinth, and later he sends, let's say, another letter to a church which contains different content. Some other things that perhaps that he has in mind. Does this necessarily mean that it can't be from Paul? Now, if you if you send an email addressing an issue, a particular issue with a colleague at work, let's say, and then at some later time Two months later, six months later, or a year later, you sent another email needing to address a different concern. Should that be a cause for your colleague to be concerned about the authenticity of your email? Can you not have other concerns that you would want to talk to them about? Now we're going to go into this with a little more detail, but in the first letter, you see, Peter offered encouragement to his recipients as they were undergoing persecution for their faith. In 2 Peter, he is concerned with false teachers. False teachers leading the church away from the fame. Now, I fail to see why Peter is obligated to only repeat himself and unable to deal with other issues facing the church. as they come up in due course. Now this leads us to our next point, and that is the book's journey into the canon of the New Testament. Now in the early church, I'm talking about the first two centuries, the books of the New Testament were, of course, written and copied and distributed. We often forget that due to modern technology of copying, book binding, printing presses, postal service, trains and planes, and digital distribution we can get information out to a wide audience fairly quickly. In this time period, It was very expensive to get writing materials. It was very expensive to write things down and make copies. And the distribution of getting a document to someone from, let's say, from Rome to Alexandria or Cairo took quite a bit of time. Some people walked. Some people had to find a boat to find passage and then wait a month for the boat to be ready to go. And you had to hope that actually the boat arrived and it didn't sink along the way. It took quite a bit of time. Now At this time, again, in the first two centuries, there really were five major centers of Christendom at that time: Jerusalem, Alexandria, Antioch, Rome, and Constantinople. Each center had copies of different books of the New Testament. And they didn't all immediately have all 27 books after they were immediately penned. It took time for them to circulate. And there were books that were posers That the church was aware of and taught the faithful to not treat as canon. It was not until 175 A. D. That the church made an effort to come up with a list of books that they believed were inspired. That was the earliest list that we actually have, but it was not the last list. 2 Peter did not make it to that list as inspired. And so it is argued, therefore, that it should not be included along with 2 Peter. not being quoted by many of the early church fathers in their teachings, their preachings, and writings. The point here is that if the early church fathers quoted them in their sermons, in their writings, they themselves saw it as inspired writing. Now, I would like to point out that in this early list that I just made mention to and of The books of Hebrews, James, 1 Peter, and 3 John were not on this list as well. This was an early attempt by regions of the church that was impacted by them either of not having a copy. or a particular book, or if it wasn't on their approved list. You see, it was on their uncertain list. There were a list of books that they said was inspired in one part of the Christen them. And in some other places they said that they had their inspired list. And in some said they were not sure. And so this took time, as I mentioned, that's exactly what they needed, in order for the church to get together and figure out and have meetings to say, no, we use this. This is from. We didn't know. We yes, that's that's actually a book of the Bible. For them to get together to provide what's called the canon, which we have right now, the twenty-seven uh books of the New Testament. It was later, much later, when the entire church did come together and hammered out a complete list of what it believed to be the Holy Scripture. as well as spurious writings. And 2 Peter, along with James, Hebrews, and other books that I just mentioned, were on that list. You ever hear of an A-lister? I guess this was an I-Lister, inspired lister. As to the attestation, it is true that 2 Peter was not attested to by many of the church fathers, unlike many of the other books of the Bible. But it was by some, like Origen, Athanasius, Ambrose, and Augustine. And more recent fragments discovered at Qumran may point to a quotation from 2 Peter that dates back to no law later than 68 A. D. Right before the rebellion at Jerusalem. That's very early. See, this evidence would argue against a writing much later than Peter's death. By an anonymous writer who wanted to put forth his theological position by using such a prominent name as Peter's After the church received and considered all the different books of the New Testament, it included 2 Peter as part of its canon. And I don't see when some of the brightest minds and scholars who accepted 2 Peter as inspired who Lived much closer to the time period than it was written, why we should suddenly, because it's a different literary style. Using different words was not quoted as much as other books and took longer to be circulated and accepted into the canon as true. In fact, it is true. We do believe that 2 Peter is inspired. I think it's proper to accept it and know that it is coming from the Apostle Peter, and we should look forward to learning and growing from its teachings. But before we go into the weeds, let's take a brief preview to sort of give us a broad roadmap of the book itself. From the letter itself, we read that Peter seems to be realizing that he is coming close to the end of his life He anticipates his death coming soon. Church tradition tells us that he died in a wave of persecution in Rome. He also was crucified like the Lord. But before he passes into glory, he is concerned about churches that are being bothered by, afflicted by, poisoned by false teachers. This was and is and will be a major tactic of Satan. The false teachers will ultimately lead people astray. At times they will offer believers a license to sin, or place them into the bondage of doing works for salvation. In each case, robbing them of the joys of the gospel and the freedom that comes from it. They also will de-emphasize the proclamation of the gospel. doing evangelism. Or when they do, it's not the true gospel. It's some false version of it. For as the Apostle Paul said, there is only one and true gospel. Anything outside of that is anathema. It's a curse. So what is this major false teaching that Peter is addressing? It is known to us as Gnosticism. Before I go into what that is, many would say that Gnosticism didn't really afflict the church until the late 2nd century or early 3rd century And I would have to agree that it wasn't a huge issue until then. But the truth is that these things don't happen overnight. They have their seeds planted much, much earlier. And it was the seed form of Gnosticism that Peter was dealing with. The reason I point this out is that some of these scholars I had mentioned earlier argue that it couldn't have been Peter who penned this letter because Gnosticism was not a fully blown problem until at least After, a century after Peter's death. But the reality is that Peter's dealing with the early or an early form of Gnosticism in his own generation. So what is Gnosticism? It comes from the word gnosos. It basically means knowledge. To be a Gnostic is to have knowledge. When you place the negation before it by supplying an uh, it's very much like a theist. A theist is a person who believes in God. If you put the negation before it, you get an at-theist, a person who doesn't believe in God But in this particular context, when you put an a before a Gnostic, it means that a person is not sure of or doesn't have that knowledge. Now, Gnostics believed that they had special knowledge about God. Not just special, but secret knowledge. that was revealed only to them. This was connected to mystical intuition This goes beyond logic, reason, and very importantly, an eyewitness testimony. In this case, the eyewitness testimony that we have is Scripture. I quote Dr. R. C. Sprohl in his describing of Gnosticism in the following. They claim to have a special pipeline to God, such that God revealed Himself only to those in the know. The Gnosticoi, that's plural, whose knowledge was supposedly superior, I get this, to that of the apostles. Since the apostles sought to understand the message of Revelation in an intelligible way, rather than through, of all things, mystical intuition. I think you could well imagine the problem that can be presented when someone says, I have a special word for knowledge from God that nobody else has. This can lead many astray and have many sheep do things that are simply not found in the scriptures. Now, if you're thinking Peter's warning didn't work, if it went on over a hundred years and beyond past Peter's death, you would be right. And if you're beginning to think, you know, we have forms of that even today, you would also be right. As we go through Peter, we should keep this in mind and pay heed to his teachings. So we ourselves don't go astray and listen to false teachers who say they have a fresh new word from God. And we have to go to them for this secret or new teaching. Now that takes us to our final point this morning, which is the greeting itself. Now the writer of this letter, we see in verse 1, identifies himself as Simeon or Simon Simeon is the Aramaic version of Simon. It was the most commonly used name amongst Aramaic-speaking peoples. Peter is the Greek version and more properly would be pronounced Petros. This brings us back to what we previously went over. That this was not written by Peter, but by someone else. In order to attribute this letter to anyone other than Peter who claims Peter's name, I think we must have a motive. Should we not? And what is offered is that in order to gain acceptance for one's teaching or agenda, one can appeal to a name that will carry authority. However, when you consider the totality of the letter, we will discover together that there is no new teaching that is unorthodox. This letter fits in well with the rest of Scripture. We find no controversy or friction presented by the content of this document. We thus lack a motive for a person to claim Peter's name. This letter would have been able to stand on its on its own, not needing the influence of a church authority. Especially someone like Peter. Now, as to the location of the writing, unlike 1 Peter, Where we were able to discern that Peter may have been in Rome when constructing 1 Peter, there is no internal evidence that states or betrays where Peter was when he wrote this letter. It is suggested that it was written in Rome, as tradition tells us that Peter ministered in Rome towards the end of his life. But there is no solid evidence that this was the place. In the end, we must admit that we simply don't know where it is that this letter was written. Now, if you're wondering when it may have been written by Peter, working under the belief that Peter was the author, we have to say that the upper limit of the writing could not have been much more than A. D. sixty-eight due to the Apostles' death. Because it was written, as it may seem, not long before it, for Peter speaks of it as imminent. In 1 Peter's greetings, he tells us that there that it was to the several of the Asian churches. Here in 2 Peter, there is no explicit indication in the letter as to its destination However, if 2 Peter 3. 1, it might be possible by looking at it that this letter was also for the same region, as it reads, Dear friends. This is now my second letter to you. I have written both of them as reminders to stimulate you to wholesome thinking. So it's very possible that he's making reference to them and they were in Asia. Now, as we continue to go down verse 1, Peter identifies himself in a twofold manner. First, he identifies himself as a bondservant of Christ. Now many translations have it as a servant. Now the word typically used for servant is diakonas, where we get the word for deacon. But instead of diakonas, it is dulas. This means slave, or as some translations have it as a bond servant. What Peter is communicating, and what this implies, is that Peter seems himself. as purchased for a price. He expounds upon this transaction in 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 18 and 19, if we recall. Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your futile way of life. inherited from your fath forefathers, and he says, but with precious blood, as of the lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. Peter identifies himself as being Jesus' very own. Because his freedom from the bondage of sin was purchased with Christ's own blood. Have you been purchased by Christ's own blood? Have you understood why it is that he had to die and why his blood was spilled? You know, we can go right back to what we studied today in the Westminster Confession, where it talked about that when the people of God were underage, There were sacrifices in the law that was given. The sacrifices showed how a lamb had to have his blood shed so that they can have forgiveness of sins. That was looking forward to the Lamb of God, whose blood had to be shed for our cleansing and for ours to be purchased. by God and to have justice for him. That's wonderful news, is it not? Now if you have not If you don't see the blood of Christ as being something that was used to purchase you and your soul for salvation, you need to think about that. You need to ask what it is that I need to do in order for me to have that salvation. It is by trusting in Christ and Christ alone. On the cross for your salvation, so that your sins may be forgiven by God. And so then the next question becomes: if I am, if I am purchased by the blood of Christ, What responsibilities come with being purchased by Christ? Well We must be obedient. We must be obedient to our Lord and our Savior. We must follow Him. We must learn about Him We must learn about God. And we must ask Him for the grace to be able to do the things that He has called us to do and to be. Very, very important things. Now, not only does he say that, but secondly, he identifies himself as being an apostle. As an apostle, he does have an authoritative commission. by his master to convey the testimony of Jesus as well as his commands. To those whom Peter is addressing, it can be applied in a very general way. It is to those that are Christians. This is related to a question that arises as Peter's usage of the word faith in this passage. Is Peter referring here to the objective aspect of faith? That is, as the body of truth, the faith of Christianity? Or is it the subjective aspect, which is our ability to trust? The fact that the article, the is omitted leads us to think of the latter. Whichever side you land upon, in either case, the faith is a gift. that is received from God, who bestows it upon his elect. But this faith that is granted is By the instrumentality of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. When Peter refers to his readers as having the same type of faith in this passage, He may be referring to his Christian Gentile readers who now have the same type of saving faith proclaimed to them as the Jews. Or that the rest of the, or it is to that to the rest of the apostles, the same type of faith. The latter, it is argued, is more plausible. He is making reference to the same faith as the apostles, since Peter makes no reference to the distinction between both. of them in the rest of the letter. Then there's this word righteousness. Elsewhere in 2 Peter, dicausene, which is the Greek word for righteous, Has an ethical connotation of justice. If in fact the translation should be justice here Instead of righteousness, it would appear as if Peter's intent is to tell us that God's granting forgiveness for sin is compatible with his justice. The end of this verse, in English translations, presents for us a very well-known problem. Is Peter referring to Jesus as the Savior and God, or is he making reference to God, the Father, and Jesus as two separate persons? I think that the grammar leaves little doubt as to Peter referring to Jesus as both God and Savior at the same time. So here we have a text that points to Jesus being God. The reason why is because there's only one Article, one definite article. The not the God and the Jesus. It's the God and Savior who is Jesus Now as we move to the second verse, which he says, Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of our of Jesus our Lord. Grace and peace is a common expression used in correspondence, but be multiplied. is common to the Apostle Peter. If you recall, back in the first Peter, that's exactly the verbiage that he used. Knowledge and knowing is a very prevalent theme in 2 Peter The apostle returns to this theme of possessing cognitive knowledge over and over. 13, 1, 5, 6, 8, 20, chapter 2, verse 20, 221, 33, and 318. This is because As we have briefly discussed, the knowledge of God was also claimed by the false teachers and prophets Interestingly, Paul uses the same language in his letter to Titus. In verse 1. 6, we read of these false prophets. They profess to know God, but by their deeds they deny him, being detestable and disobedient and worthless for any good. Don't hold back, Paul. Now, in this verse, verse 2, he says, God and Jesus. Although the second article is not present in the English, the Greek text contains a second article It doesn't make sense for us to say the God and the Jesus. We just read it as God and Jesus. By providing a second article, Peter establishes that not only do we have just one God, but our God is distinguished by persons. But what or when is this knowledge? Early Christianity understood this knowledge of God, at which Peter is referring to here, came at conversion. This knowledge of God has at its roots of Judaism, in that Israel had knowledge of God. But the pagans were in darkness. They were in ignorance to the knowledge of the one true God. That is the when. But there is a second meaning behind the way in which Peter uses knowledge. The second is the knowledge that is acquired for growth in faith. and life of the Christian experience. What is it that Peter wishes for his readers? Grace and peace. How does he propose that his readers will attain grace and peace? So we too see and seek grace and peace, do we not? Which is what he wishes for us. And which is something that we want also. Something that comes by the true, true knowledge of God and of our Lord Jesus. If you don't have the true knowledge of who Christ is and what he has done and who God is and what he has done, You cannot arrive at the gospel. You must have true knowledge. You must know that Christ is both man and God. You must know that God is just and He is holy and that He We'll have his justice. But something had to be done for us. A payment had to be made. And that was who Jesus is, as the perfect God man, the one who was the sacrifice that they looked forward to. If you don't Know this. If you don't believe this, if you believe something else about Jesus, if you believe that he is not a member of our species, if you don't believe that he is fully God, you've got problems on your hands. If you don't see yourself as a sinner, if you don't see yourself as a sinner, you got even bigger problems. Okay. This is why Peter wants to make sure that you have proper and true knowledge. Because the false prophets will admixture, will tell you something entirely different, and they're not going the route of the gospel. What they're really offering you is just poison and no hope. Maybe they're offering you pleasure, but nothing else. They're offering you imprisonment. Peter is communicating to us thus far in this letter that the believer who stands in equality with all other believers. can have assurance that we have equal access before the throne of God. The sacrifice of Christ makes it possible for God to be just in forgiving our sins. But in order for the Christian to grow in grace and peace, he must grow in the knowledge of Christ and God. For you see, when you get that knowledge from God that you can tie back to, anchor to his own word. Then you can discern between orthodox teachings and fake teachings from fake or false teachers. Instead of trusting false teachers that they are bringing you a fresh word from God, you will only look to his word. Which is provided by those that lived with and learned under the Master, the very eyewitnesses of the resurrection. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. For your word protects us. For your word grows us. For your word brings us into your very presence, so that we may see the truth, so that we may believe the truth. so that we may love you, so that we may worship you and give you thanks For the great salvation, the oh so great salvation that you have given to us through your Son, the Lord Jesus. Help us as we embark upon this new study to know you in truth and to trust your word and your word alone. And how we can grow in Christ, reflect Christ To love you back and to love our neighbor and not ourselves. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.