Okay, I think I did that right. Good morning, everybody. Good to see you. Um, I I have a great love for Skip and Bonnie and I'm really grateful to be able to fill in for Skip. I know you're your happy congregation, a privileged congregation to have him as your pastor. Uh I've known him for many years and we prayed together for a long time s as ministers together in the PCA. I was in Richmond, Virginia for twenty-five years pastoring uh All Saints Presbyterian and Skip and I were friends through common friends and also through the General Assembly, but we got together once a month. Um for uh uh two or three years there I guess, uh, to pray and um I really value that so much. Um And since moving to Washington to go on the faculty at the seminary, at Reform Theological Seminary, uh we've been now members of the same presbytery, so we see each other a lot. uh very much value his friendship. And I notice on the front of the of the bulletin here you have uh the Huguenot cross. And I I'm I'm so impressed with that. I um I've not seen that actually on a bulletin before. Um we traveled to Geneva several years ago, my wife and I did, and saw uh a beautiful rendering of this cross uh hanging in the or the symbol it's not actually a cross hanging in the uh uh the the the church where John Calvin was preacher in St. Peter's in Geneva That's a a lovely thing and um I actually have a tie with this on it, so uh I I would like to see it. Um Perhaps you know that John Calvin wrote those words that we just sang. I greet thee who my sure Redeemer art. That's from the Strasbourg Psalter. than the Geneva Psalter. I think it's as far as I know the only um psalm rendering we have that we know that that Calvin wrote, and if you're familiar with his writings a little bit, you'll catch certain phrases that are very much uh expressive of the way he trusts Christ. Thou hast the true and perfect gentleness. No harshness hast thou, and no bitterness. Make us to taste the sweet grace found in thee. that we may stay in thy sweet unity. It's very, very characteristic of the way that great Christian preached Christ. Now let me pray for us and then I'll read God's Word. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the words that the Holy Spirit breathed out through the apostles, that we have these words in Holy Scripture. And we pray, our gracious God, that you'd give us much light and ears that are ready to hear by the work of that same Spirit. We depend upon you, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to read from 1 Peter chapter 2. This is 1 Peter 2, and I'll begin reading verse 18. Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it you endure, but if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure? This is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was the seat found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered He did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to God who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. For you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. God's own word. Amen. Now Peter, the apostle, uh writes to Christians spread throughout Asia Minor. He calls them pilgrims, uh elect aliens, in fact. And they were people who were suffering, the Christians were suffering opposition, probably just verbal opposition at this particular point in the first century. Probably not the persecution that Nero started in A. D. 63. So we think this letter is probably written just a bit before that. That's not unlike the situation, perhaps, that we find ourselves in. It's not popular really to be a Christian anymore. It's not so much culturally accepted as it was, I think, even ten years ago. And um no one knows if uh direct uh persecution will come or when it'll come Um but surely to be abused verbally, to be given kind of a hard time of it, you know, in school, you're believing person or in the workplace. Um it's not unusual at all. And here in chapter two he urges slaves especially. to endure unjust suffering because of the grace of God. Because of what God has done for them in Christ. Don't fight back. Don't hit back when you're hit, but endure as Christ did, and witness to the grace of God. And we're to do this on account of Christ's saving example. And so what the apostle does is he takes the words of Isaiah chapter 53, the prophecy of the suffering servant of the Lord in the Old Testament. And he shows how Jesus Christ fulfilled them. He was meek before Herod and Pilate. He didn't threaten or retaliate And you and I are to accept opposition without cursing our enemies. But of course, that's easier said than done. How do we do that? Well, we do it because God has shown grace to us. God has loved us, and by God's grace we return that grace to others. That's what Peter says. It's a gracious thing if you accept suffering, unjust suffering, and do it with a with a humble spirit. But of course Christ is our example, but he's much more than an example. No one else who endured unjust suffering and didn't retaliate could be an example like Jesus Christ is, because his suffering Is the suffering that brings us salvation. And that's Peter's point here. What Jesus Christ did for us was bear our sins in his body on the tree. And we live a new life because of that. We're transformed because of that, as he says in verse 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. So it's this new righteous life, empowered as we are by God's Spirit, that comes about as a result of the atonement of Jesus Christ. That by God's grace gives us the grace to love and to respond to unjust suffering and to opposition without retaliation. Now, in our culture In our time, questions are raised about the biblical doctrine of Christ's atoning sacrifice. How would it be possible for God to transfer sin? which is rebellion and hatred against God from sinners to Christ. People ask that. The transfer itself seems to be a questionable idea because sin is a spiritual concept. Or they'll put this question, is this moral, the biblical teaching about Christ dying for our sins? Since one person can't take on the rebellion of another, how is that personal and how personal to me? Or they'll put this question, thirdly, how can Jesus' death, just one man's death, be a sufficient payment for the sins of all those who have sinned against God? Or they'll put this question, if we say that Christ suffered our punishment, does this cause division in God between the Father who punished Christ? and Christ who bore this punishment. Now it's natural that people would raise these questions. This is a time when many people doubt or deny the existence of a universal moral law. And when they doubt that or deny that, people don't have that in their thinking or their consciousness. When we doubt that, we doubt the consequence of breaking the law. The consequence is punishment. So let's listen to this portion of God's Word with some of these questions in mind. And what I want us to notice here is we see that, first of all, that sin is personal And then we see that Christ bore our sins as a substitute, and then like lastly, that Christ's salvation, God's salvation, is personal also. So let's look at these things. First of all, human sin is against God's person. I want us to remember this. I want us to think about this. When we sin, you and I, we sin against a person. God takes our transgressions personally. And we are alienated from God because we've sinned against his person. Peter alludes to this in verse 24. He says, you were continually straying like sheep. Sin is personal because we're all related to God by his covenant. And there's no person who does not have this relationship of responsibility to God as the Creator. God made us like Himself. He made us to be like him in the world. And Scripture calls this the covenant. But we've sinned against our God in rebellion against his person. rebellious teenager and my mother wanted to exercise some control in my life, sometimes I would say to her, just leave me alone. Well, that's what we all say to God. That's what Adam said when he ate the forbidden fruit in the garden. He said, I want to be God. I want to rule over my life. I'll make my own rules. And that's what we've all done. And the result is God's judgment on us for our sins. against his person, against his laws. And everybody on earth knows this. Our consciences have the work of the law written on them, and they tell us that we're worthy of debt. But when I say our sins are personal, I mean this, that God is near us all. God is not absent. If my grandfather uh left an inheritance in his will, and said, sell the farm only for such and such a purpose, but I sell it for some other purpose, well, he's gone. He's not there. He doesn't know what I've done. But suppose I speak a word that dishonors my wife in front of her family. You see, that's personal. She feels that. And she's quite right to be offended by my behavior Her judgment is right. God feels it when we sin against him. He's tied us to himself and us to him. And so our actions come into his view as a person. And they come under his evaluation as holy judgment. And that holy judgment disrupts our fellowship with him. Let me illustrate it like this. Suppose you run over your neighbor's cat with your car. Nobody sees you do it. And so you hide it. Now that that bothers your conscience because he's a good friend, he loved the cat. After a while, you know, you get over the bad feeling, but now and then maybe you dream about it. Are you still guilty of it even though you don't feel bad about it anymore? Well of course you are. And since you have a bad conscience, you probably grow a little cooler towards your neighbor. You might even actually resent him. Well, if he finds out about it, then the friendship is over because it was a kind of personal betrayal. See, that's what sin is against God. But of course, it's also so much more. It's personal betrayal of the High and Holy One, the One who is near you, the One who does you good every day. The one who gives you life and breath and all things, and has the authority to require of you whatever he wants. Now if your neighbor never finds out, you may eventually stop feeling guilty about it, but it's still out there. The guilt is still there, even if you do not have bad feelings about what you did, feelings of guilt. But of course that's even more so with God. God does not ignore our behavior. And the reason he doesn't ignore our behavior is because he's bound us to him in the covenant. And once there was sin, and offense against God, then we need a mediator if the relationship could ever be restored. We can't restore it We needed someone to come between us and to bring us together again. And God re-established the covenant, as we know. As Scripture tells us, with sinful Adam and Eve, he made the covenant of grace with them. And all through the Old Testament, God showed his willingness to be reconciled to his people, to Israel, by Providing mediators and sacrifices. And those mediators and sacrifices all pointed to Christ, who was the mediator even before he came in human flesh. Now think about just for a second the sacrifices in the Old Testament. The sacrifices of animals. Those sacrifices were substitutes. The substitute is a person who takes your place. He fulfills the responsibilities that you have when the coach takes a player. out of the game and puts another player in the game, the new player has to play and do what the other player had to do. Well in the sacrifices, a victim, a lamb, took the place of the offerer. And assumed his liabilities. And God's judgment fell on the substitute instead of on the Israelite. And that, of course, is what Isaiah 53 is all about. But Peter tells us that Christ is the mediator of the covenant that we need. All the sacrifices of the Old Testament were symbols. They couldn't take away sin. They couldn't remove sin because they were animals. They weren't a human being, but here's the true Lamb, without blemish or spot, Jesus Christ. And notice this statement that Peter makes about Old Testament Scripture in chapter 1. Verse 10. I want to read chapter 1, verses 10 to 12. Peter's writing about Old Testament Scripture. Concerning this salvation, The prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them. They were serving not themselves, but you, in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. What is he saying? Peter is saying that the prophets were writing about the salvation that was to come to us. And Peter tells too about the character of the God who is inspiring the words of the prophets. It was the Spirit of Christ in the prophets, in Isaiah, the Holy Spirit, before the actual coming of Christ. was speaking through the prophets. And he was predicting what Christ would do in his earthly ministry. He would suffer. And then he would be glorified. In other words, he would undergo the opposition of people and finally be put to death on the cross. And then he'd be glorified. He'd be resurrected from the dead. And be taken up into heavenly glory and given glory at God's right hand. And Peter sees the glorious salvation that the triune God would work predicted here. By the Old Testament prophets, as in our passage he quotes Isaiah chapter 53. Well you see now, of course, these prophecies have been fulfilled. just as uh he himself Peter had proclaimed. The Father who had called these believers into his fellowship sent Christ the Son to suffer and to be glorified. And now through the Holy Spirit, this had been proclaimed to them as the gospel. And what's the heart of the gospel? The very heart of the gospel is the second thing I want us to see, that Christ suffered the punishment of God as a substitute in our place. Christ suffered the punishment of God as a substitute in our place. Verse 24, He Himself bore our sins in His body on the tree. And Peter is referring to the cross as the trees, thinking about a passage in Deuteronomy where God's curse is called down on someone who's hung on a tree. But how is this bearing of our sins accomplished? The only way Christ could have borne our sins was by accepting the judgment against sin. and assuming the consequences of our sin, death. And this is more clear, I think, when we notice that the apostle is expounding here the suffering servant passage in Isaiah 53. But look at the way he does this. Isaiah 53, 4 through 6. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. See, beloved, what do these verses say? They say that the way sins were born by Christ was his being bruised, his being struck. His being afflicted. The nature of his sin bearing was a matter of punishment. And that punishment was of divine origin. It was from the Lord And the suffering of the victim resulted in healing. If we continue to think about the words of Isaiah 53, we see that the servant was The servant accepted these sufferings voluntarily. We're told he was oppressed, but he didn't open his mouth. He was reviled But it didn't revile in return. We see these sufferings were a sacrifice and that they made a satisfaction. that was full and satisfying according to the will of God. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied by his knowledge Shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many And shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession For the transgressors. These scriptures are written for us. They're written for us that we might come to believe in the sufferings of Christ. for our sakes. And of course, this is at the very heart of what it means to be a Christian. It's at the very heart of the covenant of grace. And God speaks this and He promises this, praise God. He offers this freely to all who hear. And He says to all who believe and profess belief: here's the foundation of your salvation. He bore our sins in his body on the tree. And he says the same to all of us who are covenant children. Who are included in the covenant of grace by virtue of God's kindness, including children as well. Here's the promise that's made also to you. Now listen to how Peter speaks about this same thing, Jesus' sufferings, just a few verses later, chapter 3, verse 18. Christ died for our sins, once for all, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. Now, from the angle of the penalty that was laid on Christ, we hear Paul making the same sort of statement. God made Christ, who had no sin, to be sin for us. In other words, the judgment was laid upon him. The result was that sins were no longer counted against men. That's in 2 Corinthians 5. This was the counting of our debt against him in his suffering. So he bore God's wrath for sinners, so that that wrath can no longer reach us. He was condemned. in our place. That's a great, great mystery. It's a great mystery, and we understand some things about it As we receive them, believe them, because God's word says though. But there's great depth here beyond all human understanding. Let's answer, see if we can answer some of these questions that we put at the beginning. How is it possible to transfer sins from us to Christ? Well, we have to understand that what Scripture is proclaiming to us And that's it's not sin understood as the pollution of our hearts that was transferred to Christ. Subjective sinfulness. That was not transferred. There's no way that the personal disposition of one person can be taken on by another person And what I mean is this, our bad attitudes towards God, our moral twistedness, our inclination to evil. or our inclination to hatred or rebellion, the moral pollution of our hearts. That was not transferred to Christ Jesus did not become a sinner. Now consider this as evidence of what I'm saying. Christ did not become evil on the cross. Christ did not resent God or hate or rebel against his father. He never did that. He did not hate. He was not stained with sinfulness in his soul. In fact, Peter says in this same letter, he committed no sin. So subjectively speaking, He submitted obediently to the Father's will to the very point of death. That's not what was transferred to him. It was guilt as an objective thing. Or we could put it like this: liability to punishment and death. That's what he took on and discharged. So it was not our bad attitudes. But it was our bad record that he took. Next question: How could his sufferings be equal to our guilt? How is that possible? How is it possible that the life he yielded up on the cross could be sufficient in the place of the lives of all who have sinned against God? Well, the equivalence of his suffering and our guilt is a great mystery. But the best we can say, I think, as Scripture tells us is this, that in his unique person Because he is true God as well as true man. He bore away sins through his sufferings, his human suffering was a was an appropriate sentence for human sin. And because he was the Son of God We know that that suffering was of unlimited value for those for whom he gave himself. None of us can really know what he suffered from his father's hand. But the father loved his son. The father loved his son more than he loves anyone And he laid punishment upon him, and that satisfied the justice of God. In him, Scripture says, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins. But then what about this one? Could God be angry with his own son? And we must answer, surely not. God was never for an instant angry against his beloved son. He wasn't at odds with Christ. He was at odds with sin. His anger was not directed to the person of his son, like the anger of one person can be directed at another. It was as mediator for others. that Christ acted with the Father and accepted the anger of God. He did not wrench the forgiveness of an un out of an unwilling father's hand. Rather, he is the subject and the object of his own actions. By taking the anger of God against sin to himself and dying for it, he obtained forgiveness. Remember now that the Father and the Son are one God. And in Christ, God took the penalty for sin on his own self to abolish the cause of alienation between himself and us. The Father did this and the Son did this with perfect willingness because of their great love for you and for me. And so amazing, so wondrous that God should do this for us Was this moral? Was it moral for the father to punish the son on behalf of others? And this we answer, yes, indeed it was. There was nothing wrong about it. Because Christ freely accepted his role as mediator for sinners. Isaiah says he was a willing sacrifice. He poured out his soul to death. And Jesus says about himself, for this reason my Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me. But I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down. I have authority to take it up again. This command I received from my Father. It was an act of incomparable grace for us when we could not possibly deserve it. But there's a willingness on his part. That willingness was an eternal willingness. an eternal willingness on the part of the Father to receive the sacrifice of the Son. Well, last of all, let's just look at this. That this was Personal. And just as our sin is personal, God's salvation is personal too. And we have to notice this. God did this for us personally. Think about this sentence that Peter writes here. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. Jesus was crucified sometime, we know, around the year 31 A. D. , Peter wrote this letter about the year 62. So many of the people to whom Peter wrote this letter were not yet born when Jesus hung on the cross when he died. Of course, none of us was born when Jesus bore sins in his body on the tree. How then can Peter use the word our, our sins? Because God planned this. He planned this for us before we were born. He planned this for us even before he created the world. Now turn back a chapter, if you would, to chapter 1, and let's read verses 19 and 20 Chapter 1, verses 19 and 20. You were ransomed, he writes, verse 19, with the precious blood of Christ. like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you who through him are believers in God who raised him from the dead and gave him glory so that your faith and hope are in God. Foreknown before the foundation of the world. That's the choosing by the Father of the Son, the choosing of one divine person of another divine person, the Son, before the foundation of the world. For you, he says, in order that your faith and hope might be in God. Salvation is personal Salvation is for you as a person. Now at the Griffith household, we get lots of packages from Amazon. com. I guess that's true for everybody. Don't we all wish we owned some of Amazon. com? Lots of packages come. I usually get books, Jackie gets books, Graham gets video games. Well whenever we see one of those little cardboard packages come or in the mailbox or be delivered to the door, we look for whose name is on it right away, of course. Who is it for, we ask. If it's Jackie's name on it, and you know I'm a little disappointed. If it comes to resident, then nobody's interested. But see, salvation is a work with your name on it. It's a work with your name on it. Look at the last words of verse 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. The death of Christ was an act of God that made certain the salvation of those who were saved, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. It made salvation necessary, the death of Christ, not just possible. And the cross not only discharged my obligation to punishment as a sinner, the cross guaranteed that I would be brought to faith. That I would be brought to eternal life. And notice this is how Peter writes about it. He bore our sins that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. And so the gift of new life. by which your heart is put right with God and sin is put to death, and righteousness and the life of the Spirit are given to you is the specific result. of Christ bearing your sins in his body on the tree. The Apostle Paul testifies to this also in the New Testament. You see, salvation is not like a law enacted by Congress. You know, that may or may not apply given the course of our personal lives. Salvation is personal. foreknown before the foundation of the world, manifested in these last days for you. And so, beloved in Christ, every one of you who is a believer in Christ, and every one of you who's a child of believer in Christ, God loves you And God loves you with your name, by name, with your face, your own sins. And he's come to redeem you in wondrous grace. And that's true for everyone who believes the gospel. God loved you personally. God had you in mind before the world was. He gave his son as a sacrifice for your sins. The sufferings of Christ remove the barrier of fellowship with God. God is not against us. God is for us. And God is working for our good. And we can get up tomorrow with the confidence that we're justified sinners Who know that the sacrifice of Christ has covered our sins, past and present and future. Thanks be to God for his wondrous grace to you and to me, to the whole of his church, to the whole of his chosen. Let's pray together Our gracious God, we offer you our praise, and we pray that our lives might reflect the beauty. Of your grace toward us. We offer our prayer in Jesus' name. Amen.