If you haven't done so, if you would uh turn your Bibles, if you have them with you, to our passage this morning, which is from 2 Peter chapter 1 and verses 3 through 5. In our introduction of 2 Peter last week, we spoke about some of the issues regarding the book's authorship. the dating of the book, its canonicity, and the false teachings of the early Gnostics in the first century. One of the arguments that was put forward was its use of words not found elsewhere in the New Testament. As I argued, the authors of the New Testament are not under an injunction to use a limited set of words. And that is simply it wasn't a legitimate reason to prove that it wasn't Peter who was the author of this book. However, it is undeniable that he does use words and concepts that reflect the thinking of his generation. He uses words and concepts that come from Hellenistic and mystic thoughts and religions of his age. He uses these words in such a way that reflect biblical truths. However, he parts ways when they no longer reflect biblical doctrine. Let me give you an example. I was once listening to an apologetics conference online, and there was a section with Eastern religions. And they were talking about conversing with people whose religion reflects a belief in reincarnation, like Hinduism. The speaker used the language of reincarnation as it relates to Christianity. He argued that we believe that the Lord was indeed reincarnated. But he was the very same person from when he died, when he was resurrected. This was the way in which the similarities were highlighted, but also pointed out where there was a difference. He was fidelitous to Christian theology and yet was able at the same time to engage and get a hearing from a person from that particular religion. This passage, verses 3 and 4 we shall see, becomes the basis for which there is a call by the Apostle, ultimately, to godly living. But what that call looks like, we shall not see until next week. This morning, I'm going to describe to us the cultural hopefully, describe to us the cultural and religious atmosphere of Peter's generation in order to understand some of these, if you recall that fancy word I used last time, hapaks legumena. A one-time usage in the corpus of the biblical books. We shall then take a look at how this applies to our text this morning and what it means for our lives. And indeed, our text this morning is from 2 Peter 1 verses 3 and 4. Would you all please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? Hear now the word of God. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, guide us now in our worship of our great and glorious God as we turn to His Word, as given to us by the Apostle Peter. Have us to be focused and not distracted by the concerns that face us this very day and coming week. Instead To be centered on what the word proclaims and teaches. Grant us the grace to see and understand. We also ask that you would work a change within our hearts to live a life that reflects. That of what the word teaches. We pray this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. In our study of 1 Peter, we came across the encouragement for us to be prepared to give a defense for our faith. It was in 1 Peter 3 and verse 15, where it states, But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, yet do it with gentleness and respect. One of the things that has caused Peter to write this letter is that there were false teachers within the church that were beginning to have a negative impact, and Peter needs to address it. Although the attack is coming from within, its origin is coming from thoughts and beliefs that are from the broader culture and mystic religions of the time. Now some of you are thinking, already? From the already from the early church? They're having to deal with with With being negatively influenced by the broader culture? How can that possibly be? Well, it's true. Even today, many critics from within the church have warned of the church becoming like and reflecting the broader culture. I think this is a fair and true assessment. Now, we're not saying that everything from the world around us is bad. or evil, but we have to be careful to not incorporate unbiblical principles within the life of the church. As sojourners, the temptation to be accepted by, and be like those around us, is a strong pull. But we must resist it when it leads us astray in our thinking and ultimately in our practice of our faith, both corporately and individually. I've been told of and seen some worship services where it is a combination of a music concert and a TED talk. Vibrant, lively, heart-pumping music that focuses on what we will do for the Lord. And the sermon, which by the way, isn't called a sermon, it's called a message or a talk. Well, it advice, it's basically advice on how we are to live. how to have a better life, how to be financially free, how to have a better and happier marriage, and so forth. Now, I don't have any issues with lively and vibrant music, but it must be focused on what God has done for us and what He will do for us. And frankly, a a steady diet of good living can very quickly degenerate into the law And that is not the gospel. I hope you can see how both the content and the music and teaching can become self-centered, man-centered. This has great appeal for fallen men. You see, we can never seem to satiate our desire to focus upon ourselves. and what we can accomplish for God. In our passage today, we see Peter putting his teaching into practice. And he is refuting the false teachers' errors. He is giving a defense. Now, in his argument, Peter is speaking the language of his time. It is, in fact, Peter's usage of Hellenistic concepts that has caused many critics to take umbrage with him being a, or this being a Christian book Or it coming from the hand of the Apostle Peter. But I think it odd to saddle Peter with ignorance and at the same time acknowledge Paul on Mars Hill as genuine when both ministered in the same age in and in the same religious and cultural milieu of their generation. Why would Paul use fancy schmancy concepts to argue for the gospel and Peter couldn't? Neither of the men hid under a rock. And both lived in the broader culture of what we know as Hellenism or Hellenistic thinking. I think to deny this to Peter is unfair, illogical, and wrong, because Well, because he was a fisherman and he wouldn't have known about these things. Peter is skirting. No doubt between both worlds. The world of Christian doctrine and the world of mysticism and Hellenistic thought. And as any able and effective communicator, he has properly diagnosed his audience and is doing what he can for them to speak to them. in a language that resonates with them and yet does not dumb down what his master has ordered him to do, which is to teach all the things that he has been taught. So it's not so imperent to us as readers two millennia remove from the writings of this text. But Peter uses words and concepts like divine power, partakers of the divine nature and corruption, for which we need to consider today. And let us do that right now. You see, in the Hellenistic world of Platonic philosophy and mysticism, it was commonly believed that there was this dualism There was a physical world, and then there was the spiritual world, the immaterial world. The physical was considered bad, and the spiritual world were the small g gods resided was good. The fact that man takes on flesh, a physical body, this exposes him to the material world where it is corrupt. And his bodily desires are also corrupted. One needs to be or needs to access the spiritual reality in order to overcome this corruption. that these bodily desires have which corrupts us. Now, we have to note that it is not necessarily the actual behaviors that are bad or immoral. But it is the fact that we are in a corruptible state because we have corruptible bodies. Along with this, the golden life is to come into contact with the spiritual realm and be in the presence of small g gods. To be one with the gods and partake of their divine nature. That is, in the sense, to be deified. By doing so, you will get rid of the corruption of the flesh, and you will be able to overcome your mortality, because the gods, after all, are immortal, eternal. The point is that one can, let's say, fornicate or do some other type of what we would call sin. But this is not considered or looked upon as such, as long as you have found your way into the spiritual realm. The point. This point is very important for us to grasp. Because it divorces your sinful behavior as long as you partake of the divine nature. And another way of saying this is that of being in the presence of the small g gods. So, if you were to fuse these concepts, one can, and what it seems like, argue that you can be a Christian. And if you have special knowledge, let's say secret knowledge, that wasn't given to the apostles, for example, to be in the presence of God wherein which you have escaped the corruption of the body, you then can have your cake and eat it too. You will be in a proper relationship with God, and sin should not impact your hope of the future. This is what the Gnostics were teaching. What I just described was in a very summarized and brief belief system that Peter and the churches he is writing to grew up in. faced and were surrounded by. What is this divine nature that is being spoken of here, and how is it that we can partake in it that Peter is referencing in this book? Now before we get into this, let me point out that within Eastern Orthodoxy or the Eastern Orthodox Church, there is a doctrinal teaching that the partaking of the divine nature Deifies humans. This is what they teach. And we must be careful to not fall into this trap. We don't become gods. This we know is impossible, because God cannot make gods, because by definition, God has no beginning, and God is not created. And we all have a beginning and we all have been created. So let's first then define this and then apply how it fits into our lives. So, when is it that we we become partakers of this divine nature? We participate in the divine nature after we've turned our backs to the world. And this begins when we become saved. The ancients in Christ's time were concerned. if not horrified by the trans trans transitoriness that's a hard word to get in there of life The corruption that one experiences and contributes to. What will happen to them afterwards? This was a major concern. Well, it was back then, and it is today as well, isn't it? In our passage today, we see that Christ and what he has to offer, one can escape this corruption. But it's not the Hellenistic definition of corruption. Peter gives the corruption a label. He calls it sin. Sin corrupts. It corrupts our souls. We behave in bad ways, and it affects our consciousness, leaving us wandering in the quietness. and the private time in our own minds. What will become of me when I die? Jesus offers us and you an escape from this corruption. He is unique He is unique in several ways, but one of them is that he was pure, lacking any corruption. Yes, he was tempted, like every other human being, but temptation doesn't corrupt. It's giving into, it's committing the sin that corrupts a soul. further and further into the abyss, the more and more we sin. As human beings, we we respond to this, I think, in different ways, don't we? Sometimes we deny that what we did was bad. Oh, that's not really a sin. That can't possibly be a sin. Sometimes we interpret what is bad. Oh, how can that possibly hurt another person? Look at the positive things it did in this person's life. We look to others and compare ourselves to those we find more corrupt. Well, I'm not that bad. Look at so-and-so. We reduce the level of evil so much so that we dismiss it. Oh, that that really wasn't a sin After all, as if we can define what sin is and what we can't and what it isn't. But Christ is unique because not only is He without corruption, But he chose to give away his righteousness to those that would accept him and trust him in faith. So you see, we as Christians have escaped corruption because of what Christ has done for us and given it to us as a gift. This is the reality for those who are already saved. You see, this is in the indicative, defining what is. But this becomes the basis for us to live into, to fit into what we are This indicative becomes the basis for the ethical imperative for the believer, what we must do. And this is something that the believer genuinely desires to do. It's not a chore. It's something, you know, as if it's laborious to do, something that's difficult to overcome. But for the believer it's a labor of love. You know, I I can't help think of Joseph after he worked those many years to get his bride. The deceiver himself was deceived. And he was told that he needs to work several more years to have the love of his life. He didn't complain. He didn't scheme to try to get around it. He did it with joy because it was a labor of love. That's how we should look at the law. It is a labor of love because it reflects our God's character, our Heavenly Father's character. Yeah, I want to be like my dad. I don't want to steal. I want to be fidelitous to my word Right? These are good things, right? I want those things because I want to reflect my Heavenly Father's character So, what we're not saying about this participation in the divine nature is that man is somehow absorbed in some way into the Trinity. This would mean that man would lose his individuality and his personhood. But this is the mystical union that we have in Christ. It is us, Peter stated in 1 Peter, partaking in his suffering. 1 Peter 4. 13. And partakers of his glory at the revealing. 1 Peter 5. 1. Peter is using language in such a manner that reflects what Paul has already said. John as well that in the path that was paved by Christ perfectly led life. His crosswork, the evidence of the reality by his resurrection, and God's power As applied to us by God the Holy Spirit, we are partaking in. We are associating with Have a stake in and reflect God's character This is what the believer already is experiencing in part. But we'll also experience in the not-yet. at the revelation of Christ and throughout all of eternity. So what does this mean for you and me on a day-to-day, minute-by-minute basis? Well, it should remind us that we are part of a new family. We have as we have many brothers and sisters. We belong. We are not alone. We all have a heavenly Father, who by the way is God, the all-powerful creator of the universe. He has made us righteous by faith. He has reconciled himself to us. And he will reconcile all of creation and make things right. And he will never abandon you. He will never forsake you. He will never leave you. And he has already prepared a place for us even now. To be with him should we pass before Christ's return. This should give us a bunch of comfort, great comfort, as we live moment by moment, day by day. See, in contrast to Platonism and other Hellenistic ideas of corruption due to matter. As opposed to the spiritual world, which was of course incorrupt. Living in the material world Now, the notion of purity in the flesh is possible through the escape that was given to those in Christ by God the Father Sometimes I think it's a matter of being reminded of who you are and what you are in Christ. The identity that you have in Him Being pure. Think about that. Being pure and a new being should remind you that you shouldn't feel the shame and the guilt of sin. For you, see, for if you are Christ, if you are in Christ See, upon the cross, Christ became that shame and took away that guilt. In God's sight. Not only are you pure, but you're beautiful. You're not broken Others may accuse you of it. And we know who the chief of accusers is, don't we? But you're not broken. And it's important that you see yourself like God does. And not allow what you have done and what others may have done to you. to define you. Believer, you are a partaker of the divine nature Through the power of God applied by the Holy Spirit in your life as accomplished by Christ on the cross. You are not corrupted by sin anymore. The iniquity has been taken away. This happened by God planting a new nature in you. This happened when you were made born again. You were given a birth, not an earthly birth, but a birth from above. God's nature that began the process of your salvation within time. And the result of that is that Christ gave you the ability, as Peter tells us, to escape the corruption of the world. So now you can follow him and be like him and enjoy him in this life. There is no special knowledge that you need or someone has in order for you to escape the corruption of this world. Do you see what Peter was doing? You have it, as Peter says, the knowledge of Christ and how in his power He has done it all and has taken it away all of it. What? A great Savior and God we serve. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We give you praise for your beauty. For your intelligence, for your wisdom, your goodness, your mercy, and your grace in our lives. We thank you that you have taken that corruption away from us by sacrificing your own son in our place. What un unbelievable love is this? Help us, we pray. To remember who we are. Help us to remember how you look at us and how you rejoice in us. And how you went through every possible means to have a relationship with us, to make us your very own We pray, Father, by doing so, that we may draw closer to you, enjoy you Both now and forevermore. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.