Uh and obey God and un the unbelieving people who are in rebellion against him. And the healing of Aeneas likewise validates Peter as Christ's apostle, who has the message of salvation. I just want to say as an aside, there's an implication here that we need to be reminded of. And the tanner works with dead animals. He's devout, he's God-fearing, and he's one who gives alms generously to people. She's mourned as one who was full of good works and acts of charity. It's a theological link. In churches that have a liberal bent in their theology, it's often mercy and charity, and helping the poor is prioritized or even completely eclipses the ministry of the word. And it's seen in the verbal links. You see, it never occurred to Peter, even though he saw all these things that Jesus had done, even though he'd heard Jesus himself abolish the kosher laws related to food. They're commanded to get up from their places of brokenness and death. So Peter rose and went with them, and when he arrived they took him to the upper room. in the book of Acts are the conversion of Saul, which we looked at last week, and the conversion of Cornelius, which is coming next week. It's a theological, pastoral, and evangelism book. And Luke tells in this story how it is that the church caught up with what Jesus accomplished on the cross. to create this new human uh this new future and this new humanity is the church. uh in a way so that we might be prepared as readers uh for this development Is it just random? And Peter is the apostle who will officially open the mission to the Gentiles. If you want a modern parallel, it could only have been someone who was strongly anti-communist and a military hawk like Richard Nixon who could have begun the process And as he travels, he comes to the town of Lida, which is between Jerusalem and the Mediterranean coast. Jesus himself makes this connection, and we see it in Luke 5, where he healed a paralytic. And their faith is very much on display. And the most religious people in the room are shocked. Uh the resuscitation of Dorcas uh uh of Dorcas's corpse is also a sign of salvation. And this means we live with the already of some of what Christ has done for us, and yet we wait because all of it is not yet ours. and it's incurable. But she weaved mercy into all her good works, so much so that when she's uh mourned Tabitha cared for them. uh to raise her from the dead. and to view as outsiders, and not possibly the object of God's love and care, that God is actually wanting to demonstrate his love to them uh people, the churches that love the word and hold high the gospel must fully recover the ministry of practical love, of deed and mercy ministry. And Luke wants us to see the link to chapter 10, where in a similar way, in the vision, Peter is commanded And as a result, those who wouldn't have heard the gospel hear it and receive new life. I've told myself these are my boundaries. the cultural expression of those boundaries in the religion were so intertwined in the minds of the Jewish church that it was just impossible for them to conceive that when a Gentile became a Christian they didn't have to also become fully Jewish. And so the church struggled mightily and will in the book of Acts with that. Sometimes he orchestrates a whole set of events to position someone so that they're ready to respond to a call. Are you flexible? As the ruler controlling the earth and the whole creation, only it is the fully finished image, the most telling and striking likeness of God. And ask you from the bottom of our hearts that this seed of your word now sown among us may take such deep root that neither the heat of persecution in our lives as you intend. And there he found the man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed. And all the residents of Lida and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. She was full of good works and acts of charity. And since Lida was near Joppa, the disciples hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, please come to us without delay. But Peter put them all outside and knelt down and prayed. Then calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. And he stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner. This wall separated not just East and West Berlin, but two different ways of life. uh to their homelands as many ukrainians here uh do and some have traveled to help uh defend their nation The New Testament describes this border as the dividing wall of hostility. So I want to invite you this morning to step back and appreciate just how it is that Luke, who's researched his account, recounts what God has done and he skillfully tells this. And began a new stage in God's plan to bring about the future. Saul is God's chosen instrument to carry the gospel to the nations, and Cornelius and his household are the first Gentiles to embrace the gospel. uh Cornelius. Of normalizing relationships between our country and what was commonly known in that day as communist China. And Luke shows us the way that Peter and the church are being prepared for Pilnius' conversion to Christ. He takes him from Jerusalem to Caesar town. He's setting the stage so that Peter will be receptive. And there he encounters a man named Aeneas, who's been a paralytic a long time. This two-volume book, Luke and Acts. And it implies that here in this second book, Jesus is continuing to do and teach. The Acts of the Apostles. thought about uh what was happening to his uh home. Your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise and walk. We all have part of it. I've been a student of Russian Soviet history since high school. For you boys and girls who don't know what that is, it's someone who takes uh a hunter's dead animal and mounts uh the head or even the whole body uh for a trophy and near water. But the stench wouldn't be the only thing that would be off-putting about a tanner's home. Next, Peter will be summoned by Cornelius and commanded by God to go to that Roman town, Caesar town. It's really, really important. But Tabitha, we're told, is a disciple, which is a word that occurs more than a hundred times in the New Testament, but she's the only woman who gets the feminine what it means to be a follower of Jesus in a very important way. The report of their miracle goes forth from them and naturally gives them the opportunity to speak about the saving power of Christ revealed in the gospel. Now, this ministry doesn't rest on them alone. uh branch called Mission to North America that has amazing resources and experience and can help any church of any size take a step forward in this ministry area. uh Peter theologically with the importance of practical love. In verse 13 and verse 20, to get up, or as the ESV puts it, to rise. Even though he'd seen Jesus act on behalf of the Syrophoenician woman and found him talking with the woman at the well in Samaria, he just did not grasp. That the love of God and the gospel was intended for all people to hear. And Peter is going to have to become flexible in his thinking. He's appealed to go because of the the loss these women have incurred. can do that and I'm not saying that's not true but but but I can be really inflexible. But see, Peter needed to get flexible to see that the wall of hostility, of religious why they've never done it that way before and why they want to stick with their way of doing things. with a crowd who wants to hear the message that he will bring. that however richly gifted that human being may be, it can only be somewhat unfolded in its depth and riches. summed up under a single head, spread out over the whole earth as a prophet proclaiming the truth of God, as a priest, dedicating itself to God. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, crying out, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. It tells us many things about what it means for us as individuals and together to be related to Him. nor the thorns of care in for this life choke it out. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up, and she, excuse me, he gave her his hand and raised her up. However, not all borders appear on maps. But they can also bind people together across vast distances. To be an Israelite was to be in covenant with God, and to be a Gentile was to be outside of covenant with God and his promises. There were, of course, a few exceptions, Rahab and Ruth, but this broad generalization holds. The border was marked off with circumcision, dietary restrictions, sacrifices broke down this wall. This is God's future for the world, for humanity, and the place that this is being worked out. And so this sermon is going to look a little different than many of the sermons I've preached. God makes a geographic preparation. To get him ready for a visit to Corinidius in his pioneering role, which otherwise he probably would have completely resisted. Peter's traveling. Peter is following Jesus' example, and the healing is done in Jesus' name, and the healing is instantaneous. Now Jesus is acting through Peter. A crippled man's friends brought him to Jesus. that he was sent by God and his uh claims to be divine are true and that in fact he is the way to experience salvation And it happens when evil touches your life or mine, when illness comes, when the doctor says some horrible condition is yours. to Joppa, which is a mixture of Jew and Gentile, right on the coast of the Mediterranean, and then north, to Caesartown, which is Roman. And uh it's significant. As well as Jews. And if you've ever been to the shed that a taxidermist works in, you'll immediately know why much of the time because of his work. In other words, he's sitting on top of the wall of hostility. They are both known for their care of the poor. And if you, as a reader, would allow yourself to identify with these mourning women, we would be moved as well by these grieving widows. form of the word disciple in the entire New Testament. practical love, possible and real, or to use the old word charity. It's difficult work. He turns the community members into public witnesses for the objective reality of a miracle. Preparation to see charity and love. Now, dear church, this is a special season to identify men who are called to serve as deacons. And this is the day. If the church in the West is going to see the gospel grow in its impact and reach more people and reach resistant And fortunately, I can just tell you you're in a wonderful denomination, the PCA, because it is a wonderful Or the ESV uses the word rise. Four times in verse 34, verse 40 of chapter 9, verse 13, and verse 20 of chapter 10. Picture, anticipate. Sometimes, and probably more often than I realize, I've missed an opportunity to be a part of what God is actually doing, because I'm inflexible. Um uh y I don't always run to the side of everybody who has or has someone who they know who's in the hospital. It goes like this. God moves them, he's moved them several times already to places they did not want to go. in a humanity counting billions of members. Man and woman together in marriage do not fully capture that. And this is what John sees. Amen. Let's pray. That the word of the gospel might go forth with power reaching people otherwise it would not. In the Bible, one border has dwarfed all the others in importance. You see, he's the representative of the Mother Church in Jerusalem, the Jewish Christian Church, put the accent on Jewish. And he makes a thematic preparation through these verbal links to show us the change that God must do in Peter. Resurrected, but it's temporary, but it's a sign that points forward to the final resurrection and the restoration of all things. Uh Luke makes a point of ending the healings by telling us that a Simon stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner. Love, practical love being extended. does, uh goes into the room, he clears it of all these widows, uh, he gets down on his knees and asks God And of course, word spread quickly. And the point of this practical love is it's just not peripheral to the gospel. Well, we've seen God preparing Peter geographically as he's moved him. Wouldn't have been quite a resort being in the house of a tanner, but you know, there's just no indication that he was planning to visit Caesarea. To image that, he goes on and says it this way. Together and individually, responsive to you, enable us to live and lean in to your future. Please join me as I pray for us, and then I'll have you stand. We are in Acts 9, and we're going to read from verses 32 to the end of the chapter. And this past week the world has waited anxiously watching the border of Ukraine. In the 20th century, perhaps the most famous wall that was built and has come down was in Berlin. Culturally Jewish. And news of this spreads fast, as you might expect, and a large number of people, both in Lida and Sharon, come to Christ. And Jesus perceives their thoughts. This healing is a sign of the salvation that comes in believing the gospel. These sign miracles authenticate the messenger and his message. Patience in the midst of evil. And this geographic preparation takes place as Peter's traveling. And there's another link here. Tabitha arise. No, our Book of Church Order is completely clear about this. This is the New Testament pattern. So that others might come to know the good news that Jesus is Lord of all It was hard for the church to come to terms with this. Regardless of what he'd planned, he was willing to shift gears in response to God's leadership, and he moved on the spur of the moment. wall that was marked by cultural activities needed to come down. And summons us as Christ followers into His mission Why does Luke break up this which would be naturally connected with these two stories of healings? These two healings point to, illustrate, and anticipate the removal of sin and guilt and all the effects of the fall, including illness and death. That the fullness of what Jesus has achieved for our salvation is not yet ours. And Peter goes, and it's going to be while he's in Chappa that he will once again be urgently summoned to see someone else. It's the smell. And Dorcas also displays this charity. full of good works and acts of charity. that the that Tabbit's being raised from the dead signifies that the word concerning Jesus Christ, who was raised from the dead, will make Church, don't miss this. And so God so loved the world. Now, you know, I don't know about you, but I'm really not that flexible. And sadly, we've seen the Russian armed forces cross that uh border Healing in many, many dimensions. Dead animals and dead bodies were ritually unclean. It's a Gentile town, and he's staying with a man who actually, Peter doesn't seem to be troubled by this, a man who's probably often, if not all the time, actually ritually unclean. Word and deed are linked once again. Christ through Peter, healing, acts of miracles, deeds of love, and we see the gospel going forth in greater and greater response to it. Every morning I plan my day out. I like to stay in control. The image of God is so much so much too rich for it to be fully realized in a single human being. And open our hearts and minds with the love we've seen in Christ to demonstrate such love to others. Certain uh feast days and of course every week observing rest on Saturday. You know what it is to soften somebody up. The life of the word in his people means that poverty and injustice, the wounds of orphans and widows, will heal. People becoming whole and the gospel growing and spreading, they go together. We don't know what Peter had planned while he was in Lida. Tabbit, Dorcas, is doing the deeds prescribed by Jesus. And admittedly, showing charity, caring for the poor is hard work It is this group of people whom, in our practice of church government, are entrusted with leading, nurturing, modeling, and encouraging mercy ministry. See, Peter is the guy that God has chosen to punch the first hole in the wall of hostility between Jew and Gentile. In the world of helping churches grow and become strong, there's a saying. You see, God does have a future for his church. and restores to them their source of support, showing them that she was alive. Many people respond to the gospel message because of these healings. God's patience means we must wait as he mercifully opens the door to repentance open to those who've rebelled against him. of evangelism, of witness and mission. But the gospel is to break down all the walls of human rebellion, of pride that we have erected. Now, as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived in Lido. Now, the two most significant narratives, two of the most, not the most, but two of the most. That is God's future, and may we long for it and welcome it and desire to be a part of it, for it most certainly shall come to pass. Church, take this to heart. Well, it's not. Luke wants us to notice here. It's not by coincidence that Simon's home is there on the coast by the sea As really like a flaw or a weakness. Gracious Heavenly Father, be pleased to make us supple in your hands I want to go back and tell you a little bit about Dorcas and Tabitha. Just how is that? Are you willing to respond to God? We do have new life. She cared for the poor. And he uses almost exactly the same language when he says to the little girls, only one letter uh difference in Aramaic. He's set off, and God has sent him to visit the churches to do what we might call pastoral visitation. Or you have the death of someone who matters to you. Today is the day to nominate more deacons. And so pay close attention to what I'm going to say. We've never done it that way before. The fall of this wall is actually one of the big stories in the book of Acts. It's the practical theology of love. And often these two ministries, that of the Word and the ministry of mercy or practical love, are divided Well, the Bible is a many faceted book. Now, in the first uh church I served, we had a taxidermist Apparently they didn't say this out loud. And tanners used urine as a part of the curing process, and the smell was noxious. It's anything but random. The details matter here. She opens her eyes and he helps her up, and the widows are are made glad. Usually it takes a page, all those things I want to get done. And you know, sometimes when someone uh has a need, instead of responding to it, I just hold back and say, that's not, you know, that's not for me In Jesus' name we pray. He writes, in the first book, O Theophilus, which is the Gospel of Luke, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach. This is what Luke's signaling. I want my day to unfold as I plant. And once Peter is healed, once he gets up, he can walk into God's plan. This healing, as well as all the other miracles in the book of Acts, are signs of Jesus' salvation And so geographically, Joppa's on the edge of Judah I've I've missed something. It's a theological link, and it's very deliberately set out so you can see this, this connection between Dorcas and Cornelius. Only humanity in its entirety as one complete organism. Languages, race, religion, culture, gender, and age can divide neighborhoods, cities, and states. They believe that Jesus can do this. After this, I, John, look, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every tribe and from all the tribes and peoples and languages. Well the healings reintroduce Peter, who's been missing since chapter uh five. And I don't know about you, but I'm deeply grieved by what's happened in Ukraine. And no doubt all of this was relayed by these two men who went and found Peter. In those days she became ill and died. Perhaps you want to approach, if you're married, a spouse or a friend, and you know you choose the time and the place, you set the mood. And Peter, who's kept kosher his whole life, would have the credibility to do this. In other words, what he's saying is that I don't fully, as an individual, reflect the totality of what it means to be in the image of God. But the fullness of the restoring of all things has not come and will not come until Christ returns again. And the result is that other people turn to Christ in faith. We have forgiveness. When Peter unites these widows with Tabbitha, We saw this at the very beginning, the way that Luke crafts the very first sentence in introducing the second half of Peter. And what Luke is telling us by this is that he wants us to see that she embodies But often the opposite happens in conservative churches where the ministry of the word is held up and this is actually neglected. But to show you that the Son of Man has the authority to forgive, I say, rise, pick up your bed and go home. Peter moves to Lida, which is Jewish. It's an overpowering smell to stand in the taxidermist workplace. Turning to the body, he said, Tabitha, arise. And it's also practical theology. But uh we can be pretty sure it wasn't to go to Joppa. A new humanity united under the headship of Jesus, where the old borders are gone. God has a love for all people because they are his creatures And they lowered him down in the room where Jesus was teaching. And Peter needs to see this, that these Gentile people he's been taught from childhood to despise. The church struggled with this in the book of Acts. When Cornelius is introduced in chapter 10 and the second verse, we're told It's not all on them to see that this is done. From their places of brokenness and death, with the result that others turn and believe in Jesus. Amen. That was her reputation. Deacons are encouraged to involve others in this ministry. All that Jesus began to do and to teach. He moves Peter from Jerusalem all the way to Caesartown. Actually, they opened a roof. He makes a theological preparation with the priority of the deeds of love that reveal the love of God for people. Are you open to what He might call you to do next? And if you miss any one of these aspects, you've really lost a great deal. In other words, that's going to be chiseled on her tombstone. These are not things that happen every day. And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. I'm not going to ask you to look at these four verses together, but Aeneas and Tabathy are commanded to get up. We do not, as a group. But it grieves me. You see this is what happens when you shuffle your pages. But the last thing we need to see is God's preparation of Peter thematically. All the widows stood beside him, weeping, and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas had made while she was with him. And so let me give you the outline. See, she was not only a sound seamstress And he says, why do you question in your hearts? So Dorcas and Tabitha are both, they're just Greek and Hebrew names, and they mean gazelle. Now, he's going to have to think in a new way. And so I ask you, church, and you as individuals It it just serves me so well. If you would, will you come to full attention and stand if you're able for the reading of God's Word Our world is marked by borders, boundaries, and walls. Yeah. Let me just show you how this happens. Now, being a tanner was a profession that was despised both by sophisticated Greeks. These two healings are a bridge. But this time Jesus is acting through the church, and especially prominently through the apostles, which is why we call it. You see, what Luke is showing us here, he's doing it again and again in this book, is But instead of healing the man, Jesus announces that his sins are forgiven. Who do you think you are, Jesus? As good seed may it produce thirty, sixty, a hundredfold. And there really was no difference between being culturally and religiously a Jew, as we might say today. And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you, rise and make your bed, and immediately he rose. You may be seated. And her death devastated the widows in Joppa, who were among the poorest and most vulnerable people in those days. And Peter, in a manner very similar to Jesus, calls to him, Rise and make your bed. And so Jesus healings in the Gospels authenticate Now it's fairly unusual in the Bible to get detailed descriptions like that of people and their occupations. And so one of the boundary markers is that Simon very likely was ritually unclean. They're connected. I always wonder what the owner of the house Almighty God, merciful Father, we humbly submit ourselves. Expatriates everywhere feel a connection and a kinship. He punches the first hole through the dividing wall of hostility. In fact, it was built into our confession of sin this morning, and it's this. We have a restored relationship with God. Peter needs this theological uh Now, of course, every church that says that always has a reason And when they washed her, they laid her in an upper room And through many centuries that boundary corresponded uh with the line that marked Israel from the other nations. Not just the global church, but in the local church. He's right there. This is Now, Peter, in a manner very similar to what Jesus Two economic and political systems. It saddens me deeply and makes me long for the coming of Christ. That means he cared for the poor. But you see, that's not how God interacts with the church in the New Testament. Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabatha, which translated and means Dorcas. A Jew would be concerned about ritual purity. It tells us about God, who he is, what he's like. And so these words, the word rise And you know when Peter's in Java, maybe he's, you know, having a beach vacation, I don't know. You see, I don't see my spontaneity deficit, which is significant. They did not anticipate going. And I don't know if you struggle with that You see, churches too can exist in a similar inflexibility. I'm going to take extra time to reconnect the parts for you along the way. We see God preparing It's the boundary between those who loyally serve He will nurture it It's going to take the whole of redeemed humanity. The healing of forgiveness of their sin, and they're raised from spiritual death to life. But he does. And the Apostle Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians, says that Jesus' death And being in Joppa places Peter both geographically and theologically on a boundary. And I really like the predictability of working down that plan. I get done what I want to uh get done. And those two things Or whatever loss you experience in this life. He is urgently summoned to go to Joppa. Word and deed are profoundly connected. He becomes flexible in his travel plans. He's sitting on it. Where we pray in Christ's name. And as I mentioned, Cornelius likewise is doing these deeds. And if the West Bob Ink, the famous theologian, put it this way. When Anenaeus and Dorcas and Peter arise, they're healed. Now So let me add this because it's And we see the apostles doing and teaching. Peter gets up and he's healed of his closed-mindedness. She is I don't like to change gears in the middle of the day. These healings are a bridge between the conversion of Paul and the conversion of Now, Peter once again. He goes because he's urgently asked to go. I just haven't done that. And it stretches across seven chapters. His worship. Peter is moved. God makes a geographic preparation. And it was just impossible to miss the nature of the request. Sometimes he used persecution. Which is easier to say. Peter doesn't fully get what God's up to until he's in the home of Cornelius. There's a flow here, and he interrupts it. He showed charity. Maybe you've heard it. He's headed east. And it's a book that announces the gospel actually on every page. I'm not surprised by it. I say, m my flock's my responsibility. He's flexible. We're beginning to experience Amen. And this requires patience of us. And so it is And so the trade was practiced outdoors. He was generous in the way he cared for the poor. That's what Caesarea means, just colloquially. But it means that It's called the Seven Last Words of the Church. I plan my day out. Well, that's what God's doing here. God has to soften Peter up. They were first and foremost. Sometimes he used visions. There's a connection. We see Peter. This is where my energies need to go, and somebody else And he does. Cornelius. You see, These were one and the same things. That's what those healings. Oops.