Our text this morning is Galatians, perhaps appropriately on a Reformation Sunday. Galatians chapter 3, if you would turn with me for the reading of God's Word. And I believe Skipp said on the uh on the uh little sheet that he sent out that it is your normal custom that you stand during the reading of God's Word. Is that correct? Let's do that together Galatians chapter three. Hear the word of God, first nine verses of Galatians chapter three. Oh, foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain? Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed, along with Abraham, the man of faith. Would you join me in prayer as we come before God's Word to study this morning? Father, we give you thanks for your word. We come before you this morning accepting it as your word and intending to bow before the authority of your word that we may learn. What you have for us in particular, that we may learn of Jesus Christ. For he is our hope. He is our salvation. There is salvation indeed in no other name but in the name of Jesus Christ. And so we would come to learn of him. By your Spirit, teach us. We ask it for your glory in Jesus' name. This is Reformation Sunday, and I have to say I count it a privilege to be among you and to be able to preach the Word of God on Reformation Sunday. I I'm in a position in my life now in retirement where I have determined that I will not peddle my preaching services, if you will. If someone calls and says, would you come and preach, I will do so. When Skip Dusenberry called and asked if I would preach, Skip's been a dear friend to me, and uh I said yes. And it's my privilege, a special privilege on Reformation Sunday. I haven't been preaching very much. I hope that will not show too badly this morning. uh as I come before you. But it is Reformation Sunday and I must confess, and I perhaps share with many of you, a great admiration for those men God used at the time of the Reformation in the sixteenth century. century. These guys are my heroes. I love them. Luther, Calvin, the two chief names. That last hymn we sang is uh uh while nobody says Calvin wrote it, it's connected to Calvin's Ministry and comes from the Geneva Psalter. Others, many of them, Farrell, Knox, you used in your bulletin Studied under Calvin what he called that most perfect school of Christianity in Geneva, and then went back to Scotland. And in the boldness of the Holy Spirit Asked the Lord to give him Scotland or he die. And within only a few short weeks, Scotland, at least formally, was Protestant. And the Church of Scotland today is much less than Knox would have hoped for it. And yet the ministry continues through other churches in Scotland In the continent, others, Zwingli. I don't share his view of the supper, or some other things, but a great reformer, Odfontes, we identify with Ulrich Zwingli, to the fountains. What did he mean by the fountains? To the sources. What did he mean? He meant the Word of God, the Scriptures. This is our source. This is our authority. Others lesser known, Bucer. Capito. The name I love John Uca Lumpadius. Isn't that a great name? How'd you like to have that? And go and sign up for something and and uh say, my name is John Uca Lumpaudius. As they go to write it down. Great names, great heroes of the faith. But lest you think I'm simply a hero worshipper, I remind you that such a recognition of God's blessings to us through our forefathers is not without precedence among reformed preachers. Ucolmpotius himself, and I quote this from Hugh Zolophot Old's worship that is reformed according to Scripture. He notes that Ucalumpodius at Basel was concerned that the church should maintain remembrance of the great Christians of the past, particularly the martyrs. He recommended that this be done during the weekday services through sermon illustrations. I hope you regularly have some sermon illustrations that are based upon the experience and the examples that God has given us in those who have faithfully used been used of God in the history of the Christian church. It is known that the great Girton pastor Richard Baxter shared similar sentiments. And need I remind you that the Scripture itself, Hebrews chapter 12, After the writer to the Hebrews goes through that list of Old Testament heroes, what we sometimes call the Hall of Faith. What does he begin chapter twelve with? These words, therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance. The race that is set before us. These are the examples that God has given us. These are the patterns that we are to exemplify and pattern our lives after as believers in Jesus Christ. And we are direct heirs of that sixteenth century reformation. And in my uh friendship with Skip I know that this congregation in particular is desirous of maintaining and encouraging those great principles of the Reformation. I think that's exemplified in a particular way by your finishing up the solas and focusing those in these Sundays We believe that the Reformation of the 16th century reformed the church on a biblical foundation. I love Hugh Solliphon Old's title, Worship that is reformed according to Scripture. We can have all sorts of reformation, all sorts of uh changes, all sorts of innovations and so forth, but if they're not drawn from the Scriptures, You see, we lose that guidance and direction which is essential if we're to please him. We may do all sorts of things that are pleasing to us, all sorts of things that uh attract all sorts of people. But if they do not honor God, they do not bring Him glory, and you folks, I heard you just a few moments ago, you Grasped hold of question one and said, This I believe. What's the purpose of it all? The purpose of it all is the glory of God. The purpose of it all is that he be exalted and lifted up. And the Reformation of the 16th century grasped hold of that principle with zeal. Now, as we turn to the book of Galatians this morning. We do so conscious of how God used that particular portion of Scripture in the life of Martin Luther to drive the Reformation and to clarify faith. Said Luther, I have taken in hand, in the name of the Lord, to expound this epistle of St. Paul to the Galatians, not because I desire to teach new things, or such as ye have not known before, but for that we have to fear lest Satan take from us this doctrine of faith, and bring into the church again the doctrine of works. And men's traditions. The question which Luther raised and sought to focus and clarify is simply this How can sinful human beings find acceptance before a perfect and holy God? That question bothered Luther, as some of you know who've read some biography perhaps of Luther. That question gripped him. It tore him up. He knew that if there was a God in heaven, anything like the God of Scripture, that it was essential that he had a right relationship to this God, that he have this God's acceptance, otherwise he was lost and undone. And so Luther pursued the epistle to the Galatians and Romans as he sought to clarify those issues In the decades before the Reformation, the answer to that question had been distorted and clouded by the beliefs and practices of many church leaders. The heart and soul of the Reformation was the recovery of the Bible answer to that question: how can I be acceptable before a holy God? That question was behind Luther's ninety-five theses, which are uh the occasion of our doing Reformation Day in the end of October, uh comes from the time when Luther nailed those theses. To the door of the castle church in Wittenberg. I think you will agree that the language of Thesis 32 is quite clear, at least on the negative side. Those who think themselves sure of salvation through their letters of pardon will be damned forever along with their teachers. Is there anything unclear about that? I think Luther stated it quite clearly. So then, as we turn to Galatians, we ask: on what grounds does God declare a sinner? Forgiven, on what grounds does God say this sinner is acceptable in my sight? On what grounds would God bring this sinner into his arms of love? And share with him all good things. Paul develops three arguments. First of all, was Christ crucified to add to the value of my works, or did he die that he might substitute his works for mine? Like Luther, Paul spoke plainly and sometimes bluntly. O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? At the very least, we must understand that Paul's strong language tells us that this is a vitally important matter. that such language should be that carried along by the Holy Spirit should tell us that this is of crucial importance, hardly incidental or optional. This is something which strikes at the very heart of Christianity, the very heart of the Christian gospel, the very heart of the Christian message, and the very heart of the Christian life. What is it that is so important? This is the question. Does their salvation depend upon their own works or on the work of Christ? Do the works of the law done by men open the favor of God? Or is it the work of Jesus Christ substituted for their works which gains God's favor? Paul's argument first then focuses upon the cross of Christ. At the end of verse 1, it was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. The argument is simply this. If your works are sufficient to gain acceptance with God, what was the Son of God doing on a cross? What was the purpose of that? What would that serve? Simply a display of brutality or some such? If your works could meet God's requirements, then why was it necessary for Jesus to die upon the cross Did the Son of God take human flesh and suffer and die in that flesh simply to provide a model for moral living? Or was there something far deeper and more fundamental going on in the sacrifice of Christ on the cross Paul's gospel declares that Jesus died on the cross to accomplish a forgiveness of sins which could not be accomplished by any other means. Your death, my death, if all of us were to be martyred today, it wouldn't amount to one bit of forgiveness for any of us. It would only be the reception of what we deserve. But the death of Jesus, who knew no sin, as a substitute for us, the precious blood. Of Jesus. That purchases for you and for me and for hosts around the world Forgiveness. It brings us from our own selves and our own selfishness into the presence of God with joy. Knowing that no one in all the world will be able to bring any charge against God's elect. And we have that hope in Jesus Christ In Ephesians 2, Paul declares that sinners are dead in their trespasses and sins, utterly unable to do anything positive toward their own salvation In Romans chapter 8, for God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. He condemned sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fully met in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. This idea of substitution is very much a part of the fabric of the New Testament, and particularly a part of the fabric of what God used the Apostle Paul to articulate. for the church in these passages. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, that we might become in him the righteousness of God. Second Corinthians five twenty one. Unless you think Paul is the only one that got it. Here, Peter, 1 Peter 3:18. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh. But made alive by the Spirit. You can even hear a whisper of it in that verse, which probably all of you know by heart, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. He gave his son as a substitute, and he brings up. us into the righteousness of his son. How does he do that? What are the terms of that? How does that happen? That brings us to the second argument that Paul makes here, verses two and three. And he's asking this question. How did you receive the spirit? What do you remember about that? Was it something you did? Did you go and make payments? And I get the spirit? There was a guy that tried that, you know, in the book of Acts. We know him as Simon the Magician, and we get uh an English word that was used prior to the Reformation. uh and even after Simony means to buy religious office or uh privilege. And lest you think that we Americans are uh Totally exempt on those scores. I would remind you that the state that I live in across the uh way here in Virginia had an established church until seventeen eighty-six when the religious uh when the Virginia Statute for Religious Toleration was passed through the good offices of George Mason and Thomas Jefferson. But prior to that, the Anglican church was established, and the first Presbyterian to get a license, somebody I have a particular interest in, a guy named Samuel Davies. Who received a license from Governor Gooch in Virginia along about 1744 and began planting churches in Hanover County and down just east side of Richmond. And uh what was happening in those days, oft times, the Anglican priests in these places established churches. You see, they didn't have to work for a living because taxes were brought in To pay their salaries. And they had these plantations called Gleeds. And uh that kind of thing was going on. And people were buying such things Well, can you buy the Holy Spirit? And Paul knows that the Galatians know better, and he calls them on it. And he says, You know better. You know that it was not because of anything you did. It was not because of your making yourself acceptable that the Holy Spirit came. It was a sovereign work of God that the Holy Spirit came. And what that Holy Spirit did, and what that Holy Spirit produced, was faith. That Holy Spirit opened your heart and your mind. And what did that Holy Spirit do? It focused all of your attention, all of the hope you have of salvation, upon you. Upon Jesus Christ. J. I. Packer calls it the searchlight ministry. The work of the Holy Spirit is a searchlight, and what that searchlight does is cast thousands of watts upon the Lord Jesus Christ. draws us to him. And that's what faith does. That's how faith works. It draws us to Jesus. Christ. It binds us to Jesus Christ. It gives us a holy zeal to know Him and Him only for salvation. So how and when did you receive the Holy Spirit? They knew very well that it had been God's sovereign work and that it was connected To the time they believed and accepted Jesus Christ. Now, as Reformed people, we understand that the work of the Holy Spirit works at both ends. It's the Holy Spirit in regeneration that opens. our hearts and minds to receive, who are dead in our trespasses and sins, he makes us alive, but then he also produces In us that faith by which we now with new hearts and wills embrace Jesus Christ and glory in the salvation that He has given and offers to us. When Peter preached at the house of Cornelius in Acts chapter ten The Holy Spirit was poured out to confirm that the Gentiles had the same acceptance by God as the Jews in Jerusalem. The recorded words of Peter in Acts chapter 11. If then God gave the same gift to them as he gave to us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, Who was I that I could stand in God's way? When they heard these things, they fell silent. And they glorified God, saying, Then the Gentiles also, God, to the Gentiles also, God has granted repentance that leads to life. This gospel of Jesus Christ is not for this ethnic group or that ethnic group. It is not just for the Jew any longer. It is for all people around the world. And we live in a world that is a pretty messy place. Days isn't it? Not that it ever has been much better, probably, but for Muslims and those in the Islamic world. I have a good friend who ministers in Turkey. The gospel of Jesus Christ is saving Turks today We hear stories and the Chinese people, one of my preaching assignments after I retired was at the Chinese church in Falls Church here, our part of our presbytery. uh for their English speaking service. Uh the young man working on the English service was not ordained, so when they did the Lord's Supper, sorta why I'm here today, maybe in part, uh you need an ordained man to come and serve the Lord's Supper. And so I I was invited to come. And there are things happening in those house churches in China. Brother in our presbytery, Tun Yo, some of you may know of him. Is ministering to those churches and leaders in those churches. God is doing things in places that you would never believe. And this gospel that is for the Gentiles as well as the Jews is working its way through the world under the radar oftentimes, but hearts and lives are being changed by When Paul sums up the inclusion of the Gentiles before the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15, he says And when God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us And he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts how? By faith. The Holy Spirit came in connection with believing in Jesus Christ. It was bound up in that experience of believing in Jesus Christ. Now the Galatians had some experience of the Holy Spirit's work among them, and they knew that it was connected to the moment they believed in Jesus. And to those events around which they believed in Jesus. They had known the work of the Spirit. The Spirit had opened their hearts. They knew that it was in connection with faith and believing in Jesus that these things happened. Later at the end of verse 5 in this third chapter of Galatians, Paul makes the point again: does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by the hearing? It is by the hearing of faith. The means by which you can receive the work of Christ is by by faith. Receiving and resting upon Christ. And I love that language receiving that's in our our confessional documents, receiving and resting upon Christ alone for salvation as He has offered to us in the gospel. One of the things that uh uh was mentioned about me as I I'm a bicyclist. I don't do as much as I should, which is why I'm carrying a little more here than I should, but You ever see a guy laying down on a bicycle with his feet out front pedaling? You ever see one of those? You know what that bicycle's called? It's called a recumbent bicycle. Now the Puritans loved part of that word because they spoke of recoming upon Jesus Christ. And what does that mean? Throwing yourself back. Upon Jesus Christ, resting upon him, letting all the weight of your sin and everything fall upon him, for he is able So when you think of receiving and resting upon Christ, think of that guy on the bicycle laying back, depending on the bicycle, to hold him and throwing himself back upon the straw. Frame of that bicycle. That's faith resting upon what? Your own works, your own goodness, your own intelligence? No, upon Jesus Christ. Paul adds a note here concerning the ongoing life of faith, and I want to make this point. It may not be directly in the line of the passage, but It needs to be made. Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? We who come to Jesus Christ and come to know Him as Savior Sometimes get back into the idea now that I'm saved, I can work out these things again. On my own. I'm sure you've heard many of you of Sinclair Ferguson, great Scott. I wore the tie today simply for fashion purposes, but it does remind me Remind me of Skip's presence there and of a Scot like Sinclair Ferguson. Ferguson says uh books on how to discover God's will for your life sell better than almost any other kind you could write. I know from some experience, he says. He wrote one that Nav Press has published with something like that title. And he says, we want to know the will of God for our lives so that once again we can take the reins into our own He's onto something, folks. He's onto something about the perverseness of sin that remains in us. If I can get God's plan, then I'll say farewell to worship, I'll say farewell to the commandments, I'll say farewell to this, and I'll get it done on my own by George. It continues to operate by faith, and you never outgrow your need of Jesus Christ. Christ. It is his blood which will carry you that last mile from this life into the life to come. Just as much as it was that moment It happens in various ways. It happens sometimes that people Come to know Christ, and then they begin to think that now they can work things out on their own. My sins are paid. Now I can get on and do it myself. Sometimes there's a perfection idea in it. The Spirit's work is so complete now that there is no sin left in me, and I can do everything I want myself, whatever I want. And we need to continue to be guided by the Word of God, guided by the law of God. Packer says at one point: love needs law as its eyes. You see, I don't know what pleases God. I talk about this in teaching about worship. I use uh you know maybe forgive me for this, but I use some something from Jesus Christ Superstar, uh which I detest in most ways, but there's a beautiful chorus in there. I don't know how to love him. What to say, how to please him. Remember it? Some of you know it, you older people from the sixties We don't know how to please him of ourselves. We are finite. We need him to tell us. And he does so in his word. He does so in his law to direct us. And the second problem. Of course, is that we're sinners still, and that sin remains in us, and Satan will continue to use that to distract us, to draw us aside from following after Christ. Christ. You must continue in the power of Christ and in the means which He has appointed and which He makes effectual Third argument that Paul makes here is, was Abraham counted righteous because he did the works of the law or because he believed? And the text here, as the text really of Romans chapter 4, the text is Genesis 15. Romans 4 is really little more than an exposition of Genesis 15. 6. And it's that that is in the background here. Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. And so Paul adds this third argument. He had first argued that the gospel taught that Christ was crucified. This was essential to their salvation. So it was not their deaths that accomplished salvation, it was Christ's death and resurrection. Secondly, he had argued that they had received the Holy Spirit, a sign of their acceptance with God by faith, not by the works of the The law. Now he argues from the authority of the Old Testament scriptures, and in particular from God's work with Abraham. And the argument again is quite simple. Abraham's acceptance before God had nothing to do with his works and everything to do with his faith in God. Paul makes the same argument concerning Abraham in Romans 4. Later in Galatians 3, Paul argues that the law of Moses didn't come until 430 years later. And the point that he's making is that that law that came 430 years later didn't abrogate the promises made to Abraham. Those promises still stood and really transcended The law given through Moses. So, how do you get saved? By keeping the law? No By believing in Christ, by trusting God. The sons of Abraham are not those who are his sons according to the flesh, that is, the Jews. But it is those who believe. They are like Abraham before God, counted righteous. And this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. All to come who come to him by faith are counted righteous before God because they come to share the righteousness of Christ through faith in him. My question to you in closing this morning is very simple. Have you met God God's requirements. And whenever anybody says that to me, I'm I'm thinking, oh man, I haven't done enough. You know? Doesn't it? You know, I I had a mother who expected more of me than I thought I should give. And whenever I hear something I oh man I missed something. I didn't work hard enough, I didn't try hard enough. But see the requirements are not there. The requirements are somewhere else. How do you get somewhere else? You get there by connecting to somebody outside Of your own sphere. And that one is Jesus Christ. And that's what faith is. Now you say that, and then, well, faith. And then we think, I gotta try harder, I've got to believe harder, I've got to work up more belief, I've got to work up more faith and be strong in the faith. And then we get ourselves plowing off again into works, don't we? And what faith does is focus upon Jesus Christ. Christ. That's the business of faith. Faith's value is in the value of Jesus Christ. It makes a connection between And that infinite value of Christ, whereby you cast it all back on Him and trust it all to Him. J. Grass Machin, founder of Westminster Seminary, sure you've heard of him. It is different, he says, of Christianity from the religions of mankind. Because while they represent man's efforts to find God, this religion is built upon the sovereign and gracious and entirely unique act by which God found men. And saved them from the guilt and power of sin. Great little book of Machin's What is Faith? And he, among other things, in the chapters, faith in God, Faith in Christ. And he focuses rightly upon what faith is in. So if you say, What should I do? You may be here this morning and you're not sure you've really come to that place where you've cast it upon Jesus Christ. What should I do? Go out and try harder to believe. I would say rather expose yourself to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Read the scriptures. Get a picture of Jesus Christ. Go to the Psalms. Get a picture of the greatness of God. and your own need. There's only one thing which can secure your acceptance before a holy God. That one thing is that you be connected Connected by faith to that one person, Jesus Christ. Would you bow with me Father, we do thank you for your word. But your word is but in many ways an instrument Its purpose is to show us Jesus Christ. And by this inspired word, and by your divine authority, You cast a light upon Jesus Christ and remind us that it is only in connection with Him that we have the forgiveness of sins. It is only by giving up to Him that we can know. That we have eternal life. And we'll be before you not in the guilt of our sins, but in the cleansing blood of Jesus Christ. And be acceptable in your presence. Because we belong to Jesus Christ, we are in him. And these you will accept No wise cast out. Thank you for your goodness, for your love, for that salvation which comes to us in Jesus Christ. By your Spirit, drive it home. To those who believe in Jesus Christ, to those who may not yet have settled with him, we ask it for your glory with thanksgiving in Jesus' name. Amen.