Matthew 2, 1 through 12. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. The word of the Lord. You may be seated. It's my custom to introduce God's word a little bit, so we are going to get to Micah 5 in just a minute, but let me introduce Micah 5 to you. Uh we'll be reading from one of the scriptures of the Old Testament written hundreds of years before Christ's coming that prophesies about where Christ will come from. But instead of just glossing over this prophecy as we frequently do in the New New Testament, we're going to take a deeper look at Micah in his context. Micah prophesied at the time of the fall of Israel, the northern kingdom. When Assyria was coming, and God's people had sinned repeatedly against the Lord. And the Lord punished them by allowing the Assyrians to conquer them and take them into exile. The prophet Micah was a contemporary of the prophets Hosea and Isaiah. And Micah prophesied to King Hezekiah of Judah, the southern kingdom. Hezekiah listened. And witness one of the greatest miracles of the Old Testament. The Assyrian army had besieged Jerusalem and verbally abused the God of Israel. Hezekiah led the people. in repentance and beseeching the Lord, and the Lord heard the prayers and destroyed a gigantic Assyrian army. Regarding the book of Micah, the ESV study, the Bible puts it this way: The theme of Micah is judgment and forgiveness. The Lord, the judge, who scatters his people for their transgressions and sins. Is also the shepherd king, who in covenant faithfulness gathers, protects, and forgives them. Let's pray Jesus, we are sinful, weak people saved only by your mercy By the preaching and hearing of your word, root out sin and pride and self-reliance in our lives. Teach us to trust you. Teach us to depend upon you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now we're going to read from Micah 5, verses 1 through 5a. Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. But you, oh Bethlehem, Ephra Who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel. whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth And then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure. For now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. Imagine having to ask your boss, your curmudgeonly selfish old boss, for a favor. Time off at Christmas. In a Christmas carol, Bob Cratchit has to do exactly that. He wants time off at Christmas to spend with his family celebrating Jesus' birth. But his boss, mister Scrooge, said, I suppose you'll be wanting the whole day off at Christmas. It isn't convenient and it isn't fair. It's a poor excuse for picking a man's pocket every twenty fifth of December. But Bob couldn't just take off. He'd lose his job, he'd lose his income for his family, and Scrooge would kick him out of a job. So Bob Cratchit had to look for help from an unlikely place, his selfish boss. There's nothing else he could do. But as the story goes, not only did Bob get the day off at Christmas, he received a whole lot more from the unlikely Ebenezer Scrooge. Scrooge gave him a Christmas turkey and a raise and even out of his own funds helped to uh help medical helper Cratch its sick son, Tiny At Christmas, uh sometimes we find ourselves asking for help from unlikely sources. financial difficulty some husbands might have to ask their wives for help to make ends meet or uh some uh parents might have to ask their children for help um There's a ministry called Angel Tree, wherein prisoners ask complete strangers to get gifts for their children. At Christmas time, as at other times of the year, we sometimes find ourselves unable to make it on our own, and we're moved to ask for help. And sometimes we even have to look for help in the unlikeliest of places. The sermon in the sentence is this: because God's people cannot overcome their enemies on their own. They must accept help from an unlikely place in order to attain an overwhelming peace. Because God's people cannot overcome their enemies on their own. They must accept help. From an unlikely place in order to attain an overwhelming peace. Point number one: God's people can't overcome their enemies on their own. In the time of Micah, God's people were surrounded by physical enemies intent on slaughtering and enslaving the Israelites. The situation was embarrassingly dire. Let's look at verse 1. Micah is being sarcastic when he says, muster your troops. There aren't any troops to muster. In 2 Kings 18, and 2 Chronicles 32 and in Isaiah 36, the story is told of how Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, sent his general called the Rabshaka to taunt Jerusalem and to destroy it. The Rab Shaka taunted Jerusalem's officials, saying, Come now, make a wager with my master, the king of Assyria. I will give you two thousand horses if you're able on your part to set lighters on them. Jerusalem couldn't. It'd be like going golfing with Cliff at uh Gettysburg links. And imagine how you would feel if he said, I bet you still can't beat me if I give you a 30-point handicap. It would be embarrassing. And and the Jewish officials were embarrassed, so embarrassed that they asked the Rabshaka to stop speaking in Hebrew. They said, we can understand Aramaic. Just talk to us in Arabaic because it was disheartening all the soldiers with an earshot on the walls. The Israelites were demoralized, embarrassed, and convinced that they could not overcome their enemies on their own. Their king and judge, Hezekiah, was basically slapped in the face by Sennacherib's siege and insults. So what does this have to do with the microphone? Well, we know that Micah of Moresheth, the author of the text before us today, prophesied into this siege situation. We know this because it's recorded in Jeremiah 26:18. Micah of Morasheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and said to all the people of Judah, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Zion shall be plowed as a field. Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins. And the mountain of that house of wooded height. And it was in part because of Micah's prophecy to Hezekiah that Hezekiah sought the Lord's help. Micah's language here would stir up embarrassment for the ancient Israelites. It's embarrassing when your country is overrun by enemies. It is devastating when your capital is surrounded by enemies. And then to add insult to injury, the general makes it personal by trash talking. Israel was backhanded by Assyria, and the ancient listeners would have felt humiliated as Micah reminded them of their lack of ability to defend themselves and the Lord's honor. And yet that's right where the Lord would have them. That's right where he wanted them. The purpose of Micah's message to Hezekiah, to the people of Judah, and for us today is to humble us into a desperation that leaves us nowhere else to turn but to the Lord God. So bringing us back into the 21st century, have you reached that point Christ reformed, where the circumstances arrayed against you are too great for you to bear alone? Have you reached that point, like the Israelites did, of embarrassment at our own weakness, at our own insufficiency? Maybe you don't feel like that. Maybe you feel like you know what I don't really have any enemies. Or if I do have enemies, they're easily overcome. What about deaths? Can you conquer that in your own power? What about the evil in this world? Can you conquer that in your own power? What about the sin in your life? Have you even been able to conquer that in your own power? And then there's this supernatural evil, Satan, whom the Bible describes as a lion roaring, seeking whom he may devour. Satan, who Jesus describes as a heavenly being. Wishes to sift God's servants like wheat. You have enemies within and without, and you cannot conquer them in your own power. So, what are you relying on your own strength to provide? If you think that you can save yourself from what's coming, you either uh underestimate the forces, resources, and determination of your enemy, or you vastly overestimate your own strength. Judah's enemy, Assyria, had ruthlessly rolled through country after country before they besieged Jerusalem. In light of such odds, Hezekiah led the people in prayer, crying out to God to save them. And God hears their cry and does this miraculous wonder. It's described in this way: An angel of the Lord went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when the people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. And then Sennacherib ran away back to Assyria and lived at Nineveh, and as he was worshipping in the house of Nisrach his God. Adremelech and Shehazar his sons struck him down with the sword. Isaiah 37, 36 through 38 describes this. And this type of miraculous victory only comes through crying out to God in weakness. So, what is it that you're not crying out to God about? What have you stopped crying out to God about? What are you trying to go up against in your own power? Is it a project at work? Is it a lawsuit? Is it um a family member you're struggling with? Is it temptation? Is it your family's finances? Is it a sickness? What God's word was saying to the Israelites was this, your situation is embarrassingly sad. Admit your weakness. Admit your inability to do it on your own. Admit your humiliating history of defeat. And cast yourself wholly upon the Lord's mercy. And then you will find mercy. In order to get help, we must admit that we can't beat our enemies on our own. I worked at UPS while I was in uh seminary. And when I worked at the sunrise shift at UPS, we had an angry, loud boss. And if packages were clogging up our section, we heard about it. We had an earful. Uh but there was one thing worse than clogging up your section with packages that you weren't sorting fast enough. It was clogging up your section with packages that you weren't sorting fast enough and not telling anybody that you needed help. If you let him know that you were in trouble, he'd embarrass you about it, but he would send resources to your aid. But if you didn't let him know about it because you were too embarrassed, you could lose your job. If we don't ask for help, we're going to be in even greater danger. So accept help from an unlikely place. Point two, accept help from an unlikely place. Verse two But you, O Bethlehem Ephra, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one. Who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. The help that the Israelites are going to get is not from a great power like Babylon or Egypt. It's not even from one of their great walled cities like Lakish. It's going to come from backwater Bethlehem, from insignificantly small Bethlehem. In the Hebrew, it reads like this: His coming forth is from the East, out of days of eternity. What do they mean by the East? Eden. Eden. And God planted a garden in the east. Whoa, way back This prophesied ruler has been coming from and since the ancient beginning. He is like Adam. He is the new Adam. He is vintage. He's classic. He's got tried in true credibility. He's orthodox. And he's got experience even though he's coming from nowhere's view. And he's got staying power, days of eternity, out of time, into futurity. How could this leader Be from ancient times and from first century Bethlehem at the same time. Is it because they've got a warp gate there or a TARDIS station or a landing pad for time machines? No, but they have a little stable where the eternal God became man. When Micah's original audience would have heard Bethlehem, they would have instantly thought of David. Oh, like King David King David was the greatest king of the United Kingdom of Israel. He was a man after God's own heart, and he had been from Bethlehem as a shepherd boy. But it it would have struck them as strange that their salvation was going to be the rescuer was going to be coming, if he was coming like David, why not come from Jerusalem? David's royal city. The fact that the Savior will come from Bethlehem and not Jerusalem communicates God's plan to be among his people as a meek and lowly shepherd. God is coming to save with power, but in humility. God wants his people to trust him as their strength, so he comes in weakness. In order to cure us from our desire for fame and fortune, the healer comes in ignomity and in poverty. Jesus said, the one who seeks to gain his life will lose it, and the one who loses it for my sake will gain everlasting life. And Jesus didn't just say it, He lived it He laid down his life from beginning to end. And just because he comes in weakness doesn't mean he's weak. Just because he is unarmed, it doesn't mean he's safe. Though he hails from the house of bread, doesn't mean he'll end up a baker. Jesus, who calls himself the bread of life, who feeds the 5,000 with miraculous bread to provide sustenance and life and health to his people. But to those who oppose him, he is a mighty God of war. If David had slain his ten thousand, then this son of David could slay his hundreds of thousands. The man who said he came not to bring peace, but a sword, wages war, not against flesh and blood, but against demonic powers yea, even death itself. When he is born in Bethlehem, he looks like a gentle infant. Meek and mild. When he's dying on the cross, he looks like a pitiful criminal. But be assured Me This Jesus has the strength of the Lord God, the majesty of the Lord God, and the angelic army of the Lord God. Though at one time he was a baby wrapped in swaddling claws, lying in a manger, Revelation tells us what we may yet see. Behold, a white horse, the one sitting on it, called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in Blood. And the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on a white horses And from his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. And he will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. And on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords God's people, our situation is desperate. We are opposed by a world that hates us, that persecutes us more than any other people. A world that killed more Christians in the last century than in all the other centuries combined. We are thwarted by our own sin that easily entangles and frustrates our every good work. And we are encircled by a supernatural enemy of angelic proportions whose purpose is to rip us to shreds. The accuser. Pleads with the throne of heaven that he might be able to torture us as our sin deserves. These are the powers arrayed against us, people of God. And do we look to the government, the military to save us? Do we look to drugs to heal us? Do we look to our own resources to protect us? Instead, let us look to that unlikely place, Bethlehem Ephratha, for our every help. For in Bethlehem was born a Savior who is Christ the Lord He is the Prince of Peace, and only through his power can we have peace. On Christmas morning, my son Martin, who is asking how many days it was till Christmas, Uh he's three back there. And he's probably gonna come into my bedroom in the morning. He's my early bird, and he's gonna say, Get up, Daddy, it's Christmas. And all the others are gonna flood into the room and kind of pull me out of my bed and um I'll start stumbling down the stairs and as I do I'll start to smell cinnamon roll. And fresh coffee because Annie's probably been awake for a while getting things ready. And as I go down there, I'll turn to the right and I'll see just an array of presents around the tree. And there will be big presence and there'll be little presence, and there will be well-wrapped presence, and there will be not so well-wrapped presence. And uh picture that in your mind. As you're looking at that tree in presence, which one are you looking forward to opening the most? The big, the biggest one or the nicest wrapped one? The present map with the nice paper. You see, Jesus came small. And he came in crude wrapping paper. He was sent in the smallest of packages as a little baby boy. And will you look to worldly treasures for your greatest gift this season? Or will you look to little old Bethlehem? An application. Where have you ruled out getting help from? The church? Prayer? God's word? Jesus? You see the Israelites had no idea that their ultimate fundamental salvation would come from a tiny little hill kind of Bethlehem seem to be too small to be of any service. What have you decided isn't big enough to help you with your problems? Have you been acting like Jesus isn't big enough for you? Do you think God is too distant to help? Have you been making it work on your own? Who or what is your functional savior? Is it drugs? Is it work? Is it the bar? Is it online? Is it the opposite gender? Is it family? Is it friends? All those things are too small. They will leave you unsatisfied and overrun. Go ye to Bethlehem Cast your cares upon Jesus because he cares for you. His love is everlasting, and his peace is overwhelming. Verse 3 Main point number three, to attain an overwhelming peace. Verse three, therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in Labor has given birth, then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. He will give them up. God is going to give his people up. He is. To judgment, exile, punishment, foreign oppression. These things actually happened. God's people were given over to foreign rule. God gave them up, but he didn't give up on them. Giving up means letting them have giving them up means letting them have the destructive consequences of their sin. Giving up on them would mean never restoring them. But God does. Why was Israel given up? Because she'd sinned and become set in her sin. Just because someone is part of God's people doesn't render them immune from the consequences, the earthly consequences of their own sin. We should fear God because He is a holy, holy God who cannot abide sin. This message was to cause Israel to repent with fear and trembling, and it should cause us to repent with fear and trembling. Until she who is in labor gives birth. Certainly refers to Mary. An angel of the Lord visited this teenage girl from another backwater town, Nazareth. And she had kept herself pure and was engaged to be married, but she was told that she would conceive a son before she was married. And the power of the Most High would overshadow her. And she was told that the child she would give birth to would be called holy, the Son of God, and he would bring salvation, and he would be a God among his people. Emmanuel. This is the story of Christmas. And this is true. This is from God. And Micah prophesied about this 700 years before it happened. This isn't make-believe. This isn't the elf on the shelf. This is real history. The ancient king from out of Eden to eternity was born through a pregnant lady. He was human. He came into the world like everybody else comes into the world. He's not some magical hypothetical idea. He is flesh and blood. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. Jesus ushers in a time when the dispersed people of God would be united under one head. And we see the scripture fulfilled in Acts as God's people from around the Mediterranean world and beyond gather together at Pentecost in Jerusalem. And as the exiles from Babylon and as the distur all the dispersed Jews return to God, this promise is partially fulfilled. You see, there's an already and not yet aspect to this fulfillment. I call it tiered fulfillment. It's called tiered fulfillment. Uh to Jesus' unification. God's people have already experienced unification of a sort at Pentecost. And yet, there is a worldwide unification under the banner of Christ that has not yet happened. Already, Jesus has brought Jews back from many lands and united them under his banner. And there are Christians all over the world. But not yet have God's elect returned to Zion as the new Jerusalem descends out of heaven But there is a greater unity yet to come when every tribe and language and every people, every generation is gathered before the Lamb to praise Jesus. Verse 4. And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord. Micah is prophesying a shepherd king who stands in the strength of the Lord. He prophesies a majestic king. And yet there seems to be a contradiction in terms. A majestic shepherd. Shepherds are usually anything but majestic. Smelly, maybe, but majestic. No. And who needs the strength of the Lord to watch sheep? Ask a shepherd. And we need the strength of the Lord to do anything. And Jesus did shepherd in the strength of the Lord. Matthew 9:36, he looked on the multitudes and cared for them. He fed them, he healed them, he protected them from wolves who might seek to feed on them. Like the Pharisees or the tax collectors. But has Jesus made God's people dwell secure? Yes and no. Already and not yet. He has made God's people dwell secure, and that they have been surely adopted into the family by the power of Christ's finished work on the cross Your ultimate salvation is secure in Christ. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. God's people have a heavenly home in Christ. It cannot be undone. No one can take God's people from his care in Christ. Listen to what Jesus, the fulfillment of the prophecy, says in John 1027. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. Security. Does this security mean his people will never die? No. But though they die, they will live, being raised with Jesus in the resurrection. To a secure, blessed, eternal life. Micah says that the prophesied shepherd will be great to the ends of the earth. Usually people don't get on the celebrity A list for shepherding. But Jesus shepherds his way into world history. He never went to rabbinical school, and yet Jesus was known in Ethiopia within mere years after his death, and Ethiopia became one of the first ostensibly Christian nations. By the fourth century. He was homeless and he owned very little. And yet Jesus was preached in India perhaps as early as 56 A. D. , and the Martuma Church continues to this day in testament to that fact. Jesus never held office. He never had an army. But the apostles spread the gospel unhindered all over the Mediterranean basin in the first century, even into the heart of pagan Rome, into the Praetorian Guard. Rome's version of the Secret Service. Jesus wrote no book. But in the first century, during the Eastern Han period, there's an allegation that Emperor Ming Ti requested two Syrian missionaries to come to China. And by 246 A. D. , a large iron cross with a Christian couplet was erected in the Jiangji province. Jesus never undertook a building project in his own name, yet the Venerable Bede, a famous church historian. It says that Lucius, king of what we now know as England, formally requested English uh instruction in the Christian faith in 156 A. D. And modern historians request or suggest a much later date of 171 A. D. To the ends of Has a man born in Bethlehem ever had a name that was known to the ends of the earth? Indisputably, Jesus has. Jesus is the fulfillment of this scripture. There's no one else that has fulfilled this scripture, and there's no one else who ever will. Verse 5. And he shall be their peace. It doesn't merely say that he will orchestrate their peace. It doesn't say that his victory will bring their peace. It says that he shall be their peace. Having him. is having peace. Connection with this one from Bethlehem, this Christ, will be all one needs for peace. He shall be their shalom, their welfare, their well being, their prosperity, their contentment. Their shalom is wrapped up in Christ. If you have Christ, whether you be in want or war, you have peace. Peace with God. Peace with your conscience. Peace with men the world over. But if you have not Christ, though you get welfare, you won't fare well. Though you have social security, you won't be secure. In nineteen fourteen, the world was at war, horrible New atrocities were unfolding every day. Men dying from gunshot, trench foot, malnourishment, and lack of proper care. Two epic powers were pitted against each other, and neither side seemed to be able to get the upper hand. There was no end in sight. And all around, death and destruction, friends maimed and lost, and just the stench of mud and death. Crowded out every other smell. Picture a post-apocalyptic wasteland of barbed wire, bombed out houses and crisscrossing trenches. But then along came Christmas. And the warriors on either side of the battlefield began to walk out onto no man's land. It was called no man's land because if you walked out on there you'd be shot by one side But on Christmas Eve, the men can't started singing silent night. And they were singing in different languages, but they started singing at the same time. And then men who had been trying to kill one another minutes before started offering one another a sign of peace. They started coming out and saying, Merry Christmas. and exchanging gifts and handshakes and well wishes. And they ventured out to bury the dead and play soccer. And they longed for that peace to spread, but it didn't. And they longed for that peace to last, but it didn't. It was back to war the next day. But not so with the Christmas peace that comes from Jesus. It spreads, it lasts, it goes to the ends of the earth. While we were yet sinners, God gave his one and only son to accomplish peace. Deep peace, whole peace, everlasting peace between God and man, between man and man, and even within man himself. Hallelujah. Isn't that something to celebrate? We have peace. A peace that can't be taken away. There is a peace that you can have with God today which secures that final peace. And we don't preach peace through strength of arms, through allegiances or weaponry, but rather peace through one child born long ago. And it's this message of peace is the only thing that can comfort a soldier uh pinned down in a pillbox, and and it's still the only thing that can comfort a child beside a warm fire on Christmas morning. It's worldwide, everlasting peace. It's Christ's gift through Christmas. Listen If you are being troubled by enemies, physical or spiritual, there is grace for you today from God's word. This is his grace to you. Secure, peaceful, shepherding from Jesus. Profound, comprehensive, all-encompassing peace with our enemy. But how can that be? Isn't our enemy Satan? He is wicked. He would never strike a peace treaty with us. Satan is already defeated because of Christ's finished work on the cross. He's like a snake in its death throws with its head chopped off. The one who could be our greatest enemy, our most powerful enemy, is God Himself. He cannot look upon sin, yet we are filled with it. Because of his holy character, he must punish sin. Yet we can't stop sinning. Alone, we're doomed. He sees all, knows all, has the power to find us and destroy us. And there's nothing that we can buy him off with. There's nothing he more wants more than our holiness, which is what we lack. So, what turns this possible enemy into our friend? What turns this power who would otherwise oppose us into our ally? The cross. You see, Christmas points to the cross. It was on the cross that Jesus took upon himself the punishment for all our sin and bought peace with God for those who trust in him. Will you trust in him today? And what if this what if what if there was peace on earth, comprehensive peace, everlasting peace? It's not a possibility, it is a certainty, but only through Christ alone. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, thank you for peace. Sometimes we are so troubled in our spirits Most deeply because of our own struggles with sin, but also because of others sinning against us and other struggles that are in our path. We know that we can Look to you for peace. And what matters most to us is that we have peace with you. Thank you, Jesus, for purchasing peace for us on the cross. May you be our peace this season. In Jesus' name. Amen.