One of the major themes and characteristics of God is about justice, and justice is a very important thing both within the human uh soul and the need for it as well as within our society. I uh have been doing some reading upon justice and uh I have a uh a paper which Which is very, very long. It's about 35-40 pages, which I'm not going to read to you. I have in summary format three aspects of justice or really an injustice within society. The first one is on the effects On institutions within society, the impact, the effect that it has on victims, and then also, finally, the impact that an injustice has. on those that witness an injustice, that have not experienced it directly themselves. So I'm going to go ahead and read a couple of points here for us. The first one is that uh as it relates to institutions within society. It says that it it breaks down of social cohesion when there is injustice within society. When the social contract is broken and grievances go unaddressed, communities become fractured. That makes perfectly good sense. This can breed resentment and division as people lose trust and respect for one another. The result can be increased social unrest Then another item that they have here is uh they create a cycle of vengeance. When people lose faith in the system to deliver justice, They may feel they must take matters into their own hands, like vigilanteism, if you will. And of course we know what the scripture says about vigilanteism, but they this can cause, as they say, a cycle. um of of of vigilanteism, if you will, wanting revenge. Now as it relates to impact on victims, those that have experienced an injustice It says, victims who see their perpetrator get away with a crime can feel cheated, betrayed, and that their suffering has been invalidated. This can intensify feelings of prolonged grief or complicated grief. Now When it uh talks about the impact on victims, it also says that a lack of accountability can reinforce a victim's sense of powerlessness, of hopelessness. especially when power imbalances were part of the initial injustice. And finally, on the third part, those who witness or see an injustice, what is the impact on this group of people? Well, it says, first of all, is that there is an erosion of personal integrity. For the observer, the distinction between right and wrong can become blurred They may begin to rationalize the injustice or feel disempowered, leading to a loss of their personal moral compass. Another one is a normalization of bad behavior. The lack of accountability creates an environment where harmful behavior goes unpunished. The failure to address injustice encourages perpetrators and may lead others to believe that they too can engage in unethical or criminal actions without consequences. But he got away with it. Maybe I can get away with it. And finally, the effect on those who witness. Cynicism and hopelessness. The injustice can lead to a belief that the world is not fair. Now, in our case, we would say God is not just. Or he doesn't care. Or maybe, or maybe, just maybe it's okay for us to do the very same thing. This is a very important topic because the Apostle Peter, in the book that we're reading right now, has to deal He is addressing the notion of these false teachers and the way that they are behaving and the things that they are teaching. And he is concerned about the effects of those who believe the apostolic teaching of who God is and what God requires of us. As we go forward in our study, we will continue to see and extract, if you will, what some of these teachings are And so that you'll be able to better understand why Peter is taking the time to say the things that he is saying and encouraging us in the midst of all of that. So far we have taken a look at chapter 1, and now we looked at chapter 2, the first three verses, when we were together last time. where he asserted that the false teachers, if you recall, will most certainly be brought to justice by God, and they will be punished And he ended verse 3, if you recall, with God as not being asleep. He's not asleep at the wheel. And what awaits them, these false teachers, will most certainly come about. He now moves to do the next thing, which is to prove his case. The form of Peter's argumentation is that if what has happened in the past is true, How much more will it be true in the case with what God will do with these false teachers? We're going to get into that. Peter moves to describe the judgment of God and gives us three examples from history. So by way of preview, what are they? They are the fallen angels and what God did with them The flood and what God did at that time. And the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah and where Lot was and what God did with that in time In the first example, Peter focuses on the pride and the rebelliousness of the angels. In the second example, the indifference and disobedience of Noah's age. And in the last example, the sensuality of the men of Sodom. Peter's pointing out that these are identifying characteristics of the false teachers Not only are we able to discern the false teachers by their behaviors, but also from the text, we are able to tell what they were teaching. Now, let us turn our attention to our passage for this morning. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? The following is from 2 Peter chapter 2 verses 4 through the first half of verse 10. Hear now the word of God. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell, and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness, to be kept until the judgment. If he did not spare the ancient world, the preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly. If by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes, he condemned them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly. And if he rescued Righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked For as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard. Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment. And especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we turn to the Holy Spirit for his illumination. Holy Spirit We thank you for the word. We thank you that we can worship our great God this day. And now we worship by the reading, the hearing. And by your grace, the sound preaching of the word. Help us to understand. Help us to apply Help us to see where we fall short. Convict our hearts and our souls so that we may be conformed. To the will of God, that we may reflect our Savior, the Lord Jesus. That when people see us, they would not see us. But then they would see a picture of our Savior. And we cannot do any of these things without your power. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, the first of the examples of those that were on the opposite side of God were the angels that rebelled against him. Now, if you pay careful attention to verse 4, Peter doesn't specifically identify what their sin was. But it is clear from elsewhere in Scripture that it was rebellion against God. He is making reference to the angels that sinned against God. They are known as fallen angels, or more commonly known as demons. And their leader, of course, known as Lucifer or Satan or the accuser, he has many names. Peter points out that God did not look the other way, but consigned them to hell. And he adds, committed them to chains or fetters. Not to be confused with feathers. The first thing to point out is that although they were punished, There awaits a final day of judgment for all of creation, including these fallen angels. This is commonly known as the Day of Judgment. Which is to be executed by God at the second advent, the return of our Savior, the Lord Jesus. The second point is that the Greek word used for hell is Tartarus, which was a place of punishment for the spirits of those that were very wicked. The bottom line is that these evil angels are experiencing a measure of torment even now, awaiting the final judgment. I think chains of doom should be better understood as fetters of gloom. So what does this mean? I think that it could simply mean that they were fettered or encumbered with the knowledge. that their end, their final end was an eternity of punishment, for which now they were receiving a taste of I think that this was this is uh helpful to explain the the consistent refrain we get from fallen angels, also known as demons, when Jesus came into contact with them when he was exercising them. Matthew 28 and sorry, Matthew 8 and verse 29 is a perfect example of this. I'll read that for us. It says, and behold, they cried out. What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? So give us a little bit of insight into, well, first of all, that they recognize Jesus for who he is as the Son of God, God Himself. And in fact, that they were going to be tormented even more. And so that's what was going on here. So when they say, have you come to torment us? It has a correlation to what's going on and what Peter is reporting to us in God's judgment against these fallen angels. Now, before we go on any further in this text, let's not lose sight of Peter's point. God judged. Punished, and will on the final day put a finality to their evil deeds. However, I feel constrained to take a moment to discuss some different interpretations of this passage. To what is Peter referring to is the question that we'll ask first. I believe that Peter is referencing, what he's referencing is that the rebellion that Lucifer orchestrated against God before the creation of man. In his pridefulness, he sought to overthrow God and take his place. In the process, he recruited many angels to join him in his rebellion. Satan was not willing to abide by God's ways. He had issues with submission and wanted to call the shots. A second common interpretation of this passage, some of you may be aware of, derives from Genesis chapter 6. There you will see a reference made to the sons of God. This many believe is a reference to angels. who in their licentious, unrestrained lust had relations with humid females, and God punishes them for doing so Now, a second understanding of the same Genesis chapter 6 is, and I hold to this view, is referencing to the line of Seth and to the line of Cain, the sons of God and the sons of men. God, you see, was not pleased when those that were in the covenant community were intermarrying with those outside the covenant community, unbelievers. If this is so, it is argued that we should not tie Genesis 6. with this passage in 2 Peter 2. 4. What Peter has in mind Is rebelliousness of the angels and God exacting judgment for their unfaithfulness. Full stop Peter then moves on to another instance of God's judgment. It was at the time of the flood. This is a favorite event from biblical history for Peter, as he will refer to it again in chapter 3 of this book And if you recall, in 1 Peter, he referred to it again in chapter 2 as an illustration. Before we get into his second example, it's important to note that in the face of righteous judgment, this story provides in it the backdrop of God's mercy. For those of you who want more background information on Noah being a preacher of righteousness, Please take the time to go back to the sermons on the Lord preaching through him in the Spirit in 1 Peter. One of the things that comes out of the Noah story, Is that the decisions one makes in relations to God's commands has implications: temporal and eternal. Temporal meaning now. In this life now. Sometimes God doesn't wait for eternity to judge people. For their sins. People are punished for their sins all the time. God uses the civil magistrate to execute justice on his behalf God uses the church to execute justice by church discipline. The point is that we don't always have to wait for the final day to see justice served. Another of the lessons from Noah is that acceptance of God's offer of grace yields one desirable result. But yet rejection of his mercy yields the exact opposite. Finally, this illustration should also remind us That even when we ourselves see ourselves as so few, we should take comfort that God will judge And we should not throw our lot, no pre-pun intended, throw in our lot with the wicked. But we could have imagined life was extremely difficult for Noah, couldn't we? A man that was a follower of God and who lived out a life committed to following his ways. Like us, not perfectly, but committed to following God's ways Telling people that they need to repent, not to engage in sinful lifestyles, sinful behavior. Perhaps he was met, I take the perhaps away. I'm sure he was met with derision, mockery. Seclusion, exclusion, but he still held to his faith in God God was merciful. He gave an opportunity for people to repent, to join Noah on the boat, to escape judgment. You know The parallel today is that he still calls us to repent and to enter into that boat, which today is the church. Anyone that is in the church, genuinely the elect, will be able to escape the judgment of God. If you're not a believer, God still extends his mercy to you today. You can become a member of his church by placing your faith in Christ, trusting in what he has done upon the cross. For you. Now Peter, in his third example, he moves from judgment from water to judgment by fire. He references the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. The story of Sodom and Gomorrah can be also found in the book of Genesis. The movement from the flood to destruction by fire is germane to Peter's writing and arguments, as we shall see later on, when we get to chapter 3. But there he again describes the judgment of God beginning with water and ending with fire. Now there seems to be a point Peter has focused upon in this and previous example with Noah. It is that God is capable of punishing the wicked, the unrighteous. With cataclysmic events such as these. And yet at the same time, God is capable of saving the righteous, the elect. I'm reminded of how we saw instances of this within the life of Daniel and his three friends. How the wicked were judged and the righteous were unscathed. Even by fire. Now, one of the things the false teachers were teaching was that there was no final judgment. It's important for us to grasp. For in doing so, the righteous would suffer, they would say, the righteous would suffer along with the wicked. And the consequences of this teaching is that that would be immoral for God to burn up the righteous with the unrighteous on the last day. And God is not immoral, they would say, and of course we would agree, therefore there is no final judgment, they would teach. Through biblical examples, Peter has very cleverly shown that God can judge the wicked. destroy cities and the world and yet preserve his elect people In the world of chess, this would be simply check and checkmate to the arguments that these false teachers would give. I think also that Peter has a pastoral concern, that he begins to give now in this text wider attention. We often think that Lot needed to be rescued. And the rescue we think of is from the people. But the biblical text does not bear this out. Here we see that Peter describes the people of the city as a wicked bunch with wicked sexual lifestyles. When the angels arrive at the city, it's evening, and they find Lot at the city gate. That would indicate that he was a city leader and he was judging court cases because that's where they would take grievances, hear grievances, and solve grievances at the city gate. This would mean that Lot had gained a great level of respect by the citizens of the city by making him a respected judge and a city leader. His ethics, Lot's ethics, was such that he was held in high regard, and they turned to him to judge righteously in their courts. And here we read that righteous Lot's soul was tormented. We should not understand it as he was personally abused or attacked. It was his soul that was tormented. This is another way of saying their behavior. The inhabitants of the city simply just wore him out. In both cases of Lot and Noah, they were deeply troubled in their souls. by the sinful lifestyles of the society around them. Brothers and sisters, I don't know about you, but sometimes, sometimes, I feel the same way. I feel worn out in my soul By just observing the sinful direction of our society. From what used to be considered sinful when I was a child, to what is considered acceptable only years ago, to now you'll be punished if you don't accept a sinful lifestyle behavior. It can really wear you out. When I turn on the TV just to watch a simple ball game Now you would think, what's wrong with that? Well there really isn't anything wrong with the ball game. It's the commercials. and what they assume about society, and what they're selling, whether it's gambling, drugs that help you in all sorts of sexual deficiencies. The consistencies of these advertisements would have one think that that's all our society is concerned about. You turn on the nightly news. Ignore the commercials as best as you possibly can. Frankly, the only thing that doesn't trouble at least my soul is the weather report. When you go to work and see the things that people do and hear the stories of how they treat one another and their families. It can trouble your soul. Seeing the wickedness of this world sometimes just wears a Christian out. Do you sometimes feel that way? Just worn out from all the wickedness around you and how it just continues to get worse The truth is that when you are the only Christian in certain situations, or think that sometimes we are being swallowed up by a society without any hope of survival, The temptation to give up and go with the flow, well, that's a very real trial. Let's face it, we here in this country, in this city at least, we're not, at least most of us are not being physically abused. Daily by an unbelieving society. That's not where we live. There are other places where this is happening in the world. The attack is upon our souls. Our eyes, our ears, our minds, wearing us out, looking to wear us down. Imagine what life must have been for Noah and for Lot, and how tormented. Their souls must have been by seeing what they saw on a daily basis And let's not forget that Lot was a judge. And so he heard these complaints that people would have against one another on a daily basis. But in both of these cases, we are to see that God knows how to rescue the godly from trials. And hold the unrighteous for the day of judgment. Lot's trial was having to live among the ungodly and observe their consistent disobedience to God's ways. What he needed to be saved from was not from something they did to him. It was being exposed to their ungodliness. In verse 9, the word keep has the meaning of holding till. And the keeping is until God judges the world on the day of judgment. And in verse 10a, Peter, he reveals it and brings it all together. He identifies the false teachers with those who despise authority, the fallen angels. And the lust of defiling passion, those of Noah's age, and especially those in Sodom and Gomorrah. And what he is doing is he's tying it with the false teachers. And he's saying, this is what's going to happen to them. And he gave these three examples. They are the ones who, by their teaching, are rebellious to God's teaching and their biblically illicit sexual lifestyles. Which gives them away, will one day, whether temporally they will be judged, or on the last day, they will get what is coming to them. The just deserts of their deeds But on that day, his elect, you and I, will be unscathed Just take a moment to think about that. If we've ever had that image, the scripture speaks about God renewing the heavens and the earth. Judgment. Everything is burning around us, being renewed. And those that are not saved. Will be burned up along with it. And go off to eternal punishment. But on that day You and I, brother and sister in Christ, we will be unscathed. We will not be affected by the purifying fire and power by God's judgment. Why? Not because of any inherent goods that we possess or exercise, but because of Christ's righteousness. Which he imputed to us when we committed our lives to him by faith and faith alone. What a great Savior we have. Amen. All right, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great grace in our lives. Help us to indeed remember when we are tempted with these trials of seeing injustice. And sinful behavior around us, and people are getting away with it for us to be tempted to fall into that trap. Remind us of what you did in the days of Noah. Remind us of what you did in the days of Lot. You're a God who sees all things and in your own time you will exact justice and you will save your people. Grant us grace to be able to deal and overcome the trials set before us. And we ask this so that we may reflect Christ more and more. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.