Good morning. I want to read two scriptures, Exodus eleven, Hebrews twelve, the latter portion. Hear the word of God. And the Lord said to Moses, I will bring one more plague on Pharaoh and on Egypt. Afterward, he will let you go from here. And when he lets you go, he will surely drive you out of here altogether. Speak now in the hearing of the people, and let every man ask from his neighbor, every woman from her neighbor, articles of silver and articles of gold. And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt. In the sight of Pharaoh's servants and in the sight of the people. Then Moses said, Thus says the Lord, About midnight I will go out into the midst of Egypt. And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die from the firstborn of Pharaoh. Who sits on his throne even to the firstborn of the female servant who is behind the handmill. and all the firstborn of the animals. Then there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt. Such as was not like it before, nor shall it be like it again. But against none of the children of Israel shall a dog move its tongue against man or beast. That you may know that the Lord does make a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. And all these your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying, Get out and all the people who follow you. After that I will go out. Then he went out from Pharaoh in great anger. What the Lord said to Moses. Pharaoh will not heed you, so that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt. So Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh. And the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the children of Israel go. out of his land. And to read from the letter to the Hebrews, chapter twelve I want to read just verse 14 of this section, though I commend the whole chapter to you later in the Lord's day. Pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. The flower fades, the grass withers, but the word of God endures forever. Let us pray. We thank the Heavenly Father for the Ministry of the Holy Spirit in bringing the Word of God to us, preserving it, giving it to us in our own tongue, making it available. bringing its interpretation and application to us every Lord's day. What a blessing to have it. Now we would not approach The word this morning without seeking the illumination of the Holy Spirit upon it. That it may find its way deep into every heart, and that we may be given grace to apply it to our lives and grow thereby. All this we ask in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. Pursue holiness without which no one will see the Lord. That's an impressive command, is it not? What an imperative it is. saying to us that the attire with which we approach God Must be holy, and that the attitude we bring must be the same, and that the garb in which we are clothed Must be humble holiness if we are to see him. The beatific vision, the sight of God is reserved for those who are qualified for it, who prepare for it, and who are holy in heart, pursue holiness. Without which no one shall see the Lord. Now, here, of course, we look at the fourth commandment in connection with this text. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, because that is to be the essence, the heart of the Sabbath day. Holiness is to be its heart. Now, this is the only one of the commandments in which the word holy appears. Very interesting. All those verses given to the commandments in some detail reserve the word holy for the fourth commandment. Remember the Sabbath day. Why is that? Well, the Holy Spirit must reveal that to us, perhaps, in heaven. But at this vantage, it looks as if God is calling our attention to holiness. as the very center of the commandments. And we know, of course, when we think of it as the center. But the violation of the fourth commandment is the entranceway into the violation of the other nine. That's where Satan likes to get a foothold, likes to get us to dismiss the command, and then we can go on to dismiss others. How sad it is that in our American church we really have just nine commandments now. The Sabbath has fallen into erosion. And I'm sure God in the Holy Spirit laments that among us. And here and there I see signs of a revival of true keeping of the Sabbath, and I rejoice in it. And in this word, he says, remember the Sabbath day, which suggests that we would have a tendency to forget the holiness of it. We could get wrapped up in rules, don't do this and do that. How sad that would be for us. Remember it, that is, make a big deal out of it. Make much of it. Don't just let it pass by. It's interesting that the Lord Jesus said in his Prophecies about the end times, pray that your flight not be on the Sabbath. Have you pondered that? Why? Why not on the Sabbath? Well, I think the reason is you would lose that Sabbath. It's only one, but he doesn't want us to lose even one in the pursuit of holiness, does he? So what about this? How shall we keep the Sabbath? How shall we see this centrality of holiness in it, in our keeping of the Lord's day. Well holiness itself we need to discuss a bit to remind you you're a well-taught congregation if I ever saw one and I am so delighted when I realize that over and over again as I sit here in the pews. normally in the Sunday evening service. And I love the teaching. Well let's just review it a bit. The word holiness means set apart Cut off from everything else. That God is uniquely alone in glory, in purity. That in righteousness there is no other in all of creation like the righteousness of God. The psalmist says that he is glorious in holiness, that his His glory really finds its greatest expression in its holiness. And that this one attribute is the one that sets God off to be God more than any other. We love his attributes. We love to recite them and meditate on them, but As far as defining who God is, this attribute, the holiness of God Is central to us, and we rejoice in that. It's set apart, distinguished from his creation. That's the problem with the feminine terminology in the name of God. You hear it and see it here and there. It's an utter corruption what the Bible presents God in male terms because If God were female, the woman and her baby are one at times. And there must be no suggestion that there is any oneness between God and his creation. The world is creature. God is creator, and there must never be that intimate connection. So we think of God in this set-apart quality. So when we remember the Sabbath day, we're to think of it especially. As as regards his holiness. Now, you probably wondered why the old fellow's reading Exodus 11. Maybe that's the only chapter he can pronounce all the words in. I don't know. He said, what in the world does this have to do with the Lord's day? I won't ask for hands. Maybe in the question and answer period there will be. But here's my reason for reading Exodus 11. It's in verse 7. Against none of the children of Israel shall a dog move its tongue against man or beast, that you may know That the Lord does make a difference. There's the operative word. The difference, he makes a difference between Egyptian and Israel. Now the root word for God's holiness in Hebrew, the three consonants make up the heart of this word, Q D S. And the name of God in holiness is a form of that root. Now, if you look at the Hebrew of this seventh verse He will say that the Lord does make a QDS. We could pronounce it Kodash. A line, a difference, a demarcation between Egyptians and Israel. And that's the same word in the fourth commandment that says Keep it holy. Keep it different. I've put a line around it. I've made it special. I've made it unique this day. I've separated it from all other days. That's my connection. There may be better places in the Old Testament Hebrew to try to show you the strength of this line that God has put in the world But this one appeals to me. Imagine how many dogs were barking that night when the Egyptians were crying out over the death of their sons. Imagine that. How much chaos there was in Egypt that night. But among the Israelites, not even a dog barked. God had silenced. He had done something great and wonderful in the camp of the Hebrews. They had just celebrated their Passover, in which they'd put the blood of the Lamb on the lintel of the door, so that the angel of death would pass by them and not strike their firstborn. They were utterly exempt from this horrible, horrible judgment, the death of the firstborn. But they were separate. This Kodash had been made between Egypt and Israel, and no one could trespass it. Oh blessed Kodash. We think of it today in our Christian living. You may not call it Kodash, but there is a line of separation between heaven and hell. between the children of God and the children of the devil. There's a line of separation between righteousness and unrighteousness These cannot be blurred. God has made a line of demarcation between good and evil, and we are never to call good evil or evil good. So Kodash exists. Kodash exists between the moral and the immoral. If You think of your own marriages. There's a kodash between your mate and all other people of her sex. There's a kudash. Separation. Every other woman is strange flesh to you in the Bible God has erected this line of demarcation throughout our life so that it makes it I almost said easy, but it makes it clearer for us to make the judgments and decisions about our daily life because of Kodash. We know where God has put the line, and we will stay far away from it. Now this kodash, this separation, exists between the six days of the week and the seventh. That's the meaning of keep it holy, keep it kodash. In other words, keep it separate from the other days of the week. Not always easy, is it? Because the other days come washing into the Sunday, don't they? Sadly. Alas. The six days are good. Don't misunderstand me. I love the six days just like you do, not as much as I love the seven, but they are wonderful days. Last year, uh Elder Opeka preached a grand sermon that I think of so often on that Creation mandate to take this creation that we have and develop it, release its potential, find its secrets. Make it even better than it was created. God made it good, but we can make it gooder by using it and developing it and growing it. What a sermon it was. And that's what we do with the six days. We don't sit twiddling our thumbs because it's not the Lord's day, we roll up our sleeves. We take dominion over the creation as God commanded us to do. And we make the most of it. We're careful to guard it, of course, to, in a certain sense, respect it and thank God for it day after day. So the six days are good. Don't despise them. Enter them with joy and use them fully. Ah, but God put a Kodash on the seventh day. He made a line. This day is different. And this day is embedded in my universe. That's caught in the confession we read that this is not some new idea, some convenient thing to do. We all need a little rest. It's not that at all. It's built into the universe that there should be this pattern, this rhythm of six and one. And it's binding upon all people everywhere. Imagine in all generations. Not just on us who love the command. So God's put a difference between these six and the seven a kodash. Now that's very important for us, isn't it, to realize. On that day, he we read that he ceased his creative work. He paused is the Hebrew word. He paused his work, put the whole thing on pause, and he was complete. And he took great joy saying it is very good. He had completed his creation work, his sustaining work in Providence, of course, goes on. But he completed his work that day, and he rested and was refreshed, according to the scriptures. Now that means, I think, for us that this day is different. This day is God's day. He owns it, he gives it to us as a gift, and we rejoice in it. And we follow his example. We stop our usual activities. We do not work on the Lord's day. Sometimes we uh may find that we are in a work of necessity, as the confession says, in medicine or in uh uh police or fire protection and so on, those things are there. But I remember my old teacher, Dr. Gerster. Telling this story, maybe he told it to you. Has he ever preached here? Oh, sadly. But uh what a preacher, what a teacher, what a man. Get his book on the commandments called Reasons for Duty. It's wonderful. Anyway, he tells this story. He worked for a time in a steel mill. Now steel mills can't just close down their hot cauldrons and their operations just for Sunday. They they couldn't do that, don't do that. And here's Dr. Gersner, a young man, not gone to seminary yet, but very astute about the commandments. Uh he worked in the payroll department. He didn't get near the the hot bins where the steel was being forged and all. And they said, do I have to work on Sunday? Yes. Yes, everybody works on Sunday. He said, well, is my work, could my work be done on Saturday? Well, yes. Would you allow me to do it on Saturday? No. Why not? Because everybody works Sunday. But now knowing Gas Gershner never lets a thing die. He takes it to the end. So he said, would you allow me to come in on Saturday, do the payroll work? I'd be happy to do that. They fired him on the spot. And after they fired him, they discovered what a valuable man he was. They went and got him back. Said, it's okay now, John. Because you are a seminary student, we're going to make an exception. He said, I don't accept that reason But if you give my job back, I'll take it. So uh he did. But you see, not everything that people rationalize by saying it's a necessity is is a necessity He pinned them down to what the real necessities were. Just an example for how we stopped doing our everyday activities. It doesn't just apply to work. Sunday is not Saturday, a day that helps us catch up with chores that we didn't get done through the week and so on. Sunday is the Lord's day, the whole day belongs to him, of course, as you know Well, what a marvelous thing it is that God gives us this day one in seven. He puts a kodash around it, uh a barrier, a line around it, th that it may not be trespassed. So now we ask the question, what? I mentioned some of the negatives. We don't work on Sunday. We don't do our usual things. The the grass may need cutting. Uh the redskins may be holding their first game. Whoever it is, whatever it is, we don't do those things. If we belong to Christ. If he is Lord, he's Lord of the Sabbath. He's Lord of all our time. He has all time at his disposal. But he wants us to make careful judgments about the use of his day. So let me suggest a few positives. I've given you negatives. The Sabbath is a positive day. It's not a gloomy, dark day in which we sit twiddling our thumbs, waiting for the day to pass. No, there are wonderful riches in it. And that's why I read the Hebrews 12 verse. Pursue holiness. Now there's the agenda for the Lord's day. Pursue holiness. The day is to be kept holy. So follow after holiness on that day. Now, sometimes people misunderstand that phrase about David, that God chose him because he was a man after his own heart. At first glance, that looks like, well, David's heart and God's heart were quite alike, so God chose them. That's not what it means. A man after God's heart is a God chaser. A man who's out to catch God. He's seeking him with all his might. He's running after God to get hold of him, to get near him. Pursue holiness with that kind of vigor and determination. We don't saunter into holiness. We struggle and exert. And the Sabbath day is appropriate for that exertion and that struggle. You see, in the six days, we are given a certain revelation of God. The theologians would call it an indirect revelation of God. That is, it comes through uh creation, through the moral law in our hearts. We we can see in the creation his eternal power and Godhead. There's a lot we can learn about God through the means of the six days. Indirect revelation. Thank God for indirect revelation. But it ain't direct revelation. Don't tell my wife I used ain't in this one. But it's not that. See, on the Sabbath we get direct revelation with no immediate action. Immediate there meaning nothing between us. and God on the Sabbath. That's the day when truth is dispelled and given in abundance That's the day that we rejoice in the worship, the preaching, the teaching, the fellowship, the Christian service. All the wonderful things that you do on the Lord's day, they are instruments of God's direct revelation. You are taking in truth right from the source not pass through intermediate as you would on the six days. How wonderful that is. Now in the six days There are snatches of direct revelation, maybe in your family worship or your private devotions or a conversation with a Christian friend. you will see little snacks of the food of direct revelation given to you, tidbits along the way. But Sunday is the market day of the soul, as the Puritans used to say. That's the day we may have scrimped and saved all week, but on that day the tables are full of the savory foods of the kingdom, and we can feast to our heart's content. How wonderful that is, that we should be given this privilege of a whole day every week. in which our souls can be nourished. And if we miss that day, our souls shrivel. to be sure. You want a starved soul? Do you want a rich and abundant soul? You want a soul that out of the mouth can come rivers of living water because the living water's been stored up over years of learning and growing and reading and praying. Oh, what a wonderful day it is. We mustn't give it away in any sense. What we need to do is to be continuous. And persistent in the you please don't leave now. I mean, you know what you have to do, but don't let the dinner take you out of there. That'll take care of itself. I haven't gotten to the heart of the sermon yet. I was bold because Moody did that. He saw somebody leaving. He said, come back here. So I'm in good company. There needs to be a continuous use of the whole day. The Sabbath is not to be observed in fits and starts In sudden pangs of conscience. Oh, it's Sunday, I better do something spiritual. Not that. The whole day is pervaded with the pursuit of holiness. The desire to get as near to God as you can. Get there. Stay close to Him. It is possible to do that. And real for you. If you think of the Sabbath as just partial observance of the day, you know what will happen You will be inconsistent in your use of the day, because all kinds of things will come to interfere with your observance of the Lord's day. You have to settle it in your heart. Is the whole day the Lord's or not? And if you settle it where the Scripture does, then the schedule for the day is fixed. Morning worship, evening worship. Those are fixed points. in your program. And so when things come that compete with those things, you already have decided that. This is what we do on the Lord's Day. It's that kind of consistency That moves you more and more closer to holiness. Give thanks that the elders and pastor of this church believe in. and work at an evening worship. It's disappearing. You don't find any churches anymore. You have one that has this opportunity you can grow twice as fast because you get more teaching, more fellowship, more prayer. than you would otherwise. You have an edge. Take the edge and use it for the glory of God. Just see how amazing this is. That the God of the universe, the eternal creator, wants to spend a whole day with you. No. Think of that. Since he wants to spend the whole day with you Do you want to quit at half the day? Say, well, I've had enough, God. You can be on your way. Oh, he wants the whole day with you. No wonder we read in that song of the Sabbath, Psalm 92, it is good to give thanks to the Lord. and to declare his righteousness in the morning and his faithfulness every night. How glorious. That is. Now for my friend in the back row who came back, this is the key. Thank you for coming back. I hope I didn't embarrass you. But here's the key. The goal of a proper use of Sunday is rest Holy rest, sacred rest. Not laziness or indolence. But a sacred rest. That's what you're striving after. To get that sacred rest that God got when he completed his work. It's a quiet, joyful, sweet kind of rest. Don't be content with your Sabbath until you felt it. You don't just know it in your mind. I want you to feel the wondrous delight of a Sabbath well-kept. I want that for you. God wants that for you. But it isn't easy. It's there for you. You say, why do you want me to rest? What's so great about rest? Ah. Because it is that sacred rest. that provides the atmosphere to grow in holiness. The only way to get to holiness Is being rest is resting in Christ. That's the platform from which holiness comes. Holiness doesn't come from strenuous effort, I'm going to be holy. No, it comes from I'm going to learn how to rest on God's day and in the quietness and leisure of that day God's going to provoke me and produce in me a deeper holiness than ever before. So the secret Of keeping the Sabbath day holy is striving for the rest and clearing the field so you can have it and getting all the input you can get. And you want that holiness without it, no one will see the Lord. Let us pray together. Heavenly Father, thank you for your great mercies in giving us this day so blessed and beautiful. Lord, increase in us a hunger for its hours, hallowed hours, that we may not waste a one of them in idleness. Or worldly pleasures, or doing our own thing. But may we be hot after God, pursuers of your holiness. And we thank you for this church, for its commitment to the Lord's day. Prosper it, Lord. Honor it. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.