Those of you who are my age remember a television show called Petticoat Junction. I'm not saying it's a virtuous show, I'm not saying it's a great show, but the theme song had this one line. Uh there's Uncle Joe. He's moving kind of slow. And uh that's been my life since January. Um I used to I was a phys ed major at Maryland. I used to do the steps at the old football stadium, but that's not even that that's not happening anymore. Uh but I'm grateful to the Lord. He's given me more concentrated time in his word. And it's always a joy to be here with you all and I have my Family today, my wife, Denise, my uh in birth order, my daughter Anna, my daughter Mary, and my daughter sorry, my son, Daniel And uh so uh we just got off summer vacation yesterday. We arrived yesterday, it was a wonderful time. Laura's very kind. So um with that let me pray for our time in God's Word and we'll tend to God's Word. Our Heavenly Father, we are now privileged to do the most important thing we've ever done as human beings. That's to listen to your word. You instructed Adam from the beginning. With words of wisdom and love and kindness and goodness. And uh since that point on, because Adam fell, you've spoken to us with words of salvation and words of promise. So we ask, Father, that you would grant us grace now to attend to your word, that the only voice that we would hear is not mine or our own or other voices, but to hear the voice of your son in the midst of these words. We ask this for your son's glory and for our well-being in Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would please stand. I will read from John's Gospel, chapter 11. Verses 1 to 44, this is the account of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead. A wonderful uh joy for the sisters of Lazarus, but not initially. Without here the word of God. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair. You'll hear about this later in the 12th chapter of John's Gospel. Whose brother Lazarus with it was ill. So the sister sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this, he said to the disciples, let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. Are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he has the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Well, Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest and sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. So Thomas called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, let us also go, that we may die with him. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been dead, had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them. concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him. But Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die yet, shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with with her at the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out. They followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb. To weep there. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, And the Jews who had come with her weeping. He was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, see how he loved him. But some of them said, could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave and a stone laid against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out! The man who had died came out His hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his feet wrapped with a cloth, Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. So ends the reading of God's book. Please be seated. It has been said, and I think rightfully so, that there are certain days in history that everybody remembers where they were. One of those days was the assassination of John F. Kennedy. If we pause just a moment, for those of us who are old enough, we can look back and we can think about where we were and how time sort of slowed down and almost stopped. We were shocked by what had happened. He had been a very popular uh person and uh and all of a sudden he was assassinated And then two days later, the man who had been accused of assassinating him was shot was gunned down himself by another man. And it was a very uh heavy time, a very dark time. in US history. You know, and the emotional state of the whole country was very low. And for me, that was just part of a whole year. of sadness in that way. When President Kennedy died, I knew that he was buried at Arlington Cemetery. And Arlington Cemetery about two months earlier had become a household word. Because two months earlier my mom died. She had died of cancer. I was the oldest of four children at that time. I was four years older than my youngest sibling. So when my mom died, I was six, sisters two, sisters one, brothers five months old. And uh up to that point life had been great. We just moved into a new house in August of 1963, and uh and so that really changed things. In fact, when I was watching The accounts of President County's assassination, I was there with my aunt. She had come to help out, you know, to help make ends meet while my you know in the passing of my mom. And uh so it was a very heavy time, but it pleased the Lord in his providence, that wouldn't be the last experience of death that I would have for that year. My dad had a wonderful co-worker at his job whose father-in-law ran a camp called Camp Orbana. You may have heard of it. It's a great place to have a family church camp. I've spoken there with uh with the children that come to camp. My two of my kids have worked there. And uh I went there in 1964. And that summer, that week that I was there, it was the only week in its history where someone died at camp. Someone had an epileptic seizure while they were in the water and they drowned. And uh it was again, here's this heaviness again of death. And then while I was there, they would show these old black and white reel-to-reels. They tried to get as much as they could into the week. And uh they had this one reel-to-reel of a NASCAR driver named Hot Rod Roberts. And that summer, Hot Rod Roberts was in an accident and he was burned very badly. I think it was in July that he was It was in May that he had the accident, and he succumbed to his injuries in July. And this was on the news trail. So for a whole year, death kind of took center stage of my life. Now it didn't save me, but it tempered me. It had a tempering effect on my life. It just it it kind of put a certain uh parameter around life, that life is fragile, life is temperate. And I wasn't just as depressed or despondent. I had a wonderful father who took incredible care. Of four young children. And so I bring this up not to raise my life up, but to to bring us into the atmosphere of Mary and Martha in this passage. That this is where they are in this situation. And uh I'd like to look at this passage under two points today, kind of unusual. And as we work through this text, the first one is to consider This text from the conventional perspective, conventional wisdom, what seems like ought to be done, what you would expect to be done, what's desired to be done. And then second, I want to look at this text and consider what Jesus did and what his goals were. His goal was to seek the glory of God in the midst of all of this. And we see how they In some ways they differ, in some ways they come together at the end. So a general doctrine or point I'd like to make this morning is the glory of God is always the preeminent and the most significant end in all matters. The glory of God is always the preeminent and most significant end in all matters. So first I'd like for us to consider the conventional perspective. And before I do that, I just want to Give a definition of conventional. Conventional means conforming or adhering to accepted standards as of conduct or taste. Conforming to or adhering to accepted standards of conduct or taste. There's certain things that are just normal. When we go on vacation, our family does certain things that other families might not do, probably not crazy things, but they're just the norm of what we do. And so, uh, as we look at this text, there are things that conventional wisdom had a goal. Conventional wisdom was to keep Lazarus from dying. That's the main goal, was keep him from dying. And so as they start out, the first thing that happens is uh Mary and Martha seek Jesus. They tell him, they call for him. And it's not like prayer. We just heard some wonderful words about prayer earlier, but it's like prayer. They knew where to go. They knew where to go when they were in trouble. Their brother was sick. We don't know what he had. It must have been pretty significant, partly because of them seeking out Jesus and partly because of what happened eventually, very quickly, that he dies. And so an early application is for us is to consider what do we do when we are in trouble or in need. What do we do when we're in trouble or in need? And I confess I've been a believer now for 50 years, at least 50 years, and it's only been in recent years that I've realized how foolish I've been in this regard. That in every case and in every situation, the first thing we should do is seek the Lord. We should call out upon the Lord that we should go to the throne of grace, this access that we have in the throne of grace. You know, what I usually do when I have a difficult situation is I get anxious. Well that's not a good one, so we should cross that off the list. We shouldn't be anxious first. Or second, the other thing we spend so much time is, how can I fix the problem? What can I do? And the second one is understandable. There's a time and place for that. But the first thing we should do is just pray, is to ask the Lord's help. We were always meant to be dependent on God, even from the beginning of creation. We were never independent entities. We were never autonomous. And so there's no shame in calling out to the Lord at any time, in any way, when we we have great need. And I think there's just a temptation we want to fix it. But over time I realized that no, no, no, we need to pray. And one of the benefits of being married for so long with my wife, 43 years, praise the Lord. is that we help each other to stop say, well we need to pray. We just need to pray first. And oftentimes that seems so trite and trivial, but it's not It's the wisest thing that we can do is to call out to the Lord, because we were made for the Lord, and he is for us. And through Christ's blood we have access to the throne of grace. So the first application of this sermon, this passage, is that we should always seek the Lord first. And I I will tell you, you'll be surprised how often, all of a sudden, things become a little bit more clear. Not always, but then you can think about what's the solution to this situation? But these these sisters are very wise and they have a reasonable course of action. They go and they seek Jesus They want him to come and heal him, to keep him from dying. That's the goal. That's the conventional idea here. But it wasn't Jesus' good pleasure to do that at that time. So Jesus delays and Lazarus dies, and by the time he gets to the sisters, he's been dead four days. And uh the conventional wisdom of that time, you know, the conventional wisdom of the time was time is of the essence. He's got to get there because if he gets there in time, he won't die. And yet it says that Jesus delayed on purpose. Now if that was somebody at a rescue squad nearby, they would be criminally negligent. They'd probably be sued. Because they had hesitated in their duty. But see, this is the Son of God who came into the world to save sinners, so it's a different situation. And Jesus knew exactly what he was going to do, and we'll get there. But now, the conventional hope was keep Lazarus from dying was dashed. He's dead now. He's dead. And yet Jesus goes in time, even though it's dangerous. We read from the passages it was dangerous. He goes there. Because he's going to glorify God. He's going to glorify God by what he does. So he goes to the sisters, and uh in verses 20 to 22, we we hear of this arrival. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met with him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. There's that conventional wisdom at work, which is true. If he had been there, he surely could have and most likely would have. killed Lazarus before he died. But even now I know that whatever you asked from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet he shall live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. Then Jesus met her where she was emotionally. And her thoughts about this whole matter. She said, if you had been here, he would not have died. And he worked he works through this whole situation with her. He ministers to her personally. Martha and Mary were different people, even though they were sisters. And in his kindness and his condescension, he worked with both of them. And so, at first, in her theological thinking, in Martha's theological thinking, yes, I know he'll rise on the last day. I know that. And that's good theology. That's right. That's absolutely true. But it's not the fullest theology. Because the fullest theology is the resurrection is in Christ and starts with Christ. He is the beginning he's the Alpha and the Omega of the resurrection. And so Jesus ministers to them, and uh and what what he does really is He accomplishes in Martha's life what is the goal of John's gospel. John has told us in his gospel, at the end of his gospel, what his goal is. It's this. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. That she had this profession that was exactly in accordance with the goal of John's Gospel. And the goal of John's Gospel for his original audience, but also for all who would hear it, including us today. That for all who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, you will be saved. To believe that Jesus is the Christ, the long-promised one, all throughout Scripture, even from Genesis 3. 15 That by believing in him you may have life in his name, because this is a world of death. It's marked by death, and no matter how well you eat or whatever, you can add some years to your life providentially in God's kindness. But you cannot s you cannot stay off death. Death comes to all of us. And so um So he ministers to to Martha, but then we go we find out about Mary in verse 28. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, the teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus was not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house consoling her saw Mary rise quickly and go out and follow her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had not been here, my brother would not have died. The same exact words that Martha said. Different person, same words, same concerns, same conventional wisdom. If you had been here, he would not have died. We know that you could have healed him. We know that you would have healed him, but you didn't you didn't you delayed. If you had been here, he would have not have died And at this point, we see Jesus respond emotionally in a very important way. We sometimes, sadly, we joke about the shortest verse in the Bible, Jesus wept. You know, and that's unfortunate. So she falls at his feet, and uh it says, When Jesus saw her weeping and the Jews had come With her also weeping, he was deeply moved, and you have a footnote, and we have an ESV Bible. He was indignant. In his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? Then she said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. And so this situation of the sadness and the heaviness and the sorrow of these sisters in death affected Jesus and he weeps. But there's more than just the weeping going on. But there is that at least. He loved Mary and Martha and Lazarus. And there's a reason that John tells us that. Because if there was if I had a brother or a relative at the local um fire station and I called 911 and and they they delayed you would say didn't they care about Steve? Did they care about it? They delayed. But John tells us that to make sure that we understand all along, Jesus knew what he was doing and that he loved Mary and Martha and Lazarus. And so the conventional wisdom again is just like Martha, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But now he's died, and well that's the end of the story for now until the resurrection. We even see this same kind of response by the Jews who are present in verse 36. So the Jews said, see how he loved him. They saw that he was weeping and saw that there was this great affection that Jesus had. But then the next verse in 37 says, But some of them said, could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? There's a certain reasonableness to that. Couldn't he have kept his man from dying? If he made a man who was blind from birth, see, couldn't he heal Lazarus? Isn't that possible? But he was late, his time delayed. And so there's an understandable conventional wisdom there that God trumps. He overrides it. Because he had there was something else to do. Jesus was seeking the glory of God. Yes, he could have come on time. Yes, he could have healed Lazarus, and life would have gone on until Lazarus dies, his normal death. But instead, Jesus delays. And it's important that nobody knew what was going on there except for Jesus and the Father. The apostles didn't know. John didn't know. He was there in that moment. Just like I was in that moment. Like some of us were in that moment when JFK was assassinated. Didn't know what was happening. And so he didn't know what was going to happen. The apostles didn't know what was going to happen. The crowds didn't know what was going to happen. And it all seemed dark and gloomy and without hope. But that's conventional wisdom. And over the last few months or years I've been thinking about conventional wisdom in a fallen world can be not wisdom, can be foolishness. We know how so many ideas, over the course of time in the history of man, ideas just go out and they grow and they grow and they bring chaos and death and destruction and divisions So we have to be very careful when we think about conventional wisdom. Is that really true? Does that abide with the word of God? Is that true with the word of God? When we were down in uh North Carolina on vacation, we visited this one church, a PCA church in Myrtle Beach, and it's been a great blessing to my family and I as we go down there. They've had three pastors. All good reasons people moved on. And uh um I'm sorry. I got so excited, I lost my thought. Um In conventional wisdom. I cannot I can't remember. Maybe the Lord will bring it back. So anyhow, uh oh I knew what it was. So we had a class and it was talking about modernism, postmodernism, and now there's something else. There's a new thing. I don't even know what it's called Somebody wrote a book on it. But all of these all these isms are really the lies of Satan dressed up in different clothing. They all have certain tenets. You know, they think, oh, this is wise. Now this is wise. You know, well, that doesn't work, so this is wise. And yet the word of God comes in like a light, it pierces into the darkness, it gives us the truth, and dissipates all the confusion. When the Spirit is at work. It blasts it out of the water. The word of God is as true as it was when God first spoke it to Adam in the garden, as it is today. That's why the word is so precious. This is why I appreciate this church that they take the time to go through these aspects of worship. You know, sometimes we just think we know something, and it's like, oh, I didn't know it as well as I thought. You know, and yet I appreciate that the session here takes the time to clarify because even I need to have a refresher force. Because I'm old, at least, and I'm fallible, and I need to be reminded. And so uh all to say we have to be very careful with conventional wisdom. And particularly when we come to Jesus, because Jesus was not enamored with the world. Jesus was not sinfully affected by the world. Jesus is the only person who always obeyed the voice of God. It's becoming more and more striking to me, amazing to me, that every breath he took was under. his father's ob in obedience to his father. We're not just talking actions. We're not just talking words. We're not just talking thoughts. We're talking affections. His affections were right in line with the father. So that when he's in the garden, he's struggling. He's a man. And to face the wrath of God is a horrible thing. But he came for that purpose, and he would take it for his people. That they would never ever experience it themselves And so whenever we read the Word of God, we need to think about what is God doing? What is Jesus up to? And so we've looked at the conventional wisdom, but second we'll look at the what Jesus sought to do, his wisdom, and that was the glory of God. And as we already said, I won't take up the time. As soon as he hears that he hears that Lazarus is ill, and then John says he loves, Jesus loves Lazarus and Mary and Martha, he delays. He delays on purpose. He allowed time for Lazarus to die. Now that seems like an unusual thing to us, except that he has something better in mind. He even said this is not leading to death. And that's, you know, they didn't know what he was talking about. So he goes and uh He he goes and he and he and he he he probably goes there in danger, even though it's dangerous to him. You know, he can be stoned to death. And uh He responds emotionally. Now this is where I think many of us maybe don't see what's in the passage because it really only comes out in the Greek in some sense. And I I don't say that to Be horty-torty, but it's important to know that the original languages have a certain significance here in particular. And that is when Jesus When it says in verse 33 that he was deeply moved, okay, and then he he weeps, I always thought, wow, he had so much compassion, he wept. But I was hearing a sermon from a uh my former PCA pastor, and he said that the grint really means there about being deeply moved to snort. I'm like, what is that? Snort? It's like a horse. But there was this great sense of indignation. This great sense of indignation at the death and the sorrow that was before him. Because remember, this is Jesus who John 1. 3 says, all things were created through him. All the good things that we see in Genesis were created through him. The Apostle Paul says in Colossians 1. 16, all things were created through him and for him. Now that's that's really effective me over the last year or so. You know, I was made for Jesus. This is creation. We're not talking about salvation. Made through him and for him. That I was always made for Jesus That's my reference point. That's my focal point. He's my center. I was always made for him. To have blessed fellowship with him. And so when Jesus sees this, the one through whom life is, life comes through him, he's looking at death, he's looking at the effects of death, and he's indignant, he hates it. In fact, you could say it's possibly, damn you, death, damn you. Because he is not the God of death, per se. He's the God of life. And when he created the world, it was all good and very good. And Jesus came to reverse that whole situation, to flip it on his head. For all eternity. And so it was really helpful. I really appreciated my pastor bringing that out, that there's this indignation, there's this holy hatred. And it happens again in verse 38 when they get to the tomb. Then Jesus deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave and a stone laid against it. He comes to the tomb and again he's indignant because he was the Son of God incarnate. He was the God of life And his wonderful creation had been perverted and twisted because of the fall of man And so praise the Lord that he hates it. And that's what he's come to reverse, and it's only in Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ alone, as Rick said. Other religions don't have the answer. It's Christ alone in whom we have salvation and sanctification and all the other things that we need. And so It helps us to understand, and what does he do? He finally goes and he says, Lazarus come out. And Lazarus comes out And you've probably heard at some point in your life, if he didn't say Lazarus, come out, he just said come out, everybody would come out. Because nobody thwarts the voice of God when he's pleased to work with authority. At the beginning of creation, there was no pushback from creation. It was, it was, it was, it was, it was. And so at this point he says, Lazarus come out, and Lazarus comes out. Now, would I like to see my mother again? Yes. Yes, that would be a wonderful thing. And I trust that it was the same for Martha and Mary. They rejoiced to see their brother again. But I would also guess, they would say, who is this? Just like who is this who steals who seals the storm? Who is this who raises the dead? But that raises a question then, what did what was this all for? Because Lazarus would eventually die. If he could do that like that, if he could just say, come on out, come on out, then the question is, what was his purpose here? Why is he doing this? Um why not just, hey, if if he can do that to them, let's go to all the tunes. Come on out, come on out, you know. I just watched The Wizard of Oz recently. At the beginning of the movie do we have the good witch win uh Glenda and uh what are those people called? The munchins were hiding and she says, come out, come out, come out. Why not just go to all the graves and say, come out, come out, come out, seriously. Because that wouldn't solve the problem. Death is a symptom of the problem. The problem is we are estranged from God through the fall. And what Jesus was doing was something he had spoken about earlier in his gospel in chapter 5. Jesus, after he heals this man who had been a paralytic for 38 years, says this. Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. Now I think there's a double meaning there. I could be wrong, but I think part of it is as Jesus was ministering, people believed in him and were united to him or came to Christ, faith in Christ. That seems like a reasonable interpretation. But also that he has power over the dead. That he had power over the dead before he went to the cross to call Lazarus out of the tomb because he was God. And this was a joint action of him and his father to do this, to raise him from the dead. When the devil hear his voice, hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, not death, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. And he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. That all men, from Adam, To the last person who's born in the world before Christ comes, Jesus will call. Some will go to be with him in the air, others will be coming from their graves, and no one is hidden. You know, Rick made an allusion earlier, really, I think to Jehovah's Witness, about annihilation. Their theology is you're not, you're made, and if you're not good, you get annihilated. You go zero to something to zero. Well, that's not biblical. All men are under the authority of God as their creator. And all men will give an account. And only those in Christ will be saved. And so this blasphemous doctrine of the Jehovah's Witness is not true. Everybody. Revelation says, those who are in the oceans or the rivers will be coming out. He knows all of those who have been made. And so we all will stand before the judgment throne of Christ. We'll all come before Christ on the last day. And so Jesus just to raise Lazarus wouldn't have solved the problem because Jesus came to die. He came to bear the burden and the sins that we deserve that started with Adam's fall. He's the anti-Adam in that sense, but he's the second Adam in the most wonderful sense. And he reverses all these things. Yes, we may die, but blessed in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. But we won't go to the second death. We will not perish eternally. Because Christ has paid that penalty for his people. And that's why you have such great confidence and great hope, because he has done it. He had to send his son into the world because there was no one who could take the sacrifice, no one who could bear the sins, there was no one without spot or blemish. Except Jesus. So he leaves the glories of heaven. He's humiliated for a while. And now he's exalted, as we heard earlier, at the right hand of the Father. And he has been interceding for us as we've gathered this morning. And that we have that confidence all throughout our life, particularly as we come into worship as God's people and the Lord say, He's interceding for us. The success of this worship service. Is Christ alone and his intercession for us? And he loves us and loves to make known his name. And the Holy Spirit loves to exalt Christ. And so Jesus loved Mary, and he loved Martha, and he loved Lazarus, and he paid for their sins. If Jesus said, you know what, this one time I'm going to disobey the Father. I'm just going to heal Lazarus. Because everybody's so sad. That would have been horrific. You remember our brother Rick talked about the Apostle Peter. And Peter, after making this wonderful confession, and Jesus starts talking about his sufferings, he says, God forbid! And Jesus was not deceived. He says, Get behind me, Satan. He saw right through the lie. He says, You set your things on the things of man, not on God. And the things of man is in vain, but God has done this for us. On our behalf, Christ became Our sacrifice. I think things are pretty clear and apparent. But let me let me finish with these words from John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For he did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. The world is already under the cloud of condemnation, and we need to remember that day to day. It doesn't take away our joy in Christ, but it does set the stage. This is not Shanghai law. This is not Shangri-La. And yet God is kind to us. He provides good things. Marriage, family, children. You go down the line. For God had not sent the Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be safe through him. In Christ alone. That's our hope. Christ has done it. He puts himself out to us just as John has put this gospel out to us. That we might Believe that Jesus was the Messiah, the promised Messiah, and that by believing in him we might have life. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word that is above all other words. No word will ever trumpet on the last day. All mouths will be closed. Satan will be done with. Death will be done with the last enemy. And Father, we ask that you would so strengthen us by your Spirit, so focus our minds on Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit, that we would see only Him, that we would look for and yearn for that day when he will return, our final, our final hope. And if there be any who are not in Christ, that they would see this glorious hope that they could have in him. That they might turn from their wicked ways, that they might turn from their unbelief, and turn to Him and belief and have life eternal. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.