Well, it's good to be back with you again. There are a lot of reasons why it's good to be with you, but chiefly it is good for my soul. And so I'm glad to join you for the worship of our God and to hear his word. You can see in your bulletin this morning that we're turning our attention to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. So you can turn there, 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. In case you haven't read 1 Thessalonians for a while, for that matter, in case you haven't read the book of Acts for a while. I thought it might be good to give a little bit of background before I read our passage this morning. I want to set the stage because I think it will help us to appreciate what we're going to hear in our passage this morning. The book of Acts, and in particular Acts chapter 17, it tells us about what happened When the Apostle Paul went to the great city of Thessalonica and started preaching the gospel, he went there with Silas and Timothy along with him He preached the gospel there, and many people believed the gospel that he was preaching. But many other people were just as fiercely opposed. To the gospel that Paul was preaching, so much so that eventually he had to get out of town. And so from there he moves on He moves on from town to town, and he eventually finds his way in the city of Corinth. And it's when he's in the city of Corinth that the Apostle Paul gets really good news. He's there in Corinth, and Timothy brings him the very good news that those brand new Christians that he had had to leave behind in Thessalonica, they are still holding on to Christ. They're still holding fast to their faith in Christ. And it's when Paul gets that good news about how they're holding on that he writes this letter. He writes this letter that we have in our Bibles known as First Thessalonians. And that's why this letter is shot through with gratitude and joy. Because he's just gotten this very good news about how they're holding on. You can almost hear and feel Paul's sigh of relief because of the good news that he's gotten So, with that background in mind, let's listen to chapter 1. We're going to be focusing on verses 5 through 10, but I'll go ahead. And read from the beginning of the chapter. Let me mention as well that there are several references here in chapter one to Macedonia and Achaia. Let's get our bearings geographically. Macedonia and Achaia were the two Roman provinces that made up Greece. And Macedonia was the region to the north, and that's where the city of Thessalonica was located. Achaea was the region to the south. And that's where Corinth was located, and so that's where Paul is when he's writing. So as he refers to Macedonia and Achaia, it's his way of referring to this whole part of the world in which we find ourselves. Macedonia to the north, Achaea to the south. So enough background. Let's hear. 1 Thessalonians 1. Please stand with me for the reading of God's word. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. To the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love. and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord. For you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. Let me pray for us. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for it, for we know how much we need it. We need a word that gives off light in a world of darkness. And so we pray that you would open our eyes now to behold that light. We pray that you would stir our hearts that we might go forth walking in the light. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I want you to picture a little scenario with me this morning. Picture this. Picture a little boy. Let's say he's two. Picture a little boy, he's two years old, and picture our two-year-old little boy watching. His older sister. Let's say that she's four. So picture a kind of classic domestic scene. Maybe there's a children's seat. being played, some silly music for kids, and so what she's doing, well, she's doing a sort of silly funky dance to the music That's being played, because that's what four-year-olds do. So she's doing her dance, and the whole time he is watching her do It. I mean eyes fixed on his older sister. He's watching his older sister do her silly dance Well, eventually, what's he going to start doing as a two-year-old? He's going to start imitating her. Because that's what two-year-olds do. He's going to start imitating her. He's going to start doing his best to dance like her as one who has been watching. Now, picture this to fill in the story a little bit. What that two-year-old little boy doesn't realize is that the whole time he's been watching and imitating. What he doesn't realize is that he's being watched too. The watcher is also the watchee. And that's because the whole time this has been going on, their parents have been standing over in the doorway watching the whole thing. And doing their best not to laugh. Because they know, you know how it works. If they laugh, the kids will hear it, they'll look over, they'll see mom and dad, they'll stop. The dance will stop. So they're standing over there taking in the whole scene, just delighting in this, and and doing everything they can do not to laugh and give themselves away. And not only that, but because their parents, what are they eventually going to start doing, they're going to start filming it. Because that's what parents do. It's a shame, but it's an incurable parental condition. To film such events as this. They're going to start filming it and then they're going to start sending it around because that's what parents do. That's why you film it. Grandma and grandpa have got to see this. And so they film it, they distribute it, and the end result of our little scenario is that our two-year-old protagonist becomes famous. The video goes viral. Word gets out. He gets a reputation. He gets a name for himself as somebody who watches. As somebody who imitates, as somebody who dances, a silly dance, just like his sister. So it turns out that our little boy, he's watching and he's being watched at the very same time. He is watcher and he is watch-y. Whether he knows it or not. And because that's true, because all of this watching that's going on You've got these two realities in play, and they are, and it is the title of our sermon today, in case that helps, they are imitation and reputation. On the one hand, he's copying his sister. There's the imitation. On the other hand, other people are finding out about it. They're finding out about him. Thus, reputation. And life is like that. There's a whole lot of watching going on in human experience. We observe other people the way that they live, and then they observe us right back, whether we like it or not. And the result is the results are imitation and reputation. Imitation, we pattern ourselves after what we see in other people, and then reputation, we get a name for ourselves because of what other people see in us. They come to certain conclusions based upon what they see in us. And not only that, but they might not be just conclusions that they come to about us. They may also be coming to conclusions about our family, and about our friends, and about our upbringing, and about our circumstances. And that's not a bad thing, the fact that life is like that. It's actually a good thing. It's the way God made the world. It's the way God designed the human race. He made us to be watchers and watched. He made us to be imitators of others and known by others at the very same time. Life is like that. Well, now, bringing it closer to home for us as a Christian church, we can also say that the Christian life is like that as well. This is an aspect of Christian experience. Part of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus is that you're supposed to have your eyes open. I mean wide open. You're supposed to have your eyes open in such a way that you can pattern yourself after what you see in the lives of faithful disciples of Jesus around you. Imitation. And then sure enough, another part of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus is knowing that other people have their eyes on you. Reputation. You're being watched. You're being known. That's an aspect of Christian experience. Letting your light shine before others, that others may see your good works. And give glory to your Father who is in heaven. That's the way it's supposed to work. Observing and being observed. Imitation and reputation. The Christian life is like that. Well, then it's no surprise to find that it was like that for the Thessalonians. And you see that here in the verses that we're focusing on. Verses 5 through 10. The Thessalonians were observing and they were being observed. They were imitating, and therefore they were getting a name for themselves as a result, imitation and reputation. So we're going to focus on these verses here, verses 5 through 10, with those two principal points in mind: imitation, being like others, reputation. Being known by others for the glory of God. So let's take them in that order. First of all, imitation Imitation. And you see that especially in verses 5 through 7. And we're picking up here sort of in the middle of verse 5. So look again, middle of verse 5, down through verse 7. Paul says this. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. So there's a lot of imitation going on in those three verses. In the first instance, the imitation that's in view here, it's the Thessalonians imitating Paul. So we can start there. The Thessalonians imitating Paul, and not just Paul, but his fellow workers who were with him. Paul says, You know what we were like when we were with you. And he's saying, you followed our lead. So they're imitating Paul. And just stop and think about how important, how valuable it was. That Paul and his fellow workers were providing an example for the Thessalonians to follow. This is a brand new message that Paul's bringing to Thessalonica. This is a brand new way of life, this Christian way of life This would have been a way of life that was so unlike anything they'd have known in pagan Roman culture. And so it would have been so important for them not only to hear this message that's preached to their ears, this message of Christianity. but also to be able to lay their eyes on real, living, breathing examples Of what Christianity looks like when it's lived out. And that's what Paul and his fellow workers were providing: an example that they so desperately needed to be able to see. That's what they were giving to. If you want to teach me how to do something that I don't have the first clue about, So, for example, if you want to teach me how to knit, don't just hand me a book about knitting and say, here, read this, and come back to me when you've mastered it. That's not going to do me a whole lot of good. I don't know the first thing about knitting. That book by itself, that's not going to get me all that far You've got to give me more than that. By all means, give me the book. But then show me as one who knows how to knit Show me how you do it. Show me how it's done. Show me what it looks like in practice. Maybe even put your hands on mine so that I can get a feel for what it feels like to do this and to do it well. Give me an example that I can see, so that I can follow your lead. Give me something real to see. That's what Paul and Silas and the others were doing for these Thessalonians. For whom the message of Christianity, for whom the way of life that is Christianity, would have been so new and so foreign. They were giving an example And then we can be even more specific than that. What is it exactly that they were seeing in Paul and the others that they imitated? Well, what they saw, what they were imitating, Paul says, was joy in the midst of affliction. And he says it there in verse 6: joy in the midst of affliction. Think about it. Before they got to Thessalonica, where were they? Paul and his fellow workers were in Philippi. How did things go in Philippi? They were beaten with rods and tossed in prison. And then they move on to Thessalonica, and there's this intense opposition there. Town after town, city after city, it's opposition after opposition. It's affliction after affliction. And Paul and his fellow workers rejoice anyway. When they were back in Philippi, having been beaten and tossed in prison, they were singing hymns. Joy in the midst of affliction. And they were able to rejoice because of what they knew, they knew God. Paul and Silas and Timothy, they knew God. And they knew that they were loved by God. And they knew that they were more than conquerors in Christ. Well then they were able to rejoice in the midst of affliction. And then they come along into Thessalonica and they show themselves to be that kind of men. Well, that didn't go unnoticed. The Thessalonians saw that in Paul and those who were with him. They saw joy in the midst of affliction. And they imitated it. Because now these Thessalonians who have believed the gospel, now they're facing opposition of their own. Now they're suffering affliction of their own. But now they're able to rejoice too, just like Paul. Brand new Christians, and still they're rejoicing. Why? For the same reasons. They knew God. And they knew that they were loved by God. And they knew that they were more than conquerors in Christ, just like Paul. And so the Thessalonians were able to rejoice in the midst of affliction, just like Paul. So the imitation starts there, but then we need to keep going. It wasn't just Paul that they were imitating. Ultimately, whom were they imitating? They were imitating Christ Himself. Because notice how Paul puts it here. He says, you became imitators of us and of the Lord. Don't miss that. He says, you became imitators of us and of the Lord. And that reminds us that Jesus Christ, Jesus Himself, above all. Was the servant of God who was able to rejoice in the midst of affliction. That was true of him as well. On the one hand, Jesus was a man of sorrows. He knew affliction, didn't he? He knew sorrows, he knew suffering, he knew trouble. But on the other hand, Jesus was not a man of sorrows in the sense that he didn't have any joy. He did have joy. He abounded in joy. Jesus had joy really for the same reasons. Jesus knew God. He knew his Father. And Jesus knew that he was loved by his father. And Jesus knew that he would conquer. And so Jesus rejoiced. Luke 12, it says, Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth. Jesus rejoiced in the midst of affliction. Well then, the Thessalonians, they're showing themselves to be like Jesus when they bear the same fruit. When they rejoice in the midst of their own afflictions. So you see, they were imitating Paul, who was there on location, but ultimately they were imitating Christ who was in heaven. And isn't that the way it was supposed to work? Because Paul himself could say in 1 Corinthians, Paul himself could say, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. And you see, that's the very thing that was going on in the experience of these Thessalonians. They saw Paul and how he rejoiced in the midst of the affliction. And they were imitating him as he was imitating Christ, and so finally they were imitating Jesus as well. That's the way it was supposed to work. So they're imitating Paul, they're imitating Christ, but then there's one more step that we need to take under the heading of imitation. The end result is that now other Christians are imitating the Thessalonians. Look at verse 7. Paul says, you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. So there's a kind of Imitation chain that's being linked together here. And the Thessalonians are in the middle of that chain. They're not at the end. They're not the last link in the chain. Word is getting out about them. And so now other Christians are following their lead. Now the Thessalonians are being imitated. And on this point, I do want to say this to the children of this congregation. Those of you who are younger, not just those of you who are young in heart, but I mean those who are really younger. Children, I want you to take this to heart. The Christians that you learn about here in this letter in 1 Thessalonians, when Paul was writing this letter to them, do you think they'd known Jesus for a long time? Do you think they've been studying the Bible for years and years? Do you think they had a long, a long history as Christians? The answer is no. The people that Paul is writing this letter to, it's probably the case that they've only known Jesus for a matter of months, if that. They're not Bible experts. They don't have a long history as Christians, and yet still, children, grasp this, still, they were able to shine for Jesus By setting a good example. And here's why that's important to you. Because your children, it's certainly the case that you haven't known Jesus as long as some other people have. You're not the Bible experts today that other people are, and that you will be years from now. And yet, and yet. You are not too young to shine for Jesus. You are never too young to shine For Christ, by setting a good example as one who is following Christ And the good example that you set, children, it's made up of so many little things that you do throughout the day. So many little things that make up the way you relate to one another here in the church. It's the kind words that you speak to one another. It's your willingness to forgive somebody when they ask you to forgive them. It's the readiness that you have to pray for somebody when you can tell that they're sad. You are not too young to be disciples like that. You're not too young to shine like that with forgiveness and kindness and prayer. And if you're thinking, oh, Pastor Wolf, I'm only eight. I'm only 10, I'm only 6. Stop! I won't hear it. No excuses. You're not too young to shine for Jesus with a good example So here's my challenge for you this morning, children. As you think about, especially as you think about the way that you interact with one another in the church, here's my challenge to you. Give each other good things to see. Think about it that way. Give each other good things to see. Because the fact is, you're all watching each other, whether you know it or not. We know it. Your parents know it because we can see it. We can see that you're watching one another, that you have your eyes on one another in such a way that you're imitating one another. So that's just a given. That's the way it is. So as you interact with one another, as you spend time together, give each other good things to see. By the grace of God, you can do it. Just like those Thessalonians who had only known Jesus for months, by the grace of God, you can do it. You're not too young. And then let me sort of expand that for the rest of us. For the whole of the congregation. By the grace of God, you can do this too. The temptation for a child is to say, oh, I'm too young to shine for Jesus, and to set a good example. The temptation for the rest of us is to say, I'm too sinful to shine for Jesus. You don't know what I've done. You don't know what I'm like. You don't know how I've lived. And anyone who's walked with Jesus for any length of time can relate to that. We all struggle with that. But by the grace of God, I say it to you as well, you can do this. We can do this. We can give each other good things to see. And maybe the single most remarkable good thing that you can put on display for your fellow Christians to see in you is rejoicing in the midst of affliction. Just like the Thessalonians, just like Paul, just like your Savior, joy in the midst of affliction. So that when your suffering, whatever it is, big or small, Don't forget to pray this when you're praying about it. Pray, Father, grant me joy in this. Because that's what I want my brothers and sisters around me to be able to see in me, so that I can show myself to be like my Savior. When you're suffering, want that, desire that, pray for that. By the grace of God, you can do this. So that's the first of our two points this morning, that being the imitation side of things. Now let's think about the other point, the other side, which is reputation. We've concentrated on imitation. Now what about reputation? We've already touched on this a little bit, I suppose, but you see this especially in verses 8 through 10. So look now again at your Bible. Look at verses 8 through 10. Paul says, not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead. Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So in just these verses, well, there's a lot of reputation First and foremost, the reputation that's in view is the reputation that the Thessalonians are getting for themselves And what exactly was that reputation? What is it that other people out there are hearing about the Thessalonians? Well, you can see it in verses 9 through 10. Three words, turning, serving, waiting. That's it in a nutshell. Turning, serving, and waiting. That's what people are hearing about them. First of all, turning. They turn to God in repentance of their idolatry Second of all, serving. They'd turned to God in order to serve Him, in order to live for Him. And then third of all, waiting. They'd turned to God in such a way that now they were waiting for Jesus to come back at the end of the year. Three words, turn, serve, wait. And let me just point out, by the way That trio, Turn Serve, Wait, it's a perfect match for another trio in the Bible that's a bit more famous: Faith and Love and Hope. And look out, by the way, look up at verse 3, because there it is. We're not focusing on this verse this morning, but there it is. There's the trio. Paul says, we remember your work of faith, your labor of love, your steadfastness of hope. Faith and love and hope. It's a perfect match for our trio here, turning and serving and waiting. Because when you turn, you turn to God so as to have faith in him. And when you serve God, you serve him because you love him. And when you're waiting for Jesus, that's hope. That's the hope of the gospel. Turn, serve, wait. Faith, hope, love. They're the same things. And that's what they become famous for. That's the reputation that the Thessalonians were earning for themselves. You know, even in the first century. Without all of the technology that we have today, even in the first century, make no mistake, word got around. Because people got around. People traveled. News traveled. Especially in this case, because Thessalonica was an important city. It was located at the junction of some very important trade and travel routes. It was the capital of its province. Well then no wonder word is getting around. No wonder people out there are hearing about the Thessalonians and about how people in that great city have made the radical decision to commit their lives to an unknown God. And an unknown Lord. So they're getting a reputation. So we can start there, but then we need to keep going. Who else is getting a reputation? It's not just the Thessalonians. Look at verse 9. Paul doesn't just say, they themselves report concerning you, you Thessalonians. He says, they themselves report concerning. Concerning us. Paul's getting a reputation. The fact that the Thessalonians responded to Paul's preaching with faith and hope and love, with turning and serving and waiting, that's getting Paul a reputation. Now he's getting a name for himself. And the reputation that he's getting for himself is life changer. Because word's getting out that this guy, Paul, is preaching a gospel that's having that effect. It's changing lives. He's a life changer. Now, if you're on the other side of things and you don't care for Paul's message, well then he would have been described in slightly different terms. Those terms would have been something like troublemaker. This guy, Paul, is preaching a message who's causing trouble. In the book of Acts, Paul and his fellow workers are described as these men who have turned the world upside down. And guess where that charge was made? And Thessalonica. These people are turning the world upside down. And that was not meant to be a compliment. So Paul's getting a reputation, or the Thessalonians are getting a reputation for turning and serving and waiting, and therefore Paul's getting a reputation for being the kind of man who's preaching the kind of message that does that to people. That turns them into people of faith and love and hope. So the Thessalonians are getting a reputation, so is Paul, but then let's take one more step. Who else is getting a reputation? God is getting a reputation. That's where all this is headed. God is getting glory for himself because of all of these realities Just think about it. Everything that we've seen about the Thessalonians, everything about them wasn't ultimately about them. Ultimately, it was about God. Think about all the things that we've seen in this passage. We've seen that they suffered. Well, ultimately that was about God. Because what that said was, this is a God worth suffering for. We've seen that they rejoiced even in their suffering. That was about God, because what that said was knowing God is the best and there's nothing better. We've seen that they turn to God in faith. That says something about God. It says that He's trustworthy We've seen that they served God out of love. That says something about God. That says that He is the master and that He is altogether lovely. And now they were waiting for Jesus out of hope. That says that the promises of God are worth the wait. Everything about them wasn't ultimately about them. It pointed to God, it gave glory to God. God gets glory for himself by the faithfulness of his people. God makes himself famous by the gospel fame, the gospel reputation of his people. And what that means is that that shouldn't make us squirm. We shouldn't be uncomfortable with that. We shouldn't be shrinking back from the thought that other people might be watching us. And even talking about us. No, that's the way it's supposed to work. For Christians to say, well, we don't want anybody out there watching us and talking about us. That sounds humble, but it's really not. Because it's God Himself who set it up this way. It's God Himself who determined that He's going to get glory from the faithfulness of His people. And it would take an awfully prideful kind of humility for you to say, well, no, I'm too humble to be interested in that. The fact is, God has raised you up. As Christians in the world, as a congregation in this community, God has raised you up to give Him glory as you show yourself in the world to be a people of faith and love and hope. Turning and serving and waiting. Reputation. Now, it's certainly the case that things have changed. Since Paul's day, our cultural situation here in the Washington, D. C. area in 2014, it is so very different. From the situation in first century Greece. In those days, in that place, Paul was going around preaching an unheard-of message, a dangerous message. And the people that, or the fact that people were believing that message meant that the world was being turned upside down. It was strange. It was scary. That's the way it was then. Well, it's not quite that way now. In these days, in this place, culturally speaking, there's nothing surprising or unheard of about the existence of a Christian church. So it's not like you're going to have a business traveler pass through Laurel and then go home and say, you're not going to believe this. There's a Christian church in Laurel, Maryland. So things have changed. This whole idea of reputation, it's not going to look the same in these days, in this place, as what we're seeing here in 1 Thessalonians. But brothers and sisters, in principle, it's still true. It's still the case that people in our lives get to know us as Christians. It's still the case that people get to know a little bit about Christ's Reformed Presbyterian Church when they visit, especially if they visit and stay for a while. Wouldn't it be great if the impression that they came away with, having spent some time with you, is faith and love and hope? Faith. Those people really believe what they say they believe. And love. There's love there in that body. You can see it in the way they treat one another, in the way they treated me. And hope. Those people are waiting for Jesus to come back because it keeps coming up in their worship and in their conversations and in their prayers. Wouldn't it be great If that were the impression that you made. Imagine that somebody comes to be a part of your congregation for a year or so, maybe a military transfer. Maybe a college student, maybe a visitor from another country. Think about it. When they go home, imagine they're being interrogated by family and friends after having been away for a year or so. And they say, yeah, in your email, you kept mentioning this church you were going to. What was that all about? What was that like? What were they like? What would you want the answer to be? What do you want the reputation of this church to be? Wouldn't it be great if the answer were faith and love and hope? Turning and serving and waiting. By the grace of God, you can do this. You can be such a people as that. You can be a people who are watching and being watched. For the glory of God. May it be so. Let's pray together. Our Father, we do rejoice in and rely upon your grace. We need your grace to be at work if we're to be such a people as this. We pray that the principle of imitation would be alive and well among us, that we would have our eyes open. Following the lead of those who are following Christ, giving one another good things to see. And may it be so, then, that we earn such a reputation as that. May we be known in the world as a people of faith and love and hope to the praise of your glory, and we ask it in Jesus' name. I'm there.