Good morning, everyone. And thank you, Elder Elder Hall, for that wonderful introduction and being us in worship unto our living God this morning. Um As we began the service, yes, God is not limited to time for He is omnipresent, okay, even over time. But at the same time I do need to apologize and say it's because of my misleading of the f of the footstep that heavy. clearly given to me, almost like Moses wandering in the desert to a degree that uh I got here late. So again, my apologies, but at the same time, thank you so very much for the graciousness of the uh Christ Reform Church to have me and our family here with you today. It is our pleasure and honor to be with you. The word of God for today is from Romans chapter 12. And on your bullet is this indicated from verse uh 17 and following. But I like to kind of set the stage by reading few previous verses to us so actually I like to read from verse nine I'm following okay Romans chapter twelve Verse nine through twenty-one is what we will be reading. My brothers and sisters. Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil. Cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in love. Honor one another above yourselves. Never be lacking in zeal, but keep your spiritual fervor serving the Lord. Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. Share with the Lord's people who are in need. Practice Hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Mourn with those who mourn. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited. Do not repay anyone for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everyone. If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. Do not take revenge, my dear friends. But leave room for God's wrath, for it is written, It is mine to avenge, I will repay, says the Lord. On the contrary, If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. And in doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please join me in prayer at this time. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for this blessed day. That as your beloved children were able to gather to simply worship you. May our worship be a worship of sweet fragrance unto your holy senses. And likewise, according to your good pleasure, as you receive our worship, may none of us leave this place empty-hearted. but rather in your pleasure that you will bless every single one of us. That's we are blessed of you, that we will be a source of your great blessings to the world at large. With the truth of your word before us, help us to understand it. May the truth of your word take root upon our hearts. That as we go forth, that we will be able to bear fruit for your glory, your kingdom, thirty, sixty, and hundredfold. And these things we pray in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Based on today's text, I've entitled Today's Message, Walking in the Footsteps of Giants of Faith, particularly Joseph of the Old Testament, and simply took copy. uh took a took a verse out of the Bible and simply said, overcoming evil with good Now before we go on, I don't want to insult anybody per se. So I need to ask, do we have a poet or a future poet? in the house today. Anybody who consider themselves a poet, poet major, study poetry, yes, no? I no, no, okay, no? Okay, so then by me going forward I won't be insulting anybody per se. And I agree I say this because Last night, my family and I had the pleasure of attending the Montgomery County Honors Band Concert. And praise be to God, my son was part of that. And the gift of music that he has is not from me. Zero talent in my side of the house, but abundance of talent in my wife's side of the house. She's actually a you know, accomplished musician, she's a vocalist, she sings for the opera in different places that we've been so far. So so um so I thank God for her in my life. Matter of fact I didn't want to talk about this, but since I'm begun I'm gonna go with it anyway. When we were dating many, many years ago, you know, well the first thing she did was, you know, she sat down in front of the piano and up to that point I was thinking Is this a right girl for me? I'm not hundred percent sure. And looking back, I'm thinking, do, what were you thinking? But um Is She sat down in front of the piano and then she began to play. And I've heard other people play piano before. I said, okay, that's pretty good. And then she began to sing in this angelic voice. It's just like, oh my goodness, it literally captivated my heart to the nth degree to which point I said okay God I got it she is mine okay she is mine thank you very much and uh everything worked that well But going back to um going back to last night, again, zero music talent in my heart, in me. And and the uh you know the um uh the orchestra team was up there and they were uh playing this amazing set of music I've never heard before and really captured my heart. Now as I was listening, I was not sitting with my wife or my kids towards the front, but I was sitting towards the back. So I was just sitting there and uh listening and say, oh that's really good. I need to talk to my wife about this after the service after the concert is over. So the concert was over, we got into our car, and then first thing she said was, that was not the entire event. So A small portion of the event, the orchestra event, the kids were awesome, but the conductor Okay? Oh who chose the song was not how would I say from my untrained years I thought it was good, but from her trained year it was like much to be desired. So she will say, you know, he should have done this and he should have done this and he should have done this and whatnot. And I'm there thinking, hmm And here I'm uh I was planning to tell her how good that portion was and yet coming from her just like oh I better be quiet, don't say anything about it So um going back to today's message, there's a s there's a poem that I'd like to share with all of you, but I just want to make sure that we do not have a poet in the room because I don't want to you know I don't want to insult your wisdom, your knowledge. Okay. Alright, so the poetry is a very famous one. It's called the um Road Not Taken. Okay, by Robert Frost. Now before I try to read this, anybody again, last call. Anybody would like to anybody would like to read this on my behalf? No? No? Okay. Alright, here we go. By Robert Frost. Road not taken. Two roads diverged in a yellow wood. And sorry, I could not travel both. And be one traveler, long I stood. I looked down one as far as I could see to where it bent in the undergrowth. Then took the other as just as fair, and having perhaps the better claim, because it was grassy and wanted where, though as far that the passing there Have warned them really about the same. And both that morning equally lay, in leaves no step had trodden back. Oh, I kept the first for another day, yet knowing how ways lead onto way, I doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sigh. Somewhere ages and ages hence, two robes diverged in a wood, and I I took the one less travel by, and that has made all the difference. I'm not here to expound the poem. Okay? I'm here to share with you the Word of God. But a quick thought from this. Is that took the less traveled road and made all the difference. Almost like what the Lord Jesus Christ had to say in reference. to the wide gate versus the narrow gate in his amazing message in the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew chapter 7, verse 13 and 14, where he talks about the fact that there's a wide world, wide gate, and a narrow gate. The people of the world Take the wide gate, and many will go. But the kingdom of God is a narrow gate A narrow gate where few will go, but upon entering, as the rest of his message is, is where you will find God. So with that said, I'd like to share with all of you the truth of today's word. And the bottom line to today's word. It's for us to number one follow the greatest commandment that has been given to all of God's children, namely to what? To love God. And as an evidence of your love for God, to love one another. For the word of God also tells us, how can you say you love God, whom you can't see? When with your actions, you can't love one another whom you can see. So our acts of love for one another in our faith in God is actually the evidence of your love. For God as well. And along that line, how do we love God? What are the evidence of our love for one another? Galatians chapter 5 makes it very clear to manifest what is called a fruit of the Holy Spirit Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, and self-control. For it goes on to say, against these things there is no law. Amen. Amen. So with that, let's go back to Romans chapter 12, verse 9 through 21, particularly 17 through 21, which is the core of today's text. May the truth of your word lead us to a path less taken by the people of the world That the truth of God's word will guide us in the path of God's loving grace, that all of us will continue to be the model of God's love to one another. Looking at today's text, it simply goes on to say in verse 17, do not repay anyone evil for evil. Verse 19 goes on to say, do not take revenge, my dear friends, but leave room for God's wrath, for it is written, it is mine to avenge. I will repay. And then he goes on to say, in the contrary, do this instead. And the reason why I do this instead is there, according to Apostle Paul, is because it is within our nature to do exactly that. To take revenge, to take vengeance, and ultimately not trusting God. It says, if your enemy is what? Hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink And in doing this, you will heap burning coals on their head. And these are verses straight out of the Old Testament as well. As a matter of fact, Deuteronomy chapter 32, 35, it says. God says, it is mine to avenge. I will repay. In due time, their foot will slip. Their days of disaster is near, and their doom rushes upon them. God says, I've got you. You are mine. You are mine. You don't have to take justice into your own hands. I got it. And goes on to say in Proverbs chapter 25, if your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink. Because in doing this, as we have already read in chapter 12, you will heap burning coals on his head, and the Lord will reward you. My brothers and sisters, in our respective journey of life, we will come across many circumstances. And we will encounter many people who may rub us in a negative way. And the funny thing about this is that these people who may rub us in a negative way to whom we are able to reply in either kind or in a different way. Are not strangers per se, are not people whom you don't know, but more often than not, they're people who are seated right next to you. People who rub you in the most difficult way, believe it or not, are those whom you love the most. And the reason why they love you in the most difficult way is because of that very fact you love them and they love you. I'm still a newbie, but I've been my magic finale. We just celebrated our 17th anniversary as of yesterday, matter of fact. Okay. Hey round of applause. Yay. Good job. Okay. Still very much amused. And and uh my parents have so are going to be celebrating uh you know their their um But Diamond Anniversary, you know, not too long from now. So they've been around with each other for a long time, and I'm sure that there are many of you here who've been with each other for a very long time And blessings to our families. Blessings to your spouses. But with that said, my wife and I, even though we've been married for 17 years, and I'm sure the same goes for all of you here. There are those encounters where frictions just kinda happen, right? Frictions based upon I don't know, your socks being all over the place, gentlemen. Your clothes not being hung, but rather just kind of being all over the couch in the houses. Um I've been married seventeen years and I still can't break the habit. Okay. I try to. But the point is, is that My wife and I, in our love for each other, try to do things that are better for one another But in so doing as we try to correct each other, we just kind of rub one another in a difficult way In a way that's not pleasing to our heart. In ways that just kind of makes me upset, that makes her upset Now I'm sure the same thing can be said about all of you, not only in the context of spouse, but as parents to your children. Not only in the context of your immediate family. but also in the context of those whom you encounter every day, your co-workers, your neighbors. Whomever they may be, I know that by virtue of the fact that you are a person. imperfect in different ways. That we are people who are not perfect by any means, that we rub one another in a very difficult way. At which point, what do we do? Do we grind our teeth and try to get back at them in the worst possible manner? Or as the Word of God says? That we give it all to God and still manifest and still shower love upon them. Word of God in Psalm chapter fifty-five, verse twenty-two, simply says. Cast your cares to the Lord and God will sustain you. He will never let the righteous fall. Let me say that again. Cast your cares to the Lord and God will sustain you. He will never let the righteous fall. To which many of you are probably thinking, Chaplain, you're new to this church. I've never met you before, Pastor. But you know what? If you knew me, you will say. I am not a righteous person. Because all of us have our faults. Through which I say to you, members of Christ's Reformed Church. I'm here at the pulpit sharing the word of God. But if you knew me, like my parent like my uh family knows me. then you will say, boy, that pastor, he's not a righteous person either. In other words, we're all in the same category. Matter of fact, we look at the Bible in the Old Testament to start with Adam and Eve, created perfect, and yet They fell. They turned from God. They committed sin to which all of us have been ascribed with what's called the original sin. The capacity to commit sin. History goes on. Get to Noah. And of all the people up to that point, it was only Noah in his family to which God said, oh boy, this breaks my heart, but I gotta do this. And he floods the entire world, saving only but Noah, Noah and the Ark. We know the story Story goes on. We arrived at Abraham. Now Abraham, he was a special man at that for all the major faith, okay, the the major monot mono monotheistic faith of the world Christian faith, a Jewish faith, and the Islamic faith, the Muslims, even they described Abraham as being the father of their faith. Abraham looking at Genesis chapter 11, God calls him. And in calling him, God told Abraham, Abraham, I want you to go to a place I will show you. It's a place that you do not know. It's a place that they don't know you. But guess what? Wherever you go, as you go to a place I'll She sends you, you will be blessed. If there anybody who persecute you, I will stand on your behalf against them. If anybody blesses you in return, then likewise I will bless them. Abraham through you the whole world will be blessed. So with that promise given to Abraham, Abraham begins on his journey with his wife. With a promise of a son yet to have received, he goes on his journey. And in going on his journey, he commits some heinous acts of evil. Evil not necessarily against somebody outside of his circle of love, but evil against his own wife, my brothers and sisters. Now I don't know about you, but there are some sins in this world that Is almost, I would even say, unforgivable sin towards each other. You know There's a lot that I can do to my wife, but there's if I had done this to my wife, I know that we'll be standing before a judge in the divorce court. And that is to sacrifice my wife, to give her up into the arms of another man for the purpose of saving my own height. We look at the Bible and Abraham, you know, arriving at uh in Egypt. was afraid, was afraid of the people of Egypt, of the culture of Egypt And therefore he devised up a plan. He said to his wife, Sarah, you're so beautiful. And because of your beauty, I'm afraid. that they may steal you from me, and in the process they may kill me. Therefore, to protect me Let's pretend that you are my sister and let's tell everybody that you're my sister. In other words Abraham was willing to give up his wife for the purpose of saving his own life. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know about you. There's a lot, a lot of mistakes that we men can do. There are a lot of things that we can, you know, uh we uh we can do to to hurt the feelings of our spouses. But to dishonor our own spouse is probably the gravest sin that a man can make. And yet here say Abraham, called by God, personal faith, and yet was willing to sacrifice his own wife into the arms of another man. For the purpose of saving his own hide. Thankfully, God prevents that from happening. And if he prevents that from happening God calls upon Abraham. And we arrive at Genesis chapter 15, verse 6. And it simply says. Abraham believed in God and was declared righteous Abraham believed in God. All the promises that God had in store for him The promise of future salvation, not only for himself, for all of his descendants. And Abraham believed in God and was declared righteous. My brothers and sisters. Psalm 55, it says, cast your cares to the Lord, and God will sustain you. He will never let the righteous fall. Who are the righteous? Not those of us who are able to live our lives perfectly, for none of us can. And because none of us can, is the reason why God sent his son, our Lord Jesus Christ, that through his blood upon the cross, through the through the blood that he has spilled, that our sins are forgiven. So only Jesus is righteous based upon his merits. How about us? None of us are righteous based upon our merits But we are declared righteous because of our faith. Isn't that what the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 2? For all have been saved by faith and faith alone, not by works, that none may boast of our own works. My brothers and sisters, The righteous are those of us who have faith in God. The fact that we are here worshiping our God today is an indication of your righteous state of heart. We look at Genesis chapter 37 through 50. And as the story of Abraham goes, Abraham has son Isaac. Isaac has two sons, Jacob and Esau. And then Jacob ultimately has twelve children of one is Joseph. Joseph, recognized as as a Joseph with code of what Many colors, right? Many colors. Okay. Joseph was a favored son of God. A favored son of, I'm sorry, of Jacob. And favored by God as well. For Joseph, when he was young, before he came into the scene, he was given a special dream Dream where his brothers one day will bow down before him. Dream where even his parents one day would bow down before him. Now in the cultural context it's unspoken of. How can that even be possible? That your own parents will bow down before you, that your own older brothers will bow down before you. That was the promise given to Joseph. But in order for that to become realized, Joseph was betrayed by his brothers. Joseph was favored by his father, and his brothers were jealous of that fact. And in their jealousy, they saw Joseph alone one day. as an as an errand to their uh to them and they decide to play a little trick on him and in playing a trick they dug a hole and threw Joseph in there and they began to bully him and egg him and just say, Joseph, you are the favorite. How dare you? How dare you? You're such a dreamer. How can you say that we're going to bow down before you? Are we bowing down before you now? And they had a field day with Joseph. Joseph probably asked for, brothers, what are you guys doing? Help me out, help me out. Don't do this to me. If you keep on doing this, I'm gonna go and tell on daddy. And maybe that was a straw that broke the camel's back. I don't know whether it happened or not, but I'm I'm just kind of imagining that may have happened. I'm gonna tell on you. At which point they say, oh my goodness, if we let him go, what's gonna happen? He is gonna go and tell. And as a result, what's gonna happen? Our dad's gonna have his way with us We're going to be stripped of our inheritance, maybe. That's going to be angry at us, and we're going to never hear the end of this. So they decided, you know what? Let's kill him. But then They knew that killing him was the ultimate act of of of of of you know of of sin against God and and their father and therefore instead of killing him they decided to sell him off as a slave So they sold Joseph off as a slave and in the process they were able to pocket themselves a little bit of profit, a little bit of money And they said, hey, let's go tell dad that he was killed. But he's not really killed. Remember, he's out of our ears now, he's out of our A. O. That he's he's away as a slave. So we don't have to worry about him going forward. So they were thinking, okay, this is good. And here's Joseph. Innocent. Innocent other than maybe Based upon his dad's action that he was a favorite child and because of that there is a sibling robbery that was taking place. But the bottom line is Joseph was still innocent of the circumstance that he was in. At which point he had a decision to make. Like Robert Frost's role not taken. He could have either said, God and rebuilding against God said, God, you said You said that my brothers were going to bow down before me one day, that you were going to bless me, and yet here I am as a slave. Maybe Maybe God, you're not real. And he could have went with the mindset of the world. Or he could have maintained his faith in God. God, I still trust in you. I cast my burdens unto you. I would know that you will never let the righteous be shaken. So he had an option to which he took the road less traveled. And in so doing, he arrives in Egypt. In arriving in Egypt as a slave, he was he was uh purchased by a um By a captain of the guards, and in so doing, he tried his best. And he did his best serving his master and he excelled in the household to a point. Where he was put in charge over everything of the master's household. In other words, he rose in his status. And as he rose in his status, the lady of the house caught sight of him and decided, hmm, he's a young, handsome man. I wonder. And she began to seduce him. And in trying to seduce him, here's Joseph. Young men had the option to either succumb to her wishes. And not nobody knowing about it, and therefore could have had his life easy for the rest of his life. Or continue to live his life in a godly way and say this is not right. Joseph as he came to this crossroad of either looking at an easy life Or still her life chose God's life and simply said, ma'am This is an abomination against God and your husband. I can't do this. So he ran away. As he ran away, She, having been, you know, having been denied of her wishes by the servant, simply said, went and told a lie. And in telling a lie, her husband believed in her. I mean, gentlemen, if your what comes to you and can tell you something that happened to them, are you gonna believe them or not, you're absolutely gonna believe So as a result, Joseph was thrown in prison. And being thrown in prison, here's Joseph once again asking himself, God, I trusted in you. I did everything that I'm supposed to do, and yet the net result is I'm thrown here in prison. I'm at a crossroad. What am I supposed to do? Continue to trust in you? Or maybe rethink this altogether? Joseph decided to trust in God. And in trusting in God, the word of God tells us that he was imprisoned. And even in prison, he did his best and he rose in status. And in rising in status, he was able to interact with the other prisoners. There came a time many years later. When the um the feral's um cook or chef or breadmaker and a wine taster was in prison with him. And both of them had a very similar type of dream. Type of dream where where something about three births or three baskets or three vines and something happening. And they were troubled by their respective dreams. So Joseph saw that and said, hey, what's going on? What's wrong with you? I see that your demeanor is a little bit off today. Anything that I can help with. To which point the uh wine taster. Now wine taster is not just a wine taster. To be a wine taster in the king's court meant that you're actually a bodyguard. Because you are the first person that you're the last person between the king and somebody who wants to take down the king with impossible poison, poisonous drink. And this wine taster simply said, you know, I had this dream where where you know uh the vines, the wine that he had made Out of three bunches was pressed into a wine and it was served to the king. To which Joseph said, You know what? In three days' time, you're going to be restored to your position. And when you do, please don't forget about me. Do not forget about me. The other guy Joseph says, sorry, dude. In three days' time, you're going to be executed. Bad news. Okay? So, when you tell somebody, hey, please don't forget about me, what inevitably happens. They're gonna forget about you. It's almost like as a father to our children. Hey son, hey daughter, especially when they were younger. Don't do it. Inevitably what's gonna happen. They're gonna do it, right? So Joseph told his guy, hey, please don't forget about me. And inevitably, as he was restored to his position, he forgot about him. And that's a good thing. That's a good thing because What happened was that if the wine taser went to the king and simply said Sir, by the way, I had this amaz thank you for restoring my position. Number two, I had this amazing encounter with this prisoner. I had this dream. He told me the interpretation of the dream, and it all came true. To which the fair would have said, interesting story. Tell you what. Don't you ever mess up again. Go back. Do your job. Otherwise, you're going to be thrown in prison again. And then he will have forgotten about them altogether anyway. Nothing would have came came out of them. But many years later When Pharaoh had a dream, dream about seven fat cows and seven skinny cows, dream about seven healthy bundle of wheats and seven healthy uh head of wheats and seven scrawny looking uh head of wheats. Basically, the pharaoh was trouble. He knew it meant something, but he didn't know what it meant. At which point he put out a gravy war, anybody who can interpret the stream, reward will be given to you At which point, guess what? Everybody has personal agenda. Okay? Everybody is looking out for themselves. At which point, the wine taster simply realized, you know what? Yeah. I remember, if I tell the Pharaoh those story that I had, then maybe Pharaoh will reward me for it. So he told Pharaoh, sir, when I was in prison, when Pharaoh needed to hear the story, He told Pharaoh what happened. And in telling the story, Pharaoh said, immediately, bring Joseph to me. Bring him to me. Joseph comes. Now Joseph may be working in the captain's house as a as a servant for many years in the past. Realize that when you brief somebody, you always come with a recommendation. When you tell somebody, hey, this is what it means, you don't just leave it there, but you give a recommendation That's one part that I learned as an army chaplain for the past 13 years is that when you brief to your commander, you tell them, therefore, this is what I recommend. And that's exactly what Joseph did. Sir, the dream that you have means that you're going to have seven years of plenty followed by seven years of famine. Therefore, it is my recommendation that you build up storehouses for so that during the seven years of plenty your storehouse could be filled to the brim so that when seven years of planting famine hits that you can't open up those storehouses, feed your people, sell to the neighboring country, and that you can be recognized the the the amazing king, the rock and roll king. that you are. To which the Pharaoh said, you know, that sounds really good, Joseph. Tell you what, who is wiser than you? I'm gonna immediately now put you as my second in command. That none as of this moment It's greater than you that you will be in charge over everything here. Oh my goodness. Talk about rags to riches stories. Joseph was it. Joseph, as he trusted in God, was now placed in a position where he had authority. He had power over many things. around him. He was a prisoner one day and now he is second in command. He was a servant many years ago and now he is second in command over the greatest nation at that time. Seven years of famine hits. And lo and behold, what happens? Joseph's brother. Comes to Egypt looking for food. As Joseph's brother came to Egypt looking for food, Joseph immediately recognized them. Those are my brothers. Oh my goodness. What am I supposed to do? His brothers on the other hand, in their wildest imagination, never would have thought that that would be Joseph. acting like a king of Egypt. They may have thought, hopefully he's alive. Hopefully he's doing well for himself in somebody's house as a servant. But no, that's Joseph, and they had no idea. Joseph decides to test his brothers to see whether they will chair, whether they become better people. They pass the test. At which point Joseph reveals his identity. Brothers, it is I. It is I, your brother Joseph. At which point, as if they've seen a ghost, they literally melted away, looking for a place to hide. Oh my goodness, this is Joseph. He's going to have our hide. He's going to kill us. He can do anything. And here is Joseph. Remember, this is Joseph whom we sold off as a slave. Remember, this is Joseph whom we have bullied. Remember, this is Joseph, whom we hated. This is Joseph whom he wanted to kill. What is he going to do to us? At which point, Joseph simply says these words. Words resonating from Romans chapter 12. Brothers, don't worry, don't worry. What you have meant for evil God has meant for good. He sent me here ahead of you so that our people can be saved. And the story goes on. They reunite. Joseph reunites with his father. They live in Egypt for many years. The population growth, and then 400 years later, Moses comes into the scene. Okay? That's the story of Genesis chapter 37 through 50. My brothers and sisters, I share this story with you to simply resonate the thoughts and the words of Joseph to his brothers, the words that we need to share with one another. It's okay. What you may have meant for evil, God has meant for good. What you may have meant for evil against me in our relationship, personally, professionally, culturally, among our neighbors, it's okay. God has meant for good. Because God in his promise to his children, Isaiah chapter 41 simply says I am the Lord. It simply says, I'm sorry, it says, do not fear, for I am with you Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you. I will oppose you with my righteous hand. For I am the Lord your God who takes hold of your right hand and says to you, Do not be afraid. I will help you. We know that God is omnipresent, which means God is everywhere. Yes, He is. And therefore He is right there next to you. But in the image of this verse, I will take hold of your right hand means that yes, God is everywhere, but you know what more importantly, God is right there next to you. Even in a close proximity, I cannot. I cannot touch your right hand. I cannot touch your right hand. My children are back there and I cannot touch their right hand. It's only when I am right there next to them. next to you that I can shake your right hand. And in the same way, God is saying, I am right there with you. And along the line Jeremiah chapter 29, God says, I have a plan for you. He said, for I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper you. not to harm you plans to give you hope and a future. My brothers and sisters To which we can say, therefore, even in the context of difficult relationships that we may have, If God is for me, then what? Who or what can be against me? Amen. So then what are we to do? What are we to do when we are in a difficult relationship, whether it be in a sibling rivalry relationship like Joseph and his brothers? What are we supposed to do when we are in a difficult relationship like like um uh Abraham and Sarah I'm sure had their bickering moments. What are we supposed to do when we are in a difficult relationship? professionally with our coworkers. Even in the context of a given church like this, where, yeah, sometimes we rub each other in the wrong way, where things could get kind of heated and difficult. What are we to do? Philippians chapter 4 verse verses 4 and following simply says this. Philippians chapter four says, and therefore, in the context of difficult relationship In the context of difficult circumstance, simply says this. Do not be anxious about anything, but rather in everything with prayer. petition and thanksgiving. Present your request to God. And the God of peace who transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Because there's a promise that he has given to us. Promise of Romans 8. 28. But even especially in the midst of difficult circumstances, difficult relationships, difficult situations that all of us will inevitably Be in Romans eight twenty-eight simply says, and we know that all things All things work together for the good of his children, who loves God, who are called according to God's good purpose. My brothers and sisters, how do we overcome evil with good? Evil Relationally, where somebody may have it out against us personally. Whether it be even in the context of the family where it was done. you know, mistakenly. Whether it's done professionally in the context of your workplace where somebody has it out against you, what do we do? I think the Word of God makes it very clear to us today that we trust in God because God is greater than any circumstances that we might be in. That we trust in God for the well-being of one another. That we trust in God For those who may have it out against us. And we overcome that evil with good. As Proverbs chapter 25 says in closing. If somebody is against you, okay. Do something that's better for them. If somebody is out to get you, shower them with love. If somebody is out to hate you, Not reply in kind, but love them more. For that is the road less traveled. And in traveling that road, World of God says, you will encounter God. And in encountering God, you will be blessed And as you are blessed, that you will be a source of God's great blessings unto all others. Amen.