Well, this morning we find ourselves in the closing three verses of the book of Malachi. Which of course ends up being the last three verses of the Old Testament. And what follows historically is about a 400-year period where God is silent. What I mean by silent is that in that time period, God does not send any new prophets and consequently reveals nothing new to his people. Now, this is not the first time that the Lord was silent. In fact, the last time it happened was at the end of Joseph's life We don't see that time period recorded for us at the end of Genesis or at the beginning of Exodus, but it's revealed to Abraham as God is speaking to him. If you'll recall in Genesis chapter 15 and verse 13, God says, the Lord said to Abram, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners. In the land that is not theirs, and will be servants there, making reference to Egypt. And they will be afflicted, and there it is, for 400 years. That was the time period between when that Joseph left, actually was in Egypt and his family, until we pick up the story in the time of Moses. Now we we should be cautious not to make any unwarranted connections between these, from our perspective, very lengthy periods of time, other than that it had happened before Malachi's time. It will happen immediately after Malachi's ministry. And in fact, we happen to be living in one right now. But a major difference is that because of the completed crosswork of our Lord and the completion of the canon, God has given us all that we need. in faith and life, for what he wants us to know, and for what is also to come in the future. Malachi was written at a time when God had already orchestrated the return of his people from the oppression experienced in exile. They had been expelled from Jerusalem for their many offenses against God, of which idolatry was chief amongst them. Seven years had passed when they returned from exile. The older generation that had gone into exile and captivity had mostly died out in the 70 years. The ones that were born and raised in Jerusalem were few and possessed only childhood memories. There's a parallel that I'd like to point out, and maybe you've already seen. When the Exodus generation The generation that was delivered from Egypt by God's prophet Moses was not allowed to enter the land. Why? Because of their lack of faith in God. God directed Moses to take them into the wilderness, the desert, long enough for that wicked generation to pass on. They would not enter into the land. Their children would. Something similar has happened here, hasn't it? It's interesting to note that when God's covenant people or God's covenant community returned from exile, They began to work on rebuilding the temple. However, this generation was not conceived in the land But rather they were conceived in the wilderness, the desert of exile, just like the Isodus generation, the one that was led by Joshua. Perhaps as you survey the history of God's people, you may be tempted to think that finally Here it is. Here they are. They started the rebuilding project. They're gonna get it right. God has brought them out of exile again. What as God describes in the book of Exodus, as his son Israel, has been resurrected from the dead from Babylon Even after the ministries of Ezra, Nehemiah, Haggai, and Zechariah. The building of not only the temple, but the walls of the city. Surely they will obey now, won't they? The book of Malachi tells us that immediately they fall into their old ways, hasn't it? They do not honor God. They cheat and rob God by not making the proper tithes and offerings. The priests, the Levites, were lax in their duties They marry foreign wives and fall into idolatry. They claim that God approves of dishonest activity. And finally they ask. Why should they obey God's laws when everyone around them doesn't? Those that followed God may have thought. I'm the only one. I'm the one who is playing the fool. God simply Doesn't care. I think sometimes when we're focused on our situation, we think that way also, don't we? However difficult the circumstances. God's remnant people endure in every generation. You may recall how Elijah was depressed, for he thought he was the only believer left. But God told him that he has a remnant of 11,000 strong that God has chosen and preserved. This is also the case today. There are many people today in this city, in this country, in this continent, and even in the world, who are called and preserved by our King the Lord Jesus. Jesus. God called Elijah to get up, eat, because he had work for him to do. Sometimes when we think that we're alone, we need to be reminded that we are not. We need to get up. We need to eat. And we need to get to work for the kingdom of God. Is at hand. By way of introduction, the last three verses of Malachi provide an encouragement to continue to follow God. And to look forward to the coming day of judgment. Yes, to look forward to the coming day of judgment This encouragement applies as much for the 20th century believer as it did in Malachi's time. Now, if you haven't already turned your Bibles to our passage this morning, I'd like you to do so. It is from Malachi chapter 4, verses 4 through 6. Would you please rise now for the reading of God's inerrant and infallible holy word? Hear now the word of God. Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and the rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and as you do. Would you please join me in prayer? The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Holy Spirit, your words are true and everlasting. They speak life into our souls and fill us with relief, joy, and produce thanksgiving and worship from our hearts. Teach us to place our hopes in what is eternal. Open our minds to the truth so that we may live in it and in it properly worship and enjoy our great God. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Now you may be wondering if you just heard it, why Mount Horeb is referred to as the location where Moses received and gave the commandments. It's because Mount Horeb is an alternative name for Mount Sinai. Just within the previous verses in Malachi, God, having proclaimed that the wicked shall perish and the righteous shall be vindicated. Now, in light of this promise, God now moves to tell his people, That in the meantime, that in the meantime, until he comes, we are to obey his word. We are to obey his command. We must obey his word that he has given to us from Moses, which he had given to us in his revealed word. He does this by saying the following. Remember. Now, to remember in the Old Testament Means much more than to recall or meditate upon a past event. It normally involves or is a call to action Now, we must remember that the law was given to us in the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. It gives us the way in which we should live as members of God's kingdom, as well as the rules that govern the theocracy. the physical nation, and culminating all the way, all that was in the way in which God of Israel was to worship their God. The temple, the priesthood, the taxes that had to be paid, that supported the priests and the Levites, and so forth. So we have three categories In the Mosaic Law. It is one, the moral law, which is the Ten Commandments. The civil laws running the theocratic nation, the state. And the laws of or ceremonial governing the worship uh of Jerusalem, the sacrificial laws God tells them that they should remember the laws. Now, this means that they should obey all of the laws, being that they were living under the uh older covenant. In light of Um of all these concerns and my promises. He said, I want you to trust me and by faith follow me. And then he says, obey my commandments. Now, the need for them to do this is self-evident, isn't it? As the text of Malachi has made it very clear, if you recall. The issues of the inadequacy of the temple sacrifices, the slackness of the priests, the peoples committing adultery by having frivolous divorce cases. Now the question for us, I think, is, how does this apply to us today? Now, as we've pointed out in the past, we are in some ways quite similar To Malachi's generation. How does the law then apply to us in light of the crosswork of our Lord? Let's take a moment to dissect the three categories I previously mentioned and see what applies and in what way they still apply. Now, if you remember, they were the ceremonial, the government or theocratic laws, and then finally the moral laws, which we of course call the Ten Commandments. Let's deal first with the ceremonial laws Because of where we are in the history of redemption, the ceremonial laws were fulfilled by Christ so that they no longer apply. That is to say, that we are no longer to bring animal sacrifice. When we come to worship. And let me tell you, I am so relieved about that. I already have a hard enough time carving one big bird once a year. Can't imagine what it would be to bring and have to take care of many animal sacrifices today. We no longer have the Levites. We no longer have a need. For a physical central temple where we make those sacrifices. The physical temple in Jerusalem was but a foreshadow Of something greater, Jesus himself and the church. That is where God resides, not only among, but within his living spirit. Secondly, the Theocratic Laws. Since the theocracy was ultimately rejected by God, this is related of course to the destruction of the temple in ADC. Those laws are no longer applicable. And the fact that the king is now enthroned and seated in power, ruling in heaven. is a greater kingdom. It is now worldwide kingdom. The kingdom of God, which was inaugurated in the first Advent, will be consummated at the second advent. This is all to say that the governmental laws have ceased. The theocratic laws have ceased Except, of course, as the Westminster Confession of Faith teaches, that we should look to apply the principles whenever applicable and possible. Now, what remains for us is the third, the moral law, the Ten Commandments. The only tweaking is obvious, but the rest is all still applicable to us. And what I mean by that is the fourth commandment. The tweaking is that the Sabbath is moved from the last day of the week to the first day of the week. Now, the book of Acts records this change in the early church gathering for worship on Sundays as the resurrection of Christ was on the first day of the week. Not the last day of the week. Now, briefly, let's ask for what purpose it still applies As was back then and is today. The keeping of the law is not for the purpose of salvation. For those that are saved, it is for the purpose of sanctification. As a part of that, it is for our personal relationship with God. Himself. When we obey, God is pleased. When we disobey, sin, God is displeased. So we as Christians are to remember. Lead lives in accordance with the revealed ethics of the Word of God. That is what we are to do. Remember, not just the memory, but lead to action. Now in verse 5, God gets our attention by saying, Behold, I am going to send you that Elijah, which he mentioned previously, if you recall. Which was that when this Elijah came, it would be the sign that the arrival of the Lord was imminent. And that, of course, would ultimately lead to the day of judgment to commence. Now let's take a moment to ask: who is this Elijah that's being mentioned again? Now much has been written about this Elijah. Is he Elijah the Tishbite? Or is he someone who is in the spirit of Elijah? Now there were various opinions among biblical scholars from the fourth century BC to the time of Jesus as to who exactly this Elijah would be. It is evident in Scripture that some thought that it would be the return of Elijah the Tishvite. Please note the return and not resurrection. Return, not resurrection, because he was the one that was ascended. In John 1:21, the scribe asks John, the scribes ask John, John the baptizer, Are you Elijah? In Matthew 16, 13, and 14, Jesus asks, Who do the people say the Son of Man is? And the disciples replied by telling him, Some say that you are Elijah. The New Testament tells us that indeed this Elijah that's being made referenced to was prophesied about, was none other than John the Baptizer. After being questions about this very passage here in Malachi by his disciples, Jesus tells us that the Elijah that was prophesied about did indeed come. It was John the Baptizer who had come in the spirit of Elijah. We see this in Matthew chapter 17, verses 2. 12 to 14. He says, But I say to you that Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him. But did to him whatever they wished, so also the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands. Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptizer. Now, let us remember that from the days of their fathers, the children turned their hearts away from their God. If there was to be anything tangible that united the hearts of the fathers to that of their sons, it would have to be the revealed word of God and his promises to them. The biblical record shows that the children had and have in every generation turned from the faith of their fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob It will be the task of this Elijah, who we have already established was John the Baptizer, who would by the work of the Holy Spirit call People to turn towards God. The message that He proclaimed 2,000 years ago is a message that has relevance today What was the message of this feisty and fiery prophet? Repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. The axe is already at the root of the tree. This means the time that's running out. And for those that do not turn to God Repent. They will experience a hellfire for an eternity Now, if you haven't already repented, that is turns toward turned towards God by faith and in faith. Allow his message, John the Baptizer's message, to permeate through your very soul. His message has relevance to you today. The day of judgment is still coming, and you must be prepared. And the only way is by repenting and believing upon Jesus. The prophesied Elijah did indeed do his and is doing his job even till today. You see In his very own generation, many people repented from their sins and pursued a life after God because of the coming Messiah. Finally, let's take a look at the mention of the land, which was mentioned in the text. The land was understood in the Old Testament as originally the land of Canaan. But we see with progressive unveiling of God's plan in the light of the Lord Jesus and the New Testament Scriptures, God's elect, those whom God has brought forth, both ethnic Jews and Gentiles, will not inherit the tiny plot of land which was originally the land of Canaan. But instead they will inherit the entire world. Let us look at two parallel passages from the Old Testament and the New Testament, which will clarify for us. This progressive revelation from land to the world First, Exodus chapter 20 and verse 12. It tells us that the promise of the land is for children. Who obey their parents, who live long, and who will live long in the land. The land that the Lord will give them. Mind you, this was given in Sinai. They hadn't received the land yet. This was the giving of the commandments in Exodus. Now, let's remember that the notion of living in the land meant that it was a place that God gave. Brought about, and it was a place where God's people would have all that they would need to survive and to live in security The challenge, of course, was that they needed to live out lives of obedience to his commandments. Another way of saying that is to keep their end of the covenant Now, with the benefit of the New Testament, we see how God has expanded the meaning of the land for his elect. In Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1-3. through three, Paul is encouraging God's people to obey the moral law by quoting the fifth commandment. I'll read that for us. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. He's quoting the Old Testament, right? Honor your father and your mother, so that it may be well with you, and that you may live long in the earth. Not the land, the earth. The promise has been expanded to both Jew and Gentile. The new Israel will have the whole earth, not a tiny little plot of land. This is progressive revelation given to us in Scripture that further clarifies and reveals to us God's plans through time. Now let's consider a second example by looking at the promise to Abraham. If you recall, God promised Abraham the land. Genesis 12:1 Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. He didn't tell him to go there so he can look at it and then come back. He said, I'm going to give this to you. Go Now, in Romans chapter 4 and verse 13, New Testament, referencing the very same promise which was made to Abram, Paul writes the following. For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be the heirs of the world. Not the land, the world, did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. But what does this mean to God's people today? You and I. Does this mean we are going to inherit the world? Are God's people who are to be purified by the blood of Jesus going to inherit this sinful world? Well, what it does mean for us now, before the second advent of Christ, is that the kingdom of God is not limited to a tiny plot of land in the Middle East. It is populated by his people that are located anywhere and everywhere that the Lord Jesus sees fit, whether you are a Jew or a Gentile. But is there more? Does the Bible give us any clear direction to where this land world prophecy will end? Well it does. Let's turn to 2 Peter chapter 3 verses 10 through 14. 2 Peter chapter 3 verses 10 through 14. fourteen. For the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Dropping down to verse thirteen. But according to his promise we are awaiting a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness Dwells. Therefore, beloved, Peter continues, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish and at peace. Even here, what is Peter saying? Remember As a consequence of knowing this, remember. That's what he told the people in Malachi's age, right? Now that I've told you what's going to happen, remember. This passage here in First Peter tells us that in the day of the Lord Does this sound familiar? The heavens and the earth will be destroyed. This time not by water, but by fire. But along with the destruction will be the creation of a new heaven and earth, one in which we as God's elect will inhabit throughout eternity In this new earth, there will be no sin. In this new earth, there will be no more pain. There will be no more migraines. There will be no more back pains. There will be no more arthritis. God will take that away. If you recall from the confession, we mentioned a little while ago, as we read through, this is the time in which we will be in that glorified state. That's the time when we will only be able to obey and unable to sin. It is at that time, finally, that the lion will be able to lie down with the lamb throughout all eternity. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great promises in Scripture For the great hope that we have in you. Grant us the grace that we need so that we are reminded That we are not alone. That you called us then and you call us now to live out lives of holiness. That is what you wish from us. Grant us the strength, the encouragement to do so, knowing that we can't do it without you and your grace. Until that day when the Lord Jesus, when you send the Lord Jesus for the second advent, grant us all that we need to be able to continue to persevere in faith. To honor you, to trust you, and to serve you in the ways that you have called us to do so. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders to please come forward who will be assisting in the distribution of