As you uh may have looked at the bulletin this morning I'm sure you could probably tell from whence uh the quote comes from. Uh indeed, it is from Shakespeare, where in which we have uh from one of his most famous plays, Romeo and Juliet. Or Juliet asks, What's in a name? Would that which we call a rose by any other name smell so sweet? He was, after all, a Montague. She was a capulette, if you recall. They were enemies because their families were feuding. We don't know the reason. It seems as if it had been lost. The reason for that must have been many generations ago They can identify their animosity towards each other solely because of their family names. Had Romeo's last name been Johnston, he would still be the same Romeo. He'd still be the man that Juliet still loved. Hence, he would still smell as sweet. The name of a person certainly is important, is it not? But the substance is what is truly important the character of a person, or simply stated, a person's reputation. I think the scripture has something to say about having a good name because of whose name that it represents. We're going to take a look at that today in our passage. in detail. But first, let's uh see if we can reorient ourselves to the text by recapping what we studied last week as it has relevance for this week's text. James exhorted us, if you recall, to be Patient, especially when we're experiencing an injustice. We are to trust the Lord, because when the Lord returns, we will have justice and be vindicated. The doctrine of providence and a proper response to it, trust in God, produces patience in the life of a Christian Grumbling against one another is a form of sinful speech, when you can't get justice against the wicked who have power and the ability to manipulate the very same system for you to get justice, don't turn on one another and grumble against one another. Or perhaps in your impatience, you may be tempted to take justice into your own hands and be a vigilante. Nor should you consider pursuing worldly wisdom to solve your problems. Instead, James tells us to be patient, like the farmer. He relies on God for the sunshine as well as the rain. He trusts and he waits, and in due time he will get his reward. James finally enlists the prophets for us to consider. They took the long road in the face of certain failure and injustice. They sacrificed and they suffered, trusting in God's long-term vision of redemption and justice. We too should trust God And his long-term plan in our lives as well as our loved ones' lives. We need to trust in God's providence. Look, we don't have the details, do we? We we don't have the timetable, do we? But we know how it ends. Jesus will return. And when he does, we will have justice. And through him Righteousness wins. So in light of this, how are we to live? Well, in the last verse 5. 11 James tells us that the Lord is compassionate and merciful for all those who trust in him, and that trust translates itself into salvation on the last day. But now in verse 12, we have the counterbalance to mercy and compassion. Justice and the condemnation that comes from wickedness and ungodliness, especially for those who claim to be Christians, those that took His name. Please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's inerrant word. It is from James chapter 5 and verse 12. Hear now the word of God. But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your yes be yes, and your no be no. So that you may not fall under condemnation. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And as you do, please join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Indeed, Holy Spirit, we pray that you would be with us now as we continue to study from your word, which you have prepared for us. We pray that you would Open our spiritual eyes and unclog our spiritual ears so that we may have eyes to see and ears to hear your word. And we pray that we would understand it. And we pray that you would help us to apply to our lives so that we may lead lives that reflect the Lord Jesus. so that our Heavenly Father will be glorified. And we ask these things in His name. Amen. They say that all things must come to an end, don't they? Well, I I guess it's true th uh uh for many things. I think from perhaps a good meal to perhaps a wonderful vacation, those things do come to an end at some point, don't they? We are in the last chapter of James, and it is coming to an end. But there seems to be a great deal of disagreement as to where the ending of James begins. Now you may say, what's the big deal about that? And I think that's a fair question. But the reason why it's important to theologians and pastors and any student of the Bible is that by identifying which sentences go with which paragraphs, one can make better sense of, in this case, what James is saying. Verse 12 is a perfect example of this. The New English Translation, for example, has verse 12 as part of the paragraph beginning with verse 7, which is what we started studying last week. Now, you'll notice in your Bibles if you have the English Standard Version that it's standing as an independent sentence aside from the previous paragraph And it's also independent of the one that is coming. The point is that once we make a decision about where it belongs, here in this case, if it belongs with the previous paragraph, Or if it's an independent thought, then we can better understand James's intent and consequently how it applies to our lives. I, for one, believe that it is connected more immediately to the previous paragraph. But for those who argue for this verse as an independent thought, they would say that this is a summary statement or the beginning of his concluding thoughts in his epistle. I think it's easy to see that. What I mean is the beginning of the sentence contains the sentiment of conclusion, doesn't it? It begins with above all else. I think we can agree to the importance of properly taking oaths, which we will get to in just a little bit, but one has to ask the question, why is this so important? Why has James concluded his thought on patience and now moved on to the thing of prime importance above all? Keep your word So I would ask the question, what does keeping your word have to do with his main theme, which started with, above all things, all joy when you undergo trials. I think patience has a lot of relevance when you're being tested, doesn't it? Additionally, He has been an advocate of being a doer of the word and obey the love commandment. Is the prohibition against taking vows the central punch of this letter? As you can see why, I have doubts about it being an independent thought. Now, if you believe that this is part of the previous paragraph, of which I do, It's incumbent upon me and others who believe this to demonstrate why and how this is related. And to that, let us now turn our attention. Let me first come at this by expositing the text itself. Verse 12 begins with but. And in some translations, the Greek word can be translated as and, continued by above all The but, or if you prefer, the and are connecting words to previous thoughts, are they not? Generally The word but is used as a contrastive connecting word. That means one can uh use this word to show contrast. as in on the one hand but on the other. However, it doesn't have to be a contrast of exclusively It can be used as a connector of a better or even higher magnitude, as in this case, but above all. We do this at times when we say things like You know, the regular vanilla ice cream was really good, but the extra creamy was one that was even better. I think that's entirely possible that as he was finishing up his thoughts on worldliness, which is where the section began back in chapter 4, and the importance of patience. to overcome worldliness, perhaps he suddenly remembered he had one more thing to say. As I've mentioned before, not having an eraser or word processing software. He brings us all back by saying, above all else, my brothers. Or just maybe he was saving the best for last. What is this thought? Above all, perhaps suggests that taking vows is more serious sin of speech than is grumbling against one another. Now if you misuse taking an oath It is sinful use of the tongue. This has been one of the three major tests of faith that James provided for us at the end of chapter 1. But what exactly does it mean to take an oath? Here, swearing is not about bad language. But it's about invoking God's name to make what one says more genuine and reliable It is about using God's name to make what one says more genuine and more reliable. Have you ever taken a bath? Have you ever taken a vow in God's name? Is it even proper to ever take vows? What I mean is, is it a sin to take a vow? Ever? Well, let's take a look at these questions one at a time. It is proper to take a vow, and it is proper to take a vow in God's name. Are O's forbidden in Scripture? Well the the truth is no, they're not. We can see this in Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 11, where it says of God As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. When you drop down the verse 18 of the same chapter It says, unto whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest? Well, it was those who were disobedient. So God takes vows. Not only takes oaths, but we see this because he is a covenant-making God who takes oaths. But what about his children? What about his followers, you and I? We see the law did not prohibit taking oaths, but demanded that we be true to them. Leviticus 19, 12 says, You shall not swear by my name falsely. And so profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. And then Deuteronomy 6. 13 tells us, It is the Lord your God, you shall fear. Him shall you serve, and by his name you shall swear. Now it's important that we remember that it is by his name that you shall swear. Because back then people were, um, this is of course in Moses' time, they were making oaths and they were making vows and other things or other gods, small G's names. So God is teaching them, if you're going to make O's, you're going to make them in my name, not in false God's names. In Deuteronomy 10, chapter 20, sorry, chapter 10, verse 20, it says, You shall fear the Lord your God, and here it says it again, you shall serve him and hold fast to him. So and by his name you shall swear. Now taking a bow is serious business because if you invoke the name of God and have no intention of keeping it It is breaking the third commandment. It is taking in the name of the Lord in vain. So what are examples of vows that that we take? Can take? Should take? Well, I can think of a time when we've taken vows together, haven't we? For those of you who were present at my installation, you may recall that I took vows before my presbytery as well as you. And you yourselves took a vow as well. They were vows of commitment and service to one another founded upon love and before God and in the name of God. Perhaps you have taken a vow when you've provided testimony in in a court case. You've taken a vow when you're a witness to tell the truth, right? The whole truth, so help you God, right? One takes vows when one becomes a citizen of our country. One takes vows when one joins the military. When one becomes a minister, when I was ordained, I took separate vows. And of course, When we marry, when we wed, we take vows before God, right? Why do we take vows? Now, now that we've established that they're permitted and some examples of them, let's see exactly why one makes them in the very first place. Sometimes we take vows to reinforce the truth, right? In court case, for example Or to bind us to future courses of action that we've promised to take. We take vows to do those things. I promise to do the following. You know, as in to love you and sickness and in health and so forth, right? Those are things that we're promising that we're going to do in the future But in the end, it's about being believed. And by being believed, we can get all the benefits and the outcomes associated with. being believed. A job, a person being freed, or being imprisoned when you give your testimony. Those are some of the things that are examples of outcomes of being believed. Now, we don't always swear in God's name, do we? There are alternatives, aren't there? I've heard people swearing on their mother's grave, on their children. on even their own lives. Or I've also heard false gods being sworn upon and taken oaths on. Now, as we were reading our text earlier, you may have heard the echo of Jesus' words in this very verse. Perhaps you've noticed that. That's exactly where James got this. It is out of the Lord's teaching almost verbatim The Lord taught on this on the Sermon on the Mount, chapter 5 of Matthew, and verses 34 to 37. I'll read them for us, and you'll see exactly where he got this from. Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not swear falsely, but perform, shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. But I say to you, do not take a note at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. Let what you say simply be your yes be yes, and your no be no. Anything more than that comes from evil. And this passage, Matthew, Jesus is not stating that we should not take oaths, period. He's stating that in the strongest terms that those who follow him must tell the truth. As we've already read, the law requires that if you're going to swear, take an oath. The people of God must take it in his name. What was happening in Jesus' time was that people tended to swear by heaven. you know, as in my mother's grave, or or whatever it might be, or by Jerusalem. And then they would renege on their oath. And when they were confronted, they would state that the oath was not binding because God's name was not invoked. But Jesus is stating that even the mention of heaven does not release one from making an oath and keeping it. for it is his throne. Swearing by the earth does not void the link with God also, for it is his footstool. Psalm ninety-nine five tells us exalt the Lord our God, worship at his footstool, holy is he. And even Jerusalem may also be seen as the footstool of God. Because this is the city which God made his earthly presence felt. The point is that God is in all of his creation, and that you cannot escape. your oaths by using some technicality. You know people like that? Oh, wait a minute. I didn't exactly say that, you know, when you want them to do what they're supposed to do. You did your part, but now they're claiming they don't have to perform their part because they technically didn't commit to it. The Christian's word should be so reliable that he should never have to swear an oath. Jesus' point is not that oaths are evil, but rather the motivation for making them may be Why don't you simply tell the truth and protect the honor of God and the gospel? Think about this. An oath Will not be required of you when you're consistently truthful. A kingdom citizen should be known for their honesty and integrity and thus be trustworthy. Now, let's see how all of this connects together. Making false oaths is one of the worst, perhaps is one of the worst, manifestations of impatience. Think about that Making false oaths is one of the worst manifestations of impatience. Think about it. In order to get the results that you want, to get people to believe you, you would make a vow and invoke God's name. with no intentions of keeping them, just so that you can get people to believe you. Instead of taking the time to build trust, to build relationships, and show them that you are genuinely trustworthy, And you instead invoke the name of God to manipulate people to go along with what you want them to do. I promise, instead of taking the time to do the hard work Or even lie about what you've done in the past, just so that you can get what you want and you would invoke the name of God. This, I think, would be the penultimate definition or implication of impatience when you think about it. Using God's name in a sinful manner for your selfish ambition to get what you want. James wants us to be consistent and faithful in our living out of our lives as Christians. This means not taking shortcuts. Like the world would do. And one of the quickest shortcuts to getting what you want is lying. And one of the most heinous ways of lying is to use the good name of the Lord to get what you want. No, for those who are within the church, those that claim to be Christians, we can live a consistent Christian life which requires patience. Because, as James said in verse 11, he has shown us that he is compassionate and that he is merciful. And that on judgment day he will make all things right. But for those who claim to be Christian, But aren't really trusting in God for all things, they need to consider that if they don't repent, And truly give themselves over to God by faith in Christ alone, they will fall under the eternal condemnation on the day of judgment. You see, their works, in this case, their false oaths, will not justify or vindicate their profession of faith in Jesus. on the last day. Another way James would say this is that they would not be able to show their faith in Christ by their works. For their works on the day of judgment will bear testimony against them. Juliet fakes her death with a potion that she takes, makes her appear as if she's dead for about two days. Friar Lawrence, who married Romeo and Juliet, in secret, sends out a message to Romeo about this plan, but he doesn't get the message. However, he does hear that that Juliet is dead, and he comes back into town after he was banished to go see her. And when he goes into the family crypt, he sees her body laying dead. And so what he does is he takes the poison that he brought with him, and in his despair, he drinks it and dies. Shortly thereafter, Juliet wakes up, and all she sees around her are the dead bodies of family members and skeletons of family members that she was placed within the crypt as well. And then she turns aside and sees Romeo dead beside her What a horrible, horrible thing to wake up to. You know That may be that very may well be your end. If you are trusting in your own works. and deceiving yourself into thinking that you're a believer. When things are not going your way When things are not going on your timetable, are you impatient to wait upon the Lord and trust in his wisdom? Are you taking shortcuts the way that the world does? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we pray for your illumination. We pray for your presence. We pray for your wisdom, and we pray for your discernment in our lives and in the lives of those whom we love. We pray, Heavenly Father, that we may not fall into this very trap of deceiving ourselves into thinking that we are yours. Help us to not be double-minded. Help us to be single-minded in our trust of you. Help us to trust in your providence, in your wisdom, in your goodness, and in your power. in all things in our lives. And that patience would manifest itself naturally Because we know that you are a merciful God and a compassionate God who will make all things right on your own timing. So we pray, Father, that You would be with those that are perhaps here or even joining in and streaming, that if they are not saved. That you would save them this very day. That they would stop trusting in themselves, deceiving themselves, and trusting in Christ and Christ alone for their salvation. And we pray this in Jesus' name.