I think we all know who Shakespeare is. Shakespeare is the first known person to say Beauty is bought by judgment of the eye. However, the phrase, beauty, is in the eyes of the beholder. Was first credited to an Irish novelist. Margaret Wolf Hungerford The idea of the statement is that beauty is subjective, and that different people have different views on what they find attractive. The idea then is that aesthetic judgments are not universal. What we have in our passage this morning is that of competing notions of wisdom. There is worldly wisdom, and then there is godly wisdom. Your definition Will depend upon your relationship to God. So as we get into this passage, you should be thinking about the way you think about the cross. Paul uses the word the cross as shorthand for the crosswork of Christ, or even more simply, the gospel. As well as how God has chosen to reveal Himself. Later on, we will discuss how which side you are on will impact the life that you lead. Please turn your Bibles now to the book of First Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18, is where we will begin reading all the way to the end of the chapter. That's 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Would you please rise now for the reading and the hearing of God's holy word? For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God, for it is written. I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom It pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs, and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. A stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, but to those who are called, both Jew and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For consider your calling, brothers Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, so that as it is written, Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we ask you now that you would be with us and that you would Illumine our minds, our thinking, to see things from God's ways more and more. Help us to see what is foolishness in the mind of the unbeliever as the true wisdom that comes to us from God We pray you, Holy Spirit, would not only help us to understand, but as we see ourselves in it, that If it is not conforming to how we are living our lives, that you would be pleased to work within our souls to grant us the grace that we need. To reflect Christ, who is our wisdom. For your glory and in Jesus' name. Amen. Right off the bat, if you noticed, Paul tells us that worldly way of thinking would call God's wisdom, as is found in the gospel. As folly or foolishness. But at the same time, those that call the cross folly, they are perishing. Now Paul is not saying that the wisdom, excuse me, Paul is not saying that the wisdom of the world will not help you to advance in life. That is advance in your workplace, advance in personal glory, but in the end, it will be worthless to you. This wisdom does not allow you to take anything with you into the afterlife, except of course Only condemnation before the eyes of God. Worldly wisdom will be and is already humiliated. Or another way of saying that is: it is shamed. On the day of judgment. But we are saved by wisdom that comes from the prophetic word. And this wisdom is in contradiction to the world. In the New Testament, we find three tenths for salvation. We who have been saved when we first trusted in Christ by faith We who are being saved, God is working salvation, holiness in us, and we who will be saved, referencing, of course, Judgment Day Now, we and Paul don't have a special insight into who is and isn't saved But I think sometimes it's a lot more easier to identify who isn't. God calls them as those who are perishing. Now, perishing doesn't mean that they cannot be saved or won't be saved, as God can work a work of salvation in them as He did us. For at one time we were also perishing. But the antithesis to those that are perishing are those that are being saved. We moderns view the cross from perhaps a different perspective. We Christians And Western society who have been profoundly and historically impacted by the work of Christ upon the cross But back then, the cross represented rejection, shame, humiliation, defeat Dishonor and punishment. So you see, for a person to accept these things, that is, of what Christ went through, is foolishness. And would find it offensive. For the Jew, to be hung on a cross is a curse. It is outright rejection by God. To follow such a person is just sheer foolishness in the eye of a Jew. For the Gentile, it is defeat. It is not power, it is not glory, it is not dominion, and certainly it is not honor. The cross for them is foolishness and it is offensive. But at the end of verse 18, he equates the cross of Christ as the power of God. Power, meaning that it was God's competency and creativity to conceive of this manner To save those who would believe in him, to reveal himself to us. And then in verse 19, for it is written, he says, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning, I will thwart What Paul is doing here is he's citing, quoting Isaiah chapter 29, and verse 14, which states Therefore, behold, I will again do wonderful things with this people, with wonder upon wonder And the wisdom of their wisdom and their wise men shall perish. And the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden. Now, he's using this text to prove that there is a difference between the wisdom of men and the wisdom of God, as seen in the message of the cross. First, the beginning part of the verse is speaking of a future time when God will amaze people and he will be wonderful. It should not surprise us that Isaiah calls the Messiah wonderful. A wonderful counselor, of course. But if we go up one verse in Isaiah 28, 13, we see that it is mere lip service, those that proclaim to follow him It reads, And the Lord said, Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. Those that follow God must not offer lip service. Say, I am a believer, but inwardly are not obeying or following his word. The Corinthians are more interested in worldly ways of doing things. They are following the cool people. And what the society of their time is defining as what's cool, what's trendy, and hip. And if I knew there's another word for this, I'd be in a lot of trouble. Because I would be following it. Paul is referring to and citing a passage that speaks of a prophecy that has been fulfilled. in their time. Christ and the cross. And so they and we must remember that we must not give lip service to our profession of faith. What I mean is that we can't say that we are Christians to one another and perhaps others outside of our community. When it's not inconvenient, and at the same time not pursue God and his ways. That's giving lip service. Just as they did back then, thinking that following God was foolishness, we in the church must not fall into the trap of wanting outwardly the name of Christ, but at the same time are giving lip service to our faith. So the question for us then is, are we giving lip service? Are you, brothers and sisters, giving lip service to your faith? Let's continue by quoting this verse. He's saying that eschatological judgment has entered into the world. God has through the foolishness of the cross put the wise to shame. Whether they see it or not is irrelevant. But he's quoting these verses, which is making reference to a prophecy in the future. And he's saying, We are there. You are there. Paul is preaching the word of the cross. Some will love it, and some will be offended by it. Paul asks four questions in verse 20 And they confirm what the Old Testament has prophesied. It has fulfilled itself in the work of the cross. Some argue that the questions are an echo from Isaiah chapter 33 and verse 18, which also asks Where, where, where? Where is he who counted? Where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers? The answer there and in verse 20 of our passage this morning requires us to say, nowhere. So the Isaiah passage is speaking of the administrator who is oppressing God's people. It is speaking of a time when their rule is descending The wise of the world will not be found when the Messiah does come. This is an eschatological reference that their wisdom does not come close To that of God's foolishness, quote unquote. Christ has come to put an end to the world's wisdom and usher in God's wisdom The three groups that he mentions there are the learned experts in their fields. Now, the fourth question. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? Well, I think it's teed up, isn't it, for us to answer in the positive. God has made foolish the wisdom of this world. The wisdom of this world is an opposition To God. We see that in 1 John 2, 16, where it reads, For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life. Is not from the Father, but it is from the world. Now that Jesus has come, human wisdom is passing away Just like the world is passing away. So here is something that is very important for us to understand. Paul is not saying that reason is wrong, or that we must not reason. Paul reasons when he writes. God says, come, let us reason. Christians must not peddle an irrational thinking or teaching Christianity is not irrational or illogical. But what is exposed here is that human wisdom uses argumentation and communication. For the purpose of it being self-serving. Human sophistry is only interested in winning the debate, to get what you want. Truth is whatever you define it to be so that you can win the day. It's not making an effort to arrive at the truth for its own sake. For Paul, human wisdom is foolishness. It does not amount to anything of real lasting value. God did not see it fit, verse 21, that in his wisdom he did not see it fit to reveal himself through human reason. We can actually subsume this under natural revelation. But instead, he saw it fit, God did. to reveal himself and the salvation that the Son of God accomplished upon the cross. For those who by faith believe. So, as far as the world sees it, the cross, it's foolishness To believe in Christ. But for those whose eyes have been opened, it is though this So-called foolishness that he has revealed himself, and to what great lengths he has taken to save his elect. It is here where we see that it was God's own plan and design to prevent the wise. Worldly wise from knowing him. You may ask: why would God prevent anyone from coming to know him through wisdom? Now, if you take the time to think about it, there's a great deal of wisdom in God not allowing human wisdom to be the key that unlocks knowing God. Having a relationship with him. When it is the cross, God puts Jew and Gentile Rich and poor, educated and uneducated, all on the same plane. It is a leveled field. If someone figured it out, hypothetically, he could then say what? Look how smart I am. Look how clever I am. I figured it out. God owes me salvation. And you know what? When I get to heaven, and even tens and tens of thousands of years, I will be able to say, I figured it out. Glory be to me. But through the cross A saved person, any saved person, all saved persons are not any better or wiser than anyone else's who has come to God. So those that are wise have no advantage. Since God has made the work of the cross so unworldly. But the wise in the world would say it's foolish. They would find it offensive to believe through death there is a victory. Through death there's victory? How foolish a statement to make To be hung on a cross for a Jew? This is a curse. It's a shame. So instead of revealing himself in human wisdom, God in his wisdom chose a different way to reveal himself. That is in the way to get to have a relationship with him. And here in verse 21, It is in the foolishness of what is preached, the cross of Christ. So then, the pursuit of wisdom for the fallen man is not so much enlightenment or for comprehending and drawing closer. to him. It is for the pursuit of success and superiority. Sure you guys have heard, right? Knowledge is power. Going up to the 20th century and the 21st century. I'm no longer in the first century, right? The more you know. Now I'm going into the cartoons of the 80s, right? TED Talks. The purpose in general is so that you are more what? Successful in what you do. The message of the cross, however, destroys human pretension. The message of the cross destroys human pretension. It fails to make an impression to the wise of the world, both in its presentation and in its substance. For a Jew demands a sign. There is a demand for a miraculous exercise of power that God saves. You know, but there's a problem with that, isn't there? It leaves no room for what? Faith. And it is faith that God requires. The stone of stumbling is a scandal, and in the Greek scandalon, it contradicts everything else. Now we uh have been studying in Sunday school the early church fathers, and I think we're past the second century, but a mention was made, I believe, of Justin Martyr, who was one of the early church fathers, who was an apologist. in the second century, in an effort to win over, to convince Rabbi Trifo by the use of Daniel chapter seven as the Messiah, received the following response from the good rabbi. Sir, these and such like passages of Scripture compel us to await one capital O. One who is great and glorious and takes the everlasting kingdom from the ancient of days as Son of Man But this, your so-called Christ, is without honor and glory, so that he has even fallen into the utmost curse that is in the law of God. For he was crucified. He's making reference to Deuteronomy chapter 20 and 23, which reads Well, I'll get to that in just a second. What Paul is actually saying here is That he is quoting from chapter 8 and verse 14 from Isaiah. He tells us, and this is the proof of it, and he will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense. and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. This very same Messiah is what this is what he will become to those that don't see the wisdom of God, but rather rely upon the wisdom of man. We can see from this response that he's even looking to the law and he is not seeing Christ. So even looking to the law. Does not necessarily and did not necessarily tell people that when Jesus came, that this was the Messiah. In fact, you saw it was turned on its head. They didn't want to have anything to do with him. Now the Greeks seek the wisdom of Plato's academy. The philosopher king. Neither the Jew nor the Gentile can accept this Jesus because he doesn't live up to their expectations. They don't see humility as a key feature of this king. Kings in the world's ways are not humble. They are filled with pride. Look at what I have accomplished Look at my greatness. They sing their praises over and over again. Brothers and sisters, how often do we read Jesus saying, Look at how great I am The Corinthians are being called to be like-minded. They are to take on the mind of Christ. Christ was humble. There are factions in the Corinthian church. Why? Because pride exists. They, Paul, wants them to return to the cross and remind themselves Of who they are and whom they are following, and then imitate him. That is what we must do. We must always remind ourselves of who we are. Who saved us and to be like him by God's grace? When there is pride, there will be conflict It's only a matter of time. It is where there is humility when you will find peace. But those but to those who are called, both Jew and Gentile, we are saved by what? By the foolishness, quote unquote. Of the cross. He reminds them yet again. This is the fourth time that he is using this term. It reminds his readers that their redemption is motivated by mercy and applied by God the Holy Spirit. It is not their work It is not their wisdom. It is the wisdom of God. You see, the gospel is a publicly declared thing. It's a publicly declared truth. But those who don't hear it as a crude and unsophisticated, it is the plan of God revealed to us in the cross. We, however, are not smarter than the Jews or the Gentiles. But something has happened to us that we see Christ. With beauty. We see his death and resurrection as victory, not defeat. And so this begins Paul's teaching in that the church should not be divided. For those that are called Christians, mind you that word, we see Christ as the power of God that brings salvation. And as he closes out this paragraph, he's stating that God at his worst is better than human beings at their best. Of course, it's just rhetoric, right? God is whatever he does is good, but he wants to demonstrate. God is so superior To prove this point that the gospel message itself is not human wisdom Well, he's already pointed out that it is not impressive by worldly standards. The Greeks and the Jews reject it for their own reasons. He will now use the church. The church members in Corinth, who are mostly not impressive themselves, to prove his point. Wow. In order to overcome the pridefulness that is beneath the factionalism, he continues to attack their self aggrandizement by reminding them again. Of the fact that they were called. They did not possess any special knowledge or intellectual acumen to figure out how to get to God. Their salvation from beginning to end. As our salvation is, from beginning to end, is all God. Secondly In verses 18 to 25 was about those that reject the message of the gospel. He now reverses it to those that have accepted it. That's the church in Corinth. And similarly, he demonstrates that very reversal with some of them as those who came from low social class. As the power of the cross. He says this plainly in verse 26. Look at yourselves. In toto. Not many of you are smart, powerful, or born of noble birth. This is what he's saying to them. Yes, he is risking offending them by saying so, especially to a people that placed honor and reputation so highly And in Paul's assessment, this is the risk that he chose to take. It tells us that they were suffering from pridefulness. They saw themselves higher than they should and needed to have that bubble burst. Why? Because it was causing factionalism within the church. And Paul could not entertain that Basically, what he's saying is, y'all weren't the beautiful people. Y'all are not the beautiful people of society. When he says, not many of you were so-and-so, he's saying in effect, y'all, y'all were nobodies. Think he's got their attention? But God, through his calling, gave you the eyes to see. ourselves in relation to who God is, and the ears to hear, so that you may be saved. God confounds those that consider themselves as the smart, the beautiful, and those that possess power. In our society, you know who I'm talking about, don't you? I'm not naming names. The ten most richest people in our society, right? The top influencers of our society The top power couple in America. Ten most intelligent people in academia today The most up-and-coming politician from the so-and-so party, the top ten supermodels in our society. These are all the beautiful people. God saved many among them, the Corinthians. But they were just the opposite. Considered uneducated, unwise, lacking any power, that they now possess the wisdom of God. He begins with a connecting word, for. It means to give consideration to the fact that you are called. You were called. Christian, you have been called Y'all were not so hot in the presence of God. But God called you. God is not impressed by human wisdom, its goals, its aims, the glorifying in the medium in itself, oratory How great a speaker you can possibly be. And so, in order to bring shame, those that consider themselves as the beautiful people The accomplished, those that would see themselves as being owed salvation for what they have accomplished in life, to shame You see, these prideful people, God chose those many who are weak, despised by society, the nobodies. He did this in order to bring those that think themselves as being something to nothing. The nobodies got it, but the intelligentsia of society couldn't get it. Not because they couldn't understand the gospel. Because in their wisdom they surmised it as foolishness. And now it will be to their great shame. When you have proclaimed the gospel to other people, clearly, winsomely There are those that I'm sure that you have seen have just rejected it. Not because they didn't understand it, but because they thought it was foolishness. They were way too wise for something like that. Something had to happen to us. Something has to happen to them in order to see their wisdom as foolishness. And the foolishness of what they think as the gospel as being truly wise. God must call them. And he wants us, those that have come to accept the gospel, to consider the fact that it was God's calling. It was nothing in us that was special. It was God working in us. And if this is so When we take the time to do what the apostle is calling us to do, consider that very reality. It should engender within us. Humility. And when we are filled with humility. That it is not about us. It is about God. Then, as pride begins to evaporate, That should have an undeniable impact upon the unity of the church. Now this should remind us of Deuteronomy 7:7. Just as God chose the folks in Corinth, he did the same in the Israel of the Old Testament. It's no different. Deuteronomy 7, I'll start with 6. This is God speaking about his chosen Israel. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth, it was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord has set his love on you. and chose you. For you are the fewest of all peoples. We as Christians have wisdom. It is a superior wisdom and of great value, of eternal value. Christ is our wisdom. It is his righteousness. It is his sanctification. It is his redemption given to us as a gift. Now we get to verse 29, and we see the transition to his conclusion. So up until now it's been a bunch of fours. So if you have your Bible and you can see them, you can actually circle 4, 4, 4, 4. But in verse 29, Paul says, so that. The signals that we're about to be told by God has chosen to do the things that He has. So that no one may boast. No one may brag. Specifically, that no one may boast when they are in the presence of God. You know, we could do that. We don't have to die for that. Right? Look, God, how great I have been in serving you We can boast before and be in the presence of God. And we can see that all of this is grounded Again, in Scripture. He this time goes to Jeremiah chapter 9 and verse 24. And I'll read that for us. But let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord who practises steadfast love, justice, and righteousness on the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the Lord. So then Let us not boast in Paul. Let us not boast in Apollos. Let us not boast in Cephas. Let us boast in Christ. Why? Because of the word he uses over and over again. Because God called you. Sandwiched between verses 29 and 31. The admonishment to not boast before the Lord is the consistent outworking of God both pre-and post the cross. And because of him, God's calling, you are in Christ, the Corinthian church, the church which includes us. He did not pick us because we are mighty and strong. He did not pick us because we are plenty. He did not pick us because we're so bright. He chose us. And he placed his love upon us. We are considered his treasure Think about that. You and I, brothers and sisters, we are considered God's treasure Christ is our righteousness. He is our sanctification. And achieved redemption. And if you think that Paul has jeopardized his relationship by being blunt about their status in society to prove his point. We see that he includes himself in all of this when he says you and us. Including himself. He considers himself to be no different than they. And now Wisdom, the word wisdom, in verse 30, is now redefined as being the equivalent of salvation. And when we see this, if there is any boast that we have, and we do have something to boast about. No, it's not in Cephas. It's not in Apollos, nor is it in Paul. That we can boast It is the Lord. It is the Lord alone, in whom we can brag. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you For showing us through the preaching of the gospel and your word The great gift that you have given to us and how you have made foolishness of worldly thinking. And how the world thinks of foolishness. Well, it is the wisdom of God, it is the cross It is the salvation that you have brought to us. It is how you chose to reveal yourself to us so that we may have a relationship with you. Grant us grace, Heavenly Father, to always be reminded that you called us to yourself. It was nothing special about us. And it would have never been anything special about us. It is all about your special Son, the Lord Jesus, our Savior, our kinsman redeemer, the second and last Adam. Who saved us? May we boast in your wisdom. May we boast in your Son. Even now and throughout all of eternity. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.