I did not grow up in the church and um had different experiences at different places growing up. One of them was uh I was in the Boy Scouts, and one of the uh young men in our troop was Jewish. And so when he got to be of age, he had his bar mitzvah, and uh the whole scout troop was invited, so we went. There's two things I remember. One was the open bar. It seemed to be open to everybody And uh uh the other was during their service. Well, we all had to wear little skull caps, um, but somewhere during the service They had a curtain that was in the back, and they opened the curtain And their rabbi went to the curtain and two other fellows came and helped him as he went over there. And he got in the curtain and he lifted up this giant scroll. And they put it on his shoulder and they carried it around and eventually read part of it. And it was the Torah, the first five books. Of the Old Testament. And in a synagogue, every week they will read sequentially through it, and they also will read sequentially through another scroll called the Haptura, which in it has a selection of writings from the prophets. And interestingly enough, when they get to the book of Isaiah, they will be reading chapter 52 And the next week, they skip over chapter 53 and read chapter 54. Now, other than you might wonder why they do that, um I think one of the reasons they might do that is because, as you know, Isaiah 53 talks about God's suffering servant, who we believe is Jesus Christ. That's interesting. You may not know this or remember it, but in chapter two of Acts, Philip was told by the Spirit to go to speak to an Ethiopian eunuch who was official of the queen of Ethiopia, Candace. And I'm going to read you that portion of scripture just to begin with to show you that when he wanted to explain who Jesus was, He went and he quoted from Isaiah 53. He quoted from Isaiah 53. 7. So this you can just listen at this point. And I'll tell you that part, but it you're gonna interesting that when the New Testament church witnessed about Christ, they took people to the Old Testament. Because it's one book. It's the unfolding of the gospel. It's the unfolding of redemption or salvation. And in the Old Testament before Christ, you have all of salvation. In a in an like a flower, let's choose a tulip. But a closed up tulip like you'll find when spring comes up and it's closed up and As it comes out of the ground, you see it growing and you think it's going to be a flower. And you may have noticed that you're unsure when you see that tulip, even in its first stages with a flowering around it, what color it might be And that's how much of the Old Testament was. And when Christ comes, it's the opening up of all that was in there and all that it is. As we understand the gospel, but the saints in the Old Testament, in the beginning of the New Testament, went to the Old Testament scriptures To tell others about Jesus. Acts chapter 8, verse 27. And there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Queen Candace of Ethiopian, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship and was returning seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. And the Spirit said to Philip, Go over and join this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, Do you understand what you're reading? And he said, How can I understand unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of scripture that he was reading was this. It was Isaiah 53, 7. Like a sheep, he was led to slaughter, and like a lamb before its sheer is silent. So he opens not his mouth. In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth. And the eunuch eunuch said to Philip, About whom I ask, does the prophet say this? About himself or someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with the scriptures, he told him the good news about Jesus You see, that's where the saints in the New Testament went to talk about Jesus and the history and the promised redemption of the covenant. So that was Isaiah 53. 7. Well tonight, I hope by God's grace to have us see Christ. Even more in Isaiah 53, and we'll be reading and following along from verses 3 to 6. So let's stand together. I'll pray and then we'll be reading the scriptures. Father and God, we thank you that the saints through the ages have used your word, even the Old Testament. To tell us about this one who was to come, who would redeem his people, the Messiah, even Christ the Lord. And we thank you that we have seen in the book of Acts how Philip ministered to the Othiopian, and we didn't even read the rest of the part, but he. He was convinced and said, where is the water? I need to be baptized. Do it now. And so we thank you that your word is powerful. And uh the gospel is uh not just in the New Testament, but throughout the good news, even as it said in this book, he shared with him the good news about Jesus. So we thank you as we think about Palm Sunday and the coming death of our Lord and Savior that throughout your word, his saving us, redeeming us, his death for us is pictured. That we might rejoice in our salvation. So help us even this evening as we read to find out even more about our Lord and be amazed. at uh your perfect work through history to provide our Savior. For we pray in His name. Amen. I'm actually going to be re-opening a few verses tonight, but I'm going to open the whole portion that the Jews in the synagogue skip over, and you can See, knowing the New Testament, you'll see much of Christ there. We don't have enough time tonight to even begin to explore all this. We'll do a part, but we'll start with Isaiah chapter 52. Start reading from there in verse 13, and then we'll read all of chapter 53. But then we'll come back just to a few verses to open this evening, Lord willing. Isaiah 52 in verse 13. Behold, my servant shall act wisely, he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted. As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind. So shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him. For that is for that which has not been told, them they see, and that which is not heard they understand. Who has believed what they heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant Like a root out of dry ground, he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, as one from whom men hide their faces. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to slaughter. Like a sheep that is before its shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And for his generation, who considered that he was cut off of the land of the living, stricken for the transgressions of my people And he made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for sin. He shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his day The will of the Lord shall profit in his hand, prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many be accounted righteous. And he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide with him the portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death And was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession. For the transgressors. The word of the Lord. Amen. This evening we only have the opportunity to go through verses four through six, but uh Lord willing we'll get through those and see uh what we were talking about and the fact that this Even as Philip used verse 7, we could ourselves use these few verses or many others to speak about our Savior Christ. The first thing we see in Isaiah chapter 53 and verse 4 is God crushed this man that he's talking about, this suffering servant of his, God crushed this man for the sins of others. Isaiah 53, 4. Surely he bore our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteem him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. It was not hard for uh the ones in Isaiah here to picture this one who was having all this difficulty. It was not because of his own, but God was doing it for a specific purpose. And the purpose that he has is what we call a substitutionary atonement. Those are big words, theological words, but substitutionary means a substitute. You who are watching the final four See that all the time, playing basketball. Some guy gets fouled out or gets tired. You hear that noise? Or however you want to hear it, right? You hear that noise? Oh, everything stops. And the coach calls the one guy off and puts another one in. It's a substitute. One is there for the other, playing, acting for the team, acting in that spot. A guard, a center, a forward. He's acting for the other. And atonement means a covering. And so this one who is taking the grease that God is putting on him, he's saying it's doing it in place of the other. It's doing it for us. He is taking our griefs and our sorrows, and God afflicts him. And atonement means he's covering it over. He he's making it right. And so we have this one who who is pictured here that is standing in the place, the suffering servant of God is standing in the place and getting the judgment For what the other deserves. Now, as we go to the next verse, it's much the same. It's almost like he's repeating this. And what God does in the scriptures, he will repeat themes. in ideas because we often don't get it the first time. Now, you younger ones know all about this. Shut the door. Shut the door. Shut the door. Well, you know, we're supposed to do it right? First time, all the time, the right way, all that stuff. But we don't shut the door, right? We've got to hear it again and again and again. And God is willing to do that here to talk in another way to try to get to our hearts. And your parents aren't just saying shut the door because they're cold, but they want you to learn to be responsible. Right? They want you to get it in further than just outward. And so God repeats it. He's willing to do us for us. So he says it again, almost the same thing, but in another way. Look at Isaiah 53. 5, talking about his suffering servant who will be our substitute. He says this, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. With his stripes we are healed. And here it's talking about this this the stripes, the wounds that Jesus took, a prophecy from Isaiah. Speaking of what His shed blood would do for us as it covered over our sins when we by faith trust him. It was not for Jesus, the suffering servant's crimes, but the one who transgressed against God. Now In the church today, when you hear sin, you generally know it's because you've done something wrong. But when we hear the word transgression, I don't know about you, but I don't I don't I don't think of it as a horrible thing. You transgress me. It it's kind of like you stepped on the grass. But in the Hebrew, it's not like that at all. When you transgress in the Hebrew word, it is talking about someone who rebels and revolts. One who stands their ground and says, I don't care what you want me to do, I'm going to do it and I'm going to go no matter what you want. And that's really the picture of us with God, isn't it? We know what God would have us do But we stand there like little children and we say, I'm not going to do it. I'm going to have my own life and I'm going to do it my way. So it's not that we're just children with God that forget or who are immature. We're children with God and say, I don't care. I'm going to do it my way. We're God's undo ourselves. And what God is saying here is God is going to take for our rebellion against him. For our saying, I don't care that you made me. I don't care that you give me everything I want. I'm going to do what I want. It could be as simple as saying, I know I'm not supposed to get in the cookie jar, but I'm going to get in there. As soon as mom turns her back, I'm climbing up on the counter, I'm getting cookies. Or it could be. I know I shouldn't go there on my computer and watch those images. But as soon as I get a chance to get along, I'm going to go. Or it could be. I know I should work harder, but he really doesn't pay me enough at work, and I'm just going to take it easy Or it could be a hundred other things. Where is it in your life that you do that? That you go up to God, you know exactly what he would have to do is for you being his child, and you say, I don't care. I'm just gonna And we all are there. And so we're not just looking long ago and far away about this one that God would provide. But we have to look at the way he's providing it. Who's he providing? He's providing it for people, men and women and boys and girls, just like you and me. Peter repeats When he wants to talk about the gospel, this very same verse, very similar in 1 Peter 2 and verse 24, he says, He, Jesus, bore our sins in his body on the tree. That we might die to sin and live to righteousness by his wounds, you have been healed. Now, there's a lot of charismatic people especially like to talk about healing all the time, and they say, you know, they pray and say, now God, if we pray, he might heal, right? We prayed. We prayed for people tonight that God might heal them. But charismatic people pray and say, oh God, by their wounds. You know, they must be healed. And they're taking the context out of Scripture. He's not talking about his wounds heal us physically. He's talking about his wounds heal us spiritually. He died, he was wounded, his blood was shed for our transgressions. Our wounds that we have in this world might last. For a day. I fall and I bump my knee because I was wrong. Or it might last a month, or they might last a year, or maybe a lifetime. But the wounds that Jesus healed by his shed blood are eternal wounds, our sins. When he took those upon himself. Now the prophet Isaiah Is just getting the truth about each one of us here. Doesn't matter whether it's me, your assistant pastor, or skip, your senior pastor, or your elders, or your deacons. God is just, He lays it out for us so we, because we have a rough time admitting this I don't mind pointing my finger and say, you've gone astray. I have a rough time to say, I've gone astray Remember Adam and Eve? God came to the garden, right? Adam, uh, uh, Eve, well, why did you sin? You gave me Eve, why did you sin? It was that man you gave me, it was this snake. It was, you know, they're all blame shifting. And when we read this, it's really easy to blame shift when we think about who's sinning here to someone else. You might think about someone at work, some family member, maybe the person sitting next to you. But it's really hard to say, it's me, O Lord. I'm the sinner. And so God just lays it out for us, everyone. He doesn't, and in fact, he just doesn't say, Pastor McGuire. But he says, a whole lot of you have sinned. Is that what it says? Let's look at verse 6. All All we like sheep have gone astray, have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid upon him the iniquity of us all. Here it is. This is where sin is. God tells us, the one who created us and made us to live this way, and we just like sheep go the other way. He's given us a shepherd to lead us where we need to go, either beside quiet waters and green grass, which we have sometimes, or sometimes in the horrible hard places, the valley of the shadow of death. Literal death or death, we feel like death and we're dying because of a situation we're in with family or friends or at work. We feel like it's ended. But all of us get in these places. All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Romans 3. 23 in the New Testament says this way, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. But then it says the joyous part at the rest of the verse, the Lord has laid on him Our iniquity. Now, this suffering servant that he's been talking about who bears our sins, we know now, and I'll get to the end, is picturing Jesus Christ in the Old Testament Scriptures go there all the time and do that, but he was the innocent one that God lays our sin. By faith upon him. You might understand that when John saw him and he was talking about who Jesus would be. Do you remember what John the Baptist said when he first said, Saw him? He said, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. You see what he was saying? He was pointing back to this scripture here. You see here, all of us like sheep have gone astray, but God has laid our iniquity upon him when we trust him. And John is saying, here's the one. Here's the one from Isaiah who would bear it all and take what we deserve. I want you to go a little bit Further in Isaiah to one verse. I wasn't going to go here, but I just need to. Isaiah 53:10. I want you to look at it for a moment. Because we wonder why would God do this or what was going on. And we know that what is happening here is he's taking his suffering servant, Jesus. The one who serves him perfectly, who never sinned. He's taking our sin and put it on him. But it tells you something about what's going on in God's mind here. And this is if you catch this You won't be any, your knees will just start to shake and give out from under you because you realize what God was doing. It says in Isaiah 53, 10, yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief when his soul makes an offering for guilt. The New American Standard Bible says it this way. It was, but the Lord was pleased to crush him. Sounds a little strong, doesn't it? God purposed. Remember what our pastor said this morning when he was preaching from Acts. Yes. Sinful men crucified Christ, but before the foundation of the world, God had planned this to happen. Here we see Isaiah speaking about it seven hundred years. before it ever happened. And it says, it pleased God to crush his perfect only Son, Jesus Christ, the eternal. Second person of the Trinity had perfect fellowship. It pleased him. Now it wasn't in a Stadistic. I get to crush Jesus. That was goofy. No, of course. That would be child abuse, right? But the Trinity before the foundation of the world. Knew that Christ would give his life in this way, and they agreed. The son was glad to do his father's work, even though it meant that he would turn his face from him. The Spirit was glad to come and empower Christ, even as he said, I will be done, and he came and he was strengthened It pleased the Trinity, but it pleased God because he looked and he set his heart on rebels. All of us who like sheep say, No. And it pleased the Father to take his perfect Son. And crush him in our place Because he had set his love on you, who will trust him from the beginning of the foundation of the world. We need to be thinking about that and begin to comprehend it. You know, it it is almost more than we can endure. But it's wondrous when you get it. There is a man who is uh now the senior pastor of the Ottawa Presbyterian Church and he's president of the Ottawa Theological Hall. His name is Richard Ganz. He grew up as an Orthodox Jew. And when his father died when he was young, he cast away all that he believed about God and lived a life of rebellion against God. And he said, God, if you would take my father, I don't want you, and I'm going to live my own life. About 30 years ago or so, however long it was, he was a successful psychologist Took a summer off and went to Le Brie and ended up with Francis Schaeffer and a school that was in Switzerland. As he was there, uh, one day a man read him this portion of scripture from Isaiah. And he's and the man said, Well, how do you think they knew about this? And he said, well, it was those those Christians. They were at the cross and they wrote this. And the man handed them the book, and he thought it was the New Testament, having written it, read it. And the book in it said Isaiah. And he was undone. Because he found out that and understood that it was 700 years before it ever happened. That there was written and he came to Christ instantaneously. When I was a pastor in A different church. There was a man whose son had grown up in the church. He had cast that way when he had grown to be a man and started studying with a rabbi. And the rabbi would ask him questions and they would have this dialogue and he didn't particularly go anywhere with faith, but he'd really un he really liked and was a good friend of this rabbi. He came to church the Sunday that I passed, preached on this passage. And his father called me two weeks later crying and said, My son has come back to Christ. Because he understood now that all these things this rabbi was talking about was the one whom the rabbi was talking about was the Lord Jesus. You see, they were undone when they understood that they were the rebels, that they were the lambs who went their own way, and they could confess that, and that God had provided a way. For ones with hard hearts like me who want to be gods unto ourselves, not bowing to any shepherd, even though the shepherd knows what's best for the sheep. My question for you. You can be in the church a long time and know all about the Lamb, but have you, do you know the Lamb? Do you know the Lamb, even the Lord Jesus Christ, the suffering servant that was given? Have you been undone? Because you realize that all of the cross, that all of God's judgment and wrath and turning his face away from his beloved son Where Jesus on the cross would say, Father, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Would be that he would turn his eyes and his heart to you. You can know about this, and maybe you know about Isaiah 53, but do you know the suffering servant and the lamb of Isaiah 53? Do you know Jesus? Are you able to rejoice because you've confessed that you are the lamb that goes astray? But now, because he has given his son for you, you have a shepherd. Even the Lord Jesus Christ. If not, he calls tonight. He's calling you who hear his voice tonight to say, yes, I am the one who goes astray. I need someone to cover me. I need to be loved by the Lamb. It would be my joy to talk to you about that or encourage you in that. But may we all pray now and rejoice, even in the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father and God, we thank you that before the foundation of the world That you set forth all that was needed to save us. We could not do it ourselves because we're rebels at heart. And Father, we thank you that it's not just when we first come to Christ, but even as we come to Christ, we find ourselves as wandering lambs We thank you that you go after them. Thank you that you've come after some tonight who need to hear your voice, who need to return, and come under the shepherd, under the care of the good shepherd by faith. Would you do that by some who might trust you tonight or some who might return? And they would find joy being in your tender and good and cared for flock, even by the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. For we pray and rejoice in his good name. Amen