And I was not a Christian. And I I am delighted to be here. How do you decide who to marry? Every one of us knows what temptation is, whatever his or her age. I want to give you the first two tonight and the remaining six tomorrow morning. Now how do we know that? What happens when you and I really believe that our con that our temptations are unique? And suffered my hell, your hell, the judgment we will do. Temptation provoked me to look upward to God. So we can translate that little word, but God is what? What a triumphant proclamation. I've heard it in many forms, but the person just flat out said it. And we say, you know, don't do this and do this and And sometimes it's easy to leave saying, Man, you know, I really do want to do that. Listen again, the word of God and prayer. I'm going to talk more about prayer in another one of our studies and more about the the Word of God. We're being reminded of who you are, we're being reminded of what your son did, we're being reminded of your Holy Spirit's reality in our lives. She said the second Sunday we weren't there. When I shared my testimony with him, I was looking to the Lord. If you are a teenager or about to be a teenager and you think, you know, man, I don't know, this thing of following the Lord. Would you say that with me? Well, it's a Greek word that can be translated either tempted or tested, or it can be t translated tried, depending on the context. And I hate to sound postmodern, but uh I really do believe that he's talking about both temptations and testings. When tempted, no one should say God is tempting me. It has taken hold of you. As a young Christian, as a baby Christian, this drove me almost out of my mind. And receive mercy and grace to help in time of need. on and we start talking more friends. Now I know I'm preaching to the choir, so to speak, at a church retreat, and you're here, okay? Where we are equipped and outfitted for the works of ministry that you have for every one of us. What we would call average churches. And uh you know, when you're when you're uh just l like when I first came to know the Lord when I was seventeen, the skip said, if someone had walked up to me then and said, Now you know, Butch, uh fifty some years from now I would have said, Don't don't talk to me about that. with I'm almost always the the oldest person. Faithful and no matter what comes along, he will uh see you through, for he is at work in us to will and to act according to his good purpose. worth the keeping. keep the chips and dip coming. then I'll lay these aside and we can pick them up tomorrow morning. the New International Version. Confirm, be careful that you don't fall. i it was a pagan city. First Corinthians. Theology. Chapter 9 comes back to that subject in the middle of chapter 10. Present testings are not unprecedented. Next verse, verse thirteen, on which I want to concentrate. or try and in our culture we often call these testings, but most commonly we refer to them as problems. That God will test the living daylights out of you on occasion, but he will never tempt you. it grabbed you and then let you go and now you're free. That isn't what the Bible says. In your struggle against sin. Jesus Christ, I enjoyed sin. And it has taken hold of you and still has hold of you. Unquote. not only allows but often brains our way for our own benefit. I shared it with him and he said, Butch, no. Jesus was tempted, but it isn't a sin to be tempted. to ourselves. Takes a lot of uh graduate training, doesn't it, to to learn to do that? uh a corollary to isolation, but uh we might be um discouraged or dissuaded from seeking uh an experienced viewpoint from someone else. Fearing b because of of of what you may have thought, but you didn't it was a temptation that didn't become a sin, but you get into this despair, you isolate yourself. Unmerited love and favor, but God's enablement, God's courage, God's strength, God's comfort in time of need. and ever. Uh but uh you know that was a very anemic response. Greek scholar put it this way, He is worthy of all reliance. Whom or do w to what do we most often look other than the Lord? ourselves. Dr. But at least three other answers to this question have not yet been given. I had to deal with it in my own sinful nature. Dad has ever faced this like me and and and I'm hurting and therefore I deserve a reward. He will use fellow Christians, he will use other people, but look to the Lord. to to your own to to your to yourself as well as to uh to others. a a verse. I want to be a private worshiper, uh uh do I want to be family worshipper, or do I want to be a corporate worshiper? Had some new Christians who came to our church, and they were gung-ho for Jesus. feeding on Christ in that sacrament by his spirit. praying about God keep teaching me to hold things loosely. Amen. Um the schedule here it calls for quiet Other things. There are three sexes men, women and preachers. something like this, which all this is fine, but I'm at a point in my life that I seriously don't think I can take any more. Enduring temptation. of us even asked to be born. title, but he he had conducted a a senior seminar on challenging and uh survey and challenging seniors, which uh I coordinated and we hosted at McLean Press. Three people from each church. action. in three weeks now I'm I'm gonna be seventy two years old, which is hard for me to believe. away it's never gonna get here. in uh in enabling me to persevere which for what are now over fifty four years. with Jesus Christ. Born again. uh with people of all ages and uh d different times of our life. God decides it all in a way before and you get to find out later who you're stuck with. ten said twenty-three is the best age because you know the person forever by then. Don't want any more kids. Dates are for having fun and people should use them to get to know each other. someone then you should marry them and have kids with them. Girls to be single, but not for boys. The judge and when asked what she stole, she replied, A can of peaches. Six. Well what is it? You know, that might hit some of you in the middle of the night, you know, and you just wake up laughing and what is it? Turn please to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. As it is written. of them died. Morning's teaching. enduring temptation. essential. sits here tonight and sort of smiles piously and and uh wants to impress others around you that boy you know really there's nothing in my life that I struggle with, bitch. Christ entered my life, and his Holy Spirit came to reside in me. I know that tonight, if you're a Christian, there are struggles in your heart. But what we're going through, the temptation, trial, or testing, is unique. to share with us. hour later. Are now. is God centered, not man centered. kindness of the Lord extends to the heavens. your sin apart from the cross. counsel if you call the right person. the time that we spend talking to other people about it, talking to the Lord, looking to the Lord. We look to our friends. way out. a bargain with God. Food or if food is a great comfort. perspective on life. is faithful. asking you tonight, I'd like to have a little discussion. opposed to do sometimes and say, Well nothing grabbed me. Then pray in light of what grabbed you. them and and other things that that pertain to Peggy's and my relationship and our lives. Individual worship, there is family worship, as I just said, and there is corporate worship, public worship. a worshiper. Proclaimed. and we exchanged insurance information and it didn't do a whole lot of damage to my car, although it put some scratches and so forth and I just got that car in May, although it's three years old, and I had prayed on the way up again of the many things I was about your Savior. was seventeen. Like this. Look to the Lord. twice to uh to speak at your church. to guess based on whether they seem to be yelling at the same kids. most people do on a date. Tell your wife that she looks pretty, even if she looks like a truck. thirteen verses. pleased with most of them. as you intend. we need to fit everything that will be said in the next several minutes into the cracks and crevices of our very souls. than we are to have you do it. And that's particularly true of God's Word. On a given occasion, but nobody else in all the world ever was going ever went through what I'm presently going through. tempted, he will also provide a layout so that you can stand up under it. Spiritual gifts, for example. free in Jesus Christ had so much liberty that they could do almost anything. Has accurately stated, that person who is no longer tempted has long since been laid to rest. When they give it the second look, when they begin to move on into it, and to think like some of these Corinthians, hey, look, I'm strong enough, I can deal with this, and you're on the way to have it. Temptation seize you, take hold of you. This is so insightful, and we need to hear it. This is an obvious lie. inside us until we try to fight it. What temptation is. Is that others have faced the very same thing you have faced in principle. Look to the Lord. This out loud, but just answer it to yourself. Unfaithful to you. Oh my dear friends, look to the Lord. yourself that sin is all right with God. at us. Starting out on what I'm going to share tomorrow evening, but that's that's great to get that introduction. convinced that we make this too difficult. Now these are her words. I pray that throughout this weekend that your lovely son would be conspicuous in our midst, that we would know what it means to grow more in love with you, great triune God. Does that make sense to you? on my way here, I came down one of the routes. But you know when I said that, I was looking to the Lord. That isn't what he says. We're going to talk about that tomorrow morning. utmost, under the Lordship of Him who alone is our righteousness. or as the man said on one occasion, the uh before I speak I'd like to say something. how I phrased that question. arrived. completed action and a present result and an abiding remaining circumstance. I thought I had sinned. means the only complete realist. Temptation. And so he says, draw near, come to the throne of grace, that you may receive mercy. simply get stuck on our own sinful selves and not not look up. Jack Miller, I I don't know how many of you know that name, he was the founder of the World Harvest Mission and a and my advisor at Westminster Theological Seminary, but he he made this statement once he said, You must make a vow never again to look at to that what is really wrong and you know it's wrong is all right because you now rationalize and I had a person say this to me one day in counseling. person in the universe. is not about to make his first mistake on you. And they're thinking, man, I need some help, I need some encouragement. chapter by chapter, and having read that chapter, you then go back and pray in light of what God said in that chapter. forward to uh hearing these other points in the morning. uh when I was seventeen years old. because I know it. a logical biblical conclusion. Has overtaken you or seized you, except that which is common to man. a word from C. No temptation has seized us except what is common to man, and God is faithful. Which means I'm a rugged individualist. I ever had face to face. trial there is a supernatural providence. family worship. Kurt said, the law says you have to be eighteen to kiss, so I just don't want to mess with that. And then had to start learning verses all over again in the NIV and I figured instead of going back to the NASB, just let you follow along with me. And most literal of all of the modern translations, and that's the one thing that I appreciate so much about it. For I do not want you to be ignorant of the fact, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud, and they all passed through the sea. Years. Which he's going to pick up later in chapter 10. That's when certain adjustments started. All the details are different. Can you imagine the complications that might bring into your life? I want to tell you. is. Uh the good old days were not always that good, huh? I mean I I heard the expression recently, um, you know, uh glance at our sin but gaze upon the Lord and I think when we are tempted to sin and and struggle with that or when we do sin we may Look to the Lord. They had missed four straight Sundays. How's that for a sermon title? These things happened to them as examples, and were written down as warnings for us, on whom the fulfillment of the ages has come. And so, Holy Spirit of Christ, make him conspicuous to us as we look into your word now, in his name. But first let's establish the context, okay? We find a section where there are warnings for us from Israel's history. It is the simple fact that everyone is tempted. You don't share your struggles with anybody. How do we look to the Lord? The Word of God and prayer. says that we when we sing and make melody in our hearts to the Lord, we speak to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual stuff. These are not the only things, but how do we look to the Lord? And and I just told him, I said, you know, as I shared with you, I sh I said the same words. But I said, Do you have a Bible? For the ability to remember how faithful you have been, your track record, that your character is always intact. And so we ask, as we have prayed before, uh long before ever coming here today, we ask that this might be a weekend where Jesus is honored, where You know, we might have thought we did at one point, but it's the Lord who brought us into this world, put us into a particular family, and it's the Lord who gave us life so we could understand the gospel and embrace the Lord Jesus. Because it is an increasing problem in the Church of Jesus Christ. I've been misunderstood. And I told him, I said, I have failed the Lord more times than I wish to remember. But you know when I did that, and I have to give God the glory for that, because it's not because I'm sharper and better and smarter, it was because the Holy Spirit was working in my heart and gave me the willingness to say that. Common to man. No testing, no trial has seized you except what is, say it with me again, out loud. And he ascended to the Father's right hand. The past. So Craig, who is nine, said, I'd run home and play dead. The judge said, Well then I will give you six days in jail. For enduring temptation. For he was, as I mentioned earlier, tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. God's faithfulness reaches to the skies. One day one of my professors, who was the greatest teacher I ever had, face to face, I I've had a lot of great instructors on tape and and DVD and CD and so forth, but this was the this was the greatest professor. The truth is, there is no one else to trust. And I looked and it looked like I could go and I started to go and then all of a sudden I noticed this vehicle was coming very fast. An essential is that which must be in order that other things might be. And anybody that really is interested in knowing what pastoring is all about can read this book and get some great understanding. Well I don't know if I'm picking up on that, but uh excuse me, can I follow up on that? I didn't ask that. That's why we must look to him. Let me hear from you. Everyone is tempted. You you'll start a chapter and they'll say, Now concerning this, and we'll give you a subject. They don't understand the pull, the draw, the power that that temptation can have an hour later, and you start resisting it. That is transforming the word of God and prayer. And I will be honest with you, I have to deal with the fear of man every day of my life. We weren't trying to get uh a large number of people, just three hand picked people. But um I I I had a stack about like this and and I chose a few of them. In fact, when I moved there, there was no beltway. Well I'll entertain myself. God says, I'm telling you this lest you forget. Yes, it's done, right? And we exchanged insurance information. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. is his faithfulness. God if I i i if you will do this then then I will do that. Now of course it was his idea that I do that to begin with, because I never even asked to be born, did you? I know that Skip uses the NASB and uh I I always study out of the NASB as well, but we use the NIV at McLean Presbyterian and for twenty years I studied and preached out of the NAS. Yes, it was the new map. Yeah, we look to ourselves. You know, I can believe that happened to me. And and if nothing grab whether you is you're going to tell me which verse grabbed you, and if nothing grabbed you, then you have to grab something. And then I smile and say, I just saved you three years of your life and multiple thousands of dollars. Martin, who's only ten, said, On the first date you just tell each other lies and that usually gets them interested enough to go out for a second date. And the husband said she also stole a can of peas. It is look to the Lord. To yourself, there's no hope. And then at the age of seventeen, uh the Lord came into my life and uh I like to put it this way, he has since then turned me every way but loose. But here in the NIV in just forty-seven words are some of the most practical truths in all of the Bible. No temptation has seized you except what is common to man. He is not the author of evil. Well you you might start feeling you're extraordinarily bad. S. No. Thank you again for how faithful you are. The people sat down to eat and drink and got up to indulge in pagan revelry. Well look again at the text. I know that many of you understand that concept. I I took five courses from him in three semesters. Lewis. In light of the fact that Jesus has been tempted in all things, as you and I have, yet without sin, he never succumbed to it. Their bodies were scattered over the desert. That is why bad people, in one sense, know very little about badness. And go to pornography. What about this? And then they close the Bible and they pray as if they never read that chapter. I will never forget them. I appreciate your honesty. And it's here. I have just really appreciated getting to know Skip and and uh and Bonnie and uh serving with Skip as he said on the credentials committee and uh being with our our brothers in Presbytery. And we say something like this to ourselves. And he said, please do not think that I am something special, because I look to the Lord, because I trust Him. Let's pray. Are you learning to live God's way? Yes. You know these pious people that are always trying to avoid temptation. That's why people my age and older get into nostalgia. Now, how did I arrive at this essential? And it's not enough to read the Bible privately. Jesus Christ came into my life. He knows your breaking point. We should not test the Lord, as some of them did, and were killed by snakes, and do not grumble, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angels. I now know it all, and there's nothing else for me to learn. So if you think you are standing firm, be careful that you don't fall. Let me ask you a question, and I would like from time to time for this to be a bit interactive, and you'll have to think now and discuss this with me uh over the conversations outside. Very good. And he said, Yes, I do. No temptation, testing, trial has seized you and presently holds you in its grasp. That ought to be a great encouragement to you and me. Thank you for the ministry of your Holy Spirit. And uh it's just neat. And the answer by Diane Allen who was aged ten is this uh you gotta find somebody who likes the same stuff. Okay. We're going to talk about how it seems, how it feels, how it looks, but what God is saying here and what he says in the rest of his word. And uh the paraphrase, the leading Bible paraphrase of that is uh make sure you mix with people of all ages. We are utterly dependent upon you. What is an essential? But it goes through this letter dealing with issues and problems. But I want to make another distinction. You know, one of the great temptations as you grow older is to look back to what you call the good old days. I've said, everyone is tempted, that's what the Bible says. And cars are whizzing by and I don't have my jacket on and it's cold and it's bad weather for bald men. I just graduated from high school as he mentioned and uh I was a church member. Here is his own testimony. Isolate ourselves. And having never succumbed to temptation, having perfectly obeyed the law of God, he willingly laid down his life. There is encouragement in our temptations because we have a faithful high priest who understands and says, come. Must be conversation out there. But um and and other people have hair as besides. Well, I'll tell you my own testimony. But these five in 1 Corinthians 10, 13, are. It it was very much like I often think of it, uh the current was very much like Washington D C where as I said I have lived in that northern Virginia later Washington DC area now for forty Hebrews 12 verse 4 says this. It complicated my life from time to time, but I relented. Okay, we could look at our tempt Ooh, thank you. Go right ahead, please. Only those who try to resist temptation know how strong it is. It bothered us a little bit, but nothing like the first week. Yes, is it Brenda? One, say it with me. And I appreciate the uh the warmth and the hospitality that has been extended to me. Boys need someone to clean up after them. Are you learning to live God's way? I want you to try these on for size because God expects you and me to wear these. We are to look to the Lord now. You know, I can't believe it just going on and then just go on and on and on. Asking God to show us how to trust in how to how today do I trust in you come my way. My dear friend, it doesn't take very long to drift away from corporate worship when you begin to think it's unimportant. But um I have this picture here if you'd like to see it. And we'll find 1 Corinthians right before 2 Corinthians, which is no help at all if you don't know the books of the Bible, but I'm sure most or all of you do. What does all of that do? The reward mentality is well, you know, I I I was disappointed. Look to the Lord. Yes. And we are so glad that your Holy Spirit is not only among us, but in those who trust in Christ and Christ alone is in us. They are not unique. And his first work is always on display at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, on behalf of everyone, the writer to Hebrew to the Hebrew says, who comes to God by means of him. Yes, Chuck. Does that bring anything else? Verse thirteen. We could also translate it common to humanity. Oh thank you. We look to money. And when you lose perspective on life, you begin to rationalize. And I said, Well, I want to encourage you to read the fourth book of the New Testament, the Gospel of John. And Christ, because he was the only man who never yielded to temptation, is also the only man who knows to the full what temptation Right? And we're going to pick it up there tomorrow morning with the third essential for enduring temptation. And so uh one of the things I want to encourage all of you who are younger, which is everybody anymore when I no matter which group I I don't know if you're like me, but almost every time I read C. Because and this was a song I used to sing as a young Christian, I haven't heard it for decades, no one understands like Jesus. It's the right thing to do. Holy and righteous Father. The faces are different. And I was struggling big time heavy duty. She said, you know, Pastor Hardman, the first Sunday we missed, we were miserable. This is one of the most important things I ever learned. Jesus was tempted. You know, I can figure this out. First of all we isolate ourselves and why is that? Your faithfulness reaches to the what? Yes. And you have worked in our hearts. No. Besides, doesn't God want me to be happy? And he said, if that's what your attitude is, you had better take heed lest you fall flat on your spiritual face. And then we lay a message on you, and we say, you know, God wants you to know this and God wants you to know that. Assembling together. And by sharing our faith. Next question. For it is loaded with consolation and encouragement for every true Christian. Now tell me your name again. The word of God and prayer. These are actual answers from kids. And in learning to live God's way, we must learn to endure temptation. And don't you wish for those days. Now, as an unsaved teenager who went to church but sinned, sin didn't really bother me that much. And do you know how to look to the Lord? Look to the Lord. I'll do some things with my friends. She said, by the fourth Sunday, it was as though we had never been. In fact, last Sunday we had um Dr. After the first eleven verses, we read this. No, it came along in time past, it got a hold of you, and it still has you. Uh you might doubt God's forgiveness, like He's willing us to forgive you for whatever you did. But th this is one that is entitled Kids View or Kids Views on Marriage. First Corinthians chapter ten verses one through thirteen. Yes. What does it present? Look, I'm not without resources. Um welcome to those of you who uh arrived uh just a little while ago and if you haven't found your rooms there's a chart upstairs and we can we want to get you settled into your rooms right away. I know I don't look it I look eighty five. Do you know anything about the church at Corinth? Yes. But you know what we often do? I've actually had people tell me that in counseling sessions. But here's what so many Christians do. By partaking of the sacraments. I thought there was another speaker or something on here for a moment. You don't even have to take a correspondence course to do that. Revelation 1, verse 18. In reflection, when you look back in retrospect, how many times has God been unfaithful to you? How do you look to the Lord? I mean every time a dirty thought came to my mind, every time I I I felt the the thought come to my mind or or felt uh a a drawing away to something I knew I shouldn't do. And God is what? Someone said that rugged individualism often leads to ragged individualism. Okay, back there. How many times has God been unfaithful to you if you're a Christian? I got everything I could ever get from that man who is obviously now with the Lord. Someone else, how do we look to the Lord? You and I can say with our brother Jeremiah tonight in Lamentations 3, great is your faithfulness. I didn't tell him I was a pastor, he doesn't know this day I'm a pastor. I was resisting temptation. But you know there's some other very legitimate answers to this that we've all experienced in one way or another. You know, when you give into temptation and you begin to rationalize, you begin to reason unbiblically, you can convince You know, sometimes we as preachers, as pastors, we're really great on telling people what to do. Even boys have something to say if you listen long enough. No temptation has seized you. Now may I ask you tonight, is there something or are there things plural like that in your life? When does temptation become sin? Unquote. No temptation has seized you except what is common to humanity. Now these things occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did. I said, Jesus Christ has turned me everywhere but loose. Oh I've got it, I got it, okay. You are not the only person who ever went through whatever it may be you are struggling with tonight. But look at that verse again. I'm sorry, go ahead. But God. Because when you do, you're done. That's important. When is it okay to kiss someone? Four centuries later, Vance Habner declared, Looking back to the good old days is not the way out. And um but uh I don't know about you but I get all kinds of stuff on the email that people send to me and share with me and and I have collected this stuff for years. Not only between temptation being solicited to do evil, which God never does, and a testing and a trial which God never does. Other people. And in light of that, may I remind you tonight that whatever your struggles, whatever your trials, whatever the temptations with which you may be struggling, God And we begin to sing together. I hope you won't misunderstand me when I say I never had such difficulty with sin until Jesus Christ. You know, and then we get into what I call the reward mentality. And once they've accepted you as a real human being and then find out you're a pastor, haha, they're hooked. Nobody else in the world has ever experienced it. But let me in the interest of time, because I do want to let you out here before eleven o'clock. But I cannot tell you how many Sundays I gather together with the people of God. And you'll go a chapter or two, and then they'll say, Now concerning the things about which you wrote me, and he'll address those questions. Okay. But um he spoke on Sunday morning uh uh on this top topic intentional intergenerational interest No temptation has seized you except what is common to man, and God is faithful. I want to make another distinction in addition to that one. Nothing. And if you'll only this then I will consider. Thank you, thank you. I was following the directions on your flyer and I came to Lincoln Highway, Route 30. The judge asked her why she had stolen the peaches, and she replied, She was hungry. And I got out of my car and of course it's a two lane highway and so we agreed that we would go up there to a little abandoned filling station so we could we could talk. This was this was given to me recently. And why did I word it that way? Now here's my last question for this evening. But when I began to pull back God's promises, when I began to heed his warnings and ask for grace to be aware of them. But here's a great question. The circumstances are different. Start feeling guilt and shame. Although a lot of great things in the past, thank God for them. Yeah, and then we just keep it into ourselves which becomes nothing in that sense. Tom, I started to say Tom and I said sure as I do, it will be Margaret. Well if nothing grabbed you then then you gotta grab something from that chapter and tell why it grabbed you or why you grabbed it. Everyone is tempted. They they actually said this. That's another way we look to the Lord. And the reason I share that is not one of these, you know, well when I was your age kind of things, but to encourage you that God is You may have heard some of them, but I thought with each of our sessions, except for the Lord's Day morning, I might, since it's a family retreat and people of all ages, share some of these things that have to do. Everyone is tempted. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. Oh not constantly necessarily, but from time to time there are things in your life that you wish were not there. But he has been so faithful to me. And thank you that He alone can take these truths and fit them precisely where they need to be in each of our lives. And so a more literal way of translating this would be that it has seized you and it has you in its grasp. Amen. A very practical way? Aren't I a good guy? The Holy Spirit prompted me and said, You need to tell this young man But have you ever thought that your problems, your temptations, your trials, and your testings are unique? You could go on a guilt trip. Thank you. And where we would enjoy ourselves thoroughly, laugh, enjoy ourselves to the And so we ask you now to grant us that understanding, to speak to our hearts that message that you alone know. Well, one of my major mentors taught me many years ago that an essential is that which must be in order that other things might be. It deceives us. We can look at our temptation. He just isn't. And then all of a sudden I noticed that they hadn't been there for a while. How do you handle temptation? Here we go. In your struggle against sin. You may have feel like you have to protect your reputation. However, before the judge could actually pronounce the punishment, the woman's husband asked the judge if he could say something. Well, God has something very important to say to you and me tonight. Because I really thought, as a new Christian, that every time I was tempted, I was sinning. Thank you that the very reason we are gathered here like this tonight is by your own design. For now there is that war, there is that struggle between my sinful nature, and you have the same lousy sinful nature that I have. Look to the Lord. Faithful. We talk incessantly to our friends about our struggles, and if we spent one fourth of Oh yes. I'm gonna No, we need all three, and each enhances the other. I said it that way to see if some of you were listening and three of you were. Because we don't want to share with other people that won't understand. You ought to believe in the real world. But I'm going to share what I'm about to share because you need it for future days. You know, in premarital counseling when I talk about establishing family worship, I said, you know, y I've got good news for you. That was the next thing I was gonna say or somebody didn't say that. In fact, there were times I said, let's get more of that. Faithful. You say, I can't do that, Bush. Um thank you very much, brother. But um the um the thing I want to encourage you with is that uh Jesus Christ lovingly invaded my life, as Skip said. And finally a couple of more uh is it better to be single or married? Warnings from Israel's history. What is the nature of this testing, this trial, or this temptation? He says, It's not a sin to be tempted. What's another answer to the question, to whom or to what do we usually look rather than to the Lord? But that's how we look to the Lord. He was willing to be forsaken by the Father so that you and I would never have to be. Remember. No temptation, or we could say testing or trial as it may be, no temptation S. He is faithful. Psalm thirty six reminds us your loving kindness, that is God's God's head, his steadfast covenant, love and loyalty. But you need to hear the word of God preached. You will never go to Jesus and say, Jesus I'm sorry, but I just don't think you'd understand. Other people. Many people, particularly men, although not exclusively, get into the reward mentality. An essential is that which must be in order that other things might be. You know this verse, many of you. I'm perfectly sanctified. Look at it with me, verse 12. Lewis, I say to myself, wow. Isn't that insightful? Oh how we could grow, how we could mature. Look to the Lord. Oh yes. Well, look at the next part of the text, would you please? Faithful, thank you very much. I said it three times and not once did I say a devotional book, did I? Behold, I was dead, but now I am alive forever. Faith. We are forgetful people. Well not exclusively, but you know, but my neighbors aren't in the Bible and then by name, and my relatives aren't in here by name, so I add That's how we look to the Lord, because this is what he has said to us. And Pam, who is seven, said when they're rich. Hebrews 4, 15. Now all of that leads us to our second essential for enduring temptation. Yes, our own pet habits of escaping. The sin came into my life and I I was hurt, I was disappointed, and and no one else in the world has ever living or During the days that I was working on my master's degree, which was a long time ago, Here's what the average so-called evangelical Christian does today. You have brought us together. Did how many of you asked to be born? There are many answers to this question. Now we begin to toil with it. They read a chapter and they say something like this. He knows your breaking point. And then the next question, how can a stranger tell if two people are married? Uh but uh seriously I just have a hard time believing that I've been alive that long. I was uh I in fact I sang in the choir. We should not commit sexual immorality, as some of them did, and in one day, twenty-three thousand Corinth uh was Sin City. Somebody was listening to a radio program or something. They have lived a sheltered life by always giving in. Can you stop and think how many times the Bible says that? Uh how do you decide who to marry? This is um uh it's uh the eighty year old woman was arrested for shoplifting. Because none of us can say and at at any given time, you know, yesterday at four twenty three in the afternoon, I Now the verb has seized you is uh in a particular tense in the Greek New Testament that means a passage. That's just one of our natural sinful inclinations. What else? Start feeling guilt and shame. Everyone is tempted. Let me tell you and nobody paid me to say this, okay? What do you think I'm sorry, what do most people do on a date? The more I learn, the dumber I feel. Okay, we and that okay. The next day I would call all the newspapers and make sure they wrote about me in all the dead columns. But I'm going to ask you to follow along and give your attention now to the word of the living God. But Corinth, the church at Corinth was plagued with problems. So when you and I are tempted, we know, James reminds us, that it isn't coming from God. And especially to be reminded, more importantly, that our Lord Jesus Himself has done that. God is faithful. You read through a book of the Bible individually or as a family, you read through that book of the Bible consistently. I used to say to my friends when they were young and we had family worship. Oh, thank you. I'm sorry I woke some of you up. Paul had begun chapter eight by talking about meat that was sacrificed to idols. Everyone is tempted. And and you might not be guilty or that guilty. Besides, I've been to university. George Fuller speak at our church, the former president of Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, and how do you like this for a seminar? Apart from the ministry of your Holy Spirit, we have absolutely no ability to understand your word. The NASB says as I remember, has overtaken you, except what is How do we how do we expand on that? That's what we want to be talking about this weekend. A man who gives in to temptation after five minutes simply does not know what it would have been like. How many times do you read that in the Bible? What often do we do? I deserve a little of this because I've been hurt. He writes, a similar idea is current that good people do not know what temptation means. And I start concentrating on these words. All righty. And it's here that we have to make a distinction. I never tell anybody I'm a pastor unless I have to, because I want them to accept me as a real human being. You see, when I shared my testimony with that that young man, and I made him left to be his grandfather, And God is faithful. I said to myself, they told me, I deserved this. Why? Yes. Because it will tell you who Jesus is and that you can have eternal life by trusting in him. Why is it that some of us in this room are trying to convince ourselves that That our trials are unique. Here's what happens when you stop thinking biblically, you lose Now since this is a family retreat, I thought I would before I get into uh my teaching itself, In fact, 1 Corinthians has been called a case study in pastoral or practical theology. Until a brother in the Lord, who was about a year older in the Lord than I was, and we were both teenagers, Yes. I I'm a student and I don't have any, but no, we look to money. But that doesn't really answer the problem. So everyone is tempted, and we are to look to the Lord. I'm referring to First Corinthians ten, thirteen. Even eat in the pagan temples at the feasts of idols. Temptation is a part of the price of being human. And they just go on and on and on and they and they they don't understand that according to God's word, the good old days are Now I I I know it's late on Friday evening and we drove here and we've eaten and and we're sort of going down in flames. I said, you know, you need two basic components for family worship, the word of God and prayer. You need to nail this down in the floor of your mind. Oh my dear friend, that is one of the most powerful promises in all of God's Word. Now the temptation becomes sin because we're on the way to being drawn away I've been growing and growing and now I just arrived and uh now I can spend the rest of my life teaching. They must be, in order that other things might be. When we play with it. But one day in the middle of a class, he leaned over the lecturer and he looked at the last time. Because He's the only faithful one, the only one who is really going to minister to us. He has transformed my life. John Bunyan, the great Puritan writer of Pilgrim's Progress, said this. Okay, go ahead. All right. So, this is the Greek word that can be translated and so or so then. To the skies. What do you think your mom and dad have in common? That's a part of learning to live God's way. But it's common to humanity. So let me ask you, are your problems unique? So that ought to give you some hope. But as I stood outside this guy's car, a college student on his way home for the weekend, Uh we just don't do that enough. And that is the distinction between a temptation and a sin. And that's part of what we do when we preach and teach. So we need to remember, we need to remember God's character. For example, you you read the chapter you said before you read the chapter, everybody in the family has to grab Corporate worship. Like if you like sports, she should like it. Uh most of the time it's not going to be that different, although the NASB is the final Oh thank you. The same question, Howard, age eight, said the rule goes like this. And finally, how would you make a marriage work? See, that's the opposite of what the world says about you and me as Christians. No temptation has seized you except what is common to man. May I tell you what transformed I am still in root, I'm still growing in this, but what began? She said the third week, it hardly bothered us at all. Well, thank God for his sense of humor. They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. But the chapter doesn't end there. To whom as a what do we look when we don't look to the Lord? Okay. God's former faithfulness is But that isn't what the Lord says. Uh Philippians two thirteen, one of my favorite verses. Uh Christian who's age ten said, no person really decides before they grow up who they're going to marry. I agree with you. I cannot tell you how often as a counselor I have seen the reward mentality and how many times Fix your eyes on Jesus. Oh my, yes. What are some of them? We immediately we've got this struggle, this trial, this testing, and and we immediately get on the Then the next question was, What is the right age to get married? So listen now to five essentials for enduring temptation. And if I may adapt the words of another, you see, for the natural And they have been able by God's grace and his Holy Spirit to overcome. And God is faithful. Those are two huge things. Say it again. Now tucked into this text are five essential Jesus was tempted. Now let me throw out another question to you and hear from some of you, okay? And and and I'm not saying that's wrong. So I called them. No. We were talking to one another a while ago as well as praying to God. Hold on just a second, guys. By partaking of the sacraments. So I stopped again and when I stopped the guy rear-ended me. Common to man. I wish I'd said that. Yeah, we think hey w why would I ever want to go out and share this with anybody with nobody else in the room? One of the great encouragements about this, knowing that everyone is tempted, That is God's pity and compassion and grace. I didn't ask, were there times in your life when your flesh was screaming out to you that God was being Oh Lord, this was so wonderful. The whole day was wrong. We ask that in his name with much gratitude Thank you. The means of grace. That's one of the things that so many Christians struggle with. Because this this is Kids' Views on Marriage. Perhaps there are some of us that feel that way, even tonight. Here is the first essential from this text for enduring temptation. What what happens? It has overtaken you. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. I really believe here that Paul is referring to both. You may feel like you have to protect your reputation. May I tell you something? I um I I I r I really don't understand what you're talking about. Yes. I said, nobody is allowed to be ungrabbable. Now there are three types of worship in the Bible. I had been confirmed. And and consequently, you know, we none of us ask to be born Chapter 10, verse 12, is the beginning of what I like to call How do we flesh that out? All right, all right. But beginning in chapter 8, verse 1, through chapter 10, verse 22. All right. Can you think of another thing that happens when we convince ourselves And I said, May I share something with you? It was a sports city, it was a commercial city. No temptation to seize you except what is common to man and And uh I'm an educated person. And now five people were listening. God is the only fully trustworthy. Well, you know, I I gotta choose one of those and measure in it. Share with us why would that be And God is faithful. The Greek word translated here means just that, faithful or true. Uh well I want to begin this passage and then we're going to continue it in tomorrow. We feel sorry for ourselves and we start to indulge ourselves. What do all those things do? And and we can be short on how do you do it. I want to stir up your pure minds, Peter says, by way of remembrance. Do you understand that that is in many ways a definition of the Christian life? The thought doesn't end there. You know the answer. But there has to be somebody in this room tonight who is saying something. We had seven churches from my Presbytery represented there. When we toy with it. What are the some of the some of the things that we start thinking? Whatever you did or whatever you are feeling And what would be some of those means of grace? The judge then asked her how many peaches were in the can, and she said 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and in a moment I'm going to be reading the 1 Corinthians. Television, music, food. And I say, oh God, we're speaking to one another. And I say, I can't read your mind or look into your heart. We thank you that you are far more interested in doing that. That's all I had time to say to him by the side of the road. Everyone is tempted. He really has. Are you learning to live God's way? Which means, do whatever I want. And we thank you, as Chuck was mentioning earlier. The more I learn, the more I realize I don't know. Or maybe it's my head. Would you pray with me again, please? Everyone is tempted. And what about strategies? But how? You know, they've had it. That's a time release joke. Well, let me, in the interest of time, mention a couple of other Uh in about uh I guess for a little What would you do on a first date that was turning south? He was tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. People who give in to temptation don't really understand. But God. The word of God and prayer. Five essentials for in I went through confirmation class. I have never regretted walking And Derek, who was only eight, said, You might have And then when Jesus Christ came into my life, But that's how you look to the Lord. Amen. He is our understanding high priest. Looking up to the God of all the days is That's very high, is it not? How how do we put handles on that so we can carry It just was the wrong start for the week. If you're if you are a realist And Lori, who is only eight, said both don't See, there are some Christians in Corinth that thought they were so In fact that's a good way to end up getting some godly Remember that little intersection? Uh she should like it that you like sports and she should Anita, who was nine, said it's better for good Do not be idolaters, as some of them were. That's how Paul outlines this book. You're not faithful. And then he'll pick up another thing and says, Now uh concerning But we tend to fantasize Not once. Water baptism and the Lord's Supper. And um I want you to We proclaim what God says. Corporate worship. Now what is this word tempted? Now many of you who've lived a little while know that. We never find out the strength of the evil impulse. I'm not against devotional books. Five essentials for But no temptation, no testing, no trial. He has been so faithful to me And Lynette, who was eight, said I want you to try these on excuse me? It's from a verb that means to test or And perhaps there is something that has come along I'm encouraged. He said, Well, it doesn't always seem that way. Because as we are about to see, every Well, listen again. Common to humanity. You see, this verse, like the rest of Scripture, is What are some other ways of looking to the Lord? It it uh it's gone by so quickly. Well, I'll share this one more thing with you and She and her husband are here and she went through It has seized you. But tell me, to read He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can do. In fact, I must tell you that before I knew Jesus Now please listen carefully to what I'm about to say. And and y and you're almost uh The Bible doesn't use these words, there's private worship and Despair, guilt, isolation. You do not have to graduate from seminary to establish Thank you. Your present trials, your present trials. And then we begin to rationalise. You see, when we get together, Ephesians 5. Because now they can say, Oh, well you're As much as I can relate to it. Um the qu first question is how And then he digresses a bit in chapter 8. You begin to talk yourself in God does not solicit people. Because who would have any experience The next verse says, therefore. In that context, grace is not high. He willingly went to the cross I I've been working hard. This is what the wife said. Ricky, who is ten, said So if you think you are standing James one thirteen says When we give it the second thought. Oh we're good at that, aren't we? Ah, you Christians, you don't understand When we are seized by temptation. I've read this chapter before, but I've never seen And number two, look at the same. Listen to this point. I picked up two. I'm not faithful. You can't look up. I don't collect it all, a lot of it isn't working But as I said, it is the Anybody want to pick up on that? And we try to buy our Reading the Bible. I I did every bit of that. Same question, what do people What are some of the things we start doing? And besides, I'm an American. And Camille, who is aged The judge says, Well, sir. Nevertheless God was not Not it came along one day and When you think you don't need In my first pastor, we You have to um I want you to listen to And then he added, And I stopped. And if that's what you're thinking Gracious Father. Have you ever felt like a You see, not everything is an essential. Yes, Chuck. It isn't everyone is temptation. Um You know, the person comes into church. As we said earlier, So especially if Would you look at it again with me? But when you are tempted, Now I'm reading from They all ate the same. And I didn't have a whole And it's been my privilege To that same question. If you go into Now you don't have to answer. But I'm thinking of Great. I own several of them. Today You know, that's so far For his word is And it goes like And uh just No temptation. All right. But what happened? We endeavor to Are you a real? I said when I If you kissed the ball, you can't get a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of Did you notice You know But even Your lovingness Reading the Bible. Well So I may Well, I know all the God Uh And that's And then You know And one I Yes.