Part of the reason I wanted to be a sports writer was my father had been one and uh I grew up around athletics and athletes and sports and tournaments and officials and sportscasters and all of that. Unfortunately my folks were divorced when I was ten and I never lived with my dad after that. But uh My dad's voter, my uncle. Yes. Is it true that your first words were kill the umpire or those were my second words. uh for forty five years. And um so it was a it was a great a great treat. I'm sure I would have enjoyed being a spirit writer, but I want to tell you, I have loved being a pastor. I um I like to say I get tired in it But not of it. And um I I hope that you feel that way about what God has called you to. Um I had one other thing I wanted to share with you before we uh get back into God's word. These are some kids' letters. You ever heard any of these? Uh these are actual letters that that kids wrote, you know, saying they wanted to write these letters to God. I won't read all of them, but just some of the choice ones. Dear God, did you mean for the giraffe to look like the Or was it an accident? Dear God, thank you for my baby brother, but what I prayed for was a puppy. Dear God, please send me a pony. I never asked for anything before. You can look it up. Isn't that a wonderful way at it? The th the the tender faith of a child, you know, being childlike uh to write something like that. Uh dear God, I'll bet it's very hard for you to love all the people in the world. There are only four people in our family, and I can never do it. Dear God, th th th this is this is not funny. But it's it's sweet. This is uh from a little bit named Nikki. Dear God, if you watch me in church Sunday, I'll show you my new shoes. Dear God, I didn't think orange went with purple until I saw the sunset you made on Tuesday. That was cool. But here's one of my favorites. Dear God, maybe Cain and Abel would not care each other so much if they had their own rooms. It works with my brother. Kids not only have uh a a rather um in one sense innocent uh outlook on things and innocent faith. But they are realists, aren't they? You know it uh it works with my brother. My brother has a separate room, so I haven't bumped him off yet. All right, would you play with me again please? Again, our Father, we come to ask your blessing upon your word. We confess that we have all too often been presumptuous. In thinking that we could come to it with mere intellect and gather from it what you intend. But we know from sad experience that's not so. So please buy your Holy Spirit, the author of this book through the prophets and apostles, grant us understanding, speak to our hearts that message to meet our need. Which you alone know. We ask it so that Jesus Christ will be honored. In his name. Amen. What are the two things that are uppermost in your mind right now? In other words, what are the things you worry about. Let me put it another way. If I get boring in this session to what will your mind wander? In reality there are two Two basic things we worry about, are anxious about living and dying. But this morning I want to speak to Now you've noticed this before when you've heard several sermons or teachings in a row that The Word of God has an uncanny way of fitting together. You may be in this book, you may be in another book, you may be discussing this subject or that subject, but it all melds welds together because it is, as I prayed, from the same author of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit himself. Listen again to the five essentials for enduring temptation. Number one, everyone is what? Tempted. Two, look to the Lord because God is what? Thank you. All right. Three, God knows your what? Breaking point. Four. Be alert for The layout. And five, let the purpose be fulfilled. Listen to the end of that verse, because I want to take right off the tail end of that verse into what I want to discuss with you this hour. No temptation or testing or trial has freeze or overtaken you except what is common to man. And God is faithful. He will not allow you, will not let you be tempted beyond your are able but with the temptation he will also provide a layout the layout and remember the result or purpose cause so that you may be able to endure it. What I want to go into in this next session, just play segues right off that last phrase. that you may be able to endure it. I want to talk to you about how to develop and cultivate perseverance. For if there is anything that a Christian needs, it is Perseverance, what has been called scaling power. But first a disclaimer, alright? This lesson will not be all you need to know about all you need to know with. regarding perseverance. No one can give you that. Someone said, uh a scholar said one time that the problem with being a theologian is that every time you speak, people expect you to say everything about everything. And that's impossible. That's why you always get uh yes, but uh but what about? Oh well good, you're thinking, but you can't say everything about everything. Nevertheless, I want to give you in this session six Six basic biblical principles. Now I tell you up front there are six, so that when we get to number three and number four you'll start taking hope and and when you get to number five you'll start breathing a little easier and when we get to six you just have a smile on your face. These again are six essentials, those things which must be in order that other things might be and rightly understood and obeyed. These truths will greatly assist you in developing and cultivating perseverance. But let me put something else up front, if I may. It is absolutely crucial. Critical that you listen to these principles, that you apply these principles and seek to obey these principles in light of the gospel. You know, I am so afraid that people come to church and they'll hear truth. Uh you know they these are churches where people say they believe the word of God. They really preach and teach the word of God and they preach truth. But people sit there and they listen and and they are left to the impression You know, you can really go out and do this. And besides, as I said last night, you're an American. You have ingenuity and technology and education, so you can do this. And so they end up in all Orthodox churches, churches that believe the Word of God, so often leaving people with the the basic message as they go out of the church building, the very basic message that liberal pastors and preachers leave with people. And that is, without intending to do it, people are left with this message. Let me encourage you this week to try harder to do better. And so you leave gun roll. I am going to go do these things. I'm going to obey these truths. And it isn't very long until you're discouraged and again, as I have said, flat on your spiritual face. So we must remember that it is Christ who perfectly obeyed the law. God and that that has been imputed, put down to your and my account if we know Jesus Christ. We must remember that it's He who sustained the judgment we will do, that we're clothed in this perfect righteousness. But he is alive forevermore, never to die again. But he's given us his Holy Spirit. I don't know how often I hear Christians say at the beginning of a service or a group meeting, Lord, send me. Your Holy Spirit. And I know what they mean, but He's there. In fact, He lives within every Christian. Jesus said, I will not leave you as orphans. I will ask the Father, and He will send you. Another comforter, another strengthener. Paul prays in Ephesians three, strengthen them with all might by your spirit in their inner beings. What a prayer. And I am afraid that many of us, even in good reformed, and evangelical churches, have forgotten that Almighty God lives within us. To apply the word of God, to grant. Grace and encouragement to keep following hard after Jesus. So you and I must listen to these principles in light of our union with Christ. He is in us, and we are in him. And thank God He has given us. Given us the grace and the ministry of His Holy Spirit, so that we might be able to cultivate perseverance. Another way that this has been said, and I'm quoting someone else, is that before We look at the imperatives, those things that God has commanded us. We must go back and remember the indicatives, the things God has gone on record as saying He has already accomplished on our behalf. Not many years ago, a young man sat in my office. He had come to me for counsel. And he said to me as his head was hanging, I am so ashamed of what I have done. He said, I'm so ashamed. I feel so bad. But I really don't want to even try to talk to God for at least two weeks. Well, I let that go just right by. I filed it away. And a moment later As he was quiet, I said, Tell me, what do you expect to do in the next couple of weeks that will make you any more acceptable to God than you are right now in Jesus Christ? Christ. He thought for a moment, raised his head, and looked at me. He then said, Nothing. I said, you're very right. So don't waste the next two weeks trying to feel like talking to God. Repent of this sin. Forsake it. And move out. Trusting the Lord and remembering that you are no less acceptable to God now than you were when you did that of which you are ashamed. Does that make sense? See, that's the gospel. That's the gospel. And as dear Jack Miller said, we must learn to preach the gospel to ourselves every day. So I appeal to you. Don't just listen to this as truth and say, oh, that makes all the sense in the world. Yes, I can do that. No, I must remember my union with Christ, the grace and enablement of God, and that Almighty God resides in me and has made my body of all things a temple, not just the outer court. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians the inner sanctuary of God's Holy Spirit. So with that in mind, here is the first of six basic biblical principles, essentials. For developing and cultivating perseverance, for God has called us to that. In fact, let me read just two verses as kind of a beginning here, because I'm going to be all over the Word of God in this study. Timothy chapter four verses seven and eight. Have nothing to do with godless myths and old wives' tales. Rather, train yourself. Discipline yourself to be godly. For physical training is of some value, but godliness has value in all things, holding promise for the present life. And the life to come. Paul is not saying the physical exercise is worthless. This is a what we call in seminary and a class we have to take called hermeneutics, which is the study of principles of internal. Interpreting literature, it's what we call an absolute for the relative. It's not saying that one is true and the other is false. It's saying they're both true, but one is more important than the other. Training ourselves, disciplining ourselves. Cultivating perseverance is more important than physical exercise or training. He's not saying physical extra exercise is worthless. He says it is of some value. But what is more important is disciplining ourselves for godliness. And that is our responsibility to cooperate with the Holy Spirit in that. Principle number one, remember who God is. If you and I are going to cultivate perseverance, we must remember who God is. Now we've already touched on this in some of your comments last night, but let me ask again, and I and I need some quick interaction here because the clock keeps moving. I do have a an answer for that. I can I can turn my watch back, but that doesn't really solve anything. Why would I begin here if I'm saying we want to develop and cultivate perseverance? Why would I begin with If we remember who God is. Help me out. Let me hear from you. Why would I begin there? Because we forget. Because we forget, all right. Remember who God is. We're gonna put the emphasis on remember because we forget. Why remember who God is? Why would we begin there? He's our creator? Because he's our creator, yes. You know sometimes these things are so simple you almost think, uh I really shouldn't even mention them. But we forget these things. It is he who made us and not we ourselves. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. I said last night I asked the question. I I said I didn't ask to be born, did you? No. We are here by God's design. Remember who God is. Now we've also discussed the question, other than the Lord, what are the first things we tend to focus on? Our family, ourselves, our friends, how much money's in our bank account, how much money's in any investments we have, our health, our entertainment. We go all kinds of places rather than remembering who God Is. But why do you suppose I would say remember who God is rather than start with remember what God's done? Talk to me. foundational. It's it's more foundational how? That's the starting point. He is powerful, he is loving, he is good, he is gracious. So what you're doing is reiterating God's attributes, God's characteristics. We must remember who God is. Oh yes. Oh my dear friend, the evangelical church in America is in sad straits these days because it does not remember who God is. God has become for many professing Christians the great psychologist in the sky. And his number is 911. And you just punch it in whenever you're in trouble. Instead of remembering who he is and worshipping him and loving him. Adoring him, praising him, whether you feel like it or not, because great is the Lord and most worthy of praise. His greatness no one can fathom. Remember who God is. Would you listen to our Father's word, Psalm one hundred nine, verse Psalm one hundred three rather, verse nineteen? God has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom, we can translate that word His sovereignty rules over all. Through the prophet Isaiah, he says in Isaiah 42, verse 8, I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory, that is my honor, my credit. I will not I am the Lord. That is my name. Now in English, I am the Lord is the same. capital L O R D all caps and many of you know that when you read all caps in English that is the Hebrew name Yahweh the covenant name of God that God gave to Moses in Exodus 3:14 by the burning bush, I am who I am. I am Yahweh. That is my name. And because that's my name, because that's who I am. It will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to idols. Now what does the name Yahweh mean? Well there's no way I can tell you all of that. There's no way we can exhaust who God is. But may I say to you that minimally, minimally, this is what the name of Yahweh means within the context of Holy Scripture. It means that he is the self-existence. Existent, self sufficient, eternal God who reveals himself in redemption. That is, he's the redeemer, he buys people back out of the slave market. sin, who reveals himself in redemption with steadfast covenant, love, and loyalty. Now I want to tell you, that's a mouthful. So I want to run that by you again. What this What does the name Yahweh mean minimally? That he is the self-existent, self-sufficient. Nobody created him. That's a mystery to us, but nobody created him. How does the Bible begin? In In the beginning, God. In the beginning, God created. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He is self-existent. He is self-sufficient. He doesn't Leave anything or any win. Have you ever heard a preacher say, wrongly, you know why God created people? God was lonely, and he wanted to have some fellowship. Oh my dear friend, in the Blessed Trinity there is perfect fellowship, perfect communion. God is self-existent, self-sufficient. He doesn't need anything. And this is about as un-American as it gets. He doesn't need anything. In you. That's what makes his amazing grace all the more amazing. The self existent, the self-sufficient, eternal God from everlasting to everlasting. You are God who reveals himself in redemption. He's calling out a people for his name with steadfast covenant, love, and loyalty. That's why he's faithful in 1 Corinthians 10, 13, and will not allow you to be tempted beyond you are able to bear and so forth. Remember who God is. Learn to say, as we said last night. with Jeremiah. Great is your faithfulness. God is the God who has promised that ultimately all things We'll work together for good in your life and mine. And do you know why? Well certainly for his pleasure, for his glory. But verse twenty nine, that was Romans eight twenty eight. gives us the answer. Never separate Romans 828 from 829. People do that all the time. You know, well, fuck up. All things work together for good. Here's some literature. I'll pray for you and see you in heaven. Ever had anybody give you that treatment? Now, why is it that all things work together for good to those who love God? Why do we love God at all? Because God first loved us. Why do all things work together for good? Good among other reasons here is verse 29. For or because God has predestined, he has predetermined that everyone he brings to himself will be conformed, molded, still. Squeezed into the likeness of Jesus Christ. And have you noticed? I have noticed for over 54 years that God relentlessly pursues what he has predetermined. Remember who God is. There is a drift in the church today an erroneous teaching that comes up so often in counseling that really says, and it just is it it reflects the secular culture that I cannot really have a good and right relationship with God until I learn to have a good and right relationship with a human And if I never had a good and right relationship with my human father, then I've got to go out and establish a good and male relationship before I can have a good relationship with God. Oh my friend, that is not what the Bible teaches. Don't take a Any negative uh understanding or negative experience that you had with your father or grandfather or any male in real life and forced it back on God. For God is not like that. Remember who God is. Skip mentioned last night when he introduced me that my first wife, whose name was Sylvia, to whom I was married for over thirty years, died. 18 years ago. And when she died, my life turned inside out. I knew she was dying. She knew she was dying. for the last five and a half months of her life. And we knew that if God did not intervene, that humanly speaking there was no hope for her. She was only thirty-nine when she was diagnosed with breast cancer. But it was already in her bones when they found it and there Was nothing they could do for her. And during those last several months, I had to remember, as she had to remember, who God is. And when I remembered who God is, it enabled Rich Hardman, you are not the first man who ever lost his wife. So don't act like you are. Now that may sound harsh and mechanical to some of you, but that was of huge comfort to me. Because you said that the same thing is that the first one is a very good thing. See, I could think my my trial here, my testing was unique. No one else has ever suffered this, and therefore I would begin to look at it in a an askewed perspective. When I remembered who God is, I could also say this to myself as I mentioned to you I think this morning. God is not about to make his first mistake on you, Butch Hardman, so don't pretend that he is. Do I understand all of that that was happening? It was eighteen years ago. I still don't understand. How a woman who has hardly sick a day in her life, who never moved in once or twice a year, would ask for two tyrannol. I still don't understand any of that. But you see, when I remember, Who God is, I don't have to understand and have all kinds of explanations to trust Him. You see, we've got so many professing Christians running around saying, Oh, when God explains it all to me, when God tells me, Tells me why. When God answers all my questions, then I'll trust Him, then I'll follow Him. Well forget about it. God is not going to do that for you. And how do I know? His words say so. Deuteronomy 29, 29. Now there's an easy reference to remember. May have a harder time memorizing the verse, but Deuteronomy 29 says, The secret things belong to the Lord. The things that are revealed are for us and our children that we May obey this law. God says there are two things. Secret things, they belong to me. Things I've revealed, they belong to you. Why? So that you and your children may obey me. But what are the first things we want to know? The revealed things? Uh-uh. The secret things. Oh God, tell me the secret things. And he says lovingly as our heavenly father, I'm sorry, I've already gone on record by saying the secret things are mine, and in this life you won't know them. My wife died. God gave me the grace to conduct her funeral. Across the street was our neighbor, Elsie Kelly, who had been my neighbor for all the years I had lived in that house. Elsie Kelly later died, and I conducted her funeral. My wife was 50 when she died. Elsie Kelly was 92 when she died. My wife never had a cigarette in her hand, let alone in her mouth. Elsie Kelly, my neighbor across the the street, smoked a pack or two of cigarettes every day. Do you understand that? No. But I remember one day I'm getting stuck on the belt road. Have you ever had that wonderful experience And if I was stuck in traffic, I glance to my left and here's a a a couple that was then about my age now and the woman is just puffing on the cigarette and you know, blowing out the smoke. I and I thought again what I don't understand and then I prayed out loud in my car as I remembered who God is. Father, thank you. That is not my department. I am not in charge of the department of how long people live. I'm not in charge of that department. That's your department. And I can lose that with you. Night after night after I went on staff at McLean Presbyterian Church in the early 1990. This is long before my wife Peggy and I started going out, and long before we were married. I cannot tell you how many nights I drove home weeping. I was so lonely. I didn't even want to put the key in the lock because I knew I was walking. Walking into an empty house. And night after night, as I drove around the beltway to my home in Falls Church, often through tears, and on one occasion I remember having to read. Reach over and get a Kleenex and and wipe my eyes. I was crying so profusely. And let me tell you, folks, it's hard enough to drive in the boat where you know that, even when you're not crying. And as I wiped my eyes, I prayed and said this to God. Oh God, I I thank you that I understand something of who you are. And you know my heart is aching. But I thank you that you are not playing games with me, that you are not joking. That you are sanctifying me, that you are conforming me to the likeness of Jesus Christ. And I praise you that I understand that. I don't understand these things. I don't see it. What you're trying to do. But I thank you I know from your words some of who you are, something of who you are, and I can trust you. Now, eighteen years later, do I understand, as I said earlier, No. But oh my dear friend, as I look into the rear-view mirror of my life, I can continue to look through the windshield, not in unbelief, but in faith. And that's why you must remember who God is. That's the beginning point. The first point when you study theology that you are taught is the incomprehensibility of God, that you will never learn all about it. about God in this life or the next. That does not mean we can't know anything about God. We can know much about Him from His Word and from creation and from His experience from and ministry. of his Holy Spirit. But you and I must every once in a while look up in that rear view mirror and see again who God is and that he has been faithful all the way. As the psalmist says in Psalm 119, Lord, you are good, and all that you do is good. And someone added, And God is good all the time. Remember who God is. Principle number two, feed yourself. How do I know I am to feed myself? Jesus tells me so. Matthew four verse four men shall not live on bread or food. Now I told you that's Matthew four, verse four. But what really that is, is that is a quotation from Deuteronomy eight, verse three. Times that Jesus answered Satan in the desert or the wilderness, he answered him from the book of Deuteronomy. There are Christians who've never read the book of Deuteronomy, let alone memorized verses from Deuteronomy to use in resisting temptation. Our Lord isn't saying it's wrong to eat food. What he is saying is, and please don't miss this, you and I cannot live on just Food. And you know that. That's why you and I must feed ourselves. Jeremiah said in chapter 15, verse 16 of the book that bears his name, your words were found and I ate them, and your word became for me the joy and rejoicing of my heart. You want to be more joyous? You want to be a more rejoicing Christian? Christian, then eat the word of God. Now I don't mean put your mouth on your Bible and start chewing. I mean get it into your life. Feed yourself on it. Listen to what Paul says to us in Romans 15, verse. spirit for everything that is written in the past was written to teach us so that through endurance that is perseverance and encouragement of the scriptures we might Have hope. You want to be more encouraged? Then feed yourself on the word of God. Failure to feed ourselves on God's word is one of the major reasons for lack of perseverance. Furthermore, if you're not feeding yourself, how in the world can you feed others? And God has called us to feed others. Oh not just us pastors. But Every Christian has the responsibility, in one way or another, to be a teacher, a conveyor of the Word of God. But your ministry must be mooted and grounded in holy scriptures, not the latest poll, not the latest. Not the little book that's been published by some fellow Christian. Listen to the testimony of the psalmist in Psalm 119, verse 92. If your law had not been my Delight, I would have perished in my affliction. And may I also remind you that another way we feed ourselves is by feeding on our Lord Jesus Christ in the sacrament of holy day. As we come by faith to renew our covenant with Him, trusting the ministry of the Holy Spirit, the really giving thought to what we're doing, not just going through it perfunctorily, mechanically, but having our minds and our hearts Engage mixing that sacrament with faith. Shortly after my wife died, I was listening to a tape. And I heard The man who is preaching on that tape mentioned Romans five verses one through five. He was going through them, he was giving an exposition of them that is setting forth the meaning and the purpose of that text with application. And I'll never forget saying to myself, Man, do I need that? And so even though I was already in my fifties, I went against everything my culture was saying to me and memorized that. passage. Isn't that amazing? A man who at the time was fifty four years of age and he memorized five whole verses. Whoa. Eight Wonder of the world. And do you know what I started doing? Because dear folks, I'll tell you. I would cry myself to sleep so many nights, and I would lie there alone. alone, remembering who God is, having fed myself, and I would spiritually masticate that is, I would chew on that passage. Now I want to quote that passage for you, not to impress you, but to bless you, not as in the dining hall, but as in another way. But I want you to be blessed by listening to this. it in the New American Standard Bible, Romans chapter five, verses one through five. And this is what I would quote every night to myself as I went to bed. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have received have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. understand. And not only this, but we also rejoice in our tribulations. And not and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only this, but we also rejoice in our tribulations. Knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance and perseverance, proven character, and proven character hope, and hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out. Into our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. And night after night, week after week, month after month, year after year, I went over those five verses as I put myself together. The bed. And even after I married Peggy, I laid in my bed and I would drove with those verses. Do you know what I found? By chewing on those verses for years, I came to understand. That in those five verses are twenty canon, twenty major doctrines in the Word of God. Oh how important it is. To feed yourself. For you see, having fed myself and remembering m remembered who God was, I could move on. As J. I. Packer reminded us earlier today, I could trust God. And get moving. Well, that brings us to number three, and you're glad because at that place you were thinking you wouldn't get any lunch. Remember who God is, feed yourself, print yourself. Principle number three Don't wait till you're in trouble to pray. Don't wait till you're in trouble to pray. Now how do I know that that is a principle from God's Word in cultivating perseverance because Jesus tells us so. In Luke eighteen verse one Luke eighteen verse one Jesus started to tell a parable and he said that Luke says that he told this parable and this was the end or the objective. Or the burden of this parable, that you and I should always pray and not lose heart. Now you know when you run that prerogue the right way, that's what it says. But you know when you reverse it, this This is what it says, if you don't pray, you will what? Lose heart. Now that Greek word there translated lose heart literally means to turn back, to turn coward, to carry them. Do you know why so often we cave then? and don't have perseverance, we not only don't remember who God is, we not only don't feed ourselves consistently, we wait till we're in trouble to pray. And prayer becomes an SRS. In trouble again, I mean you What is prayer? Prayer, one of my mentors taught me, is the realization that my need is not partial. But total. I don't come to God saying, you know, God, I am an American. You know that. You placed me in this country. And I've got about ninety, maybe ninety 8. 5% of us knocked. But I really could use a little help for this last one and a half percent. No. No. Jerry Bridges says that prayer is the tangible expression of our dependence. I prayed earlier today that we are utterly dependent on God. I pray that is the God in whose hand our very breath is. That's from the book of Deborah. Daniel. When you understand that, you are more prone to pray than to strategize. Don't wait till you're in trouble to pray. Jared Bridges writes, It is precisely because we are not endowed with a reservoir of strength that we need to pray daily for the Spirit's enabling work in us. Holiness requires continual effort on our part and continual effort. Then we are nourishing and strengthening by the Holy Spirit. Unless we plan to pray, however, and set aside a specific time to do it, you will find that you will not carry out your good intentions. Unquote. Mark tells us in chapter one of his gospel, verse thirty five, but very early in the morning while it was still dark, Jesus got up, left the house, and And went out to a solitary, to a lonely place where he prayed. His testimony was this in John 8 29, our rays do their things that please my father. We have a simple nature. We will not be able to say that this side of the Father's house. But if you want more consistently to be able to please your heavenly Father, then you must not only remember who he is, you must not only feed yourself, you must not wait until you are in trouble to pray. For if the eternal Son of God, the perfect God man, saw the need for prayer for a relationship with his father, what makes you and me think we are going to cultivate a Perseverance without doing that. Remember who God is. Feed yourself. Don't wait till you're in trouble to pray. Here's the fourth principle. Someone mentioned it last night in response to one of my questions. If you and I are going to develop and cultivate perseverance, then don't isolate yourself. Don't isolate yourself. Now where do I get that? Look in Romans twelve, verses four and five, for example. It says just as each of us has one body with no Many parts or members, and these members do not all have the same function. Now listen, he's going to apply that statement. So in Christ, we are many from one body, and each member belongs. Belongs to all the others. Did you get that? And each member belongs to all the others. By the way, was that a bell for eating? Yeah, I I think it means we got fifteen minutes. Fifteen, okay. Okay. Good. Each member belongs to all the others. That means to be very un-American about it, you don't belong to yourself. You belong to God first of all. And you belong to your brothers and sisters in Jesus. And because you belong to the Lord and to your brothers and sisters in Christ, you are not to isolate yourself. Now tell me. What is one of the classic symptoms of depression? What's one of the first things you want to do when you're discouraged and depressed? Now I don't mean dysfunctional, you're lying at home in a feetable position in bed and you haven't done the work for three weeks. mean that. But you're just discouraged and despondent. And what's the first thing you want to do? Withdraw. Isolate yourself. I don't have to discuss this with anybody. I don't even want anybody to know I have this problem. What do we say? He says something like this to her says, I'm going to go home. I'm going to lock the door. I'm going to pull down the shades of the blinds. I'm going to turn off the lights and I won't even answer the phone if it rings because it might be a well-meaning Christian trying to encourage me and I will not allow that Now, are there times we need to be alone? Of course there are. You don't want to have a quiet time with, you know, 30 people screaming in the background. So you just described one home. There are times we need to be alone. As one of my mentors said to me, years and