This morning we're going to continue with our study of the book of Ruth. If you haven't opened your Bibles to Ruth, we are going to be going to the second chapter. So please do so now. Last time we were together was a couple of weeks ago, and we uh concluded uh with the end of chapter one. It was there that we read the return of Naomi to her hometown of Bethlehem, along with her daughter, daughter-in-law, I should say, Ruth, the Moabitus Since she and her family left for Moab during a famine in the land of Judah seeking out food, she in the intervening time experienced a horrible loss. By losing her husband Elimelech and her two grown sons, who had married local Moabitus women, neither of which had any children. Naomi, having lost any hope of a future, decided to return to Bethlehem, she sent her two daughters-in-law back to their homes. only one returned, Orpha, if you recall, but Ruth chose to stay with Naomi. We noted that although a Moabitus, hated by Israelites, Ruth was a convert. She placed her faith in the God of Israel, Yahweh. In very covenantal language, she told her mother-in-law, I'm coming with you, and I want to be with God's people. She abandoned her Moabite gods, small g and looked only to the future, trusting herself to the one true God. When they returned, Naomi didn't want to be called by her name, if you recall. Instead, she told the townfolk to call her Bitter, Mara, instead. She was that way because, as she stated, God had dealt bitterly with her. He had bared witness against her and had judged her. She was on the verge of accusing God of ill treatment. God put her in the situation without her not really knowing what she had done to deserve that type of treatment. Now let's be clear, she fell short of actually saying that. However, as I pointed out back then, that sometimes that's a similar sentiment that we share at times in our lives. But we don't really say it out loud. Now we won't travel down that road, which we've already journeyed. However, it is available for you to review and refresh your memories if you want to online. So as we move on to chapter 2, we will see the beginning of a turn of events in the life of Naomi and Ruth. We are introduced by our author, at least the curtain, is beginning to be raised to help us to see God's plans and how he will use tragedy. and human suffering, and turn that into something that brings joy and hope to our hearts and to our lives. And interestingly enough, God is doing this in some small town whose name means house of bread. One can't help but wonder. Is this some foreshadowing of him using tragedy? and human suffering in some far in the future time to bring about hope and joy into the lives of his people That someone would even arise from the very same town? One can, of course, only but wonder. I can't help but speculate would this person not only be born in a city known for bread, but he himself would be the bread of life itself. Now I need to be careful for those of you who haven't read ahead to spoil it for you. So I'll just stop right there. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word, which comes to us from the book of Ruth. I'll be reading the entirety of chapter 2. Hear now the word of God. Now Naomi had a relative of her husband's, a worthy man of the clan of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz And Ruth and Moabite said to Naomi, Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after him, in whose sight I shall find favor. And she said to her, Go, my daughter. So she set out and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and she happened to come to the part of the field Belonging to Boaz, who was of the clan of Elimelech. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and he said to the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they answered, The Lord bless you. Then Boaz said to his young man, who was in charge of the reapers, Whose young woman is this? And the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered, She is the young Moabite woman who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab. She said, Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves after the reapers. So she came. And she's continued from early morning until now, except for a short rest Then Boaz said to Ruth, Now listen, my daughter, do not go to glean in another field or leave this one. But keep close to my young women. Let your eyes be on the field that they are reaping and go after them. Have I not charged the young women not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessel vessels and drink what the young men have drawn. Then she fell on her face, bowing to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner? But Boaz answered her, all that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband has been fully told to me and how you left your father and mother and your native land and came to a people that you did not know before The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel. Under whose wings you have come to take refuge. Then she said, I have found favor in your eyes, my lord For you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, though I am not one of your servants. And at mealtime Boaz said to her, Come here, and eat some bread, and dip your morsel in the wine. So she sat beside the reapers, and he passed it to her roasted grain, and she ate until she was satisfied, and she had some left over. When she rose to glean, Boaz instructed his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and do not reproach her And also pull out some from the bundles for her, and leave it for her to glean, and do not rebuke her So she gleaned in the field until evening. Then she beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about an effa of barley And she took it up and went into the city. Her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. She also bought out and gave her what food she had left over, being satisfied. And her mother-in-law said to her, Where did you glean today? And where have you worked? Blessed be the man who took notice of you. So she told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked and said, The man's name with whom I work today is Boaz. And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, May he be blessed by the Lord, whose kindness has not forsaken the living or the dead. Naomi also said to her, The man is a close relative of ours, one of our redeemers. And Ruth the Moabite said, Besides, he said to me, You shall keep close to m by my young men until they have finished all my harvest. And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter. that you go out with his young women, lest in another field you be assaulted. So she kept close to the young women of Boaz, gleaning until the end of the barley and wheat harvests. And she lived with her mother-in-law. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we contemplate the The beauty of the words that our Heavenly Father has provided for us through you. Open our spiritual eyes so that we may be able to see and understand spiritual things. Open our spiritual ears so that we may be able to hear with ears that enlighten us, that give us joy to our hearts. And we ask that you would do all these things for God's glory. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. So, just as a refresher, let's remember that this is happening in the time of the judges. The kings of Saul and David have not been set up yet. And if you recall, in the very last verse of the book of Judges, it said, That it was like free ammo night at the AOK Corral. Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. Our passage from Proverbs would have felt right at home in this time. Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. Having said that, Israelite society had the law of God given to them by Moses for several generations at this time, and there were many who were obedient believers. Not everyone at that time in the visible church of God was an Israelite by name alone. In fact, we are introduced by our author to such a one in the first verse. It is introduced as a relative. Of her husband, Naomi's husband, Elimelech. His name is Boaz. This is the first time that we hear of him And we don't know much other than he has some familial relationship with her deceased husband. Now we have to be careful here and not presume because it says relative, it means a brother. We don't get anything like that from the text The use of the word relative can extend to someone who is in the same clan. You can say someone is a relative because you came down from the the clan of, for example, the clan of Benjamin. But we're told that this Boaz is a worthy man. He is a model citizen. He is such a one as those who was an obedient believer in God and lived in accordance with his revealed word, the law of God. As we have had Naomi communicate to us that these are ladies who are empty, if you recall. And then we come across Boaz, whom we are immediately able to surmise is a man of means. He is wealthy, possesses much land, and it is producing. In contrast to the ladies who are empty, he is a man who is full. In the Bible, Boaz is generally believed to mean in him is strength. There's great symbolism in his name, as one of the two pillars at the entrance of Solomon's temple was named Boaz, symbolizing God's strength In 1 Kings 7. 21, we read, He, Solomon, erected the pillars at the portico of the temple. The pillar to the south he named Yacan, and one to the north. Boaz. Now, as part of the law which Moses gave, there were statutes regarding the treatment of the poor, the widow, the orphan. God's provisions for the poor. When it was time for harvesting, the harvesters would go out and with one hand chop off wheat or barley. and with the other gather them together. Occasionally, as they were gathering them together, some of the sheaths would fall to the ground. When it did, They were not to pick it up. That was to be left for the poor, who would congregate at the fields during harvest season so that they can get some food for themselves. There were guidelines that not all of the produce was to be harvested. The point being not every bit or ounce was to be harvested Some was to be left for the poor. This was the edict of the ultimate landowner of Israel, God himself. Now, when the men who were cutting up and gathering the barley had their hands full, they would place that bundle on the ground. And servants would come right after or behind them and bundle them up together and bring them in for processing. Those bundles were not to be touched by the poor, for they were for the landowners. So Ruth tells Naomi that she's going to go and glean. She's doing what poor people do in their time period. And she's going to find a piece of property where the harvesters are going about the business of harvesting. Where she will be allowed to do so without hopefully any hassle. I say hassle because it's dangerous In this time period when you're a woman and you don't have a male protecting you, let's not forget we are living at a time when lawlessness is abounding Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. And also, let us not forget that she is a Moabitus. There may be ethnic prejudice against her as well. Now, after our author has told us about Boaz and what's occurred in Naomi's and Ruth's life, We are introduced to a little bit of irony in this text by our author, really designed for his readers and ourselves to respond in a bit of silent laughter. He tells us, as is the case in some translations, that by luck she ends up in a field belonging to none other than Boaz. By chance. Who we are now told that they are relatives via the fact that they are from the same clan. We really don't know how much time has transpired and how long Boaz's workers have been at it. But at some point Boaz shows up and we're introduced to him as a kindly man who is at least on the surface Godword focused. He greets his hired men with, May the Lord be with you. And they respond back to him, May the Lord bless you. Imagine going to work every day like that with a boss who comes in and says that, and you're free to say the exact same thing to him back. At at some point, meanwhile inspecting things, he notices a woman who is unknown to him. So he asks his foreman, his supervisor there. Whose is she? And this could mean anything from whose wife is she? Whose landowner does she belong to? What family is she from? Not having recognized her, he wants to know what she's doing here on his property. The foreman identifies her as Ruth. Amoabitus, the daughter-in-law of Naomi, the one that recently returned from Moab. And it is here that we have some alternate translations in this text Of which I have to bring up to your attention. The ESV, which is the version that we have been reading from, says She said, Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves after the reapers. So she came, and she was has continued from early morning until now, except for a short rest. That is what we have in our translations. However, there are other translations, like the NASB, which I tend to agree with, which states the following And by the way, this is in chapter 2 and verse 7. And this is the difference is at the the the the bottom part of the the latter part of the verse. I'll read that for us. And she said, please let me glean. Again, this is the supervisor who's telling Boaz what she said to him. And she said, Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and has remained from the morning until now. She has been sitting in the house for a little while. It's different, different altogether, I think. There's an interesting statement that's being made here. What Ruth requested to do was to follow the reapers and go through barley that was placed in bundles. The sheaves. Now remember, that was not what was in the law. It was the ones that fell to the ground that she can have. not the ones that were placed in bundles. Now we're translated as she has made that request From the moment she got there and has remained here, presumably, after, this is the supervisor saying, after I told her, I can't let you do that. Only the owner of the land can do that. Well, she's been here from the morning and sitting by the house waiting for you. And perhaps his remark can be taken in jest, and perhaps even frustration on his part, to mean she's taken up residency there. Now I think if this is the proper understanding of the text, it really puts Ruth in a different light If we're to understand it as she has been working alongside all the other poor all morning, then we see her as reserved. Self-effacing, quiet, modest, timid, foreigner However, if we are to see her as willing to wait for the owner to arrive to make her request directly, Some have said that would portray her as bold, assertive, not reserved, and having some intestinal fortitude. Willing to take action where others in her situation would not I think seeing her in this light helps explain her boldness, for which we shall see in the next couple of chapters. Furthermore, she is demonstrating determination and patience and trust. qualities that would have identified her as truly being the Moabitus that he had heard about who came alongside Naomi. How would Boaz respond? How would he respond to this young woman who has shown determination And yet great generosity and compassion to his relative Naomi. And at the same time, a convert. Well, we read that he showers her with generosity, proclaims God's blessings upon her, invites her to have a meal with his workers. He not only agrees to her request, which means that not only can she glean among the standing stalks, but also among the piles that have already been harvested, harvested grain. He tells her that she should not go to another's property to glean. And this is because he would not be able to protect her should he should she wander off, but to stay with his harvesters on his property It was, by the way, very easy to do that if you were poor and you were gleaning. There were no fences on property lines back then. You could have accidentally ended up in another person's property without knowing it. And since these were perilous times, you could have gone from a godly man's property who permitted you to glean as the law required to one that didn't observe the law. This could have gotten into a lot of hot water. Being a non-ethnic Jew, a single female. So he gave her not only her request But he gave her so much more. And after she went to clean Verse 15. He told his men the following. Boaz commanded his servant, saying, Let her glean, even among the sheaves, and do not insult her. Also, you are to purposely slip out for her some grain from the bundles and leave it so that she may glean and do not rebuke her. He was generous. He was a man that was affected by the generosity of God. The law of God to love, that he pours out kindness upon her, is so evident. And so we are told that Ruth leaned till the evening and headed home. And she went home with an unbelievable amount of barley. I'm going to get back to that in a moment. But before we do that, let's take a look at her response in verse 10. After Boaz lavished upon her great hospitality and generosity Ruth, Moabitus, who is a stranger, a foreigner to God and his people, asks a profound question. Why have I found favor in your eyes That you should take notice of me since I am a foreigner. One can't help but see in that question the very same question that every believer should be asking. We acknowledge that salvation is God's gift to us. It's all by His grace. And when we are reminded that we were born in sin and have lived in sin and have no desire to be with God or live by his ways. And that it had to take God to resurrect us from that spiritual death for which we were born in. You see, when we come into the realization that we would have never been able to choose God That he had to make us born again in order for us to see and accept his offer, which, by the way, his offer is irresistible, for whose eyes have been opened. Accept his offer to trust him. When you get all that, you come to a place. For you are asking the very same question that Ruth is asking of Boaz. Why me? Why me? You see, when you get to that question, we no longer ask Why not that person, Lord? Or that person, Lord? That person deserves to be saved. Why isn't that person saved? It's God's mercy. It's God's grace to give out. And no one has a claim against it. If they had earned it, it wouldn't be grace now, would it? An unmerited gift. That is what grace is. The question is now, why? Why me? Isn't it? Well, let me just say, once you get past that question. you will have to conclude that it's not due to anything in you or myself, right? It's all about God's grace. It's all about God's love. We have had God lavish us with his grace. And this is because he is merciful. He is loving. So Ruth is humbled and asks, Why? Why me? Now, Boaz's response is about what she had already done. That she had left her people, left her gods, renounced them for the living God of Israel. And not only that, but I have heard, Boaz continues, because of your kindness to your mother-in-law Naomi. I have heard all these things, he says. He got the scoop, a scoop from his, I guess, foreman, his supervisors on the field. And let's not forget People had been talking about this since they arrived into town. Do you remember when they arrived, it caused such a stir in Bethlehem? Now, we know the thing that motivated Boaz's kindness to Ruth is not her behavior. Her works, per se. It's her faith. And the demonstration of that faith is the way that she treated Naomi. We can see this in verse 12. The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel. Under whose wings you have come to take refuge. She has come to depend upon God to meet her needs. Perhaps Boaz sees in her Psalm 57, 1. For she is a woman that is depending upon God. She is relying upon him for her needs. Psalm 57, 1 says, Have mercy on me, my God. Have mercy on me. For in you I take refuge. I will take refuge in the shadow of your wings until the disaster has passed. This is simply the way that we must live, the way that we live out our lives, constantly reminding ourselves to place our trust and hope. Upon a God who is our refuge. Are you going through something in your life, Christian? That is currently turbulent in your life? The temptation to place your trust Or to lean on your own understanding is always there, isn't it? No matter how long it may take, our hope is in God. Keep your hope firmly planted upon Christ, who has already delivered your soul and will continue to protect you under his wings. Now I have to say, this is a very interesting person. Ruth is a foreigner, considered by the people of God as an enemy of God's people, of Moabitus. She has converted to God and could have stayed in Moab when Naomi returned. But she said, no, this is a real convert. This is the real deal. We ourselves must be careful to treat those that are not like us, who have been converted to Christ by the Holy Spirit with a lukewarm welcome. Our confession this morning had something to say about that, didn't it? That the church, those that are within the church, is a worldwide communion. Now, she gets back home and produces an effa of barley to give you an idea of how much that was. If you recall, I'm certain not personally, when God gave manna to his people in the wilderness, They were to collect an omar, which was the equivalent of a full day's meal. An omar is a tenth of an epa. This means that not only did she bring takeout for Naomi from the meal that she was invited to, but enough food for an average person to eat. Three meals a day for ten days. In this time period, if you were poor and you were gleaning and came back home with maybe a day's worth of barley. You would have considered yourself blessed. Yes? This absolutely gets Naomi's attention. I'm sure it would have gotten your attention as well Where did you get all this food? Were they throwing out the food at the all-you-can-eat falafel buffet? Verse 19, Ruth answers, the name of the man whom I worked today is Boaz. She would have known and did know who Boaz was. She identified him as a relative, not any old relative. She specifically identified him as a redeemer. Now we're going to come back to this next week And go deeply into what this means. But we can see that her effect, her affect, her attitude is beginning to change As even she called on God to bless him. She said, so in in what seems to be, I think, perhaps a very cryptic manner without explanation. As one who did not hold back his kindness from the living and the dead. Certainly he didn't feed her husband and children. What could she possibly be thinking? To this notion and the notion of Redeemer, we will return next week. But before we do, let's take a moment to reflect upon this passage. The entire book is about the providence of God and how his fingerprints are everywhere and how he's directing all things In fact, our author is kind of making fun of chance or luck. By chance, she ends up in Boaz's field, wink wink. But even with God being so intimately engaged with every aspect of creation and our lives. We must not lose sight of the fact that we are moral beings and that God has called us to lead godly lives in accordance with His revealed will. You know, we simply don't know the repercussions of our actions or inactions So it is absolutely incumbent upon us to love God, his ways, and be obedient. Boaz did not only obey the law of God And permit the poor to glean on his property. But he demonstrated generosity, hospitality, and kindness You and I, we must emulate the very same characteristics of God that Boaz emulated We simply don't know when and how God will use that in our lives and other people's lives. I recall having happened to know that there was a man in Cuba who shared with me, this was of course before the revolution occurred. who was a kind, gentle, hospitable, generous man. And when Castro came in with the revolution, they were rounding up people indiscriminately to execute. And when the townspeople heard that this man was arrested, the entire town came out to protest his arrest, and they let him go free. You just don't know how kindness will affect your future, let alone others. We can also learn from Ruth. The first is that being gentle and believing in God's providence Doesn't mean that we as Christians stay quiet or be reserved. We can be assertive in caring for others and proclaiming the love of Christ to others Please note, I said assertive, not obnoxious. Ruth was assertive. She was not obnoxious. And secondly, it's good for us to constantly live in that place of humility. That reminds us salvation is of the Lord. It has nothing to do with any of our goodness. It is his grace and it is his mercy which he has poured out on undeserving sinners like ourselves. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed for your grace in our lives. We thank you for your Son, the Lord Jesus. We thank you that you have extended and poured out upon us your forgiveness. We thank you that you have opened our eyes to the truth. We pray, Father, that you would be pleased to use us to love one another, to be gentle, to be kind, to be considerate, to be hospitable. Help us to reflect your very nature, your very character to one another Help us to reflect that to the unbeliever as well. May they know by just our own actions how good you are. How kind you are, how generous you are. So much so that we can't possibly believe that we That we're constantly asking, why me? How is it possible? Why me? Because we know How sinful we are, and yet we take comfort in knowing how gracious you are. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.