I'm going to read a quotation to you which has been a treasure to me now for almost 40 years when I first read it. In fact, I had it done in calligraphy, and I've had it sit various places in my study over the years on the wall or in a frame on the desk. It is a quotation from Oswald Chambers, not found in any of his Utmost for the highest books, but in The Missionary Crusader that was published way back. And this is how it reads. God can achieve his purposes either through the absence of human power and resources. Or the abandonment of reliance upon them. I'll read that opening phrase again. God can achieve his purpose either through the absence of human power and resources. or the abandonment of reliance on them. All through history, God has chosen and used nobody's Because their unusual dependence upon him made possible the unique display of his power and grace. He chose and used somebody's only when they renounced dependence on their natural abilities and resources. Oswald Chambers, God's Strength, Missionary Crusader, December 1964, page 7, if you ever want to look it up. What a quotation! And it informs really the great theme of 2 Corinthians, which in a nutshell is this is that new covenant ministry Is God's power shown forth through human weakness? That's what New Covenant Ministry is. that God uses human weakness to show forth his power and the gospel. It's a great theme of 2 Corinthians from beginning to end. And it is a theme which is wholly foreign in our culture. It's countercultural. And actually, across evangelical Christianity isn't understood. That God's power is perfected in weakness. This is not the way we think. We think that his power resides with the powerful and In Christianity, those that jet from city to city with spotlights upon them and proclaim the gospel amidst great pomp and circumstance. That's not so. Having had the text read this morning, you'll notice that it talks about clay jars or jars of clay. Now, clay jars were the throwaway containers of the ancient world, and their lifespan was generally just a few years, and then they're tossed. And they were used for almost everything. They were used for storing, transporting water, olive oil, and wine, grain. Even family treasures were kept in clay pots, sometimes buried in clay pots. And so they were clay pots, clay jars were an anonymous part of everyday life that people hardly noticed. Every domestic archaeological dig is full of what are called potsherds, broken pieces of pottery, ostrica from the Greek word pottery. No one took any notice of a clay pot any more than we do a tossed Starbucks cup. They're ubiquitous. They're everywhere. They were simply there for convenience. There is no tragedy if they're crushed, lost. Defaced, burnt, full of water. They were cheap and easy to replace. You didn't think about them. They're all around. Now, what they did is supply the Apostle Paul with a penetrating metaphor, if you or image. For himself and his followers in their humanity. Claypot's an image for our frail humanity. And uh this is freighted theologically. Adam was formed like clay out of the dust of the ground. And we clay pots return to the dust of the ground. So they're all frail. And weak as we are frail and weak and transitory mortals. That's what we are. We need to own it In my stage in life, maybe I've got a decade ahead of me, and this old clay pot is just going to disintegrate. And be no more. Frail, fragile, temporary, ephemeral. Now this understood Paul's famous declarations and pulses with meaning in verse 7. As was read. But we have this treasure in jars of clay, jars of clay, clay pots, to show its surpassing power belongs to God. And not to us. Now the treasure that we have in the preceding context, the last verse of the preceding of verse 6. is the light of the knowledge of the glory of the gospel of God in the face of Jesus. It's the illuminating power of the gospel. The penetrating light of the gospel is the treasure that's been given to us in earthen vessels, that transforming Creative power of the gospel has been given to us in all of our frailty. It's been committed again to insignificant, fragile, transitory followers of Christ who, like Paul, are all clay pots. Now the reason for this is that there would be no mistake about where the power of the gospel comes from. To show forth the surpassing power belongs to God and not to ourselves. And this is not some sort of pious Self-conscious acknowledgement of Paul and our of our limitations as compared with the greatness of God. This is not a casual illusion. This is Christian realism. We need to embrace it. That Christians are never powerful in themselves, only transitory vessels. where God's power is exhibited. And as Paul is giving this, he's giving it with testimonial power, and he's speaking primarily of himself. But as he speaks to himself, then the truth goes out to all of us to take hold of. Our utter frailty, our utter weakness, provides the ground for God's power. Not our strength. Our weakness. In fact, at the end of this letter, Paul rejoices, that his weakness makes him a conduit of God's power. We're gonna go that go here in the in the second talk that we have today, but this is the great kind of uh mountain peak of 2 Corinthians in the final chapter verse 9. In fact you might look at it. Turn there if you've got a Bible with you. If not, just listen very closely, chapter 12, verse 9, where we read God Christ speaking to Paul. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest on me. And more, as you see this, as you're looking at this metaphor of clay vessels, are clay vessels the breaking up of them through crushing circumstances. then allows the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ, verse 6, to shine forth in full gospel creational power. Our weakness is the ground of all of this. So Paul is categorically stating that our weakness is essential to and necessary to for the display of gospel power. I made a little note to myself this morning as I was going through these notes because I had something just happened That's happening to me right now is one of my very, very dear, longtime friends of well over 50 years, John Grundike just died I'm going to go out next weekend to do his funeral in California. Now let me tell you about John and his wife Verna. Lovely Christians About a decade older than Barbara and me, and people that shepherded us and loved us in our early time of ministry where we were living. And she was a great wit, fun to be with, full of life, full of one-liners, just uh a great sense of humor, and and kind of a lovely personality. She grown up in Beverly Hills. In fact, When she would have a babysitter sometime, she would take a picture of her senior prom date and put it up on the mantle, which was Richard Chamberlain. So you c you can get the idea. They'd come home to the babysitter and say, What what was this? Well Anyway, that's way in the past. She met John, great guy. They got married. He taught school for years, and she was involved in the life of our community, the life of the church About five years ago, Verna got dementia. Verna quickly got to the place where she didn't know who John was. Sh we go in, it might be a sort of recognition, but uh but and sh she couldn't carry on a conversation, follow a train of thought And John got terminal cancer all at the same time. Now John just wrote a page on this This says, you know, when we entered the golden years, which are supposed to be wonderful, he said, my wife got dementia and I got terminal cancer. And then he said, let the good times roll. And then John talked about his ministry of going to that convalescent home twice a day, helping Verna get dressed. Getting her all organized, being with her for her meal, talking with her, trying to sing with her, and so on, going home. He's under Chemotherapy, taking care of himself, and then going back in the evening. And in the evening, he would put Verna in a wheelchair and they would go to all the rooms in the convalescent home. And John would bought cookies and he'd give a cookie to each person and talk with them and so on, showing forth the gospel. Well, he ended it by saying, it's been a wonderful life. The opportunities that's come out of this for the gospel. He said, let the good times roll. And John's with Jesus. The gospel power in the midst of weakness in a way that is absolutely unforgettable. I'll never know. what the eternal results of John Grundike's ministry is. Ministry is in gospel power. Now it's very easy to misread Paul here. Which uh that that this weakness ultimately enhances our power. We can misread it that way. We can imagine, as we embrace our weaknesses, that He will pour His power into us. and that we will become powerful, so that the delusive equation is my weakness plus God's power equals my power. That's not what Paul is saying. Rather, he teaches us as we embrace our weaknesses. God fills us with his power so that his power is manifested through us. We do not become powerful. We become weak. As we grow in power, We grow in weakness. We go from weakness to weakness, which means to remain vessels of his power ever weak and ever strong. I realize from the logic of the world this sounds like nonsense. But it's God's revelation. It is said that someone once asked Saint Francis the secret of his ministry, and he replied, This may be why. The Lord looked down from heaven and said, Where can I find the weakest, littlest man on earth? Then he saw me and said, I found him. And he won't be proud of it. He'll see that I'm only using him because of his insignificance. Again, God's word, but we have this treasure of the gospel and its power in jars of clay. In our human weakness, fragility, to show the surpassing glory belongs to God and not to us. There needs to come a time when we embrace this, I think willfully embrace it. Knowingly embrace it, though we don't understand all the dynamics. We embrace it as true as a revelation from God. I think we can understand it here some, but we need to embrace it. Now, what happens after this declaration of where the power comes from? He's going to give us, he's going to drive it home with four paradoxes. Of power. Four parallel paradoxes which illustrate Paul's experience of the clay pot axiom in his own life that weakness invites strength. For Paul, these paradoxes are autobiographical. This was his experience. But they are the biography of every committed Christian disciple. And these paradoxes that he talks about kind of give you a panorama of how God uses his people throughout history. And they describe some people we have known. One's famous people, perhaps, like Jim Elliott, or unfamous people like the lady who cleans the facilities. In the local gymnasium. Now, one of the grand rhetorical moments in Paul's writings is this. You know how Paul Paul talks about not being eloquent? Look. He he didn't take up Greek sophistry and Greek eloquence, but Paul was eloquent. And Paul could write like few people could write, and these four paradoxes are absolutely polished. In balance, following the same pattern. You'll see they have the word but-not in between them. But not, but not, and the paradoxes present an ascending intensity of weakness. Countered by ascending power. So he begins with the first paradox, and you see it at the beginning of verse 8. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. Now, the earthen vessel, that fragile vessel, Paul's life was afflicted in the radical sense of being pressured. This is the the uh the the the the literal sense of the word of being really pressured. And I think maybe the best word to have for this is being squeezed. He's being squeezed in every way. The things that happen to the Apostle Paul are just a number of compressions. in his life. You turn back to the first chapter, verse 8, you hear about one of these compressions where he's being squashed. He says in verse 8, For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia, for we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life at death itself. That burden is like the idea of a pack animal being so loaded that he falls under the load. That's pressure. He said, indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. I mean, that's the kind of experience that Paul had in his life. I think that Merle Tenney's unpublished translation brilliantly expresses it. I had uh I've been teaching on this, and I had uh a man who Who taught the students Greek, the incoming students Greek at Wheaton, come to me and he says, I have a give me a little slip of paper from the the deceased Merle Tinney of years ago, Dr. Tenney, and This is what it said. We are squeezed but not squashed. I thought that is perfect. Squeezed but not squashed. Paul, clay vessel that he was, was astonishing and resilient because though he was squeezed, he was never squashed. That's the first paradox Paul talks about. Second, he was perplexed but not driven to despair. Now, I I don't want to uh I d's no use talking about the Greek, except I want you to hear this because it's a rhyming wordplay, perplexed but not driven to spare, sounds like this. Apa ruminoi, exapa ruminoi. You see how those words kind of go together or sound like they go together? And the second intensifies the first. And there's been all kinds of attempts to capture this in English, perplexed but not driven to despair, these rhyming words. At a loss, but not at a loss. In despondency, yet not in despair. Confused but not confounded. I like that last one. Confused but not confounded. But again. Dr. Tenney really got it, the word play, with bewildered but not befuddled. Wow. That's it. Bewildered but not depu befuddled Fragile as Paul's humanity was, confronted with difficulties, he was never befuddled and despairing. It was once said of Napoleon that he had an unquestioned magic for victory, but no technique for defeat. So you have him riding his horse mounted at Austerlitz. And then the despairing Napoleon slouching on his horse away from Moscow. Paul had a technique for defeat and weakness. And the surpassing power belongs to God. He was perplexed at times, but never driven to despair. Bewildered at times, but not befuddled. This was Paul. And when he was talking to his disciple Timothy in 2 Timothy, he he picked up on this idea of not being befuddled or or uh you know keeping keeping it together. And he said in 2 Timothy 4. 5 to Timothy, but you keep your head in all situations. Paul did. His strength was perfected. God's strength was perfected in his weakness. Two paradoxes. Third paradox, Paul was persecuted but not forsaken. Now, Paul knew What it was to be persecuted. Literally, the idea means to be pursued and hunted down. And certainly he was. He was pursued all over Asia Minor and all over Europe, hounded constantly by detractors. But not forsaken. See, God can't forsake his chosen vessels. Jesus When he prophetically cried on the cross, quoting Psalm 22, 1, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Knew That he would not be abandoned utterly to the grave. And more, God will not forsake any of his people. So Paul was absolutely confident in God's presence and deliverance. He was hounded, but never forsaken. Never forsaken. Remember in Acts, I think it's the 23rd chapter of Acts, where Jesus appears with Paul in his cell. And encourages him to go ahead with his ministry and speak the word because he was with him. Not forsaken. Never forsaken. And then the fourth paradox, the intensity of the paradox is peak in the final expression, struck down but not destroyed. This struck down, if you wanted to get the idea, the literal idea, we talk about it today with kind of a common terminology today. He was whacked. As whacked by a weapon. But he wasn't destroyed. He was back on his feet. Now we know of one of those events that happened in the town of Lystra, Acts 14, when the The synagogue and other detractors stoned Paul and left him for dead. Can you imagine such a thing as being pelted with stones, probably some of the size of bricks, until you've been knocked unconscious and bruised and are not breathing? You get the idea of what happened. And you remember in there he was dragged out of town where his body was going to be left to rot. His disciples gathered around him. This is how I imagine. I don't know how it was. But I think he popped open one eye. And they kind of went back. And then both eyes were open. And then maybe he said something like, We've got to get out of here. And they thought, out of the city, and he meant right back into Lystra, where he went. Paul was something else. Again, Dr. Tenney gets it better than anyone, I think. Knocked down, but not knocked out. Incredible strength midst total weakness. And you catch the intensity of these paradoxes by stacking the sufferings he endured in his earthly vessel. Squeezed. Bewildered, pursued everywhere he goes, whacked, knocked down, abject weakness. But then you have a surpassing power, not squashed. Not befuddled, not abandoned, not knocked out, astonishing power So again, when you look at verse 7, but we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing glory belongs to God and not to us. And I don't think that it was sort of Paul reached down inside of himself and sucked it up and became the man. Sort of rose up in stature John Wayne on quaeludes and went on his ministry to Asia. I don't think that that's what happened here. It was never his strength, but it was God. Paul's weakness was an occasion for his power, and Paul remained an earthen pot. Risk of sounding a little cute, a crackpot at that As his crumbling flesh allowed the power of God to shine so brightly. is always laurering his point. He is always making his point. And so he deepens his point And he goes on to instruct the Corinthians that his experience of power through weakness was, in fact, that of Jesus in his death weakness and his resurrection power. And he sums up. The paradoxical experiences with a radically Christ-focused statement in verse 10. So we're going to look at Jesus now. As example, he says about himself, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus. So that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our bodies. And I want to submit to you that you could say, always carrying his body, the death, that is the weakness of Jesus, the manifest weakness of Jesus. So that the life, the resurrection power of Jesus, may also be manifested in our bodies. And when you really want to get into what's going on here, you have to very carefully note that the word death Refers to the process of dying, the process of dying, rather than just death itself. There is a careful New Testament scholar by the name of C. K. Barrett explains. This is very important. He's talking about death. He says, Paul's meaning is that one who observed his life as a Christian apostle would see constantly repeated a process analogous to the killing. Of Jesus. In other words, he doesn't use the normal Greek word Thanatos, he uses the word necrosin necrosis, which means the killing of Jesus. He carried about his body the dying of Jesus as he lived out his missionary calling, the killing of Jesus. Galatians 6. 17, Paul concluded his letter to Galatians saying, from now on, let no one cause me trouble, because I bear in my body the marks of Jesus. Those beatings, those stonings, those shipwrecks. He says, Don't anyone dismiss me Because you see, he's been living out the killing of Jesus. And Paul got those marks in four kinds of suffering when he was squeezed. When he was bewildered, when he was pursued, and when he was knocked down. They were the dying of Jesus And indeed, Jesus, by virtue of his solidarity with Paul, knew those sufferings. Right? In fact, Jesus could have said to Paul's persecutors what he said to Paul at one time when he was persecuting believers, why are you persecuting me? Persecuting Paul, but persecuting Jesus. Jesus bore those sufferings with Paul. Now, as the bearing in his body, the killing of Jesus, was part of Paul's experience of ministering the new covenant, it was not an end in itself. And you see that at the end of verse 10, where we who serve Jesus, sharing his dying, So that, I'm quoting verse 10, the life of Jesus may be manifested in our mortal bodies. This refers both to the here and now and the afterlife. Those Who observed Paul saw the life of Jesus in amazing power that was displayed through Paul's weakness. They saw the life of Jesus, not squashed, not befuddled, not abandoned, not knocked out. And in the same way, the life of Jesus Is manifested in the lives of those who truly follow him. I go back to my friend John Grindike. What a joy it's going to be to preach his funeral. Because his earthen vessel, as it was, crushed, shine forth the gospel of Jesus. It's going to shine forth at his funeral. Ultimately, these realities will be full-blown in the final deliverance from mortality and the great resurrection of the dead. Two things are going to happen at the resurrection of the dead. One thing I always say at a funeral, 1 John 3, 2, when we see him, we will be like him, for we will see him as he is. We're going to be like Jesus. But let me tell you something about the body of these clay vessels. And this is from Philippians. The third chapter, verses twenty and twenty-one. For our citizenship is in heaven And from it we await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now listen to this. We await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Who, that is, Jesus, will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him to subject all things to himself. The point is, is in the end. You're not only going to see him and be like him, Jesus is going to transform your body to be like his body. Now that is power that comes out of weakness. So that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our mortal bodies now. And eternally. And to emphasize these truths, Paul repeats himself again only in stronger terms in verse 11. He says, For we who live are always being given over to death for the sake of Jesus, Jesus' sake. So that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal bodies. Being delivered over to death. Do you know that that is exactly the same language used to describe Jesus being handed over to his enemies in Mark 9. 31? Paul knew what he was saying. The sufferings of those who follow Christ aren't haphazard, but part of the divine plan for the spread of the gospel. Fate has never brought you into suffering. It's like Jesus. When he goes to the cross, it's according to the foreordained knowledge and provision and plan of God, Acts 2. You're never subject to faith. It remains God's will that his frail jars of clay be used to show forth surpassing power belongs to God. Now, Paul concludes this astonishing paragraph with an unexpected twist by the way he's been structuring his thought. And we would expect him to say, when you get to verse 12, so death is at work in us. But life is working us too. But he says this So death is at work at us, but life in you. That's the great principle of the cross. Death was it work in Jesus so that life would be working in you. Death works through his servants so that the gospel goes out. For those who are used most to spread the good news of Christ, those people embrace death as the operational principle of ministry. That's a hard thing to say. Death as the operational principle of ministry. Death When George Mueller, pastor and provider for thousands of children, was asked the secret of how God used them, he hung his head and said, There was a day when I died. Then they say he hung it lower and said, Died to George Mueller. Jesus said, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls to the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. It's humbling to take to heart the fact that we are just clay pots and that we are fragile. And that we're transitory, vessels of weakness. Let me just emphasize the transitoriness to everybody that's Oh, let's see, ten years old to twenty. Okay. Um I remember uh being at the hospital when my one of my grandsons no, I'll I'll go, my daughter Holly was born. Okay. Back about 1963. She was like a little hot star fallen from heaven. It's a little moist star, you know. I blink my eyes, and I'm transported 20 years, 20-some years later, to Central DuPage Hospital in Wheaton, Illinois. And I'm holding young Brian's firstborn, Rebecca, like another little nova. I I I blinked my eyes again. And um I've got I'm as old as I am today. About a half a blanket I'm with Jesus. That is how fast it goes. That is how fast it goes. Those of you with gray hair are going, mm-hmm. It does. I just want you to remember that as we conclude It's humbling to accept Paul's declaration, but we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that surpassing glory belongs to God and not to us. It's not a formula for our power. It's not an equation for power, my weakness plus God's power equals my power. It's humbling. To understand and acknowledge that my weakness will not make me strong. The embracing of weakness leads to more weakness. But it is also beautiful and liberating to know that God's power in our lives does not come from our pursuit of power. It doesn't come from pursuing power. How wonderful to know we have this treasure and jars of clay to show that the surpassing glory belongs to God and not to us. Hence, my favorite quote from Oswald Chambers. Hear it again: God can achieve his purpose. Either through the absence of human power and resources or the abandonment of reliance on them. All through history, God has chosen and used nobody's. Because their unusual dependence upon Him made possible the unique display of His power and grace. He chose and used somebody's only when they renounced dependence on their natural abilities and resources. What resiliency comes from this. Squeeze, but not squat. Bewildered but not befuddled, pursued but not abandoned, knocked down but not knocked out. How beautiful to reflect the life of Jesus In us, always carrying the body, the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifest. In our bodies, in this world, and in eternity. How heartening to know that death is at work in us, but life is at work of those who God has called us to serve. Great truth of the gospel. We're going to follow it up by seeing how ravishing this truth becomes in the final argument in the book of 2 Corinthians. So looking forward to the time with you today. May it be used to really sanctify and elevate the body of Christ. Give you great freedom, great joy. Amen.