Good morning. Can you all hear me alright? Good, good. Well it it's a joy to be here. Um if you all would turn with me to John chapter 2. And like has already been said, I'm Serial Chaivis I. Uh work for RUF, it stands for uh Reformed University Fellowship. And we're the kind of official campus ministry of our denomination and so I'm new in the area and uh I'm I'm my I seek to start a Reform University Fellowship at Howard University and so we're in the process of uh getting approved and I'm taking classes on campus and meeting students and getting to know the campus and so it's it's been fun and um so so that's why I'm here and Also, one of the biggest joys of being RUF came as minister is that we're not called to one specific church. We kind of work for the regional church. It's called the Presbytery. So I get the privilege of worshiping with congregations all over the DMV area. So it's a joy to be here with you all. All right, uh again, John chapter 2. John chapter 2. So uh John is a gospel account. Uh gospel simply means good news. And a gospel account is a telling of the life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus. And so here we're towards the beginning. So John's gospel account is divided into you could say signs. There's seven signs and this is the first of Jesus' signs. So John is introduced to Jesus. We've seen him get baptized. We've learned about John the Baptist. He calls his disciples. And so now we're at the uh his first sign. And so um I wanted to dig into what this sign tells us about Jesus What does Jesus turning water into wine? What does this tell us about Jesus? So uh John chapter 2, starting in verse 1, we'll read and then uh I'll pray and we'll dive in On the third day, there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Now, there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now, draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first. And when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in them believed in him. After this he went down to Capernaum with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days. This is the word of the Lord. Amen. Let me pray for us. Lord, thank you for this time. Lord we thank you for the The fact that you are so good and so wise and righteous that you have not left us ignorant about who you are and how to live fully. But Lord, you have spoken to us in your word. And you have committed it to writing so that it's plain and it's clear. There will be no debate. And so God, we are devoting ourselves to your holy writings right now. God, we ask that you would instruct us. You would teach us, train us, reproof us, correct us, that we might be equipped to be like you, Jesus. God, I ask that you would give me strength. Lord, would you please give me strength? Holy Spirit, would you fill me and empower me to explain what you have already said, to apply it to our lives? God, we ask that you would uh strengthen the hearers, Lord, that their hearts would be open, that they might believe and love your word, that they would not only be good hearers, but they would be gooddoers. They wouldn't just leave it here, but they would take it with them and practice it in their lives, that they might glorify your name in all of the city. So Lord, we love you and we thank you. In Christ's name. Amen. All right. So my wife Janelle my wife my wife and kids actually uh couldn't make it this morning. Um but so my wife Janelle and I, we like to well she likes to do weekend trips. I'm I'm really the boring person in the marriage. I could sit at the house and you know watch uh bubble guppies with my with my daughter and you know that's the kind of person I am but she loves to do weekend trips. And so we'll you know when we so we actually moved from Jackson, Mississippi. So we would go down to the Gulf Coast, we would drive from Jackson down to the Gulf Coast and you know Hatttiesburg, her college town would be halfway in between and you know, because Jackson doesn't really have much. We would the only Cadoba near us was in Hattiesburg, so we would drive an hour and a half, get some codoba, and then we continue to drive down to the Gulf Coast and and eat. But, you know, w when we would drive back You know, I'm I'm looking forward to getting back and and and relaxing a little bit and I'm seeing the signs pass by. It says, you know, Jackson 60, Jackson 30. Are you all familiar with these signs? And so y but you but you know what we have never done? We never would see Jackson 30 and slam on the brakes and hop out of the car and say, we're here. Why would we never do that? Because we're not there. Right, we are not at our destination yet. You see, a sign is not the destination. A sign is merely designed to point us past itself and to the destination. And that's what the signs in John's gospel account do. That if if we just look at the things that Jesus does in this gospel account, we we we say, wow, that's amazing. It turned water into wine or he uh a man born blind restored his sight was restored and all these things. But they're merely signs. Yes, we're to be amazed with them, but we are to look past them and look at something about Jesus. Look at uh Jesus' glory through these signs And so, um, what are we to see here? What is so special about turning water into wine? What are we supposed to see about Jesus' glory here? Now in order to uh understand this sign you have to understand a little bit of something about Jewish weddings. So uh back in that day, you know, a a typical kind of uh process for getting married was basically the the uh the the man would go to the woman and they would form a kind of marriage contract. It would basically be betrothed. And so uh legally they're bound to be married. He goes back to his father's house. He's preparing a place for them. They're getting ready for the for the big party. And then each night the bridesmaids would look out for the groom to come and and and and take the the bride and and they would all have one big party. And so they were looking every night and then finally the groom came with his groomsmen And then they kinda had like a a procession, maybe like a little, you know, you could call it a festival and they're hey they're getting married and they're, you know, singing songs and they're, you know, doing all kinds of uh fun celebratory things and then they finally get to the father's house. They know each other intimately and now they're officially married and then they party for a whole week. Now, I don't know about y'all but my reception is kinda blurry because it happened so fast. And afterwards I was so like this I'm still finding out food that we had at my reception. They're like, Oh I love the macaroni bar and the shrimp. I'm like, I didn't know we had it. I had was like some salad and then I was taking selfies the rest of the night. But but like receptions can be even for three hours they can be overwhelming. Can you imagine having a week-long reception? Can you imagine that? And preparing for that? That's what these weddings were like. It was a big celebratory event. But here's the thing. One of the worst things to do was to run out of wine That would have been extremely embarrassing for the family. Even at, you know, we're receptions nowadays, if you ran out of food, you know, that's that's an embarrassing thing. So to run out of wine, you would have been the talk of the town for a long time. People would, you know, imagine people talking like, oh you remember, you know, Mary and and Jesus were at that wedding and blah blah blah. Oh yeah, it was great. But he ran out of wine. Isn't that ho isn't that, you know, horrible? You know, people would always remember that. So Jesus When he's there, he saves this family, this wedding, from coming to a screeching and embarrassing halt. And so this is it we we see that Jesus is the life of this party. Literally, you know, he he brings life and he keeps the party going. And so my main point for us today, if we don't get anything else from our time, this is the main thing. Jesus is the life of the party. Is he invited to yours? Jesus is the life of the party. Is he invited to yours? So I'm gonna look at three things. I want to look at the jars, I'm gonna look at the wine, and I want to look at the groom. Is that all right? Um, all right, so first thing the jars. Somebody say jars. Let's try that one more time. Somebody say jars. All right. Jesus is the life of the party because he cleanses you. Jesus is the life of the party because he cleanses you. So um moving quickly. So in verses 1 through 7, I'll kind of re-rehash what has happened so far. So basically there's a wedding uh at Cana, and this wedding is in Galilee. This is kind of where Jesus did a lot of his ministry, and Jesus' mother was there. So Jesus and his disciples were also there. So we think maybe um the wedding was a wedding of a family friend, and that's why Jesus' mom was there, and Jesus and his disciples were invited. So they're, you know, I imagine they're hanging out and they're having a good time And then I imagine Jesus uh mom Mary was a family friend because that's how she finds out about the wine before everybody else. So you know, maybe I don't know how it happens back then, but they may be in the kitchen or something like that and Like, oh Mary, we were on a wine, I don't know what we're gonna do, this is horrible. And then Mary, you know, feels the urgency. You can imagine how she's feeling, and then she You know, likely at this point Jesus was the man of the house. Joseph had passed away, and so she goes to Jesus and she's like, Jesus, we've we've run out of wine, what do we do? And now Jesus says something interesting to her. He says, Woman, what does this have to do with me? So now w you know, I know, you know, me if I said that to my mom, I would get popped in the mouth. You know, woman, what is that to do with me? That's not what Jesus is doing here. Woman was wasn't like what it is now. J woman was almost like ma'am, you know Uh uh i i it wasn't a disrespectful term. But basically he's saying i you know it really I wish the our translations were a little better. Uh it's kind of a wooden English. You know, he's basically saying um Essentially what he's trying to say is his hour has not yet come. And John's gospel account, whenever he talks about his hour, that means his death and resurrection. Essentially he's saying Mom, you know I've come here to die for the sins of the world. What does the embarrassment of a wedding feast have to do with me, right, and what I've come to do And so, but like Jesus does, he often makes things that have nothing to do with him, have to do with him, and he turns it into a moment to reveal his glory. And Mary, probably knowing Jesus, she tells the servants, like, hey, do whatever he tells you to do, right? And so then Jesus tells them, he says, take these six stone water jars and fill them up to the brim uh with with water. And these were 20 or 30 gallons. Can you imagine what 20 or 30 gallons of these stone water jars were? These were big water jars, right? Imagine. At at so at Jewish weddings they these jars were at the doorway or somewhere uh towards the entrance. So when people came in they would you know, y they would uh have their hands and they would white wash their hands in these water jars before they partook in the feast. So you can imagine what this water was like, right? Like have y'all, you know, had maybe had your sink and you hadn't, you know, washed your sink in a while and you and you see just like, you know, maybe like different things that for that you washed off in your hands or maybe you're working on a car or something like that and then you go to a gas station or something and wash your hands and you see all this stuff come off you're like, I didn't even know that was on my hands. Imagine all the stuff that was in the water, the grease, the things under the fingernails the dirt. Jesus is saying, take this nasty, dirty water, and I'm going to turn it into what we're drinking tonight. Isn't it like I don't I don't know about y'all but uh you know if I found out what he used to turn that water into wine, I'd be like, hold on Jesus, what's what's what's this? But he takes something dirty and he turns it into something clean He takes something that people were going to throw away and he turns it into something amazing. Um and I think what's going on here is this is pointing to Christ's blood. That turning this this something dirty into something clean into his blood symbolizes uh the cleansing power of his blood. So now uh is is wrestling a a popular sport up here What? Wrestling. It is okay. It was in Virginia. It wasn't in down south. They didn't really have wrestling in uh Mississippi and Texas and things. But I I I grew up wrestling and uh one of the things that our coach would always say And even if you're a football player or if you were j a gymnast or a dancer, right, there's always risk. Anything where you were touching things that everyone else was touching, there's always risk that you would get, you know, skin rash and or someone would be sick and spread it to someone else. So after practice, my coaches say, I don't care how you feel about taking showers with other people. You will take a shower after practice. And so, you know, some people felt weird so they would take a shower with their clothes on 'cause it was the team rules and you know, they would have to take a shower 'cause my coach said, if you get ringworm or infoigo or something nasty and you can't wrestle because of it, you're gonna get in trouble, right? And so, you know, th th there was there was always the risk of getting some skin rash and then if you got it, you couldn't wrestle. So we would always take showers. Now You you didn't have to force me to take a shower. I don't want no infotago or ringworm. You know, like you know, you see people like a just a r a a ring on on their face or you would see like people with just crust all around their neck And you're just like, yeah, you didn't you don't take showers after practice, do you? But I would even if even if I throw on the same dirty clothes again I would want to get in that shower and it was usually cold because, you know, we were in a a gym locker room. Even it was a cold shower and I put the same clothes back on and had to drive home and take a warm, long shower. I did not want those germs to sit on me even on the drive home. Are y'all with me? And so this is it isn't life kind of like this That life can kind of leave us feeling dirty. Like that we go through life and our consciences are bothered because of the things we did or the things we saw, the things we took part in. Or maybe we feel this shame because of who we perceive ourselves to be, or maybe because of who we actually are. And we have gone through life and we can feel spiritually dirty. And we can feel, Lord, I need a deep, long, hot spiritual shower to cleanse me, to cleanse my conscience. to renew the ways I see myself, to renew and restore the the the the way that we approach God. Don't we don't we sometimes feel spiritually dirty before God and before others and even in our own minds and we need a hot spiritual shower. And family, this is what Jesus provides for us in his death. And this is what we celebrate when we celebrate baptism and the Lord's Supper. We celebrate that Jesus has cleansed us, that he has cleansed our conscience by dying on our behalf for the sins that we deserve to die for. He dies on our behalf and we have full pardon and not only full pardon for every sin, past, present, and future, but God delights in us. He accepts us. He rejoices in us because of the sacrifice of Jesus. Family, the gospel removes our guilt and our shame. And we ought to rejoice in this and delight in this. And this is why Jesus is the life of the party No, but not only or uh do I want to look at the jars I want to look at the wine. Somebody say the wine. Jesus is the life of the party because he brings gladness. Jesus is the life of the party because he brings gladness. And now in the next couple of verses, basically what happens is Jesus um He tells them to fill the water, the water jars up to the brim. And then he says, um, and then uh he takes uh apparently he turns water into wine. It says, now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they take some water out of the jar and they take it to the master of the feast. And basically the master of the feast tastes it And this is good high quality wine. And so so w in it so what's happening here, right? Jesus is turning water into wine for a party. You know, and it's a lot of wine too. Um basically When you look at how much this is, can you know you have twenty to thirty gallons in each jar and then times that by six. That's how much wine Jesus made. And it was high quality wine. And you're saying, what is Jesus doing bringing beer to the party basically? What is Jesus doing? So now in order to understand this, you have to understand what wine is throughout the kind of course of biblical history. So um wine points to God's blessing on creation. So in Psalm 104, uh it says this in in verse 14. You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth, in verse fifteen, and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen man's heart. So it says that in creation God has given these good gifts like oil for our skin, like lotion, and he's given us things to to enjoy like bread and food to fill us. And he's given wine, it says, to gladden the heart of man. So he's given wine for occasions of rejoicing. So we see that uh wine is a a good thing that God gave creation. But also not only that, wine pointed in biblical history to God's blessing with his covenant people. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, it says this in verse 13. He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil. The increase of your herds and the young of your flock, in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you, you shall be blessed above all peoples. So when God was blessing his people, the nation of Israel in the promised land, part of that blessing was food and wine. So if the people did not have wine, it was a sign of God's curse. If they had wine, it was a sign of God's blessing. And not only that, but wine was a sign of God's end-time blessing. So check this out. So did y'all know that when we uh get to the new heavens and new earth is going to be a giant party? Did y'all know that? And and and and Isaiah 25 describes the new heavens and new earth the party in the new heavens and new earth as this On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord will wipe away tears from all faces. So when tears are wiped away from all faces, this is all happening at a big party. And there's gonna be it says, I love this is one of my favorite descriptions in the Bible. Rich food full of marrow. What do y'all think that is? I think it's pork chops. What do y'all think? Or like a good ribeye. But along with that, you know, along with the ribeye steak that we're gonna the glorified ribeye steak that we're gonna have in the new heavens and new earth, I I don't know They say there's going to be well-aged wine. There's going to be high-quality wine at this feast. I don't know what this glorified wine tastes or looks like. But there is going to be wine in the new heavens and new earth. And in being there is a sign of God's end-time blessing. And so we see throughout the scriptures, wine has always been associated with God blessing his people, with God uh giving his people an occasion to rejoice, God bringing celebration to his people. And this is what Jesus is doing here. He's pointing to the fact that he is God bringing an occasion for rejoicing to his people. He himself is God bringing God's blessing to his people. And so, um, what I think we see here is that we uh in in Christianity and following Jesus and being with Jesus He is out for your joy. He is out for your celebration. Now, uh recently, you know, uh ri uh popular Christian teachers like John Piper have made you know it popular that Uh, you know, when we are delighting in God, we are doing our duty. And when we're doing our duty for God, we are delighting in Him because God requires us to delight in Him. And so this is a basic thing in the Christian faith that, you know, if you're like me, that you might in moments in our Christian life think that, oh, if I'm doing my duty that I'm probably not delighting in God because doing our duty to God is a drag, right? And if I'm delighting in something, I'm probably not doing my duty to God because God really isn't out for my joy. You know, we don't say this, but that's kind of what we think. And Jesus is showing us here, duty and delight go together. That as you are following Jesus, as you are imitating him, as you are walking in him, as you are abiding in him, There is rejoicing, there is gladness, there is delight, there is celebration, that there is no greater joy and gladness to follow Jesus, even when it's hard. There is no greater joy. And so we we see that it wasn't John Piper who came up with this and it b before him, you know, uh a thousand years and some change. Augustine didn't come up with this It was the apostles and the prophets who end Jesus and God's design himself that Christianity, Jesus, following Jesus, brings gladness and joy and celebration. This is why Jesus was called a glutton and a drunkard. They say Jesus likes to party. Why does he like to celebrate so much? We we we we're we're we're we're we're we're we're gonna make fun of him and call him a glutton and a drunkard. But Jesus is like I am here to bring joy and bring gladness. And so we have to ask ourselves, how are we enjoying our salvation? Are we enjoying our salvation? When is the last time that we have really stopped and said, you know what, I'm enjoying Jesus right now I'm enjoying being a Christian. I can't imagine any other life other than following Jesus because It is deeply satisfying and rich to my soul like well-aged wine. This is what Jesus wants us to see. And not only that, but even not only our salvation, like our pardon and and the fact that God accepts us and the fact that that God is transforming us and God is providing for us. But what what about the the physical things that He's created? You know, we're we're we're not so spiritual to just think that we can, you know, uh ignore the the physical things that God has given us. He's given us uh roofs over our heads. He's given us clothes on our backs. He's given us food to enjoy. Um he's given us beautiful Sunday uh days to You know, enjoy the sunlight that streams in through the light, through the windows. These are all things that God has given us to enjoy. And in those things, we are to find the God of joy. That through those things we are to enjoy God Himself. That God is not a means to enjoy these things. These are a means to the end that is God. Are y'all with me? And so we have to ask ourselves, what false joys are we pursuing? What w in what ways are we abusing the things that God has given us to enjoy Himself and we are using them to either run away from God or to simply have a have a godless um escape or satisfaction. And the thing is if we use these things in those ways, we will you know, maybe have a fleeting and temporary satisfaction, but it'll never last. Because it's not what we were created for, it's not what we were designed for. I think it's beautiful that Jesus didn't just create wine, just a little bit of wine. He created. What what is six times thirty? I'm I'm bad at is it a hundred and eighty? Is that right? Uh ever since I started reading a bunch of theology I've gotten bad at math. But a hundred and eighty gallons of wine. That's a lot of wine. I don't know even what that looks like. And then on top of that, it wasn't just like, you know, the ten dollar bottle of wine that I'll buy from Kroger or something like that. And, you know Because I'm not a connoisseur, I'll enjoy it and it'll be great. You know, this is like that bottle of wine that you go in somebody's mansion, you know, and you find it at in the cellar and it, you know, it's been aging for years and years and years. It's that kind of quality. That much and that quality. There is an abundance in quantity and quality. And I think what Jesus was doing was he showing us what it's like to be with him. The joy he brings isn't just enough to make you kind of content with being with him. No, he's saying my being with me isn't overwhelming, abundant, high quality joy, one that we have never known before meeting him. This is what it's like to follow Jesus And so, family, let's let's press into that. And lastly, I want to look at the groom. Somebody say the groom. So Jesus is the life of the party because he cleanses us. Because he brings gladness and because he's the groom. Jesus is the life of the party because he's the groom So imagine this. You know, the the the Bible oftentimes has has funny moments in it because when Jesus enters into a situation, kind of all the rules are broken. in in the sense of what what would normally happen. So imagine that you are so the master of the feast was kinda like the MC maybe or the wedding planner. He he's he or she's like making sure everything is going smoothly and then you can imagine being the groom and then you you have the bride. And then imagine, you know, the master of the feast comes to the groom is like, man, you really outdid yourself this time. Man, you know, I'm not even sure if the groom knew that the wine had ran out. You know. And he's coming and said, man, everyone brings out the good wine first, and then when people have gotten tired of drinking wine, then they bring out the watered down stuff. But you, my friend, have brought out even better wine towards the end. Can you imagine like how confused the groom might have been? Um okay, yeah, all right. You know, I'm that I'm just like trying to picture what's happening here. Um, so what's it what's ironic is that uh he comes to the to the groom and congratulates this groom for bringing out this amazing wine. But it's funny because we know who is truly responsible for this wine. The true and better groom, Jesus. Jesus is the groom who is responsible for this wine. And so now So I'm I'm not I'm not sure if so so recently there's been like kind of a genre of movies that have that have come out um that where it's basically uh someone gets kidnapped and and then you know there's this older uh man who like you know Denzel or Liam Nesson or something like that, like the the the classic kind of, you know, uh good looking, uh serious older actor who plays this role and you don't know that they're like a secret assassin and someone messes with them and then you know they rescue this person who is who is abducted or kidnapped Um and so uh basically um uh w one w one one movie like this is is basically um you know this this guy is a ex CIA agent or something like that and he has retired and because of his commitment to his career He um he his kind of marriage has fallen apart and he's lost his relationship with his daughter. And so he in in the last years of of of kind of being out of the service is trying to restore his relationship with his daughter and so you know with his wife and the daughter wants to go to Paris or or uh and and go and tour Europe and because he knows all the bad things of the world because of his career, he's saying, I don't know if you should go and then she's like, please, please and then the ex-wife tells him uh, you know, if you don't let her do this then you will lose her forever and so he's kinda like pr pressured to let her go. Um and then so she goes off to Paris with her friends and he's, you know, really worried and he's telling her, Hey, call me when you get there and then when she gets there she you know, is is making bad decisions and because of those bad decisions, basically, you know, they end up in a house, two teenage girls end up in a house by themselves and they're gonna tour Europe. Um, they they deviate from the plan and basically she gets kidnapped. And so she's on the phone with her dad while she's getting kidnapped basically and she's you know running from the kidnappers and she's under the bed and she's crying and she's talking to him And, you know, I'm not even sure if she knows that he's, you know, a a top secret agent. And basically he's walking her through the plan. He's saying, Hey, they'll take you, but describe them to me as best as you can. And so she's taken and he's still on the phone with the kidnapper. And he says this to the kidnapper. He says, I don't know who you are. I don't know what you want. If you are looking for ransom, I can tell you I don't have money. But what I do have are a very particular set of skills. Skills that I've acquired over a very long career. Skills that make me a nightmare for people like you. If you let my daughter go now, that'll be the end of it. I will not look for you. I will not pursue you But if you don't, I will look for you, I will find you, and I will kill you. So right here we're like, oh my goodness, you know, this guy is like 70 years old. What is about to happen in this movie? You know? And so we see this guy, you know, he's he goes overseas, he's, you know, jumping out of explosions and he's, you know, dive rolling and he's punching people in the face and You know, he's doing all these different things and you're like, what is going on here? Right? So we love these type of stories. I I think why we love these type I I why I love those type of stories is because number one I have a daughter, right? Or two, I have two daughters. Um, and so when when when I look at this story, I'm like, man, I'm admiring uh, you know, the fact that this guy's going overseas because I'm living vicariously through him, right? Like he like we wish we had the skills, Daz. We wish we had the CAA, you know, special operations skills to save our daughter or something happened like that, right? But you know what probably actually happened in real life? I'd be sitting at home because if I went overseas and tried to, you know, dive through explosions and, you know, take down a crime organization, y'all would have to come looking for me too, right? I would mess around and get kidnapped as well And then also why we I think we love these stories is we see the magnitude of love that this father has for his children Like she lied to him and they pressured him to let her go and now she got in in trouble. You know, we we while we're watching the movie, we want to say tell her I told you know, t tell them uh you y you told them so. You were right all along. But he doesn't do that. What did you do? He risked his life to go and win his daughter back. And family, this is kind of the general theme of biblical history that God is is is is is is kind of like the special operations agent who has all of the the the this correct set of skills to save us. And throughout biblical history, we are turning away from God over and over and over again. God's people, they they they say I love you, but then they go behind his back and they worship other gods and they and they sin against him and they get themselves into trouble. All the time. I was teaching like a a Bible survey track and I asked the students, I said, y'all, what's kind of the theme throughout the Bible that we've seen so far? And all of them said, uh, they keep on messing up and God helps them out. That is the theme of it's this downward spiral and God over and over again says You have turned away from me, but I'm coming after you to pursue you. And God has finally, climactically done this in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus, when he became a human, the Son of God became a human, he was putting on his special equipment. He put on humanity and came into this world and is taking apart Satan's kingdom from the inside out. And we see the magnitude of God's love for us in that he pursues us. He pursues his bride with unconditional love. This is what it looks like for Jesus to be our groom, for God to be the groom of his people. Over and over again. He is pursuing a wayward wife. He is pursuing a wayward people. And he has finally purchased us for himself. In the person of Jesus. And just like a Jewish wedding, Jesus has come to betroth us, but he didn't purchase us with a marriage contract or with silver or gold. He purchased us and betrothed us with his own very precious blood. And just like a Jewish wedding, Jesus has gone away to prepare a place for us in his father's house. And he's preparing the feast that he's going to have when he finally uh consummates the the the marriage with us. And just like in a Jewish wedding, Jesus the groom, he comes back. And he and he will take us to himself. And there will be partying and rejoicing and celebrating. And just like a Jewish wedding, there will be a feast. And we have already read about it, right? A feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow. All throughout biblical history, and even here, Jesus is the groom pursuing his bride, and he will have her. The Bible says this, let us rejoice and exult, and give him the glory, for the marriage supper of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready, It was granted to her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the angel said to me, Write this, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Then we see Jesus our groom has is preparing a feast for his people. And when we enter into the new heavens and new earth, we will enjoy this feast with him. But guess what? This feast isn't only something we look forward to. We can have the joy of this feast in the here and now if we have the groom of the feast in the here and now. And this is what Jesus is trying to show the people there. This is the glory that we are to see. So I love it in the last verse it says this. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana and Galilee and manifested his glory or displayed his glory. And his disciples believed in him. So what's interesting here is that Jesus did something. He turned water into wine. And I'm and Jesus says displayed his glory, but guess who the who saw the glory? The Bible doesn't say everyone saw his glory, does it? It says his disciples believed in him. So Jesus' glory was shining, and there was a few people who had the eyes to see this glory. Now, how did they see this glory? At some point in the party, did Jesus just start shining like a light bulb? No, they saw his glory with the eyes of faith. They believed in him. They spiritually perceived that Jesus was something more than just a man. They perceived that Jesus was the God who was bringing cleansing and gladness and rescue for his people. And they believed in him. And so family, by us reading this passage and by us learning about this and and us sitting here and hearing this sermon Jesus is displaying the glory of this sign even to us right here and right now. And there is a response that is required. These signs aren't only meant that we aren't just meant for us to learn about Jesus. They're meant for us to respond to him. And so if this is your first time hearing the gospel, or this is, you know, church is new for you, or this is your first time here, or if you're not a Christian, you're still figuring things out, I want to invite you to believe in Jesus. To to to to give all of you, all of who you are, all of who you have, and trust in Jesus and follow him. Submit to him and obey him and know him as the God who cleanses