Every family in our congregation is near and dear to my heart, but I'd like to ask one family that is especially near and dear to my heart, and you'll understand in a moment, to please come forward, the Chillingarians. As we celebrate as a congregation God's continued gifting to us, the Chillingarians met with the session previously. Like come up here. And uh they were uh uh proved to have become members of our church. And so today I present the Chillingarian family to you as members of our church as they take their vows before you. By the way, just in case you all don't know, this is Anni, this is Rafi, Jenny, Hoxup, and Madison. And I'm buried. In case you don't know. So I have some uh vows for you all to take and some questions. Do you all acknowledge yourselves to be sinners in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure and without hope, save in his sovereign mercy? Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God, the Savior of sinners, and do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in the gospel? Do you now resolve and promise in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit that you will endeavor to live as becometh the followers of Christ? Do you promise to support the church in its worship and work to the best of your ability? And do you submit yourselves to the government and discipline of the church and promise to study its purity and peace. Well, then we welcome you to our congregation. Please be seated. I'd like to ask uh Brother Tim to please uh come forward. Brother Tom, not to him, as he'll be reading our passage for us this morning. I'm going to be reading today from Daniel chapter six. This is uh we're gonna read the whole chapter, so it's long, so buckle up. Uh Daniel chapter six It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom 120 satraps to be throughout the whole kingdom. And over them three high officials, of whom Daniel was one, to whom these phatraps would give account, so that the king might suffer no loss. Then this Daniel became distinguished above all the other high officials and satraps, because an excellent spirit was in him, and the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom. Then the high officials and satraps sought to find a ground for complaint against Daniel with regard to the kingdom, but they could find no ground for complaint or any fault. Because he was faithful, and no error or fault was found in him. Then these men said, We shall not find any ground for complaint against this Daniel unless we find it in connection with the law of his God. Then these high officials and satraps came by agreement to the king and said to him, O King Darius, live forever. All the high officials of the kingdom, the prefects, the satraps. Excuse me. The prefects and the satraps, the counselors and the governors are agreed that the king should establish an ordinance and enforce an injunction. That whoever makes a petition to any God or man for thirty days except you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions. Now, O king, establish the injunction and sign the document so that it cannot be changed according to the law of the Medes and the Persians, which cannot be revoked Therefore, King Darius agreed, and thearius signed the document and injunction. When Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went into his house where he had a window in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. He got down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks to his God as he had done previously. Then these men came by agreement and found Daniel making petition and plea before his God. Then they came near and said before the king concerning the injunction. O king, did you not sign an injunction that anyone who makes petition to any God or man within thirty days except you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered and said, The thing stands fast according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be revoked. Then they answered and said before the king, Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, O king, or the injunction you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day. Then the king, when he heard these words, was much distressed, and set his mind to deliver Daniel, and he labored till the sun went down to rescue him Then these men came by agreement to the king and said to the king, Know, O king, it is the law of the Medes and the Persians that no injunction or ordinance that the king establishes can be changed. Then the king commanded, and Daniel was brought and cast into the den of lions. The king declared to Daniel, May your God, whom you serve continually deliver you. And a stone was brought and laid on the mouth of the den. And the king sealed it with his own signet and with the signets of his lords, that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel. Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting. No diversions were brought to him, and sleep fled from him. Then at the break of day the king arose and went in haste to the den of lions. As he came nearer to the den where Daniel was, he cried out in a tone of anguish. The king declared to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions? Then Daniel said to the king, O king, live forever. My God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouths, and have they have not harmed me, because I was found blameless before him. And also before you, O king, I have done no harm. Then the king was exceedingly glad, and commanded that Daniel be taken out of the den So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, because he had trusted in his God. And the king commanded, and those who had maliciously accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions, they, their children, and their wives. And before they reached the bottom of the den, the lions overpowered them and broke all their bones in pieces. Then King Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth. Peace be multiplied to you. I make a decree that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel. For he is the living God enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall be to the end. He delivers and rescues. He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth. He who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions. So Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian. This is the word of the Lord. Amen. I don't know if there's anyone this morning who is scratching their head saying, what does Daniel 6 got to do with the Resurrection Sunday sermon? But uh without any prompting, I don't know if you noticed, but um as Brother Tom was reading the passage this morning Yeah, he himself was starting to emphasize some things that he saw. And so uh I hope that as we go through this passage this morning that uh uh you will see many things here that uh uh that uh does remind us of Resurrection Sunday and of the Lord Jesus. Uh let us pray. Heavenly Father we we come before you uh now worshiping you by being at your feet, studying your word and being blessed by it. We pray that you would be with us now, that your Holy Spirit would open our spiritual eyes and our spiritual ears so that we may see Jesus. And by seeing Jesus that we would draw closer to you, love you more, and to love our neighbor. And so we ask these things for your glory ultimately, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. So today we're going to be gazing into what may be considered the center of the book of Daniel, that is chapter 6 of the book of Daniel. When we pick up here in the book of Daniel, Daniel himself is already well into his 70s. So he has been serving in the kingdom for quite some time now. The Babylonians have fallen, the Chaldean dynasty has come to an end, and the Medo-Persian Empire is now in power. The Emperor Darius enters onto the scene of biblical history. So it is in the midst of turmoil political challenges and intrigue that we find King Darius turning his attention to as he takes charge of an enormous empire. And this brings us to our first point that Daniel lived a righteous life. That Daniel lived a righteous life. It's evident from the beginning that Daniel was well regarded. His reputation preceded him The king seems to favor him as well as his fellow exiles because they have an impeccable reputation, one that was derived from serving the Chaldean kings with competence and honesty. They were beyond reproach. Look, if you uh just took over a vast empire, what would be the first thing that you would want to do? No. It's not go to Disney World. No. If you need to install trustworthy people, the potential for graft is great and the misuse of power is dangerous to your rule. So you need people who will serve you well, who will protect your reputation as well as advance the interest of your kingdom. This goes to show that we who are in some way far from our home, living in a land that is not our eternal home, can also prosper. Even as the Lord changes those who hold the reins of power in governments, those who have authority in our places of employment. No matter where God has placed us, we have to continue to live out our lives in the paths of righteousness. Both the temptation and the pressure to disobey can be great, but by the grace of God we can say no. And over a period of time, dependability, responsibility, trustworthiness, honesty, which are values that all people look for Well, over a period of time, they will be recognized and may well be rewarded. Because Daniel had an excellent reputation, Darius made plans to make him the number one administrator in the kingdom. So we see from the onset that Daniel is a righteous man. He was an innocent man who was above reproach. Now when we consider the Lord Jesus' life, we see that he was also recognized as an innocent man, a righteous man. When we look at Matthew chapter 17, specifically in verses 19 to 24, we're told that Pontius Pilate's wife. was haunted in her dreams by what her husband was about to do. She sent him a message saying, Have nothing to do with that righteous man. For last night I suffered greatly in dream because of him. Jesus, you see, like Daniel, was known to be a righteous man. Now the other satraps, filled with envy that an exile, an exilic person, would be placed over them, began to plot his fall. They found it difficult to do so because the normal grounds for dismissal were not going to work here, because Daniel was a faithful and had no error or fault with him that could possibly be found. At that point, they figured that if they're going to trip him up, they would have to put Daniel in a position that would compromise his faith in his God Yahweh. And they knew after all these decades that these Jewish exiles were just not going to turn their backs on God. Their plan was to stroke the king's pride. They came with a proposal that the people should abstain from offering prayers and worship. to their local gods for thirty days and instead turned to uh their king, Darius, who would receive their prayers and adoration. This was to honor his dignity and recognize his authority. They were deceptive. They assured the king in verse 7 that all of high officials were informed and in agreement with this bill. They were lying. They were lying to the king. Daniel would have never agreed to this proposal. They encouraged the king. to go ahead and sign the bill and make it into law. Now, let's just take a moment here to back up and discuss an aspect of the Persian legal system Whenever a Persian monarch enacts a law or an edict, it's not something that can be overturned, not even by the monarchs who put it into effect. There have been documents that have been unearthed that shows the finality of this aspect of Persian jurisprudence. Judges, judges in Persian courts who overturned or did not enforce edicts. were immediately executed. The point being that the satraps who came up with this plan, they recognized how ironclad it would be In verse 8, we see that it reads, Now, O King, establish the injunction and sign the document. so that it cannot be changed according to the law of the Medes and Persians. Here it is, which cannot be revoked. Now, the Sanhedrin saw the way the people were tripping over themselves only days ago. not able quickly enough to place palms before the king of the Jews, shouting, Hosanna, Savior! You see, Jesus had the hearts of the people, and they were envious, and they were threatened. Pilate recognized this when we read in Matthew 27. So when the people gathered together, Pilate, Pontius Pilate, said to them, Whom do you want me to release for you? Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? For he knew that because of envy, they had handed him over, just like Daniel. The Lord Jesus was also envied by those in power. Now, at this point in the story Daniel, who after discovering this new law, after discovering this new law, continued his practice to praying out to God, as he had done all along. three times daily as well as being or bowing down to Jerusalem. These peeping toms waited for Daniel to open his windows and offer his prayers When they saw him continue to offer his prayers to his God and not towards Darius, they reported this to the king. In verse 12, they remind the king of the law and its punishment, being thrown into the pit where hungry lions would be in wait for a meal. Immediately after Daniel prayed a third time towards Jerusalem, he was arrested. Remarkably. The scripture records something quite similar in Gethsemane, which, by the way, overlooks Jerusalem. Matthew 26, verse 44 begins with, And he left them again, and went away and prayed a third time. Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. This numerical correspondence of prayers, as well as the location. Alerts us yet again to similarities between Daniel and Jesus. Jesus also prayed three times facing in the direction of Jerusalem right before he was. Arrested. See, the king at this point has no choice. So Daniel is sentenced to death by being thrown into the lion's den. The king realized that he was taken in. He was lied to. Not all of the officials were on board with this edict. The king realized that one of his most trusted officials is now in peril because he was tricked. He was being played, and he was reluctant to go along. But if he didn't take action, it would be as if he was allowing sedition. Daniel was not an insurrectionist But Darius had to punish him. The passage tells us that he wanted to deliver him, but the laws of the Persians didn't leave him any room. Even the emperor was unable to revoke it. In fact, the highest official, as the highest official, he had to execute justice. You see, if he didn't execute punishment, it would have been an unholy thing. He would have been untrustworthy, not reliable, and ultimately not worthy of being followed. He had to punish Daniel for breaking the law. He's about to send an innocent man, at least in some way, in his own mind, to his death. We can relate to that, can't we? When people break the law, are caught and found guilty, we must exact justice, shouldn't we? Darius was reluctant to judge Daniel because he was being manipulated. Pilate, Pontius Pilate, was also being manipulated. But let's face it, he was not stupid. He was a shrewd politician who didn't find fault with this Jesus of Nazareth, one who was brought before him as an insurrectionist. When boxed into a corner, he tried to offer Jesus freedom. He did so by putting him up against a known thug, thief, and insurrectionist. Surely, he must have thought, it would have been an unthinkable political and moral message to send to Rome if the leadership of Palestine chose Barabas. But yet they did. Pilate was reluctant, but he had to follow the law, because justice had to be served. The symbolic washing of his hands is all that was needed to be said. Just as Daniel was sentenced by a reluct. Jesus was sentenced by a reluctant judge. Daniel had to experience this ordeal because he chose to worship his God. He would not commit idolatry by bowing down to and praying to a mere man, the emperor himself. He did not disrespect or dishonor the king, but he knew where to draw the line. We must also as Christians know where to draw the line When the world around us worships their gods, beauty, youth, money, power, etc. , we must fight the temptations and say no. especially when we are pressured to bow down alongside them. Persecution for our faith can come from many different quarters and in many different ways. We can be persecuted just for not agreeing with those who are in power. Similarly, we can be persecuted for not agreeing with the world's views. And it can evolve in very small ways over a period of time. What once was seen by society as sinful can over time become acceptable. And suddenly, when we were once seen as in agreement, us Christians, we are now looked at as eccentric And this eccentricity can quickly become intolerance, followed by accusations of being hateful bigots. And finally, can lead to laws that imprisonment or maybe one day execution. Yes, imprisonment for following our faith. Our society is no different. When people of goodwill won't stand up against tyranny, We all suffer at the hands of false priests who make pronouncements as to what is moral and immoral according to their small g, God's ethics. Lord Jesus was also sentenced to death for insurrection. We all know that his death was by crucifixion. But we must not miss the symbolic, prophetic language that looked forward to the cruel and unjust actions brought about by his own people. This prophetic language also shows connections to our type Daniel's experience. Psalm 22 is known as a messianic psalm. And it brings forth this notion very clearly. It begins with those familiar words, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But as we drop down to verse 13, the language is frankly quite striking. We read what his pain was likened unto. Reminding us of what Daniel experienced. I'll read it for us. Verse 13. They opened wide their mouths at me as a ravening and roaring lion. After the king pronounced his judgment, he ordered that Daniel be put to death by throwing him into the ground and rolled a stone over the pit. And just to make sure that no one would tamper with the execution, he placed his seal upon it. And he went away disturbed He declared and hoped that Daniel's God would save him before he sent him away. Would Daniel's God save Daniel? An innocent man being executed by manipulative people looking out for their own best interests. Would this righteous man survive? Well, after Jesus' body was laid down, a large stone also was rolled over to close off anyone from going in and out. You know, the governor could not have people stealing Jesus' dead body, especially after he had already gone about proclaiming that he would be raised from the dead. At the behest of the Jewish leadership, he ordered for the Romans to do what? To put a seal over that rock. Hmm. If anyone tampered with that rock, they would be executed just like anyone who tampered with the rock in Daniel's time The Gospel of Matthew in chapter 27 records the following for us. Now, on the next day, the day after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate and said, Sir, We remember that when he was still alive, that deceiver said, After three days I am to rise again. Therefore, give orders for the grave to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come in and steal him away, and say to the people, He has risen from the dead. And the last deception will be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You have a guard, go. Make it as secure as you know how. And they went and made the grave secure. And along with the grave, sorry, along with the guard, they set a seal on the stone. At daybreak, the king goes out to the pit to see if Daniel is alive. He asks if his God has been able to deliver him from the lions. Daniel tells him that angels were present and they shut the mouths of the lions and that he was not harmed. Because he was found blameless before God with relief. Enjoy. The king orders for Daniel to be taken out and now turns to punish those who had lied to him. Just be reminded. That it was at daybreak that Jesus' followers came to the grave to check in on Jesus, where an angel was found telling them that Jesus now was alive. So then the king does what? He sends messengers throughout all of the kingdom to do what? To fear the God of Daniel. Because God saved Daniel from death, the king sends messengers to all the world to fear the living God. The message reads the following, Peace be multiplied to you. I make a decree that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel, for he is the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed. And his dominion shall be to the ends. He delivers and rescues. He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth. He who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions. So, what seemed to be an attack upon an innocent man of God by envious men ends up being the way in which God uses to bring glory and recognition to himself. I guess we can say that What those envious satraps meant for evil, well, God meant it for good. Similarly, let us not forget that the suffering that we undergo The slander that we may face, the persecution for our faith, whatever you may be facing today What others mean for evil, God means somehow, perhaps in unseen ways now, for good. Darius sent a message to all nationalities and languages in his kingdom, which was vast, by the way. That men should fear the God of Daniel, who saved him from death. Likewise Jesus, the King of kings, commissioned his disciples to take the message of salvation to all the nations. Today, we continue to proclaim the message of this great God who can save and resurrect us from the dead. Well, I suppose for those of you who've been following along on the outline, or perhaps know of the Lord's life and death. May have seen the correspondences that I've been trying to point out between the Lord's Passion and Daniel's life. You see, if you were doing a historical study, Of Daniel chapter 6, as taught by the church, in the New Covenant era, you would discover teachings, documents, sermons that go back to the early third century where consistently the church identified Daniel as a type of Jesus. It is my hope that you have seen this morning that this is not such a far-fetched idea. You see, the scripture is full of types of Christ. This is called the study of typology. It's a literary device In order to identify the Scripture's use of types, you have to look for correspondences between the lives of a person in Scripture and that of Jesus' life They can be verbal, numerical, circumstances in a person's life, and remind you one way or another of Jesus. Now in this context, we see striking similarities between Daniel and the Lord, do we not? The purpose of typology is that the type, here being Daniel, a foreshadow anticipate someone who would come after him, known as the entity here being Christ. This antitype is anticipated to be different at some point and somehow greater than the type. Jesus himself invites us to make these typological comparisons. For example, in Luke chapter 13, Chapter 11, verse 31, we read the following. He says, The Queen of the South will rise up with men of this generation at the judgment and condemn them. Because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And then he says, Behold, someone greater than Solomon is here. The next verse, 1132, he says, the men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment and condemn it Because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And then he says, and behold, someone greater than Jonah is here He invites comparisons of himself to Solomon and Jonah, and then says something, someone greater than they is here. The Apostle Paul, for example, did just that when he compared Adam to Jesus. He tells us in Romans chapter 5, verse 14. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a, and here the word is actually used, a type. Of him who was to come. As we have seen, there are striking parallels between Jesus and Daniel. But how is Jesus different? How is he greater than Daniel? Well, we've already spoken about the king and justice. God is no different. And God is the great judge. All of our sins are recorded before the great God who sees all things who is always everywhere He cannot allow sin to go unpunished. To do so would make him unjust. And we can see that, right? And because he is holy, he must punish those who have committed sin with no exceptions. My life experience as a pastor, and specifically in the role of a counselor and reconciler, is that we all want justice. And when we cannot immediately receive it, we must take comfort in knowing that one day, that those who have harmed us and gotten away with it will one day get what is coming to them. So we like justice. And we should like justice. But the reality is we're not so zealous for justice when it comes to us. Are we? We're more into that mercy thing, right? But the truth is we are all guilty. The Bible says that we have all sinned and and await the righteous judgment of God. That means that when we stand before God in his court, he has no choice. Just like the king, he has no choice but to punish us for our sins. This for us is not good news. So now let me answer my earlier question. How is Jesus different than Daniel? How is it that this innocent man who was envied and plotted against a false judgment as an insurrectionist who was also executed, different and or greater? You see, where Daniel was saved, spared by God, the innocent one, Jesus, was not spared. The reason that Jesus was not spared or saved was because of us When my time comes to stand for my sins, I would have had no hope of getting a verdict of innocent. I would have had to pay for my sins before a holy and just God. And the only way God would allow me to enter into eternity without spending it in hell was if someone took himself. took upon himself the judgment of guilty and received the punishment that I deserve. I needed a substitute in my place. An innocent divine man stood up in my place. He said, take my innocence and my righteousness and apply it to his account. and instead punish me for his disobedience and his sins. Wow. When Jesus' lions came at him, God did not stay his hand, because justice had to be done. God had to punish. But he accepted punishing Jesus in my place. It was the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, who willingly, lovingly took my place. In fact, Jesus took upon himself the sin of everyone who would put their trust in him by faith and by faith alone. When I trusted in Christ, I was declared innocent. When I die, I will be declared innocent. and enter into heaven. Not because I did anything good, but because I trusted that Jesus was good enough for me. Well, you may be asking, how do we know that Jesus was good enough for God? How do we know that God, the great judge, was willing to accept this Jesus as a substitute for anyone? How do we know that this is not some sort of a mistake or a fairy tale? See The Lord Jesus was raised from the dead on the third day. You see, the Lord Jesus predicted that this would happen. The resurrection is the evidence and proof that God accepted Jesus' offer. Christ's sacrifice is sufficient. He is the better Daniel. He is the greater Daniel. His resurrection proves it. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you that indeed you made a way. You made a way for us to be declared innocent in your court when you had no choice but to justly and rightly declare us guilty. And we thank you, and we will thank you forever, throughout all of eternity, for your grace in our lives That you have given to us and we have received by faith and faith alone. So we ask that as we go out this day, that you would help us to love you. back and help us to love our neighbor. And we ask this