Alright, let's pray for our time. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for this great privilege that we have tonight to consider your word once again today. The words of life. The words that speak of your Son Jesus Christ, and we confess, Father, even as your people, that we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit for the prophet. of hearing your word and understanding your word and receiving your word. And so we ask for your tender mercies now that we might do all these things. To your glory and to our good. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn to John's gospel and we'll I'll read the first uh 18 verses or what's other known as John's prologue, and then I'll move to our text for tonight. John's Gospel chapter 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John He came as a witness to bear witness to the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light The true light which enlightens everyone was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who became who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man. but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have beheld his glory, glory as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him and cried out, This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. And from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, the only God who was at the Father's side, he has made him known. And then over to chapter 20, verses 30 to 31. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Well recently uh I found out that a fellow pastor in our presbytery was going to be preaching through the book of John. And he's going to spend ten months preaching through the book of John, which I can understand. And his rationale is is that John's purpose here, that we might have life or even better, eternal life, is of such significance. That it's worth spending that much time in the book of John, that we might understand and receive John's words in these matters. He also goes on to say that, you know, we live in the the uh the Maryland District uh Virginia area where it's a very hectic area. And it's so easy to forget what's so important in life. We get so busy and caught up with the things of the world that we forget what's really important. Even tonight, this is the second time in the last four years where I've ended up preaching on a night when many millions are sitting in front of their television set. viewing the glories that pass away. And we're here tonight to be able to consider the glories that will never pass away. The glory of Christ, the glory that we get to participate in because of Christ. And so as uh Jesus said to uh Martha when Mary sat at the feet of Jesus and Martha was Busy with many things, he says to her, Mary has chosen a better portion. And by God's kindness, we've chosen a better portion tonight. That'll be to our eternal well-being. Well, even as this friend of mine is preaching through the book of John in ten months, I knew one man who would preach through the whole book of John from like two to five years. Over the course of uh two to five years we went down to Wintergreen, a really beautiful resort area. And uh we would often be there on the Lord's Day, and there was a Reformed Baptist pastor. He had been a motorcycle, uh, I guess, I don't know if he was a gang member, but he was a big motorcycle guy, came to Christ, had tattoos all up and down his arms and And uh still rode his motorcycle, and he preached through the book of John almost like a verse by verse. So that we would be there once, and then two years later or so, he'd be still preaching through the book of John. Now I I think the book of John has that substance behind it, uh but I'm not sure if I could do that. But all to say the book of John is very important. I assume and uh that many of you in the course of your life uh either to encourage people in their faith or to lead them to to Christ. I've said, read the book of John And whether you knew it or not, it was a very wise thing to do because John's Gospel is exactly formulated. For faith in Christ. We see it here in his statement that he's giving us these things, his purpose statement in John 20, 30 to 31, so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And by believing You might have life in his name. And so all that John has put together here is for that end and for that purpose. And so tonight I'd like for us to look at three headings as to why this is such an important book. And uh my doctrine would be John's gospel is formulated to elicit faith in Christ, leading to eternal life. But John's gospel is formulated to elicit faith in Christ, leading to our eternal life. And I like to look under the three heads that are under the title, and that's John's Calling, John's Means, and John's Purpose. John's calling, John's means, and John's purpose. And to start off, John is a very unique individual. The last time I was here, I mentioned that John was probably, you could argue that he was Jesus' best friend. He had spent much time with him as Jesus was dying on the cross. Jesus entrusted the care of his mother to him. And so he had a great relationship with Jesus. He saw Jesus do many special things. John, along with his brother James and the Apostle Peter, were even more highly privileged. They got to see other things that other apostles didn't get to see. And yet John himself was commissioned. He didn't run for an office. I think because we're in a democracy, we just think anybody can be anything But not in the kingdom of God. That that John had a unique calling. In Luke 6, 12 to 13, we read, In these days Jesus went out to the mountain to pray, and all all and all night he continued in prayer to God. And when day came he called his disciples and chose from them twelve, whom he named apostles. Then he had these followers who were his disciples, and yet out of this group he picked twelve with a unique purpose. We see in John's own gospel, as he's uh Jesus speaking to these twelve, he says, But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And then Jesus says this, and you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning. That these apostles had a unique calling. They were eyewitnesses of the words and works of Jesus, and that they were to go out and bear witness to all of these things. We see this also in John's first epistle. As John starts off his epistle, he says, That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and have touched with our hands concerning the word of life. The life that was made manifest, we have seen it and testified to it and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you. And then finally, in the book of Acts, we have a unique job description of what these apostles were to do. As they were getting ready to fill the slot that Judas had left, the book of Acts says in Acts 1, 21 to 22. So one of the men who have accop who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John until the the day when he was taken up from us. One of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection. So they had they had a unique, authoritative calling in the in the body of Christ, under Christ's authority, to bear witness to all that had occurred during Jesus' ministry as well as his resurrection. And so in his gospel, in his good news here, we have a great gift. This is what John was called to do, the things he saw, the things he heard, that he relates to us for us. to embrace. All the things that John records here are for us to embrace as they are stated. You know, in the in the photo world, we have Photoshop or we have Glamour Photos, where we try to make things look a little better than they really are. I was thinking back, I've known Mark since my high school days. In my high school picture I had some some skin things going on and they airbrushed it, you know, but not really well because you can kind of see where the airbrush is and where My face really starts. But in John's gospel, there's none of it. Everything he says is absolutely true. absolutely true testimony to what Jesus said and what he did. There's no making Jesus look better than he did. His job is to give an accurate testimony of what he saw and heard. And so that all the wondrous works that we read of in John are absolutely true. And so an early application is when you read the book of John, do you take these. Incredible works to heart. You take these incredible words to heart. And what I mean by that is John's gospel is displaying the glory of God in Christ. But all these things that he did, the power that he exerted in the healings, raising Lazarus from the dead, this is our Jesus. And the writer to the Hebrews says Jesus is the same today, yesterday, today, and forever. That Jesus as he died and rose again from the dead. And the Senate and heaven and is sitteth seating at the right hand of the Father right now. His power hasn't diminished in any in any way at all. So that when we go to him in prayer, the prayer, the power that was extended in the book of John, he's able to extend to us in some way now. But it should encourage us in our faith to know that this is our Jesus. He really had all this power. He had control over the wind and the waves. He had power over death. When it seemed like that might be the end of the time that Mary and Martha would spend with their brother Lazarus. And so as we Take up John's word, we need to take these things to heart and incorporate them into our knowledge of who Christ is. And to have our faith enlarged and broadened. So that when we think of Jesus, we think of him in all of his glory, not in a truncated way, but exactly the way that John describes his great power in his gospel. And at the same time, we need to remember that this is an authoritative book, that there isn't any being wiser than John That John was an apostle, we see in Ephesians 4 that God gave gifts to the church. He gave the apostles, the prophets, and evangelists. But the apostles are the upper tier under Jesus. And so when we read John's words, we're getting the authoritative word that we're accountable to that word under Christ and under John. I know, I will never be an apostle. That is an office that is stopped, that has been established, there's a set number, and I am to listen to them. That, you know, your pastor, my pastor, the elders are all standing under that authority. The authority of the apostles. So that when the apostles say something, God says something. Because they are his authoritative speakers. And so we have a great treasure here in John's Gospel. So he has an incredible, incredible calling, an authoritative calling. Vern Poethras in his book Inerrancy in the Gospels, a God-centered approach to the challenges of harmonization, says, because the apostles were officially commissioned by Christ. Their interpretation is not merely human, but divine. That John's gospel is the plumb line. And wherever we find ourselves out of line, we're to rise up to where John's gospel is, and not vice versa. That these wonderful truths that he tells us are absolutely true about who God is and who Christ is. And so we're always to submit to them. We sit under them. We want to be transformed by them. And by God's Spirit, he really does that. He starts to bend our wills and our affections and our thoughts and our words to come in line with what John is going to tell us about who Jesus is. And it's really important here, just two implications of this of this point. Is first is that salvation or damnation, eternal life or eternal death. are in the balance of John's words. That these are here that we might have eternal life. And we'll look at this life in just a little bit. But it's. It's so important. We're not talking about just physical life and death. This past week I visited a friend of of Mark's of mine who had a a heart uh heart procedure and it was pretty severe. It wasn't life-threatening unless there were gonna be infection. But if it had a been, you know, that's physical life and death. But here we're talking about eternal life and death as John gives us these words, and that we'll see later on as we get towards the last point. And then the second implication is there's these things are found nowhere else except in the Word of God. There's no other documents other than the Word of God that tell us these things about who God is, along with John's gospel. So when we hear God's word, it's the word above all other words. The words of the world, the words of our own thoughts. There's nothing that compares to these things. This is the The bottom line when it comes to reality, what God says, what John says about who God is, these are this is the bottom line, and we need to To submit to these truths as God's Spirit leads us. So John has a very unique calling And uh again, you know, it we we we tend to think that anybody can be anything. We live in a democracy. I think it's like if you're 35 years or older, you can run for president, but not in God's kingdom. And he was appointed, John was appointed by Christ himself to this great calling. So he has this unique calling, and then he has means of executing his calling And throughout the book of John, he uses the word testimony or witness over and over again. In the New Testament, the Greek words for testimony or testify are found seventy two percent in John's writings in the New Testament. That this is a an important thing to him. This is was this was his calling. He was called to testify. He was called to witness. And so it's no surprise That we would find this in the New Testament. This is what he's about over and over again. And so what he does is he lays out before us throughout the whole gospel his eyewitness accounts of who Jesus is. He's being a faithful witness. So when John wrote John and 1, 2nd, and 3 John in Revelation, he's fulfilling this calling. It's the fruit of the calling that he had, faithfully executed. And so John puts before us many signs that Jesus did. He tells us that Jesus did other signs, but he puts these here for our faith. He knew exactly what we needed under the inspiration or the of the leading of the Holy Spirit. And so we're supposed to take heed to these signs. We're supposed to listen to these signs. But he doesn't just give us the signs, he gives us the interpretations that are behind him as well. It's interesting, whenever some of these signs happened, people were confused. In John 6, Jesus feeds the 5,000. And they're clamoring after bread. They think, this is great. We want more bread. And he's pointing to the fact that I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life. In John 9, he heals the blind man. And uh there's there ensues an argument with the Pharisees, and and uh and Christ is pointing to the fact that there's spiritual blindness. Yes, I healed this man's eyes, but there's something of a greater nature than spiritual blindness. And then in John 11, Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead. And as he goes through his dialogue with Mary and Martha, the very sad time they must have had. If you've ever been at a funeral or of a loved one or at the gravesite. services, you know, the great sorrow and and uh l sense of loss is you're there. And Jesus says uh You know, he'll he'll rise again. And Martha says, I know he'll be there at the resurrection. And Jesus says these words that she probably didn't get at the time, but within a few minutes were were incredible. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the resurrection and the life. And so all of these things Jesus, John is testifying to that he saw with his own eyes. And he's reporting them to us in his gospel. And he gives us the true interpretations that go along with them so that we can understand why Jesus did these things, what they were pointing to. It surely was a display of his power, but they were pointing to something more important than that. It's interesting, and this is a very sad commentary on the the blindness of man, but when Jesus raises Lazarus, you know, many rejoice and are happy, but others hate Jesus. And they saw the miracle for what it was. It wasn't like they were saying it was a fake miracle. They see he keeps doing these signs. And yet the blindness of man was so such a uh horrific disease they don't get it they don't see what the miracle leads to that That Jesus is the author of life. He is the one who can give you new life, that you're dead and your trespasses and sins. And they hate Jesus. And they want to kill him because he raised somebody from the dead. What a sad state of affairs that some great mercy of Jesus raising Lazarus and restoring him to his sisters is the cause of offense for them. And yet that is what they see so offensive. And yet John tells us exactly what these things are to lead us to. There's just something even more important. So he has his calling, he has his means, he's just giving us the truth, the true testimony of the things he saw as an eyewitness. Now the last time I was here, we were speaking about John the Baptist, and that was the topic of the sermon, and I said when John wrote his gospel, He had all of his own life experiences that he had those three years while Jesus ministered in the world. And then as Jesus' mother was entrusted to him, he also had all of Mary's life experiences that she experienced in the world. And at that time I thought, well, he could pick from any of those. But as I thought about it more and more, John's calling was to report the things that he himself had seen. with his own eyes. Not to uh belittle what Mary knew, not that he didn't take that into the bigger picture, but his calling was to report the things that he experienced. We see it even in the book of Revelation. He tells you exactly what he saw and exactly what he heard. So I think he had a more narrow focus in his writings to To only report what he saw with his own eyes and what he heard with his own ears. For our good, for our good, for our faith. And then finally, John's purpose. But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. That his goal is for us to be convinced that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, that was spoken of in the Old Testament, and that He's the Son of God, and that by believing those realities, You might have life in his name. Now I'm going to pass over the Jesus as the Christ and as the Son of God. He affirms it in the Word. He affirms that he's the Christ to the woman at the well in chapter 4. He affirms that he is the Son of God twice within the gospel. But I want us to consider a little more deeply here in the last minutes here about having life in his name. Now, in some sense, that ought to be an odd or a striking statement. If I said that to you today, you might say, what do you mean? I'm here. I'm alive. I'm physically present, you know, I'm good. I'm not in. In uh threat of death, I don't have any illnesses that might lead me to die. What do you mean life? And uh it's interesting if you look at the miracles that Jesus does all throughout his gospel. That there's indications that uh something's not right. That something is not right. In chapter 3, we come across Nicodemus. And Nicodemus, he is a teacher of the people of God. He comes to Jesus by night. You know, we don't know exactly what he was thinking, but he he says, we know you're a teacher sent from God because you do these things, that he knew that the miracles were pointing to something important. And Jesus, who knows all men, he doesn't waste any time. He says, you must be born again. You must be born from above. And Nicodemus is like, what? How can you be born again? He could only think in the physical sense. And he's uh agitated by it. And Jesus finally says, are you the teacher of Israel and you don't know these things? And I was so glad that Jesus didn't ask me that question because when I first read this, I was a young Christian. I thought, I don't know what Jesus is talking about. I hadn't read the Old Testament, and yet as we look through the Old Testament, particularly in Ezekiel 27, we see the dry bones coming to life. And so this idea, this doctrine of needing to be born again was there all along. And somehow Nicodemus missed it. And he was a teacher of Israel. That's an important doctrine. The new birth is an important doctrine. It's an essential doctrine that we have to be born again to have this new life. And so as I thought about it, in a sense, Nicodemus as a teacher was dead. He was dead as a teacher because he could not perform the duty for which he was called to. He couldn't teach the people of God the truth of God. He was there present as a teacher, but he couldn't perform the function of a teacher. And as we go on through the different miracles that Jesus does throughout the book, we sort of see this same pattern of something being present. And yet the function is not there. In chapter 5, Jesus heals the invalid, this man whose legs were there physically. But they weren't accomplishing the purpose for which they were given. He couldn't walk. So in a sense, his legs were dead. This was driven home as I thought about the word invalid. Invalid, invalid, invalid. His legs were invalid. They were there, but they couldn't do what they were meant to do until Jesus healed him Or in chapter 9, when Jesus heals the blind man, the eyes are there in his head, but he couldn't see. They were there present physically. But they weren't accomplishing the purpose for which God gave them this great gift of sight. And so his eyes were dead until Jesus heals them. And then in chapter 11 we see that Lazarus has truly died. He's been in the grave. Even Martha says, by now there'll be a stench, Lord, if you call him out. The relationships that he had with his sisters, in a sense, had died. His life itself had perished in death. The gift of life that God gave to man originally in creation, he was dead now. The function, the good function that God gave. To Adam, to glorify him, to enjoy the good things that he had provided. Lazarus had died. And yet Jesus raises him from the grave and restores him. And so we see this pattern over and over that the things are there physically, they're there in a sense, and yet as far as purpose They're dead. And so as we come here tonight, all of us are dead in Adam. God said, In the day that you eat of the fruit, you shall surely die. And so when Eve and Adam ate the fruit, something changed catastrophically in mankind. And we see that they didn't die physically immediately, but their relationship with God had died. They were hiding from God, the God who had done so many wonderful things for them, gave him all these great blessings. And a great calling now was catastrophically ruined And as time went on, Adam died. And as we look at his lineage, we see all these people, they live for a certain amount of time, and they die. Methuselah living to the greatest age we see there in Genesis, and he dies. With the exception of Enoch, which I think pointed to Christ, the man who walked with God and was no more. But we have this we have this sense of death that has uh uh invaded our world because of sin. That through Adam's sin, that death came into the world, this great sorrow. And again, like I said, if you've ever been at a funeral of a lost, you know, a loved one. It seems unnatural, and it is unnatural. It was never the way that God had intended it in his good creation. And yet Adam rebelled. He disobeyed the one command that God had given him. Out of all the wonderful things he could eat and all the wonderful things he could do, he rebelled and incurred guilt and became corrupt, so that we all live with death now. I've been looking at different ways to eat in a more healthy way, and there's kind of a food war going on between plant-based diet and keto diets. What's better for you? And it's interesting because you listen to these men, some men very learned, this one gentleman, I'm thinking, I want to go talk to him about Christ. He's got so many things right, but he's totally blind to how it works, how it's all centered in Christ. But for all of the wonderful things they tell you, and you know, we have these things called blue zones in the world where people tend to live to be a hundred years old Out in California, Loma Lima, it's a heavily advanced population, so they're always eating plant-based stuff. So there's some benefit to those things. But no matter what side you're on, there's this big elephant in the room in the room. And it's kind of weird when they start talking about there's death. You might live to a hundred, but you're still going to die. And it's it's just it's interesting. They don't they can't they have nothing to do with it, they don't have an answer for that. But God does And I think it's worth, you know, even in an apologetic way to bring up, well, you know, yeah, that's all good, but you're still going to die. How do you deal with that? How do you deal with that? I think it's a great apologetic. That's something you just can't get away from. Doesn't that bother you that you're going to die? Do you ever think about that? Now, we have the sure hope. We have the sure gospel, but at least to bring it up, that people, you know, they talk about, I'm gonna live the good life. It's like, and then you die? What's the purpose? What's the point? And yet this is what Jesus is getting at, that he is the one who came to bring life, that God so loved the world that he sent his son. That those who were under his wrath, that those who were under the curse of death, might not die forever, but have life with him. And as John goes on in his gospel, it's amazing. He spends almost the last half of his gospel preparing his apostles For his death and resurrection. Interpreting what's going to happen ahead of the road here. We're going to tell you what's going to be happening. And he prepares them for what they still did not understand fully. His tender mercies to the apostles, to get them ready for his dying on the cross and then the amazing raising from the dead, to help them to understand what's going on. And for us too, it's amazing that God would do this for us in Christ, that He would send His Son to bear the sins that we deserve to be punished for. That when we look at the cross, as John will tell us about later in this gospel, that the wrath that Jesus endured is what we deserve. And yet he was put forth as a propitiation for our sins, one who would bear our wrath, who would quench the wrath of God. As our substitute, that we might never experience what Jesus experienced. To study the cross in all four gospels is a great way to find out this is what our sin deserves. And yet Jesus has borne it himself. Paul in 2 Corinthians 5, that glorious passage. He made him who knew no sin, who always wanted to do the Father's will, who above all things wanted to please the Father. Even when the Father on the cross forsook him for a time, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? who during his lifetime had always pleased the Father. The Father was always with him. And yet on the cross, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Into your hands I commit my spirit. And he dies. He was obedient to the point of death because he wanted to please the Father. He wanted to fulfill the Father's will, even though it was horrific. And he did it. He did it to the last drags. He bore the wrath. He bore our sin on the cross, that through faith in him we might receive his perfect righteousness. His impeccable righteousness. You know, as we read the question tonight in the catechism, I've I've thought a lot recently, in the last year or so, about how impossible it is to have a righteousness that God could accept. As fallen creatures, we're incapable of it. It's impossible that Romans 5 it says when we were weak. Christ died for us. And the word weak is kind of weak, really. It's not strong enough. It means that we're morally incompetent. That there's no way we could pay the debt that we owed. It was beyond us. The most, or I should say the least worst person in the world could not pay the debt that we owed. It had to be a perfect righteousness that had to pay it had to pay our debt. It had to be a perfect sacrifice. And Jesus was the one, and he did it. Even in his affections. I mean we see, if we're honest with ourselves, we see how our affections or our thoughts go astray into sin. And Jesus had none of that. Not the least deviation from impure thoughts. Impeccable righteousness and an impeccable sacrifice. And this is what John is talking about. This is what his gospel has formulated for us to have great confidence and great hope. is he lie it lays out before us who Jesus was, what he did, why he came, and he rose from the dead. That it's been accepted, the sacrifice has been accepted, and God is just in the justifier of the one who has faith in Christ. So that the message of the church is, it's finished. It's finished. Be reconciled to God as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. It's all been done. Come to Christ. Realize that you're a sinner. Realize that your only hope is Christ. And He's done it. And He is a perfect sacrifice. And He will give you His righteousness. And he will give you a new heart. He'll take away that rebellious heart that we read of in the confession. And he will give you a new heart that it's inclined to want to please God. It doesn't please God perfectly yet. But it's a new heart. It has a new orientation. So that you begin to want to please God. And by the work of the Holy Spirit through the scriptures, you start to move in that direction more and more. Progressive sanctification where you become more and more in obedience to God and more like Christ. That he took away the ears that were deaf to the gospel. I can remember, I heard the gospel as a young person in first grade or so, but it was always like muffled. It never made any sense. It was all confusion. And then one day it was like Oh, I get it. I could hear it. I understood it. It was clear. I could see. My eyes were no longer covered with scales in a sense like Paul's. It's like, oh, Christ is beautiful. He's a wonderful Savior. Who wouldn't want to embrace him? But that's the work of God's grace that that takes away the blindness. It takes away the scales. That's just his his grace. And so John in his high calling, he puts this before us. He puts before us this Jesus. Not just to be theologically correct, not to be the best reformed thinkers in the world. But that we might have life, that we might enjoy the purpose for which Christ has come, that he would give his life to us And that he might draw us near to himself, not just to keep us at arm's length. I think that's one of the problems I think we as believers we have. We think, well, he just kind of tolerates us. No, it's that he might bring us to himself. In a dear relationship, just like his son had. His son had perfect fellowship. Day after day in this world. He would always have this silent communion with him. And I assume he prayed silently. But sometimes he'd say, Father, I say this not for my sake, but for their sakes. They, you know, he would pray out loud. The silent communion that he had is now outspoken out in the world. So they might know this is what's been going on. And that that's ours now too in Christ. This is, you know, the first question of the Westminster Confession is, what is the chief end of man? Chief end of man is to glorify God, and I think we kind of get that And we forget to enjoy him forever. That in Christ we can actually enjoy God. We have an affinity for him now because we have a new heart. And that relationship is to grow. It's to grow deeper into eternity. My dear wife is not here tonight, and I've, over the last couple of years, have been just glorious years with my wife And it was a sad thought. I thought, it's going to end someday. It's like, well, no, it won't. And it'll it'll it'll go into heaven by God's grace. But I just thought, I feel like I'm just starting to know my wife. I'm starting to get know her better, where I'm able to love her better, you know, kind of anticipate things. And then we have that with God now. That as we go through our day, you know, as my art, as Mark and my friend is in the hospital bed, who's a professing Christian. Even if he's there 3 o'clock in the morning by himself, Christ is with him. And he can have the same fellowship in some measure that Jesus had with the Father. And so as we read the book of John, as we see his high calling, his unique calling, as we see the means that he employs. We see it's to a glorious end that we might have life, this life that Christ came to give us, eternal life. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And Father, we can only understand your word by your Spirit. We can only Get it, as you make us new creatures in Christ, as you take away our blindness, as you unstop our ears, as you take away our natural resistance as children of Adam. That wonderful work of grace, that wonderful work of regeneration, whereby you make us capable of enjoying these things. Just as you spoke the original creation into being, by the word of your power, you speak by the power of the Holy Spirit new beings into being. We're new creatures in Christ. By the almighty power that of the Holy Spirit who washes us in the works of regeneration and renewal Father, we ask that you would bless all of our interaction with John's gospel as we have opportunity and with all the rest of your word, all the word that points to Christ in one way or another. That you would open our eyes to understand and just love your word and enjoy how it points us to Christ and that with your blessing that we might be conformed to the image of your Son. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.