Be seen. Our text this morning is uh from Philippians chapter uh three and if you have a Bible or the Pew Bible please uh open it up And follow follow along as I read. It's our custom uh to stand uh as uh We hear the Word of God because we acknowledge that this is the Word of the living God, not merely words penned by human beings. So let's stand for the reading of God's Word. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you. Look out for the dogs. Look out for the evildoers. Look out for those who mutilate the flesh For we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone thinks that he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more. circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews. as to the law a Pharisee, as to zeal a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as lost for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I've suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ. and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith. that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. O gracious Father, by your Spirit, let these words capture our hearts. And may they accomplish what you intended in our lives when Paul was inspired to write them. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, please take your seats. Sergei Kordakov was running away. For months he had been planning his defection, and now in in a trawler off the coast of Canada in a freezing gale, the time to act had come. He would never have this chance to be so close again, a half mile from the coast and three and a half miles to a small village. The very ferocity of the storm had driven the most experienced sailors on the ship to sickness. And it would provide cover for his escape. And so he went down to his room, pulled out pictures of his friends and places that were familiar to him and Russia knowing that he would never see them again. And though he was in top physical condition, he knew that the swim in that frigid seawater would tax him. But he had not imagined what was about to take place. As he jumped in, he was immediately forced to cut his boots off, which were pulling him under. It took him one hour to do so, and he injured himself in the process. Then fog rolled in. And he completely lost his bearings. And after swimming for two hours, he found himself back at the ship. Numbed with cold, he sized up his choices and decided that he would rather die. than to try to find life. Excuse me, trying to find life, than to continue the life he'd been living. Now you need his backstory to fully understand what brought him to this place. Sergi was orphaned at the age of six and grew up in the horrific conditions of a state-run orphanage. in the Soviet Union. But his outstanding leadership qualities were recognized early on as a child And everywhere he went, uh, he was recognized as uh the most important communist youth leader. He was uh Honored by being recognized as the number one youth leader in his province And he was sent to the Naval Academy, and there he was appointed to do the political indoctrination of 1,200 elite cadets. Now while in the Naval Academy, uh Sergi was uh tapped by the Soviet secret police to lead a special operation squad whose work was to find and arrest Christians as they met secretly. He participated in 150 such raids, and over time he became sickened by them because he realized he was making orphans out of children. And it led him to question the cause that he'd been so committed to. He couldn't return to that life. And so he pushed on, and after five hours he reached the rocky shore only to discover that the village was actually uh two miles away across a bay. And so he pressed on, fearing capture He was found the next morning in September of 1972 half naked, battered, and cut. Now, Sergei is a lot like the Apostle Paul, a man whose zeal for his cause led him to persecute Christians. Both men discovered that their zeal was misplaced. Of course, Paul wasn't a communist. He was a devout Jew. He was not only zealous for Judaism, but he was zealous. in pursuing righteousness, in establishing his own righteousness. And he speaks in a very personal manner in the text we've read, out of his experience so that we might see from the model of his own life what it is to have Christ's righteousness. Now, righteousness in the New Testament refers to being right with God. It means to enjoy his approval. To have his acceptance, to know his smile. And I've come to see that Religious and irreligious people both pursue righteousness Both Bible-believing Christians and irreligious people seek to establish their own righteousness. And I know about this intimately because it happened to me, and I was completely unaware of it. I fell into it and it took years for me, probably almost 15 years, before I really saw how it was affecting my life. It affect my relationships with other people, how I viewed myself, my relationship with God And the thing that had most characterized my conversion was a deep experience of joy, and I had lost that. Paul writes to remind them, because he wants them not to lose their freedom of Christ. but to know the fullness of joy for which Jesus came. Jesus came that we might have life until the fullest. Jesus came that we might know joy and have the richest, abundant experience of joy that humans can have, that we were actually made to have as human beings. And the foundation for a joyful life is to be certain that we're accepted by God. And if you're here and you're not sure about being a Christian. You know, in fact you're not. I want you to know that the joy that you long for, that's lasting and that's deeper than any experience can only be found in Jesus Christ. And this morning I'm going to tell you how it is, how Paul uh found that joy, and how you can as well. Now Paul begins by sounding a warning and the language is very strong. Look out for the dogs. He writes in verse 2, look out for the evildoers. Look out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the circumcision who worship God. by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. Now, Paul is angry. He's not just a little Pete. He's positively angry because there were a group of traveling Christians that we could call Judaisers who wanted to impose the Jewish way of life on Gentile Christians. The issue wasn't that being a Jew and living in a Jewish manner of life was wrong. The issue was that these people taught that to be a Christian and fully accepted by God, you had to first become truly Jewish. You couldn't experience salvation, in other words, if you weren't a Jew. And a little background is necessary to follow Paul's concerns here. And as probably some of you know, the early church, the first believers were all Jewish. And as loyal Jews, they saw the law as of vital importance. And they emphasize that the covenant that Israel had with God, which was sealed with the sign of circumcision, was equally important. And though Jesus had given his followers, these Jewish believers, a worldwide mission, he gives it just before he ascends, he reiterates it, he says, you will be my witnesses. in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the world, it was really hard for them, as Jewish Christians, to change their view of those who weren't Jewish. And Gentiles. And Paul, on the other hand, believed that when non-Jews turned to the Lord in faith and repentance, They were to be accepted as God's members without having to become Jewish, without the men having to be circumcised. Now this conflict grew over a long period of time in the church. This was not something that just resolved easily. And the church called the council, and the story of that is recorded in the 15th chapter of the book of Acts to settle the issue. And while it was settled, upholding Paul's view, Still years later this was a problem. And Paul wants to safeguard the Philippians. And so he writes this warning. Three times he writes the words, look out, look out for the dogs, he calls them. That's the name that Jews gave to Gentiles. Now your experience of dogs is different than theirs. Don't think of Fido. You need to think of a dog that's more like a sewer rat. I actually encountered these dogs in a trip to India. They're gaunt, they're snarling, they're scavengers that will eat any filth. He says they were evil workers, turning people away from the truth and freedom of the gospel. And because the circumcision had no value, they were just mutilators of a flesh. And then Paul says in the strongest terms that a great spiritual reversal has taken place. And the Judaizers are now the new Gentiles. And the Gentiles who have embraced Christ are the true Jews. That's what he means when he says, for we are the circumcision. And then he adds that Christians are spirit people who live in the Spirit, who worship God in the Spirit. encounter with the Spirit, the indwelling of the Spirit, is the difference between religious people and those who have a living relationship with Christ. Christians glory in Christ, in what he has done. He's their confidence, their assurance that they are accepted by God, that they're secure in his love. And in Jesus, they have everything they need for their relationship with God. Christians put no confidence in the flesh. The flesh here's just human effort. It's hard work. It's the work of seeking to be accepted. Christians don't rely on their own efforts for acceptance, approval, or standing with God. uh or for their righteousness. Paul had one time pursued self-righteousness. At one time Paul had great confidence that he was right with God. And here's why Paul held that view. It's in verses 4 to 6. He says, though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks that he has a reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, and as to the law, a Pharisee. as to zeal a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. What Paul's saying is, I acquired four of these privileges by my birth. And three of them I built on by my choices as an adult. He's saying I'm a model Jew. And there's really nobody has any more claim of being a model Jew than I am. Let's just take apart what he's saying here. He says I was circumcised. Now, circumcision was the sign of being incorporated in God's covenant. It's like a health insurance card. I have uh carried one for a long time now. And what it indicates and why they want it when you go to see the doctor or go in the hospital is it proves that you are a participant in the plan. And all the benefits promised in the plan belong to you. God had commanded Abraham uh for himself and all his descendants to put this mark on their bodies as a symbol that they were participants in God's plan of salvation and that each individual was a recipient of the promises of God. They of course would have to personally embrace those promises, but they were their promises by birthright. In addition, Paul says that he was of the people of Israel. He's born in Abraham's family line. He's a pureblooded Israelite, not a Gentile convert. And he could name his tribe. He was one of the tribe of Benjamin, a tribe that had remained faithful for 2,000 years when others had not. He was a Hebrew of Hebrews, which means he was raised in a devout family. He couldn't be accused of having assimilated and adopted the ways of Greek and Roman culture. He had not lost his Jewish religious heritage. These were Paul's privileges by birth. And he builds on them. He says, I was a Pharisee. That literally could be translated the set apart ones or the pure ones. The strictest sect of Judaism, which they were not only scrupulous about keeping all 613 laws in the Old Testament, You can go count later. But also in keeping the oral law, which they viewed as a fence to keep them from transgressing the law that we see in the five books of Moses. It works something like this. The third commit commandment of the tent is you shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God. And so the fence they built, the way to keep from doing that was to never say God's name at all. You can't just use something you'd never use, right? Well that's the logic uh that they followed. And that logic was carried out to a degree that would be mind numbing for us And then Paul adds, I persecuted, imprisoned, and slew these infatuated Christians. This is my great claim to God's favor. And as to righteousness under the law, blameless. And he's not saying he's without sin. He just means that if you were to examine the records, you would see that no one ever charged him. with breaking the law. Paul's resume as a Jew shows that no one can argue that his conversion to Christianity uh was attributable to his failure uh to live out a Jewish lifestyle. It wasn't that he was a failed Jew, so he found another uh religion that fit his lifestyle Better. No, that's not the case at all. He was a model of Jewish uh faithfulness. And Paul's life before knowing Christ was a zealous pursuit of righteousness achieved by self-effort and self-reliance. And many Christians are actually no different as they pursue their standing with God. Their righteousness, their being in a righteous righteousness with Christian, God rests on their effort. And I can say I had a whole lot in common with Paul's misdirected uh zeal. I spent a lot of energy seeking to establish my own righteousness. Even though I as an adult convert uh to Christianity, uh I've had uh years of training, theological training, and I spent uh Uh up to that point, uh 20 plus years really immersed in the scriptures and much of it uh I've been privileged to be a pastor and to prepare to preach uh and teach during that. uh time. And nonetheless, I was relying on my s own self-effort for my confidence in my relationship with God. I was, of course, just doing the things I thought I should. I was living out Christianity as I understood it. I was checking off all the boxes. I felt that I needed to to hold my head up uh high. You know what these boxes are. You know, I spent time reading my Bible and in prayer. Uh I gave ten percent of my income. I attended church. I had meaningful relationships with other Christians. I gave to the poor. I tried to bear witness to Christ. And because I did those things, I thought, well, I'm secure in God's love. Conversely, if I messed up, if I was slacking off, if I fell down I was crestfallen, and I figured that God was not pleased with me. And my standing with God went up and it went down. Daily, often daily, and sometimes hourly. And if I messed up badly in any given day, the rest of the day was ruined. There was just nothing that would set the day right. I came slowly to see that this was a project I was engaged in of establishing my own righteousness. And it manifested itself in many, many ways. There were these indicators like those lights on the dashboard. We used to call them the idiot light. They would turn sherry red. It just said something's wrong. It's probably seriously wrong. You need to check into it. They'll tell you what. Well, here are the indicator lights, and I've already told you what's wrong under the hood. It's self-righteousness. So here's the first one of many. This is one of them, a contemptuous view of others. If you were to ask me, do I compare myself with others and look down on those who don't live as I do? Well the answer is. Yes, of course I do. In fact, I do it quite frequently, maybe almost all the time. This is so very human, and religious and irreligious people do this. Traditional conservative people do this as much as progressive liberal people do this. And any level of contempt Is a sign, it's a tell of hidden self-righteousness. So ask yourself, how do you regard those who fail to live up to your ideas of right and wrong? The people you view, whether you have a conservative view of morality or a progressive one, how do you view them? Now I want to say this to the church. If you're here and you're not a Christian, this don't don't you'll need to hear this. But contempt for other people is one of the reasons that 20 and 30 year olds, when asked Say the children of the church, why it is that they don't want to be a part of the church Now while I rarely acknowledge these thoughts, I probably was rarely even aware of them, they would come out in moments of unguarded conversation about somebody who wasn't present. I don't know if you've ever had a moment like that in your life. And it's where we feel morally superior to them. Uh and or we can't stand them. We actually are repelled by them. The second uh indicator likes this That I discovered. It was a shallow sense of forgiveness. Now, this comes out in a number of ways, but one of them is this It is to really think, to have the illusion that we're not really broken. That were far less broken than we'd like to imagine. And so when it comes time uh to forgive somebody, uh we well, uh we we wait and see if they're worthy uh forgiveness You know, have they demonstrated, to our satisfaction, that they're truly sorry? Have they demonstrated in a way that satisfies us that they've repented? And so we're kind of like a benevolent dictator deciding if you're worthy of receiving mercy and forgiveness from me whom you've offended. And our response, this third light, is our response when we fail. When you're caught and somebody points it out. Is your first reaction, because mine often is, to blame shift, rationalize, or justify Well, the authors of a book called The Mistakes Were Made says the attraction to do this is far stronger in it than we usually recognize. Self-justification, they write, allows people to convince themselves that what they did was the best they could have done. In fact, come to think of it, it was the right thing. There was nothing else I could have done. Actually, it was a brilliant solution to a problem. I was doing uh the best for this situation. They deserved what they got. And on it goes. Researchers found that when they ask uh married couples uh who did how much of the housework. Uh the wives said, You're kidding. It's ninety percent. And the husbands would say, I do a lot. It's about forty percent. Well, those numbers varied with couples. but it always added up to substantially more than 100%. Now it would be tempting to conclude that one of them is lying. But it's more likely that what they're doing is they're remembering what happens in a way that enhances their contribution to the household. And this is just how we're hardwired. We are hardwired to see the best in ourselves. And to see less in others. This is just how it is. Even when we know we've done something wrong, we gradually begin to think, well, it wasn't my fault. After all, the the situation was complicated. And uh uh we underestimate our responsibility, we whittle away at it until it's merely a shadow Of actually our former self, as it was lived out in that moment. Now, this impulse to self-justify is not something limited to religious people. It's a sign that you're protecting something. What you're protecting is your righteous deeds, your record of righteousness. And you need that record to feel both good about yourself and to believe that you're in God's good graces. Now functionally, now remember I'm talking about myself, but maybe you can identify it with some of this. I don't know. I functionally lived as if it was Christ plus my obedience. That made me acceptable. Oh, I understood the doctrine of justification. I've been immersed in the reformed understanding of how it is we're made right with God. I could articulate it, I could write a paper on it, I could point to the books that I had about it. I understood this completely intellectually. But the greatest distance in the world is the distance between the head and the heart. And my heart didn't care what my head thought about all of this. There was a huge disconnect. And the really the biggest tell was that joy was a Casualty in my life. I became joyless. The first morning after encountering Christ, I woke up with joy that had dispelled a profound six-month depression. And gradually, over ten to fifteen years, the Christian life had become a duty and actually drudgery. And it was all out of a desire to live out my understanding of the Christian life, which of course progressively gets more detailed and more uh filled. Paul shows us the way to freedom and joy. Paul finds self-righteousness utterly lacking as he encountered Christ In the Damascus Road along there, Christ confronts Paul. And it was traumatic for Paul. And it caused Paul to reassess everything that he'd done in his life. Verses seven to eight. But whatever gain I had, I counted as lost for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as lost because of the sake of Surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. Now Paul's using bookkeeping language when he writes this. This is the language of an accountant. He says, Formerly I counted up all my spiritual assets. I looked at my spiritual resume and found myself to be a model Of what it meant to be a Jew. And that this was the greatest treasure I had. But after encountering Christ After seeing his beauty and his worth, and grasping by faith that I could have the very righteousness of God He saw that what he had previously claimed as his highest possession, which he'd clung to, was in fact rubbish. Surely the translators hesitate to write probably what Paul intends here because this word can mean dung, excrement, sewage. Paul looks at what he once treasured and sees that it's just sewage. And Paul abandons every claim to his own righteousness. The only righteousness that counts is Jesus Christ. And this righteousness comes by faith. Verse 9, to be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith That I may know him in the power of his resurrection and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from The dead. Paul let go of his own righteousness and takes hold of the gift of Christ's righteousness. And this gift is not earned. It's not obtained through human effort. It's received as a gift by faith. Now faith could be defined this way. It's the act of counting as a loss all those things that can be conceived as grounds for self-confidence before God. Faith unites us to Christ so that we are found in him. And everything Christ has done is now ours. Saving faith has three components. It's knowing something is true, and then it's actually believing that it's so But last of all, there's a part of commitment where you give yourself over to it. Just think of penicillin. Now penicillin was one One of the most wonderful discoveries in modern medicine. It's saved countless lives that otherwise would have died from blood poisoning. And just think of it this way: you can know that there is such an antibiotic as penicillin. You can actually be convinced. That it will bring healing, but is of no value to you unless you take it when you're sick. And that's exactly how it is. with Christ. You may know that Jesus lived. You may actually be convinced that he truly was alive. And the gospels are accurate account of who he is. But unless you embrace him with faith and rest on him for your relationship with God, it will do you no good. Sadly, there are many in the church who sit in a church on Sunday morning who have not moved to that last place where they've abandoned relying on themselves and given themselves fully to Christ. So let me ask you: have you abandoned every effort to achieve confidence before God that's outside of receiving and resting upon Christ alone? Well you can tell by how much joy is in your life. Because if there isn't joy in your life It means somehow you've lost this connection. This connection is not alive to you anymore. And I've touched on some of the ways you can see that, but this deadening happens even to Christians, sincere Christians, and perhaps it happens most often. to them because in their pursuit of Christ they think it's about self-effort and it ends up very subtly our hearts are hardwired uh to think Because this is the heart of all pagan religion, that if you do this, God will accept you. And it's completely foreign to the logic of our hearts. To believe Jesus has done it all, and because he has, we are accepted. And therefore, whatever we do flows out of the gratitude and joy of being accepted. Accepted. If you pursue Christ and have a growing sense If you do pursue Christ, you will have this. You'll have a growing sense that your life's not altogether. That's what happens But when you get up against the beauty and the perfection of Christ, you just see, uh I'm not like that. I'm not as gentle as he is, uh I'm not as concerned for others as he is, I'm not moved with compassion. passion toward people as he is, I'm not willing to sacrifice for others the way he does. It's natural that you see that But if you are seeking him and you're relying on what he's done for your relationship with God, then your joy will grow. You see, the bigger view you have of your sin, the bigger the cross will grow. If you're looking at the cross and you don't get stuck looking at your If you're looking at the cross, your sin will grow. Your knowledge of your sin will grow. But the cross will grow bigger if you're oriented toward it properly in. Faith. Knowing Christ is more valuable than anything else. He is worthy. If you gain Christ, you gain all things Our life is hidden with Christ. All the promises of God are yes and amen in him. The future is bound up with Christ, the new heaven. And the new earth, the world that we long for, that this world reminds us, either by its goodness or how corrupt and broken it is. That we were made for a different world than we live in. Righteousness, sanctification. And redemption are all in him. All the fullness of God is found in him. Let's pray. Gracious Father, please take these words that I've spoken, the words of this text. and and make them alive in such a way that they penetrate all the defenses and the rationalizations and the self-deception that's within In us. Bring us to a place of deep, regular, full communion in what Christ has done for us Let us see, Father, that we can't grow in holiness unless we grow in daily trusting what Christ has done for us. Well at our doing commerce with the justification we have, our efforts to pursue sanctification will inevitably lead us to self-righteousness. And self-reliance. For it's in Christ's name we pray. Ah