If you haven't already done so, would you please bring your open your Bibles to our passage this morning, uh which is from 1 Peter, the book of 1 Peter, chapter 1, and today we will be looking at verses 3 through 12. This morning's passage begins with a blessing to God for what He has done, as we shall see in a moment. And later Peter acknowledges that struggles occur in this life. However, he provides us a reason for them and also a frame of mind. a frame of mind that a believer should maintain in order to get through the circumstances that are challenging in life. We all go through these difficult times, challenges, if you will, That brings about pain and it brings about sadness in our lives. You may be experiencing some of those things even now. But the Bible speaks about having joy. Joy, in the midst of these painful times. Our passage today points to how we can experience in general, these trials in life, and as we do, how we can have joy and peace in the midst of them I'd like to please rise, if you would, for the reading and hearing of God's holy, inerrant word. This is the word of God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, That perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And concerning this salvation, The prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ. And the subsequent glories. But you have In the things that have now been announced to you, through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things unto which angels long to look. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we come before you now as your people. uh listening to we pray that you would help us to focus with great intent uh with the desire to learn and to grow and to reflect Christ And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would cause us to be convicted where conviction is necessary in our lives. Not just so that we can feel convicted, but for the purpose of repenting and for us to reflect the Lord Jesus more and more in our lives. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Heavenly Jerusalem, which is our true home, should be a constant focus. for the Christian. Because as we have already discussed over the last two lessons in First Peter, we are sojourners and we are looking forward to a heavenly Jerusalem which is our permanent home. But some of us, if not all of us, at some point in our lives grow cold. In our hope. Sometimes we become impatient, and sometimes we become distracted with earthly Jerusalem In our passage today, Peter provides and invites us to remember the reasons for our hope. Which he says is a living hope. After he gives his greetings, he begins by proclaiming a blessing to God. He blesses God for his electing and regenerating work. Neither is this election nor regeneration something that man does. Or is it something that he initiates by himself? It is surely motivated and accomplished by God's act of mercy. The hope that Christians have is not a dead hope, but a living one. It is a living hope because Jesus Himself was resurrected from the dead. Our hope is a living hope because it is a reality that will help us persist in faith under difficult circumstances. Even sometimes unto death, because for the Christian, death is not the end for us, Not only does this living hope help us to endure, but as any living thing, it can over time grow in knowledge and strength. And this is something that we as Christians should naturally want to do. This new birth that we have experienced is a birth that is given to us by our new Father. It is a birth that occurred because the Lord Jesus was resurrected from the dead and this wonderful adoption we receive through this new birth into the family of God is ultimately applied to us by the work of the Holy Spirit But now this birth now entitles us to an inheritance. This new birth entitles us to an inheritance. The inheritance is God's promises to us. But in the context in which Peter is bringing this out, Is an inheritance which we will receive as a future inheritance. In order to understand this, we need to keep two things in mind here. The first is, the key concept in verse 2 is that we were chosen. It mentions that. Now, this is related to Abraham and his being chosen and given an inheritance in Canaan. So also, analogously, he has chosen those in the church to receive the full inheritance of the world that is to come. When we take a moment to consider our position in the grand scheme of things, we're living in the New Covenant times. We're not saints that have existed in the pre-cross era. The promise of inheritance to the Old Testament saints was the inheritance of the land. In fact, if you were living in those times, the promises of God were to receive a land, which ultimately they did. And it was the land of Canaan. And speaking of this promised land of rest for God's people, Israel, we read in Deuteronomy 12, 9. For you have not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance that the Lord your God is giving you. But later on we read in Joshua chapter 11 and verse 23, so Joshua took the whole land. according to all that the Lord had spoken to Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel, according to their tribal allotments. And the land had rest from war. Now, in contrast to that Those that are born anew in the family of God, we and Peter's readers, both Jew and Gentile, are not promised the earthly land of Canaan. Peter is not saying something like Just you wait. The Romans have laid waste to the city, but you will see that God will give it back to us shortly. No, he's not saying anything like that. But the inheritance Peter is pointing out, at least is bringing to our minds, is to the heavenly city. That is the inheritance. The eternal city. That is the inheritance that we are to look for. That is where our rest is as sojourners. This heavenly inheritance is one, he tells us, unspoilable. Perfectly clean and once received will not fade away. When we consider the earthly land of Canaan, it was laid waste by several of its enemies over a long period of time, I'm sure you recall. For example, the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Persians, the Silicitudes, post-Alexander, and at the time of the writing of 1 Peter, the Romans. The land had lost its glory, it had lost its luster, it had been invaded, and it had been plundered over and over again. And why did this come about? Well, the answer lies in the words used in verse 4. The first of which is undefiled. This word has connections with sin. It is used when a person or a people are defiled ceremonially. And this means that they could not come into the presence of God to offer worship because they were unclean. They were ceremonially unclean. The point being that after God had fulfilled his promise, that is, of the land, the inheritance to God's people, The land was populated by and polluted by sin. The inheritance became defiled The glory of the land faded away. God's hand of protection upon the inheritance was lifted because of ultimately sin. Peter is now asking us to consider that our inheritance is superior. Because it is unpolluted by sin and can never be polluted by sin. This is so because we will be, and all of the citizens, be perfected in glory. Now, when you think about it, this should be a source of joy for us. The inheritance under the new covenant is far greater than under the older covenant. We have been born, born again, into a new inheritance that will not lose its luster, its glory, and become defiled by sin. Additionally, the inheritance is unlike the current world we live in, where everything fades over time. The value of things corrode. Even the things we use for value eventually corrodes itself. Inflation reduces the value of our money. Aging destroys our properties, and so forth. Unlike earthly wealth, the inheritance we now have will not grow dim, or age, or lose its value. In the meantime, we are sojourners in this world. The promise of the future will be kept safe for us. And will not we we will and we will ultimately have access to it. We will never fear not having access to our inheritance. And we can have a sense of certainty and security about this. Because as Peter says, our inheritance is kept For you by God Himself. No one can steal anything from God Meanwhile, if the adversaries of Christians today can lay waste or steal the earthly treasures of believers, the inheritance that the Christian has is divinely protected. You can rest assured every night when you put your head on your pillow, you're going to get exactly what God has. Chosen to give you, and it will be undefiled and never to be taken away from you. What should God securing your inheritance mean for you? Well, I think that's some of the things that we need to keep in mind is that I don't have to hold so tightly to stuff that I have on earth. I don't have to worry about these things. I don't have to have anxiety over these things. I can't take them with me. What we should be doing instead is thinking about eternal things about the heavenly city and what we could actually send ahead by works of righteousness. You know, um sometimes you walk into places, sometimes you walk into rooms, and they've got all these signs that tell you, you know, that This is restricted or that's restricted. Um for example, you know, sometimes you walk into a room where they don't want cell phones, it'll say, This is a cell phone phone-free zone, right? Sometimes you walk into institutions and they'll say, No firearms. This is a firearm free zone. Certainly you see this a lot in banks, right? I think that when you die and you go to heaven You won't wonder if your inheritance is still there. There'll be a nice old sign that says this is a worry-free zone. God is trustworthy. Indeed, He is. Now, it's possible that Peter's readers, you and I, and all Christians may sometimes wonder if we would have enough strength To remain faithful to Christ, especially under physical assault, persecution, intellectual assault, as found and you'll see replete in academia. Peter addresses any worry or anxiety that may arise. Not only is your inheritance guarded by God in heaven, but the believer is also guarded by God. There's symmetry between heaven and earth and God guarding his children and their inheritance. The believers in God are protected through faith. This is a commitment based upon trust and obedience to Christ. And this faith will last until the last time. That's what the passage says. Which is referring to the close of this age, when Jesus will return to judge. That is when all of this will be revealed, and what our sojourning will come to an end. The result of having this knowledge, even though you may be undergoing distress by various trials, is Rejoicing. You know, when you're rejoicing, there really isn't a lot of room for worry or anxiety, is there? The type of rejoicing that Peter is talking about is not a continual feeling of laughter, nor is it a denial of the reality of pain and suffering that we go through. But it's an anticipatory Joy that we can experience now. The believer can do this because the suffering is only for a little while. And our inheritance is safely locked away. And if we haven't received justice when things like that have occurred, that will also be addressed on that very same day. Peter doesn't take time to discuss the type of trials that you and I, the average uh Christian, may be experiencing, but rather in a general statement that covers distress that is caused by trials. And tribulation. Now, the cause of trials, however, can be from the hand of God. It can be from the world. What they do have in common, however, is that testing of faith, the testing of your faith. And this produces ultimately a type of evidence. And this type of evidence is a reason for us to rejoice. It's yet another reason for us to rejoice. See, when a Christian is triumphant in testing, what happens? Ultimately, God's character is revealed. God's character is built within us. We are comforted by the continual testing in our lives because one, it is an evidence of God working in our lives Number two, it produces holiness. It produces holiness. Peter states that if it is necessary The suffering is not a normal part of life. But God, in His divine providence, has at times made it necessary that you undergo trials. A major consideration for all of us to digest is that God does not bring about trials in our lives without reason. There is a divine purpose for those difficulties that we go through. Peter's argument is that this is coming out of God's design for us. Something, some, or sometimes it is not so obvious why this happens. We sure would like to know, wouldn't we? But we should be contented that this is part of God's will. Do you find yourself asking that question when you go through trials? Why are you putting me through this? Why do I have to go through this? This is this is painful, Lord. When is this going to end? This is why he says, if it is necessary. Because there are times in God's divine will that he will bring about these things for his purposes and our good. And at times, the world may impose persecution and the world may impose suffering. As it has in the past for its own purposes. But God will use that for his own purposes, of which one is offered to us in the next verse. If you've been paying close attention to this verse, Peter has brought out the reality of the coexistence with rejoicing can be grief. Or suffering in the life of the believer, we can rejoice. Our souls can rejoice because when we consider by faith what the future holds for us. We have to look beyond what we are currently experiencing. You have to look beyond what you're currently experiencing Do you do that? Can you do that? Look beyond the moment, the very pain that you're experiencing. It's a very hard thing to do. Look to the joy of the inheritance while you're going through suffering that you already have and will never lose. How do you think your life would be if you didn't lose your focus of Christ? How would other people see you if in the midst of the suffering that you may have to go through You haven't taken your eyes off of Christ, and you emanate that sweet aroma of joy, of comfort and security. How do you think the world would look at you? How do you think you would feel in the midst of suffering? Well, suffering wouldn't be so bad after all, would it? Because we have the comfort and the joy of a future that is secure for us. Now I'm not saying that suffering is fun. I'm not saying suffering is something that we need to look towards or want necessarily, but when we do experience it by the hand of God, it is something that we can experience with rejoicing in our hearts. And speaking of that very faith that we need in the midst of that suffering, Peter compares it against the most valuable medal of his time. Gold. This gold has absolutely nothing on faith. The faith that saves is more precious than gold. For gold perishes. But when that faith is tested for genuineness, it will produce praise, glory, and honor when Jesus is revealed at the last. time. Why will it bring honor and glory? Because it will be a living proof. An eternal living proof of God's mercy and grace. And so your faith is living evidence of God's mercy and grace. Which he brought about through the crosswork of Christ. For when we enter into eternity, just like gold, casts off the dross when it undergoes testing, the fire, we shall at that time cast off testing and suffering. Gold in its purest form is malleable metal. It's flexible metal. It's bendable metal. Maybe you've seen m in old movies in the past where people will get a a gold coin, what they'll do is they'll put it in their mouths and and they'll bite down on it to see if it bends, because this'll tell them how much impurities or other metals have been mixed with the gold, thus making it less it worth making it worthless or of less value to them. The very same way, you know, the testing that produces from God also produces holiness in us. And holiness produces obedience unto God. When God tests us, we are like almost like that metal. It makes us more malleable. More bendable, more to be the shape of how God wants us to be. And what does he want us to be? Holy. He wants holiness. And if we recall, this kind of takes us back to verse number two, where according to God's mercy, we were chosen and we were sanctified by God the Holy Spirit. So that we can become more and more what? Obedient unto Christ. And in order to be obedient, we need to be more and more holy. Before we move on, I'd like to share with you a quote from Dr. Wayne Grutem and his commentary on the book of 1 Peter. as it relates to this testing and the resultant praise and glory that comes on the last day of following He thus reminds Christians that God's purposes in present grief may not be fully known in a week. Or in a year, or even in a lifetime. Indeed, some of God's purposes will not even be known when believers die and go to be with the Lord. Some will only be discovered at the day of final judgment, when the Lord reveals the secrets of all the hearts. And commends with special honor those who trusted him in hardship, even though they could not see the reason for it. They trusted him simply because he was their God. And they know him to be worthy of trust. It is in times when the reason for hardship cannot be seen. That trust in God alone seems to become most pure and precious in his sight. Such faith will not forget, but will store up as a jewel of great beauty and value to be displayed and delighted in on the day of judgment So that was a wonderful quote by Dr. Brutum that helps us to realize and recognize how precious our faith is to God. And when we trust Him and Him alone in those times of difficulties and not really request or ask for reasons why, in order to trust Him. Our trust in him is extremely precious in his sight. Peter is addressing a generation that has neither seen nor sees Jesus But the means of which they do is the very same we do. We see through the eyes of faith. Verses 8 and 9, in verses 8 and 9, Peter is setting up another contrast. Earlier he said that we rejoice. Right? And the rejoicing was in the inheritance that we have in the future. The blessings and the promises of our future home. The heavenly Jerusalem that will never fade or be defiled. But here in these verses. He's talking about another source of joy, and it's the current, present, in time. He says in verses 8 and 9, That the daily and continual joy we have in our personal relationships, we have in Christ. This is in contrast to the source of a joy mentioned earlier, and this identifies is even a greater joy than what he referenced earlier. It is an inexpressible and exalted joy. We don't need for the future to arrive. We don't need the Lord Jesus to come back. In order for us to experience the joy of God. The word for inexpressible is used only here in the New Testament. This is describing the state of joy that words cannot find expression. In essence, we don't have to enter into heaven to experience this joy. We have that now. And we can experience that now with the unseen Christ. We have not seen him, as in verse 8 begins, but we do see him with our eyes of faith. This faith enjoys Christ today. This joy enjoys Christ every day of our lives. This faith looks forward, yes, it does look forward to the return of Christ, as well as it helps the believer endure whatever hardships that may Come his or her way today in this life. Are you going through some hardship? Are you going through some difficulties and some suffering in life right now? But you can go through them in the presence of Christ, wherein which you will have this joy. And as Peter says, it's an inexpressible and exalted joy. How do we not experience this? We don't experience this because we lose focus. We take our eyes off of Christ. When we remind ourselves of what we have Who we have in God, in Christ, whatever it is that you're going through, there can be a greater sense of joy in your life. We have to constantly remind ourselves of who we are in Christ, of who Christ is, so that we can enjoy Christ every moment of our lives. Now, in verse 9, Peter is telling us that as we are rejoicing in Christ, we are receiving or obtaining the outcome or the goal of our faith. The grammar here implies that this is a continuous action. That is a progressive obtaining of more and more of this goal which faith leads So then, the word salvation then refers in this context to the complete possession of all the blessings of salvation. But what is on but what is one of the outcomes of when a Christian continually rejoices in Christ, experiences trials, and endures? Well, What this produces is Christian maturity. That's what is the outcome and the goal Is this Christian maturity? Is this something that you want? When you wake up in the morning and before your foot hits the carpet, Is this something that you think to yourself, this is what I want? I want to be more mature in Christ today. Is this something that you seek out? Regularly and think through to yourself, I want to be more mature in Christ Now, I'm not saying that you do this, you're seeking out rejoicing. I'm talking about Christian maturity. Any Christian at any time can access rejoicing in our lives. I can't help but be joyous when I come into the presence of Christ. When you are actively in the presence of Christ, you can't help but be happy and to be content being in the presence of our Savior. To be more mature in Christ means to reflect Christ in character. Strength of character, to be meek, to be gentle, to be kind, to be wise, to be gracious, to be virtuous. When you come into contact with more mature Christians, not necessarily older Christians, Not it's not time in the faith, but people who have put time into their faith, mature Christians. Don't you naturally want to be like them? I know that I do Whenever I come across saints who have been working on their maturity, I want to be like them. There's there's a there's an evident And present serenity that kind of just oozes out of their spirit. A joy. They have a strength that they have in troubled times. Do you know people like that? See, that comes from a peace, a serenity, from being in the presence of our Savior. Rejoicing in our salvation, rejoicing in our inheritance to come, and growing in our salvation continuously. What Peter is telling us is that by rejoicing in the presence of Christ, to live with a living hope, we have in God. And His promises for a blessed present and a glorious future will help you to obtain the outcome of our salvation. The continual growth in personal spiritual maturity. For it is in spiritual maturity that we demonstrate the presence of faith. And that faith, as we have gone over, is very precious to our God and to our Savior. The prophets who prophesied of this great salvation of which he has been talking about that was to come in Jesus Christ. He tells us made a very careful inquiry. The prophets were convinced that their oracles would come true But as to when and how and where, it was perplexing to them. These prophets concluded they were not prophesying of their own generation. But they were speaking to the churches or Peter's generation and every succeeding generation thereafter. That's us. The Old Testament prophets were seeking to discover what the Holy Spirit was telling them as he predicted the sufferings of this great Davidic Messiah, this great Davidic deliverer. And the wonderful world to follow. However, the readers of Peter's letter did not learn from the prophets, but rather from the preachers who interpreted the scriptures in light of the life of Christ. Those preachers were directed by the same Holy Spirit who was sent from heaven. The Holy Spirit is the same Spirit who spoke through the prophets. This guarantees the correctness of the information, and that he authenticates the sign of the new era which has dawned. As a consequence, the believers of Peter's age and thereafter should feel, as you and I should feel, a sense of privilege. A sense of privilege that we are living in a time when the gospel was fully revealed. Even the angels Who are great creatures did not understand the full plan of God, and they longed to see God's plan revealed. You and I, we should take comfort and rejoice in knowing that the blessings and the promises we now have are greater and better than the ones given in the Old Testament Saint. We can and should read the scriptures of the Old Testament with a renewed perspective, with a new curiosity. In that they provided pictures, foreshadowings, types of the Christ who was to come The promises are fuller and clearer for us. The person of the Messiah is unmistakably clear to us. Our inheritance is better and it is protected, interestingly enough, from us. And our sinfulness. We cannot destroy or defile our inheritance as the people of God did in the Old Testament. He has secured that for us. What a great comfort to know that. And we can rejoice in that. God has thought of everything for us. God has provided everything for us. Luis Angel Acuña is the young baseball player that broke into the major leagues last year. Directly due to an injury to a superstar shortstop. As a youngster, he had some pretty big shoes Athletic shoes to fill as he covered for the team's shortstop. His performance was beyond anyone's expectation He was incredible, but alas, it was only for a short period of time, leaving him to prove himself this upcoming season. For which I think he has earned an opportunity to do so. He recently posted something on social media that has gotten the attention of many people, and it's simply three words. Don't get distracted. Don't get distracted. I think those three words speak well of our passage today. Another way of saying this is what? Don't lose your focus. If we're to grow into the fullness of Christ in our salvation, we need to not lose sight. Not be distracted by the world and its fading glory and value. Oh, how tempting that can be! We must keep our eyes upon the inheritance that is promised to us. reminding ourselves that it is kept safely for us by God Himself. Let us not forget that we are sojourners. And not anchor our hopes and our eternal futures in this land. Let us invest. In things that are eternal. Let us invest in our salvation. Let us take time to enjoy being in the presence of Christ so that we can become more and more like our Savior and Heavenly Father. Amen. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, for it opens our eyes to the reality Of our walks with you, and at times when we stray from you, and at times what we need to learn more about you and what you have done for us. Through the gospel, through the work of your Son, the Lord Jesus. Help us, we pray, Heavenly Father, to take to heart what Peter has taught us through your word. That the newer covenant is such a better covenant. It is a safer covenant. Your inheritance to us is everlasting. It will be enjoyed by us forever. It will never be taken away from us. There will be no plunderers who will come and destroy our lands that you have provided to us. But it will be throughout all of eternity. It will never become defiled. We shall never live in fear that you, our great God, would leave. Because we are sinful. You will make us perfect. You will glorify us. And you will allow us to enjoy you and your son and in the Holy Spirit throughout all of eternity. May we live with this knowledge, Heavenly Father, each and every day of our lives, being in your presence, giving thanks to you. even having joy in our hearts when we, if it is necessary for us to have suffering. Allow us, Heavenly Father, work in us through your spirit to have that serenity. Allow us to become those rocks In those very windy days, which wouldn't allow us to go to the right or to the left. To stand firmly trusting and planted in you by faith. And we ask this for your glory, and we ask it