If there are some of you that pay attention to sermon titles, it has changed. Some people do and some don't. It should be called King Saul a Fool and His Folly. Well the reasons I make note of that is Samuel, in the first Samuel is making, the writer is making comparisons. He made a comparison this morning between Saul and Jonathan. Saul was a man who lived by sight. Jonathan was a man who lived by faith. And tonight there's going to be a. Comparison again between the two. And if you know who lives by sight and know who lives by faith, then you should know the one who's going to be a fool and the one who's going to be wise. But I think that's going to become clear in a way. What is fool? We're not talking about a little foolishness that a child might have when they Do some things. A fool, the world says, Plato said, wise men speak because they have something to say. Fools speak because they have to say something. And Proverbs is full of talking about the wise man and the fool, but in Proverbs 12, 15 it says, the way of a fool is right in his own eyes. But a wise man listens to advice. And so we're going to have that contrast again tonight between the one who is a fool, King Saul, and One who is wise, his son Jonathan. Earlier in this book, 1 Samuel, God had revealed King Saul's foolish behavior to him. through the prophet. And he told him about the consequences of his foolishness in his kingdom. 1 Samuel 13, verses 13 and 14 says this. And Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly. You've not kept the command of the Lord your God, with which he commanded you. For then the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. But now your kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought out a man after his own heart. Sadly, tonight you're going to see a lot more foolishness by King Saul. But God has placed it in here that we might consider and look at our own lives. How do we act? Are we wise or foolish? Very practical. Very, very helpful. And so I pray that God will do that with us this evening. So let us stand together before I read a portion of God's Word from 1 Samuel. I thought in many ways we could simplify the whole definition of Foolishness and wisdom, a fool is one who lives for themselves and they want what they want. And a wise person is one who lives for you and follows your commands. Oh God, would you stamp that upon our hearts and then by your spirit and word work in such a way that we would desire to be wise? Loving you and loving our neighbors for Christ's sake. Amen. I'm going to just review from this morning the situation we face ourselves right now. At the end, God had given victory by his great hand, overturning the large army of the Philistines By his grace and his power as he used Jonathan and his armor bearer. And so as we ended this morning, it all looks victorious. God saves Israel. It's very clear. But we'll find out this evening that because of Saul's foolishness, he is going to manage to grab defeat from a victory. So 1 Samuel 13 verses 20 to 23 to remind us as we begin this evening where we ended this morning. Then Saul and all the people who were with him rallied and went into battle. And behold, every Philistine sword was against this fellow, and there was very great confusion. Now the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines before that time, who had gone up with them into the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites. who were with Saul and Jonathan. Likewise, when all the men of Israel who'd hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines were fleeing, they too followed hard after them in the battle. So the Lord saved Israel that day, and the battle passed beyond Beth Aven. Thus the word of God. You may be seated. Well, if you were here this morning, it looked great. God saved Israel. Even through one man in the sense of Jonathan, who by faith looked to God, and we would think of them riding off into the sunset and Israel now ruling and reigning and being strong. But the battle wasn't over, it was just that they had won that portion, and we're going to find out that Israel is going to continue to pursue the Philistines because if they can get rid of them all, they'll get rid of their fiercest enemy. And so they don't want to stop the battle, and they want to kill as many of the enemy as they can, so they won't have to deal with them again. But we'll find out that the way they dealt with it, the way that Saul the king caused them to deal with it was foolish. So the first thing we're going to look at tonight is Saul's Foolish oath. First Samuel chapter 14, starting in verse 24, and going to 33. And when the men of Israel had been hard pressed that day, so Saul laid an oath on the people, saying, Cursed be the man who eats food until it's evening, and I am avenged on my enemies. So none of that of the people had tasted food. And when all the people came to the forest, behold, there was honey on the ground. And when the people entered the forest, behold, honey was dropping, but no one put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the oath. But Jonathan had not heard his father's charge, the people with the oath, so he put out the tip of his staff that was there in his hand, and he dipped it in the honeycomb, and put it in his hand to his mouth, and his eyes became bright. Then one of the people said, Your father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed is the man who eats food this day. And the people were faint. Then Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land. My father has troubled the land. See how my eyes have become right because I've tasted the little of the honey. How much better if the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies that they found. For now the defeat among the Philistines has not been great. They struck down the Philistines that day from Mi'kmash to Ajilon, and the people were very faint And the people pounced on the spoil, and they took sheep and oxen and calves and slaughtered them on the ground. And the people ate them with the blood. King Saul's oath was foolish. The men had been fighting all day long. And as they would pursue the Philistines, they would chase after them for another twenty miles, seeking to kill all of them they could along the way, and they were exhausted and tired and needed strengthen. There were no MREs, meals ready to eat for Israel. They couldn't open a pack and there was a candy bar or anything else. They were famished. They were tired. And yet they followed this oath, being afraid of King Saul, this foolish oath. Normally fighters would grab some of the enemy's food, thrown away as they fled, or f As they went to the spoils that they went by their camps, they would loot them and eat and get enough strength. William Blakey says it was cruel of Saul to oppose a fast at such a time. A good commander-in-chief would be concerned about his soldiers. Of course, unaware of the oath, Jonathan took advantage of the honey God provided in the forest. What was that? It was God's MRE. Mun he was ready to eat. And he found himself under the curse. 1 Samuel 14, 27. But Jonathan had not heard his father's charge with the people and the oath. So he put out the tip of his staff that was in his hand, and he dipped it in the honeycomb, put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes became bright. But the people, not doing it because they thought it was a religious means, but just to obey the king, and they were afraid of him, that he might lose their lives rather than taking the lives of the Philistines. chose not to eat. But what happened eventually? They struck down the Philistines and they were so tired that as soon as they got to their camps They didn't roast the meat or anything else, but they found lambs and oxen and sheep and just slaughtered them right there and just like wild beasts Tore them open and ate them, picked up the meat, chewed on it, and they must have been bloody and gory as they filled their stomachs with all this because they were completely exhausted. But for Israel, there's no such thing as stake tartar. Because the law said that if anyone from Leviticus, if anyone in the house of Israel or strangers who sojourn among them eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood, and will cut them off from my people For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by life And so here by following this foolish oath, the foolishness that King Saul had just spit out of his mouth was really not much wisdom at all. It's kind of like Well, parents, you know these kind of oaths, don't you? Your child does something, right? Go to your room and don't come out for a month No meals for you for three weeks. And if you open your lips, I'll sew them together. Well, those might not have been exactly your curses that you placed upon them, but you know what it is. You do something that's not wise, you don't really think about it, you're in charge and you're upset, and so You're going to get what you want. And it's not a wise thing to do because you've put down this law that can't possibly be followed, right? And so they know that you'll never, you know, hold food from them for three weeks. You know that they've got to come out of their room to go to the bathroom, right? They're not going to be in there for a month. And so, you know, it's foolishness and it ends up wrong and it takes away from your leadership. Well, and it often leads to worse things as they children. Uh even small children can see our foolishness. It takes away from our leadership and our love and all the rest. It's where King Saul was, living in this foolishness, and it not only was it foolish, but he didn't win the battle. They didn't weren't able to keep pursuing them. But he actually sinned against his own people for not providing him. So he gives this foolish oath. But that's not enough because it's King Saul who lives by sight. And not by faith. So it goes on. We're going to look now. He made his foolish oath. Now we're going to look at his foolish vow. 1 Samuel 14, starting in verse 33. Then they told Saul, Behold, the people are sinning against the Lord by eating with the blood. And he said, You've dealt treacherously. Roll a great stone to me here. And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people and say to them, Let every man bring his ox or his sheep and slaughter them here and eat, and do not sin against the Lord. by eating the blood. So every one of the people brought his ox to him that night, and they slaughtered them there. And Saul built an altar to the Lord. It was the first altar that he built to the Lord. Then Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them until morning light. Let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatever seems good to you. But the priest said, Let us draw near to God here. Let us seek what God would have us do. And Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will you give them into the hand of Israel? But he, but God did not answer him that day. And Saul said, Come here, all of you leaders and all of the people, and know and see how this sin has arisen today. For as the Lord lives who saves Israel, though it be Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people who answered him. Then he said to all Israel, You shall be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what seems good to you. Therefore Saul said, O Lord God of Israel, why have you not answered your servant this day? If this guilt is in me, or Jonathan, my son, O Lord God of Israel, give him Urim. But if this guilt is in your people, give them fumin. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, but the people escaped. Then Saul said, Cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan. And Jonathan was taken. Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what you've done. And Jonathan told him, I tasted a little honey with the tip of my staff. It was in my hand, here I am, and I will die. And Saul said, God, do so to me more also. You shall surely die, Jonathan. Oh my Foolishness again. Living by sight. Wanting what you want. If you look at it this at first, Saul seems to have come to his senses at least for a moment as he performs the right religious acts. Saul gets his men to cook the meat on the altar. Then he seeks God's will in regard to continuing to pursue the Philistines. But being frustrated and not hearing from God, Saul makes a foolish vow and finds out why the Lord had not responded. And Saul said, Come here, all of you leaders of Israel, and know and see this sin has arisen today, for the Lord lives who saves Israel. Though it be Jonathan, my son, he shall surely die. Oh my, does that remind you of another vow that was made in the Bible? Jeptah. And he said that if we win against the Ammonites, the first one who comes into my door after that, I'll sacrifice. And it was his daughter. So foolishness isn't just with King Saul, but it goes, it's part of our own sinful human nature. Eugene Peter says of all this, in all this we see Saul acting as a very religious king. He commands the troops to keep a religious fast. He provides for kosher bushering, built an altar to God, uses Urim and Therman to determine God's will. But we can only conclude that this was all either for manipulation or show. As God's Spirit recedes from Saul, he becomes more and more religious. But it's religion that's on the outside. As we continue in 1 Samuel, he'll call upon God, he'll do things that have the air of religion, the air of worship about him, but his heart not is not in them. Jesus speaks of this, exposing the leaders of the Jews in Matthew 23. He says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs, which appear outwardly beautiful. But are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you're full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Never having seen whitewashed tombs or many tombs above ground or that you could see, I really for a long time didn't know what this was all about until I went to New Orleans. Because if you go to New Orleans and if they don't cremate the body, in New Orleans uh the tombs are above ground. Because if you go below the ground, what do you hit? Water. It's at sea level and below sea level, right? And so the tombs are above ground. Very often they're ornately made with columns and stone and doors and carvings. and all of that. And so they're beautiful. But as we went down to help rebuild after Katrina, we went by some of these cemeteries. And as the floods took houses, it also opened up the beautiful whitewashed tombs that were once there. And you could see them broken down and the doors open. And you can only imagine what it was like. You know, the person that had to go and start cleaning up all of that. All right? Um But we don't think of that. You know, you see the if you would have gone before you say, Oh, look at the beautiful tombs, and we often don't think what's inside. And that's the very picture that Saul is going on. It's getting more and more religious, but we're seeing the truth of the inside come out. Matthew Henry points out. In all these actions, Saul shows no signs of penitence or repentance towards God, or grieving over his sin, or real zeal in honoring the Lord This is a warning for us not to be content with outward conformity, but to search our own motives. And so Psalm 139 is good for all of us, verses 23 and 24, because if Jesus warns that we can be that way And we can, right? We Sunday we put on our nice clothes and ties and most of us wash our face and comb our hair at least. Right? We look pretty nice people. Uh but the truth is if a video camera would have been on us all week long and some of our actions and the words we've said to one another Or if someone could show a video of our mind, we would run in terror from here. Because we so often can be nice on the outside, but the truth is sin dwells within us. And we have to worry about that and be concerned about it that we would follow the Lord. So we've seen Jonathan, excuse me, Saul's foolish oath. And we see his foolish vow, we're going to see a little bit now of Jonathan's wisdom. So in 1 Samuel 14 He's going to be responding of what happened with a foolish oath in verses 29 to 30 as he speaks about his Father and the oath. Then Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land. See how my eyes have become bright because I've tasted a little bit of this honey. How much better today if the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies that they found. For now the defeat among the Philistines has not been great. Jonathan had practical wisdom as a warrior. He knew what Napoleon would say many years later: an army marches on its stomach. Right? You don't feed those guys, and they're not going to march very far. But he also had spiritual wisdom. He said, My father has troubled the land. It's the very same language that's used in Joshua when when when um at I, Achan has stolen the gold and the silver and the beautiful cloth of Shinar, and hidden it under his tent. They lost the battle of Ai. They were troubled because of his sin. And that's what Jonathan says His father had due. Jonathan, who knew his father's heart and motives well, states that his father's sin and folly were hindering Israel from enjoying God's full blessing in the battle. And here we also not only see some of Jonathan's wisdom, but in the scripture here, we're getting a picture into what Jonathan's heart is like. Jonathan knew that the kingdom ultimately didn't belong to Saul or to him. It was God's kingdom. Israel was not for his father to seize or rule but to serve. Jonathan had peace and contentment that's found in submitting himself to the sovereignty of God. Therefore, Jonathan placed his life in the hands of his father. He was willing to die if it was God's will. Well, let's look at it for a second in 1 Kings 14, 33. Let's look a look. Just look together with me. Because look at the heart of Jonathan who who ate and was able to continue. He didn't take the foolish wrath, the foolish oath of his father. But then in 1 Kings 14, 33, then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what you've done. And Jonathan told him, I tasted a little honey with the tip of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am. I will die. It's pretty amazing for a son, isn't it? To say to his father, you're still the king. I may believe that you acted wrongly, but you're the king. And I'll submit to you. And he had the peace because he knew the king of kings. He wasn't going to start a revolt. He wasn't going to start a rebellion. He wasn't going to plead his case to anybody but to God. And he said, yep, uh it was a foolish oath. We've already heard that from his wisdom. But if that's what you want, I'll die. It's never wrong for God's people to submit to Him and His will and work in our lives and trust Him. But then we get a beautiful picture of what happens here. It's a beautiful picture of what happened in the lives of God's people, but it's also a picture for us that we need this evening. The last thing we'll see here is the people Not just ransom Jonathan, but you can see in their hearts the people must ransom Jonathan. They knew who was right. They had followed the foolish oath and not eaten the honey that they would be strengthened by. And they weren't perfect. They had sinned and slaughtered these animals with the blood in them. But they weren't going to let this foolishness of killing Jonathan Go on. So read with me in 1 Samuel chapter 14. 1 Samuel 14, and we'll read verses 45 and 46. Then the people said to Saul, Shall Jonathan die who has worked at this great salvation is Israel? Far from it, as the Lord lives, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground. For he has worked with God this day. So the people ransomed Jonathan so that he did not die. Then Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place. Saul was indeed the king. The soldiers had done their best to obey his foolish commands, but there were limits of what they would do and not do. of his demands on them, and they would not stand for the execution of Jonathan, because they knew that God had used them to save them from the Philistines earlier that day. and that he was the one who was righteous. Now they didn't kill another person for Jonathan when they ransomed him. In Exodus, you're able to ransom someone out of trouble by either killing an animal in their place or by giving a certain amount of money. And so the people either brought animals or money. We're not told how they did that, but they placated Saul's wrath against Jonathan with a ransom they gave. What a wondrous picture that for someone, Jonathan, who trusted God, that God intervened. By changing the people who are often foolish themselves, right? But he changed their hearts and Jonathan was saved. Great, great picture of faithfully serving God and trusting God. Where is it that you might need to trust God this evening? To do right. Maybe you'll have to pay for it. Maybe it'll cost you at work, maybe it'll cost you at home. A husband being faithful and saying to his wife, honey, I I I know if mama ain't happy, no one's happy, but God would have us do this. Not as an ogre, but to do it and suffer the consequences. Right? There are consequences to suffer sometimes, aren't there? You ladies know how to play truth or consequences. But it goes the other way too, doesn't it? You know that your husband's wrong and that you need to respectfully go to him. And you might be saying, no, no, Lord, if I go, I'm just going to get it one more time. He'll turn the cold shoulder to me. But you know that you need to do what's right and respectfully go to him and bring him God's word and love him. And say, God, I don't think God would have us do that. There's a lot of times, maybe it's at work for you. No, I'm not going to sign that contract because it's not right. Or I'm going to go home. I'm not going to stay tonight because I need to be home. Oh, there's a thousand things. Something at school. Your friends are doing something. It's not really, really wrong, but it's shady. You know you shouldn't do it. And it's going to cost you friendship with your friends if you do that. There's all these kind of places where it looks like we're gonna die. Maybe it's our finances that will die. We won't actually die, right? We'll have to pay a price. And it looks like that. The king, the boss, your friend says, you're dead to me. But Jonathan's wisdom trusted Not his father is the king, but he trusted the king of kings. And he was ransomed. May you and I have that kind of wisdom of our brother Jonathan tonight in the situations that we're in with the enemies that we face in this world. But let's not end by talking about Jonathan's ransom. Let's talk about our ransom. Because we're guilty. I'm still guilty today. I've sinned today many, many ways. I don't even want to begin listing them. Now most of them aren't great sins. I haven't killed, raped, murdered, or plundered anywhere today. that I know of. In fact, I came early to church and we've been here all day. We didn't go home. We had our lunch here and I finished working on the sermon tonight and Mark did some reading and some napping and some talking and You know, so you think, wow, you couldn't sin much. Oh, I sin plenty. My heart, you know, maybe grumbling and other stuff, right? I need ransomed. I need a ransom that's costly and is perfect to pay for me. And so whenever we see that word ransom in the Bible, we need to think of how we have been ransomed. As God intervened to ransom Jonathan. And he wasn't sinless, he was wise, but he should have never made that complaint against his father that came publicly. It was a wise statement he made. Yeah, he's troubled us, but he should have gone to his father alone and not publicly degraded the king. He was guilty and he needed ransom. And beloved, whenever we hear that word, we need to remember that we're guilty and we need a ransom. And how good it is that Matthew 20, 28 says, the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a Ransom for many. Are you among the many? Do you know of your own sin and need of a savior? Have you been ransomed? Are you rejoicing? Because God has given the only perfect one, his son, the only king with the perfect son, who always obeyed him. For us that we might have live life. Hallelujah. Because if you trust in Christ's death on the cross, your sin and rebellion Your sins are forgiven, and you become a child of the King of Kings. Let us pray Father, we thank you that you take real people and real situations and make these comparisons for us. Sometimes as we think of these comparisons, they're easier for us to remember. The one who lives by sight Who is foolish? And oh God, how often we look at the circumstances and we live by them and we determine what we will do by the things we see, trying to get into a safe place, trying to get where it's easy. Rather than living by faith and our father's commands and being wise instead of foolish. Would you give us, Lord, that encouragement we live to need tonight to be ones who are wise because we live by faith in your word. And know the joy of being ransomed by the perfect sacrifice, even Christ your Son. Amen.