Segmental difficulties. Alrighty. It's probably because I'm not wearing a coat. I hope Cliff and I both hope you'll forgive us for not wearing coats. It's just a little a little warm. We come now to the portion of our service where we will hear God's word and exhortation. 1 Corinthians 2, 4-10 reads. And my speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. However, we speak wisdom among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory. Which none of the rulers of this age knew, for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But, as it is written, Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. But God has revealed them to us through His Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. The end for which Paul uh preached Christ crucified was that our faith would not be in the wisdom of men but in the power of God, that we wouldn't be drawn here this evening. By human motives or by mere human arguments, instead by divine power that has worked in our hearts and our minds and convinced us that this is what we should be doing, this is where we should be. And God's word is a treasure of the truest and the highest wisdom. It's referred to by Paul in this passage just read as God's secret wisdom, a wisdom once hidden, but now revealed. This wisdom taught by the gospel prepares for our comfort and growth in this life, as full of trials as it may be. As well as for our everlasting glory and happiness in the world to come. It is indeed an honor to receive these things. So, Cliff, we look forward to listening now. Thank you, Chuck. I need a little help. I have some handouts. Um some uh I got some notes for the adults. Can I get a couple men to help handle the hand these out? And another, okay. And then I have, as an extra added bonus tonight, handouts for children. If I could get Sam Hemphill's going to help me in the back there. If I get someone else to help hand out the notes for the children, buddy. There you go. Okay, make sure any child who needs one of those has that. Okay. As those are going out, you'll see that the message tonight is entitled Knowing Means Doing, Part 2. And for the uh observant person you'll realize that part one was in August of last year. So how dare I uh follow up on part two, so seven months later. So But not to worry, what I'm going to do is uh review a few things and kind of summarize a few things and then dig into other areas that I didn't cover last time. So let's begin. Let me read the passage is uh John 17, verse 3 And this is eternal life, that they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would help us to grow in knowing you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As in the uh previous uh part, I want to emphasize tonight that we're going to be taking a topical look. The tradition of of our church generally is to do expositional preaching where we take a passage, large or small, and expound upon it rather significantly and in depth, but today I want to step back and look at a more of a principle or a theme in Scripture and look at selected passages or uh events in scripture uh to help shed light on on that and its application to our life. So with that let's begin. I'd like to begin by uh noting that um The topic there is the modern world and the knowledge explosion. You know, we're living in a day which has been for a couple of decades now been called the knowledge explosion. In other words, never has so much been known as is known today between communications technology, Internet news, information sources, twenty-four hour radio uh news, twenty-four hour television news. aggressive reporters tell us the deepest secrets of the of the goings-ons of the government, the deepest secrets of what goes on in uh corporate uh companies and even famous people's lives. So and many of us can be considered part of this knowledge class, not so much that we are in the uh area of academics, but that we live and trade on ideas. Um see he's not here tonight, but I I would assume Chris Harris working for uh the economy part of our company our country is often crunchy numbers and stuff and data relite related to uh how our country's economy is is cranking along. Uh Tom Clements cranking along a lot of data, keeping satellites up in the uh up in space doing their thing. So there's a lot of things that happen in our everyday life that deal with a lot of information and a lot of data. And the point I'd like to make is. We know so much, at least so much is known, but so little is often done automatically and inherently about that which we know. Because part of our instinctive reaction is simply to say, with all this data, with everything coming at us, our response often is So what? Big deal. Whatever. So most modern knowledge has a tendency to be non-committal. Consequence free, whether mathematics, the Middle East war, famine in Africa. We know a vast amount, but what we do about what we know is often uh something else. And I'd like to point out, probably at least touch on four factors that might be behind this. The first is the ethical crisis. uh moral confusion in our society, the lack of what one has called the lack of a moral compass or a moral deficit In other words, many people might know that adultery or stealing is wrong, but they're not necessarily committed to not participating in it. Witness the recent presidential moral crisis a few years ago, and more even more recently the uh corporate scandals, which resulted in much financial loss. People at the highest levels of corporations lying, sinning, deceiving people. And here's a good point for us to point out to the non-Christian world, the unbelieving world. Uh I don't know if you've often got it, you know, the criticism that, you know, morals don't really that mu matter that much. And it's good that you go to church, but You know, it really doesn't matter that much. Well here's a grand example of how it does matter very much. We had uh if you have mutual funds, you took a hit. Uh a lot of people lost their jobs. I mean I'm not uh I'm also you know emphasizing the moral dimension and our accountability to God, but in very practical and real ways that non-Christians people care about, it does matter It does matter what happens at these highest levels when people don't live and act responsibly. People lost their jobs. So So so morality and spirituality do matter. Another element is psychological and emotional. In other words, there's so much to know. A lot of times when we take in the news or whatever uh the thermostat just sort of kicks in after a while. You know, just can take in so much and then click, you know, you just can't take in anymore. And that's understandable. Another element is philosophical. That is Much of our modern world views, particularly those influenced by the scientific method, view knowledge as simply objective and factual and detached and value-free. A fact is a fact is a fact cold and isolated. So built into this way of thinking is a detachment of knowledge from responsibility. And the last uh possible uh reason I'll I'll call here the institutional and structural shape of society. In other words, in the in the knowledge explosion, one of the central features is specialization. In other words, very few of us can have real renaissance type jobs. We usually have to be specialized in the work we do. And I used last time the example of my own career in industry where uh broadly speaking I was in the area of science. And then I went into chemistry, and then I went into analytical chemistry, and then I went into chromatography in analytical chemistry, and then I began to do liquid chromatography in analytical chemistry. And you see, my world just got smaller and smaller, so to speak. So uh the danger here, and uh it's not to be denied that we all have to do jobs that are very specialized, but the danger here is that this can easily lead to the place where the specialist has no wider sense of the whole and no long-term view of the consequences. No wider sense of the whole of all that he might be or part of it he might be working on, and no long-term view of the consequences. What's the significance of these things? And this, if I can put a plug in here, is why we need men like Gene Edward Veith and Ken Myers to read, to study, to interpret broadly a lot of these areas and comment on trends in the modern world and how they can affect our faith without us even knowing it. And I don't just say that because his sisters and the in our congregation and his parents go here as well. But but really we do need people like this and we need to support them and learn from them because they they have the ability to do a lot of reading and step back and look at the bigger picture. And that's a great a great benefit for the church and for the believer. So let's move on. Your first or second point there is the scriptures and the responsibility of knowledge. And I'd like to look Particularly now at the scriptures, what do they say about this area of life and living? And let me begin by saying, as human beings created in the image of God, we are born to leave to live between God's first word and his last word. His first word because he creates, his last word because he judges. And the lifespan of our existence is between the first and the last words of God. And so we are made able to answer, able to respond, and rooted into our humanness is responsibility, accountability, answerability. Now, four areas that we can touch on specifically tonight, and again a couple of them I will kind of zoom through. But first, this aspect of knowing and doing, responsibility and knowledge. Knowing, knowledge, and obedience can be seen as a silent component in many of the basic doctrines of our faith. Let me mention sin, first of all. Sin, one of the most fundamental doctrines of biblical religion. Part of the essence of sin is that people know, but they're no longer responsible for what they know. Consider Adam and Eve. They became responsible where they should not have been, taking the fruit. Then they refused responsibility where they should have been responsible, accepting guilt. Remember Adam's first response, the woman, which you gave me, you know, this first classic case of passing the buck, so to speak. I don't mean to be disrespectful, but He took responsibility where he shouldn't have, and he failed to be responsible where he needed to be. So there's a clear indication of A doctrine that shows this this this uh critical connection between knowledge and responsibility and children, boys and girls. Have you not often known what your parents told you to do? You heard it clearly, but you still didn't do it. Hasn't that happened with you at times? And that's what we call sin. And that's what the Bible speaks to. And then repentance, uh repentance Is another great biblical theme. Why is biblical repentance not simply remorse or turning over a new leaf? It's because the first time a person is convicted of truth and wrong at the same time Knowledge and responsibility are joined together in conviction and turning. So what was parted by sin, knowledge and responsibility, knowledge and obedience, is brought together in repentance. Because knowledge and responsibility come together under the conviction of wrong and truth through the word and the spirit. And others are mentioned here. Faith, we know from James, faith without works is dead. The faith that we know and the works that we do, knowing and doing, again, intimately connected. I won't mention specifically in detail, but with providence and salvation, the judgment of God, they all contain vital elements of knowledge and responsibility. And in fact, if you see in these doctrines that if you remove the component of responsibility and knowledge, the doctrines basically collapse. They're intimately related. The next thing I'll mention is the very root meaning of the words, both in Hebrew, and we'll look at Hebrew and the Greek. In Hebrew, the word for knowing Which I think is pronounced Yahva. Uh we're familiar the early chapters of Genesis includes the meaning of sexual intimacy. Adam knew his wife Eve, and she bore and conceived and bore a son And even in that context, you can see that the word knowledge includes concepts of commitment, caring. covenant relationships and uh caring for somebody in for a for for a deep in a deep commit committed way. In Proverbs 12, 10, it says, the righteous man cares for his beast, and the wicked man is cruel at heart. And the word in Hebrew there for care is know, is the Hebrew word for knowing. So it includes the concept of Not only knowing someone, but being responsible for them, being responsible to take care of them. This also occurs in the Greek, but it takes on this meaning of listening. Uh it's also true in the Hebrew though as well, but in the Greek, to listen or to hear is to obey. In the scriptures, hearing is the embodiment of the kingdom. You know, it's the in the in the New Testament, particularly in Revelation. In the end times, it says that we shall see God, but for here and now we're to listen. We're just to hear his word preached and read and obey, because at at the present time we cannot see God. This is very contrary to many modern uh conceptions again of listening, but where we're just sort of interested in the sound waves. uh you know, did a tree fall in the forest? Did you hear it sort of thing? But in the scriptures, the emphasis is not on seeing or on the sound waves, but with a listening that is obeying. And many parables that Jesus gave about the kingdom. Remember the end of many of the parables, what did Jesus say? He who has ears to hear, let him hear. what I'm saying. And it and again, Jesus wasn't just saying, did the sound waves make it out to you? Did you catch what I said? No. The implication is not only hear, but do Obey, follow what I say. And this carries over into the idioms of the day. You know, I I think I mentioned this last time when you know that there's a classic uh situation where the parent is a little frustrated with the disobedience of the child and we turn and we say, now you listen to me. You listen to me. Now again, we're not just hoping the child's listening, are we? No, we want to make sure they're obeying and following what we do. So and we see this back in the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 6. 4, that uh wonderful call to worship, so to speak, for the Hebrew people. Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, etcetera, etcetera. So again here it begins with the word here. Here. Again, Moses isn't just saying, Did you catch the words? Did I get Back far enough to the back row. The emphasis is obeying. Hear, do, follow, obey, and teach your children to do the same So the uh the mean of the Hebrew and Greek is such that to know is to be responsible. And if we don't do something about which we are responsible, then we don't know it in the biblical sense. Now this next part, let me mention this some specific teaching in Scripture. For example, husbands and wives in the Old Testament, Numbers chapter 30. If a wife makes a vow and the husband hears it and says nothing, he's liable just as if he made it himself. Why? Because knowledge, hearing, knowing is responsibility. Over the New Testament. Acts chapter 5, Ananias and Sapphira. Sapphira is only judged and drops dead when she shows to the church that she knew what Ananias had said and went along with it. So her knowledge became responsibility, became complicity, and she was judged for it. Back to the Old Testament. Lost property, Deuteronomy 22. If you found someone's lost property and you knew who it was and you didn't return it, you were as responsible as if you'd stolen it in the middle of the night. Knowledge equals responsibility. Or take witnesses to capital crimes. Deuteronomy 17. Why did the witness to a capital crime cast the first stone in a judgment? Because the witness linked the crime, linked the criminal who had done the crime with the community which judged the crime. The witness had seen the crime, reported it to the community. And such was the responsibility of knowledge that he solemnly had to take the first act of judgment, because his knowledge was responsibility. Or take the judgment of Eli in 1 Samuel 4. Eli knew what his sons were doing, sinning at the temple. He knew what they were doing, but he said nothing, and he did not exercise discipline, and God judged him. Or the words of Jesus in Luke 6. 46, why do you call me Lord, Lord, but do not do the things that I say? The classic predicament of um Of knowing something and not doing it. And then James 4. 17, James always wonderfully practical. The man who knows the good he ought to do, but does not do it, is a sinner. Children, boys and girls, when you know what you should do because your parents told you specifically, and you don't do it, don't you know that that's wrong when you don't follow through? You do. You know that that's wrong. Okay, let's move on to the life of Christ Himself and His days upon the earth as we look at the concept of knowledge and responsibility, knowing and doing. Jesus himself. Now the first Adam broke the link between knowledge and responsibility, knowing and doing, knowledge and obedience The second new Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, came to restore that connection, knowing and doing. Now it makes sense that the evil one will want to break it, and many of the temptations that Satan has pointed at Christ are directed directly in that way, to break his commitment to obedience to God and to the walk to the cross. But Luke 9. 51 says that Jesus resolutely set forth his face to go to Jerusalem. He was committed to doing what God called him to do. Jesus knew what he came to do to affect our salvation through specific In particular, works and words, healing, preaching, miracles, speaking, what we often call active obedience, as well as his passive obedience and dying on the cross Jesus knew who he was and he knew what he came to do. But would he be deterred from it? There was Peter's temptation. No, Lord, don't don't don't go up to Jerusalem. Um There was the passion in the garden, take this cup. And even on the cross, he could have called down legions of angels when he was tempted to. because he was God. But because, again, because of his mission, because he was God, he couldn't call them down because he needed to be faithful and obedient to the calling he had. So Christ's steps to Jerusalem and the cross are marked by the responsibility of knowledge. So there you have it, four areas, the silent component in many of the deep doctrines, the root meaning of the very words, and the specific teaching of Scripture. and Jesus himself. Now let me move on to some applications. And let me first begin by saying, do you know God? Do you know God in this experiential, relational, biblical, covenantal sense? Children, boys and girls Do you know God? Pray that you will come to know God in this way, this special way that the Bible talks about how we know God in a way that's very special, that uh in a way that You trust in Christ alone for your salvation so that you can live right in the world that you are in now and that you can go to heaven in the next world. So the first fundamental step is, of course, do we know God in this experiential way? The second application I'd mention is the responsibility of knowledge and simply responding. to the needs that are represented in that that knowledge. And I think we as a church tend to do a very excellent job in this on talking, for example, that, you know, when you hear that someone is sick Someone's had a baby, someone's going to hospital, uh, the machinery really kicks in motion in this church. People start making meals, calling, checking on, running errands, and so forth And so it's a wonderful example of knowledge and responsibility being exemplified in the body of Christ. And I commend you for it. Continue in that way. The next area I'd mention is the responsibility of knowledge and the nature of teaching. And what I mean by this is the style or nature of teaching or how we learn. Now let me take a minute to develop this because it's something I hadn't thought about that much before. Now you know that all not all learning and teaching can be reduced to a manual or a book or seminar or yes, even a video. Some things just can't be put in that format and you can't learn from it. Many things can be put in that format, how you change the oil in your car, how to do upgrades to your computer and so forth. But there are many areas that in terms of what we how we know how to do something that sort of can't just be put in one, two, three form. For example, something as simple as riding a bike. There's a lot of experiential note knowledge in knowing how to ride a bike that you can't just say, okay, well you just do this, this, this, and and you're there. It just can't be done. The same with driving a car skillfully or painting a landscape or making a violin. This is what Michael Polani called tacit knowing or unspoken knowledge For example, in violin making, you can't just measure out the pieces of wood, glue them all together, and voila, no pun intended. expect to have a a nice uh violin. You can't go to the store and buy a copy of violin making for dummies. It's just not that way A cyclist, a gymnast, a swimmer is incapable of fully articulating the rules of their performance So they know more than they actually can articulate. And the knowledge they have can be described as intuitive, inarticulate, nonverbal, or tacit. Developing and learning to access this knowledge is at the heart of a person's craft or skill. Such highly developed, deeply personal knowledge resists formalization such as putting in a book or a class. Michael Pliani talked about the person actually indwelling the knowledge or the skill. So there's more to knowing than you can say in books or read or teach or lecture or even here in a sermon or Sunday school class. In fact, many of the deepest things in life cannot be put into words of any kind, which means that they cannot be taught in the words also. So what is it that we do when we really learn we are learning the deepest things? Well what did Jesus do? Mark 12, 14. Jesus chose twelve to be with him. And being with him was a large part of the way they learned how to follow him and love him. The word disciple in the New Testament, we often uh associate it with the term follower or learner. But actually it's much more closer to the term apprentice. You know, the idea of apprentice was that there was some knowledge that was so deep that it couldn't be put into words, and therefore it had to be learned under a master from his experience. under his authority, submitting to him, because even he couldn't put it into words. So if we want to teach the deepest things at heart, they have to be taught in living experience, as in The family structure, the church structure, close friendships, our communities that we live in. Sort of teaching in the context of the everydayness of life. Are children seeing us live and respond to things that happen to us during the day? Are children seeing us respond to a difficulty? Do we pray? Do we keep our wits about ourselves? our spouse or our friends seeing how we respond to problems and struggles. These are specific ways, and I can tell you, I've learned from you. specific ways of following Christ better, but often by just watching you and not necessarily you telling me anything, but just seeing you go through different things. So even the teaching that we receive, and I'm not denigrating the preaching of the word or anything like that, but there is a sense in which it only goes so far, not because of the shortness of time, but because of the necessity of relying on words. Now what does this remind you of? The nature of true discipleship in Jesus' words, John 15, 4, abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in me. Again, the relational aspect, abiding in Christ, living, loving Him, seeking Him. Now let me move on to the responsibility of knowledge and not knowing. And what what the point I'd like to make here is there are times when it's good for us to not know things. Scripture points that out. It said it warns us not to know the details of evil. And uh also there are aspects to knowledge that are burdensome. In other words, there's some things that it's best that we don't know. Sometimes we can't avoid that. But particularly when it comes to private or personal matters, they can often bur burden us. And being a session member, there are things at times that I would rather not have known. But I needed to know in order to respond to the situation and address the problem. But there are times when we don't need to know things and that's fine and we should be content with not knowing certain things. The next thing I'd like to mention is the responsibility of knowledge and motivation. The responsibility of knowledge and motivation. Now, many people uh are very difficult unless you motivate with them with some kind of gimmick or carrot. Now, maybe you get the same kind of mail I do. uh from certain ministries, you know, if you send them X dollars or more, you'll get a book or a C D. And and I confess sometimes that makes me think twice. You know, well, you know, maybe there's a little carrot here, so And yeah, that's okay. There's a place for that. But sometimes the toughest thing to do is to tell people the right thing to do. This is what you must do. Necessarily no guarantee of success. Necessarily no guarantee that it'll feel great, but this is what God calls us to do, and we must do it. And that that's difficult sometimes. I know it is for me. But that's what God calls us to at times. We need to have that motivation that when we know something, we do it, simply because God said it and we want to love him and serve him properly. Now let me conclude with this what I've called a remedy here. The way to handle the responsibility of knowledge at least one way to handle it, I think, effectively, is through vocation. That is a recognition and sense of our specific callings in life and how they fit into the things that we learn and know. In other words, we know many things, but what is the appropriate part of it for which we are responsible? And I think the answer is that which comes within the spheres of our vocation. For example, you might hear about a famine in Africa. It may get bad, it may get overwhelming at times. Well what's my responsibility in that? Probably not to go there. Maybe to give to a relief organization and maybe to pray. So are you a wife or mother or homemaker? Within that calling, but your focus is to meeting the needs of your family, your husband, your children uh preparing meals and teaching and training and so forth. When information, knowledge falls into that category, then there's a particular need to focus on uh responding to it. Are you a husband or father? Well the net calling involves tending to the needs of your wife and your children, working diligently in your job to provide for your family, and providing for the future. Are you single? Seek the Lord fully with the freedom you now have. Seek to discern your vocation as best you can through various avenues of your the exercise of your job and education and training, and pray for contentment in your present state. Children, boys and girls. You know what's your main vocation, your calling? This word in scripture sort of means your job. You know what your job is? Children, your job in life right now is to learn to obey your parents better and better each day, to do your schoolwork as best you can. And to learn to play and live with your brothers and sisters nicely. Because you know why? You're going to need to do that all the rest of your life. Because I have to do it. Getting along with other people, that's an important thing. You know, I got a new responsibility just the other day dropped in my lap. I've been given new responsibilities recently in the past few months. They've been very interesting. relating to uh national matters of security and helping our country be safe. But I got a new one put in my lap the other day that wasn't particularly fun. Guess what it was? Helping two pre groups of people get along better. They're not getting along very well. Cliff, can you get in there and try to sort things out? Well, yeah, I'll do that. I'd rather do some other things, but you know, that has to be done. This is why it's important that we learn how to live in harmony with one another. to love one another and to live in harmony with people that have different perspectives than we do. It's going to be throughout our lives that we need to do that. Another way to view the responsibility of knowledge is uh through a series of concentric circles. And um let me mention the first one is where we live. You know, there's the place where our feet take us, where we live. And then there's the place where we can give financially. It's a circle that goes further than where we can live and walk. And then there's the circle that goes all the way around the world, and that's the circle we can pray into. So we can live and we can give and we can pray into various spheres of influence. And that's another way to look at the responsibility of knowledge. John 17, 3. I'll mention, I'll read it again. This is eternal life, that they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Knowing God. Means more than just knowing who he is. Remember the demons know that, and they're not going to heaven. Knowing God means that we obey him, we seek him, we love him as best we can every day. Let us pray. Father, we do pray that you'd help us to love you and grow in loving and knowing and serving you and each other better and better each day. In Jesus' name. Amen.