Here we are at the end of the summer, and what the end of the summer often means is goodbyes. Whenever our family and friends or guests leave to go home, school jobs. or to host other places. We have times of hugs and embracing and farewells, even some tears, and we give our last warm words. Uh we give them those words of preparation that we want them to remember before they go away. It seems crazy when I tell you this, but I remember my parents saying to me over and over again, it might just be my generation. But as I would leave to go off somewhere, they would say, make sure you have on a pair of clean underwear in case you get into an accident. And I could never figure that out because I have watched uh hospital documentaries on emergency rooms. I've watched many hospital shows and the lights are blazing and the car and the ambulance comes in. They take the person in and they never stop to say, does that person have clean underwear? They just put their hands in their chest or do whatever they have to do to stop the blood and do everything else. But when people leave us, we we leave them with some kind of words of wisdom and as The scripture ended last week. We had a benediction. And you would have thought that this letter is over. But then Paul goes on again. And and he has to say some more. But we know how that is, because we say goodbye to our loved ones. Some of you have even done this this past week as people went off to college or somewhere else. You say that, but in their car as they're leaving, you say one more thing. Don't forget to text me or call me when you get in. Be careful. I love you. All right? You always get those extra words out there. You want them to be ringing in their ears when they leave you. And I think that's what we have here. We've already gotten a benediction, but Paul loves the Thessalonican church in this letter. He's written to them. He's ended it, but it he can't even end it. has to go on with a few more things for them and uh thankfully for you, for me. So it's with that joy that the Lord willing, this are his last, last words. Of the first letter. But they're words that we need. They're words that God has prepared for us this very evening. So let's stand and look at God's word in 1 Thessalonians. Brothers, pray for us Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Let us pray. Father and God, we thank you that uh words mean something. And the way that they're put together and the way the Spirit has brought them to us, we can understand. We thank you for those who've translated and worked hard to do that. We pray for the opening up and the application to our own lives that we would grow to be more like our Savior. For it is in His name we pray. Amen. Please recede. We're going to begin this evening by looking at these last three sections of God's words for you. In the first one, Paul says, pray for us. Brothers, pray for us. That almost sounds like our sermon this morning. And uh it's not a rerun on purpose. God just does this because we need to hear it again. Brothers, pray for us. This morning we heard at the end of Ephesians chapter 6, where Paul says, To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication, praying for all the saints. And also for me that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. For which I am an ambassador in change, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. The Apostle Paul, who is Stoned for giving the gospel, laying dead, and he gets up and goes to another city. He needs to have people pray that he be pulled? Yes. You see, he didn't do it in his own strength. He didn't do it because he was Mr. Paul, the evangelist. He did it because the saints were praying for him. And how dare you and I think that we can live without the prayers of our brothers, without the Christian community that God has given us a gift. And Paul says, Pray for us. And so that's an encouragement for me when I'm often not bold in sharing the gospel with somebody else. You know, one of the things we need to have regularly is our own requests, right? We we have a great holy huddle here that God blesses every week. It's wondrous. But we need to pray that God would give us that boldness to speak to our neighborhood. Uh, the love of Christ, right? We need that, right? I'm not bold. I'm a bold about a lot of things. You know, if somebody's making noise in our neighborhood and our condos, I'll go out and see whose car's going boom boom boom boom boom. You know, I'll go up and knock. Hey, how you doing? You got great base on that car. Wow. But I'm having a rough time sleeping. Could you help me? I'm bold to do that, right? But very seldom unless do I am I bold to tell him about the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, as I get to know them, not when I'm talking about So we need to pray for that. And uh and so he the the apostle says, you know, as he ends, brothers, I'm writing you this letter with all this good information. From the Holy Spirit's given to me about your lives, but pray for me, pray for us as we continue to minister the gospel. So what an encouragement that the Apostle Paul, what we might think is some ways the best of all New Testament Christians, right? We we would say, Wow, the Apostle Paul, and yet he calls out over and over regularly in his letters. even as we heard this morning. Brothers pray for us. And so I'm so glad we have this opportunity on Sunday evenings. I hope if you if you're not getting the prayer list sent to you via email. that you might take that. You might not get through it all, but uh print it out and uh put it someplace in the week where you might pray for some of your brothers and sisters. We need it I know that I didn't. The Apostle Paul knew from 2 Corinthians 3, 5 to 6, he said this not that we are sufficient in ourselves as to claim anything as coming from us. But our sufficiency is from God, who has made us sufficient to be ministers of the new covenant. Gardiner Spring, who was a pastor in the 1800s, a Presbyterian pastor, he said this. He said, Oh, it's a fearful expense that ministers are ever allowed to enter in the pulpit without being. preceded, accompanied, and followed by the earnest prayers of the church. It's no marvel that the pulpit is so powerless and ministers so often disheartened when there are so few that hold up their hands. The consequence of neglecting this duty is seen and felt in the spirit's declinion of churches, and it will be seen and felt in the everlasting perdition of men. So how much we need um that. This uh summer we were able to get away again and go to New England. We went to Um the church in Concord were ever be there a Sunday, but then we went up. Some friends of ours graciously let us use their place in Maine. And I had heard that uh a former lady from that congregation, uh A I think she's about ninety right now, but I'm not sure, so I hope she doesn't listen to this and I get the age wrong or so. But uh it's a very sweet and dear lady in the congregation And uh she was about an hour and a half from where we were gonna be. And uh some of the people in the congregation heard that we were going up there and they kinda say, Oh, it'd be great if you visited Diana right and I'm kinda thinking to myself It's my vacation. Uh yeah, Diana is sweet. I should do it. We really did have good times together, but come on, it's an hour and a half back each way. But it didn't take me long to think about something very different. And I'll tell you the reason that I went to see Diana. It wasn't because I was guilted into it Right? And it wasn't because I thought, I'm a pastor, I should certainly see Diana, a previous member of our congregation, because I'm holy. I'll tell you why I went to see Diana, and Marg and I did. Because every time I would see Diana, she would say, Pastor, I pray for you and Marg every day. I couldn't help but go see Diana I don't even pray for my own family every single day. There's been days I've missed. Been days I've missed praying. I've been so up and busy. I haven't I've gone through that day and ended it, fell into bed and And woke up the next morning and say, Where did that day go? And I said, Oh Lord, I didn't think I even prayed. And I believed I Right? How could I not go to that? Right? Someone That would love Marg and I enough. Even though we're not even around. Haven't been around her for years. Not only the years here, but she left one or two years before that. But she made sure that she told me even before we left. Once again, Pastor, I pray for you and Marg every day. Beloved, that's what we need. And so what a joy to be able to go and Paul's second last word to them. He says, Greet everyone for us. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. Now I came to Jesus as a teenager when I was in a Bible study with other teenagers. We that read this and we're all snickering. Oh yeah, what'd that mean? Oh yeah yeah Yeah, I know that girl, I'd like to give her a kiss. You know? And uh That's not what it is, fellas. I'm just going to tell you right now. Um, but it's been misused over the years. In fact, this whole process of giving a holy kiss. Uh had been abandoned by the church for a very long time because when pagans and others came into the church, they misused it. It was a greeting It was a way to tell someone else that you love them. And generally at that time, you've seen it in especially Mid East Middle Eastern countries Uh men kiss men on the cheek when they come to they come and they grab them, they go, you know, they kiss them on one side or the other, right? And women would do the same thing. And it was just a way to express. It was like we would do shaking hands. Right? Except in our culture, we've gotten a little more touchy-feely over the years. So uh if you you know you come up to somebody and and And you know, you don't just shake hands, but you kind of grab a hand, you make an embrace, and when you make the embrace, that's the first tap. And then you go two more taps. Right? And that's what our culture does, right? If you come up to somebody embrace and go, right? That's what we do. And it it's just saying, go up and let someone know that you care for them. And he says you should do that in the congregation. You should make sure you know that you love one another What a joy that is. Justin Martyr, who was a early a Christian apologist, talked about how it began in the church. He says, the custom hence arose in the early church of passing the kiss through the congregation. at the Holy Communion. And often what was happening is men sat on one side and women on another, and they passed that they just said, We care for one another. one another. So we would do that in a handshake today or something else. But it's not easy for us, is it? Um, especially if we don't know someone in the congregation. I go to some churches on vacation. And it's a pretty good church, but somewhere in the service they say, It's time to pass the peace. Right? And so every you know, you're supposed to get up and shake hands and go around to other people you don't even know or care about. uh yet, you know, they're in the body of Christ, but you know, you're and they're coming up to you and you're trying to say in 30 seconds something important. Right, or who you really are, that they get to know you. And I just I want to hide under my seat. It's like I'm not going back to that church Right? It's not easy for us. And it's sad. Because we really need to tell one another we love one another. Um as I've gotten to know Pastor Dusenberry yesterday on the phone, he just said I re Really, really appreciate you. And it was like, I wasn't able to you know it's just not easy to for us to handle that kind of stuff sometimes. I have a friend who's going to visit Lord Willing in October. And his wife are gonna visit us. And when Doug comes here, we're gonna meet at the airport. And Doug and I, by God's grace, it just have become great friends. But when we come up with that, we're just kind of born at the same time. We're brothers in Christ. But we come up and we shake hands and we really want to hug because we haven't seen each other. But come on, we're guys, you know. And so we kind of do this and we're wrestling with each other and then finally we just grab each other because we just love each other. Right. And Paul says we need to express however we're going to do that. other man it's good you're part of the church I'm glad you're part of my family I need you pray for me And uh and what a joy that Paul says these things. You know, let someone know you love 'em because you're you're you're willing to think of them during the weekend Take them before the Lord. And when you get a chance, hug 'em. It's kind of like that situation, you know, where you've heard stories of A husband and wife, you know, in the morning, they're getting ready, everybody's getting ready to go their own way or do their own thing and they go off without kissing each other or say they love 'em when somebody has an accident, right? And they might die or something. And you wish you could have said that, right? You wish you could have said one more time, I love you. And uh Paul's saying, don't be afraid to do that with each other. We need that. That's part of what it is being family and uh and knowing that we care for each other. Do that. Paul's saying in these last words, pray for one another. Let one another know that you love each other. And so how how horrible it was. You know, we think of all the horrible things that happened to our Lord Jesus, right? I was just thinking that in regard to a kiss and what it means, right? I mean a holy kiss, right? A kiss coming up and just kissing someone 'cause you you just want to tell them you love And that Judas comes, the disciple he was with for three years, and he's betrayed with a kiss. Right? Judas is coming up While he was still speaking, Jesus still speaking, there came a crowd And the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus said, Judas, would you betray the Son of Man with A kiss. So let's not betray each other and be false in this. But may God give us the grace to to demonstrate our love to one another by praying to one another And demonstrating our care, touching one another, saying we appreciate each other. Paul's last word here is: make sure everyone hears the word of God read. He'd written this letter to the church in Fezzlonica and he says, make sure everybody gets to hear it. And that was important because no one else had the scroll. and and get a letter or a scroll was important. They weren't gonna pass that around to everybody. They weren't gonna let it get ripped up and they couldn't copy it They know most people couldn't write. They didn't have all the ways we have copying today. And even if they did get it, most of the people couldn't read. So he says, make sure that all the brothers hear the word of God. You need to hear what God has to say to you. And so that meant to everybody in the congregation: the men and the women and the boys and the girls. Because we need to hear God's word. We don't need to hear what Aunt Susie says. Aunt Susie might have some good things to say But the most important thing we all need is to hear God speak to us about how we live, what we believe, and how we live. And in fact, Paul, look how he says this. He says, I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. The other things he said certainly are important as he was leaving the church. He says, pray for one another. Show your love for one another. But what you need to do above all all is to make sure that the word of God is read because we don't need man's thoughts. I'm not saying man's thoughts per se are bad. Nothing wrong with knowing how to fix a car and how a car's works. There's nothing sinful about that. But what we need is how to treat one another and the word of God, how we are saved, and then as we're saved, how do we Live. So we need this. And what a joy it is to be part of a congregation that still upholds the Word of God. And that people would come morning and evening saying, Lord, what do you have for me? I need to be able to know you and worship you, and I need you to speak into my life. And so what a joy to see this uh progressing and keeping on in this particular congress. Nation. Paul then ends with another benediction. He didn't give one, but he gave two. The one he gave last week is one of my favorites, but he gives another one. And I want you to do something with your Bible right now, right? Hold on to First Corinthians, I mean 1 Thessalonians 5, the last verse, right? Verse 28. But then just go to the beginning of this book, 1 Thessalonians. And I want you to see that he begins and ends in the same way. He begins with something we understand where our faith begins in the same way. ends. It's not with us earning it, but it's with God Almighty coming down and being gracious and merciful to sinners. Boy, I need to hear that. He begins and ends this letter to the church and to you. He says it's about grace. It's about God's work in your life. You're here and you can know and believe these things and rejoice in them because He He is good and gracious. So look at 1 Thessalonians 5:1. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father. And the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you in peace. Then he opens the letter and talks about God's grace in their life, giving them the Lord Jesus Christ Not only to save them, but to teach them and strengthen them and help them. And now look at this very last benediction, the last verse. What happened? He says this, he ends, what you need, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. He is affirming to them that if God's love is a love that doesn't, isn't ever stripped away from them They can't keep it. They have his love because he is good and faithful and gracious to us. And as I look at the things tonight, right, praying for one another, oh man, I I know how weak I am, right? And it comes expressing my love to others. Often I don't do that. I'm hard nosed or quiet or bashful. Well probably not bashful And sometimes, you know, the word of God bounces off my heart because I'm hardened either in my own sin or I I I want to do it my own way. And and so I need even with these last things that I know that I should do from a gracious God, I I need to hear again that it's I receive him because he is gracious. I want to do these things because he is continues to be gracious to me. This letter begins and ends in the very Same way. One of the things that that should be helpful to you is to know how different your religion, Christianity, is from the world. This very afternoon, I had one of our neighbors come up to me while I was Sitting on our patio. And we've Marg and I have gotten to know her. She's an African Muslim. And she visited our house yesterday, so Marg showed her for the our African room And uh our African room is just our bedroom. We we've given gifts from Africans at different times. We were in Uganda and so we showed her those things and and uh she told told us about how she has made some of those very Same things and all the rest. And then this afternoon she came up. She was walking back from somewhere and came up in the porch and I talked to her for a while. Then she went back and she said, I want to show you something. And what she showed me were pictures of her on her Hajj. A Hajj is the fifth of the pillars of the Muslim faith, where if you're able, you should make a pilgrimage to Muslim. Mecca and which is in Saudi Arabia and walk around the big black stone, the Kadah, and and and and you've seen that, this big tent that's around uh this big rock, their most holy place. And uh sometimes uh in the year during the pilgrimage, there can be literally millions of people that go around the rock. The men will do it uh very fast for the first two time and then the women and children are added the first three times. And you may have seen in the news sometimes where they do that and there's so many of them that people are literally uh killed uh doing this because there are just literally so many people and they go so quickly the first time around that others are trampled and and uh but She was on this pilgrimage and she showed us her picture. She looked almost like a nun. She had a habit on that was all white from head to toe and she was there praying. And she was talking about how that she must do these things. Um and it is a picture uh It says, what happens during this Hajj? It says this pilgrimage is viewed in Muslim faith as particular meritorious activity which serves as a penance, the ultimate forgiveness for sin. Now I I didn't I was talking to her and I said, Well how do you how do you not get stampled? You know, stampede or trample, I guess. Stampede. I just made a new word, stampled. Maybe you'll hear it in the news next year. So many people were stampled. She says, well, when the women are there at least, you make little tiny steps. And everybody's just making these little tiny steps. And if you step on someone, it's a sin. And so I don't know what happens if somebody gets stampled or trampled or stamped, right? So but she was talking about how you earn these kinds This pilgrimage to Mecca, the most sacred city of Islam, is required of all physically and financially able Muslims once in their life. And I pray that conversations may continue as we have interactions with our neighbor, that I could tell her about our faith. Begins and ends with grace. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not of your own Doing it is the gift of God, not as a result of works that no man shame boast. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father and God, we thank you for our brother, the Apostle Paul, who, though dead, through your word that's been preserved, speaks to us. Father and God, I pray that uh uh our own hearts would be moved to pray for one another more, not because if it's a burden, it's just a command, but because you've been So gracious to us, that we might be able to show our love for one another and not be afraid to speak of our the kindness and goodness of brothers and sisters and what it is to have this family And we thank you for your word. Would we appreciate it more? Not that we would uphold it and put it in a special place, except the special place of our heart. Would you encourage us, Lord, even as you have this evening with this wondrous book of Thessalonians begins and ends with grace, picturing your love for us through the Lord Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.