Well thank you very much for the warm welcome. You'll notice that uh if you're that uh if you're familiar with what we were going to be talking about tonight, I switched the text from the second chapter of 2 Corinthians, because as I looked at it today, I thought this is so complex And thinking about the uh disparity and ages in the audience, I thought this this won't fly. We're going to stick to our 2nd Corinthians text tomorrow, but tonight I want us to look at this great psalm. And I want to say that if you're 10 years old, 12 years old On, I have a great appreciation for your spiritual capacities because that's when I was radicalized for Christ. And it has never changed. He put his hand on my soul and called me. And so I believe in the power of the word and the power of the word to minister to those of virtually every age of comprehension. Now, as we consider Psalm 32, it's noteworthy that St. Augustine Augustine Ahippo considered this to be his favorite song. He's the author of The Confessions, he's the author of The City of God. His writings influence almost every sphere of Western culture, but he cherished this as his very favorite. He read it constantly throughout his life. And at the end, he had it inscribed on the wall above his bed as an aid to his personal devotion. For him, the psalm was essential to his spiritual health. I think that's very significant when you think of this man who had the Bible before him. And this is the psalm that he kept before his eyes every day. Now, as the pastor read it, it's called a mass skill, of which there are only about 13 of the 150 Psalms. There's only 13 Psalms like this. And that designation, mascell, seems to mean variously like a meditation or a skillful song or a song of understanding. And I I think all three of those things are appropriate. But the idea seems to be that it is a teaching psalm or a sung meditation. So that's what it is. Now, another thing that you noticed as the pastor read it tonight, that Selah occurs three times in Psalm 32. which means something like pause or crescendo or musical interlude. And though we're not sure exactly what it means, It has to do with musical accompaniment, and the main idea seems to be emphasis. Whether it's musical, it's background. So it means to take a good look at what has been said and to pause and reflect. Which we'll do tonight. Now, keeping this in mind, Psalm 32 is one of what are considered to be the seven penitential psalms. I'll give you the numbers of them if you're taking notes. They're easy to write down. There's Psalm 6, this one, 32. 38, the most famous, Psalm 51, and then Psalm 102, 130, and 142. Now, penitential is not a biblical designation. Psalter nowhere lists these Psalms as penitential, but here it is as a fitting title. Because the ancient church understood that these Psalms had a great deal to say about the whole matter of repentance. And so the ancient church understood this. Now the story goes that when Galileo was imprisoned for teaching the Copernican view of the universe. That Galileo was forced to read these Psalms, these seven psalms, every week, and that his jailers thought it would bring him to repentance. But Galileo says it only served to elevate and console his heart because the psalm leads to spiritual correctness. Not political correctness. Now, the setting of this psalm A very solemn setting. It was written by King David after his repentance under the scathing accusation of the prophet Nathan. When Nathan came to him and pointed an accusatory finger at him and said, You are the man for committing adultery with another man's wife, Bathsheba? And then covering up her pregnancy by arranging the murder of her husband Uriah. Heinous sins. Awful sins, adultery, homicide For which we understand David did not repent for a year. Now we know David wrote Psalm 32 because it says right in the beginning that it's a mass skill of David, this meditation, this sung meditation. And it perfectly accords with the misery of that year. And then The joy of repentance. So we know it's by him. And moreover, the Apostle Paul says in Romans 4 that Psalm 32, 1 and 2 are the words of David. So it is a Davidic Psalm. And today. This great psalm tugs at the heartstrings of our lives because here's what it does: it captures the experience of every believer in his or her struggle with sin. The emotion of it, and then it perfectly captures his or her experience in repentance, So just for those reasons, you can see there's no wonder why Augustine loved it. And the mental image that I have of Augustine is of an aged, bearded old man, maybe my age, with a beard. Sleeping under the Latin inscription of Psalm 32 so that he could see it fade as he Uh went to sleep and then see it illuminate in dawn's first light. This is a psalm which serves to point the way to forgiveness and blessedness. Now, it's very easy to understand the structure of this psalm. Here's how it is. The first five verses are biography, autobiography by David The last verses, 6 through 11, are a challenge from David to repentance. So biography, the story, and then a ringing challenge. And this is an ageless psalm. It is as old as sin. Brothers and sisters, and as fresh is grace. Now The Psalm begins with his story, which is an initial shout of praise for having been forgiven from the threefold grip of sin. And you see it in verses 1 and 2. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. Now, if you look closely at those opening two verses, you see three separate words. used by David to describe the full dimensions of sin in his life. There's transgression in verse 1. Sin in verse 1 and iniquity in verse 2. And those three nuances. Transgression, sin, and iniquity talk about an absolute domination by sin. He wants to make this as graphic as possible. He uses transgression to emphasize his willful act of rebellion against God's authority. Because whatever the sin. It is ultimately rebellion against God. And then next he uses the word sin to indicate Not only is it rebellion, but that he missed the mark. Famous image in this that is well traveled and well known of an archer. Launching his arrow towards his target only to have it fall miserably short, and his life fell short in huge disappointment to Israel. And to God's people. And then that third term that you have there, iniquity, completes that terrible trio with the idea of it really is crookedness. You might say criminality. David's soul contorted and evoked twisted character and criminal conduct. And when you look at his life and those horrific abuses of Bathsheba and Uriah, it showcases each of those dominions. As Israel's king, he knew the law. In fact, he'd written a handwritten copy of the law according to Deuteronomy 17 in his own hand. He knew the law, but he willingly sinned with a sin of a high hand. Not only that, his life fell shamefully short of God's high covenantal call as the king of Israel, and then base criminality warped his soul, and it took him down to the utter depths to he began to throb with guilt. He's absolutely dominated. That's what he's saying in his biographical section. Absolutely under. Domination and the misery of sin. Well, here in verses 1 and 2, as David begins this penitential psalm, What he does, because he's been forgiven, he celebrates his forgiveness with a corresponding trio of deliverance terms. And you see them in verses 1 and 2. See the word forgiven? Or covered, or counts no iniquity. His transgression has been forgiven because it's been literally lifted up and taken away. His rebellion and transgression are gone. He is utterly forgiven. His sin is covered. David for a year had been frantically trying to cover his sin like a uh a naked man trying to cover himself, but it was always there. He couldn't get away it. Shame and fear of exposure dominated his waking existence, even his dreams. But blessed be God, his sin was covered by God Himself. And lastly, in verse 2, he's become the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. It's God's way of dealing with sin. And what that does in County No Iniquity anticipates the New Testament teaching. that God credits or counts righteousness to us through faith and does not count our sins against us. That's the explicit argument of Romans 4, 4 through 8. What a phenomenal thing! God did more for the psalmist than not count his iniquity against him. He counted him as righteous. Now, when you think of the awfulness of his sin, King of Israel takes another man's wife Draws her into adultery. She becomes pregnant, and then he orchestrates his loyal Soldiers Death Premeditated Murder Premeditated adultery. I mean, if you read this for the first time, you always have to say, what? Forgiven? And you have to say yes by God's grace. And so when you see this, you have to say, no wonder David's so exuberant. The terrifying dimensions of sin, that threefold grip of sin, has been lifted. And notice we're still looking at verses 1 and 2, the word blessed. occurs twice in verses one and two. You'll see it where he says, blessed is the one, blessed is the man. Well, there's no way to really translate that into English because they are ecstatic plurals. in the Hebrew, which goes like this, the blessednesses of he, the blessednesses Of the man. It's like a doubling of delight as his soul dances in ecstatic delight. He reaches for every word to talk about the ecstasy. Of being delivered from his sin. Now, you're anticipating this, but you say, why was he so exuberant? And it's because his forgiveness was not a sham This is not a psychological Dr. Phil self-forgiveness. Nor is it the communal absolution by Ofrah, the high priest of American culture. It's real. Those three terms, forgiven, covered, counts, not, means one thing, real forgiveness. Not imagined forgiveness. Not self-pronounced forgiveness, but real theological forgiveness. And along with forgiveness, the king's guilt, that huge, throbbing, pulsing guilt, is gone And to top it all off, he's been delivered from his soul's deceit, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. This is a sad thing, but I once had a sitting elder, an adulterous elder in my church. Who was so wrapped in self-deceit that the very day another businessman from our church discovered him with a prostitute. In a city on the other coast was the same day that this adulterous elder flew home after his liaison to MC our church's evangelistic dinner. You hear that? I mean unbelievable deceit See, deceit is the currency of sin. And what there is, is there's relentless deceit and unconfessed sin because it involves self-deceit. And delusion about your soul. And when that happens, it involves public deceit, and in his case, horrific domestic deceit. Guilt, lying, cover-up, hypocrisy, insincerity, pious can't to his nearest and dearest See, those of us who are in sin and won't confess it know what the Psalmist is talking about. It is an orgy of deceit. Just one deceit, another layer of deceit, another layer of deceit, falsity, falsehood, phoniness, hypocrisy. What a miserable state. And what a release to come clean. Now, what David does is he continues revealing his heart as he describes the guilt of his unconfessed sin. that what had happened to him. So is this biographical, and he reaches for everything he can to talk about its misery. In verses 3 and 4, he says, For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For night and day your hand was heavy on me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. First, the misery. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away, literally, became old. Through my groaning. That word groaning is literally roaring all day long. To borrow George Eliot's phrase, unconfessed sins produce a guilty roar on the other side of silence. You know what? If you could hear that roar of guilt that is around us We'd almost die if we could hear it. I had a man describe to me. the burden of his unconfessed sins by saying that when he stood in front of a mirror with unconfessed sins And shaved, he would moan as he looked at his face in the mirror The physical effect of this unconfessed sin is a feeling of desiccated bones, a miserable porosis of the soul, aching rot. That's what it's like when you bottle up guilt within. Now David's talking biographically, he's reaching for every word. Secondly, the psalmist experienced professional affliction. He says, For night and day your hand was heavy upon me. When God's hand presses down us on us in guilt, it is a grace. Because all of life then is freighted with leaded affliction. Charles Spurgeon put it perfectly. He said, Better a world on your shoulder like Atlas than God's hand on your heart, like David. And I have to say, when we've got a lot of people together, is God's hand heavy on you? Teenager, junior high, mature adult. If it is Then may it stay unrelenting and heavy and heavier until you repent, lest you miss its grace And there's more. Misery and affliction are capped with lethargy. Look at the last half of verse 4. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer, says David. Literally, my life's juices were turned into the drought of summer. His whole life was sucked of its energy. He could hardly move. Entropy gripped his guilt-ridden existence. Living was an effort. Interacting with others was an effort. I have to say, when this is all laid out like this, isn't guilt wonderful? An inner howl? Your bones wasting away, crushing afflictions, a troubled life, life's juices sucked out. A leaden soul. You know what David says there? The psalmist says, Sila. Think about it Maybe we should have a musical interlude to think about it. Because this can be present-tense biography for us. And if we haven't confessed our sin, it is. But actually, actually, guilt is a wonderful thing Not false guilt, you know, like the destructive guilt of feeling responsible for your parents' divorce. Well for not being an all American, all five feet one, a hundred and ten pounds of you Or falling short of your family's expectations, or getting a C in chemistry, which I think is an achievement. Not false guilt and not projected guilt, not imposed guilt by others, but what a gift real theological guilt is for sin. What a gift! What a grace is that guilty roar on the other side of silence. A heavy hand of guilt on you. Guilt-ridden empathy. What a gift it is. Because gracious misery calls you to God. That's what it's done to me. And if you're truly one of His, the misery will be yours until you repent. If you're a child of God, there will be no escaping. You'll never escape. Prepare to be miserable, afflicted, and evacuated. Why? Because of good guilt, gracious guilt. That's why Augustine loved it. Think about his life. Well, after that, the first salah, David records the final thought of his biographical sketch. We're still in the biography, with a dramatic account of what happened with his confession. Verse 5. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgression to the Lord, and you He says to God, forgave the iniquity of my sin. Here it is. In an instant The guilt is gone. You know, there are some things that have to happen slowly, and there are some that have to happen. At once. Confession is now. But the beautiful thing is that confession brings absolution now. That's the theological truth. You confess your sin. You truly confess it. And you're absolved. Notice the immediacy in King David's life when he finally confessed. Now this is You go back to 2 Samuel the 12th chapter, verse 13, when Nathan has confronted him. David responded to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. He confessed. And immediately Nathan says to David, The Lord has put your sin away. Confession, boom, forgiveness. See, God, the Father, is quick to pardon us, just like he was with the prodigals. Son, the prodigal son's father did when he interrupted his son's confession to assure his forgiveness and acceptance. Forgiveness now. Silla. Now that is something to think about. So positive. So beautiful. Because forgiveness is only a millisecond away for every person Your groans can be turned into hymns in an instant. Your real guilt, what David called the guilt of my sin. Was forgiven in the blink of an eye. And the beautiful thing about the Salah here, it is as joyous as the first one was somber. Okay. He's told his story, and now comes his challenge in verses 6 through 11. So we switch from the personal account to his ringing challenge, verse 6. Therefore let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him. And again there's immediate here. Do it now. We're to pray while God can be found. If he can't be put off too long, or hardness will set in. And that's true. If you're laboring under sin. The writer of Hebrews puts it this way: Hebrews 3:13, but exhort one another. He says, every day, as long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. It's now. He goes on, and he quotes Psalm 95, 78. This is a writer of Hebrews in verse 15. Hebrews 3. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in rebellion, because confession is now, and the scriptures know of no other time. If you do, the coming high waters, the chastening deluge, and the ultimate judgment will not Overtake you. Now is the time to confess Now, the psalmist, David, is so transported by the reality of what he is saying that he interrupts the challenging tone with a shout of praise up to God. Verse 7. You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance, far from trying to hide his sins from God. David has now found a hiding place. And the sense that he gives, the picture that he gives is being surrounded by people that are celebrating your deliverance. Spurgeon waxes imaginatively. I wish I had his imagination. Listen to this. Here's Spurgeon. It's what he sees here. The man is encircled by song, surrounded by dancing mercies, he says, all of them proclaiming the triumphs of grace. There's no breach in the circle. It completely rings him around. On all sides he hears music. Before him, hope sounds the cymbals. Behind him, gratitude beats the timbrel. Right and left, above and beneath, the air resounds with joy, and all this for a man who Was roaring all day long. How great a change! What wonders grace has done and will do. So beautiful. When you're forgiven. This is how the stubborn soul that finally confesses, and I'm going to say this very carefully, feels. I'm not into a lot of therapeutic talk, but this is how the forgiven soul feels. Have you ever felt it? Have you ever, because of hidden, unconfessed sin, wasted away in miserable silence while your soul groaned? And had God's hand, heavy with affliction, press you down and down and down until your strength was gone, and then confessed your sins and felt your sins forgiven? and your guilt gone and surrounded by songs of deliverance? Now I want to say Because I don't know if everyone in this room is a believer. Do you want to feel that reality? Because you can right now. And what does David say in the margin? Say, la think about that one. Wow, this is amazing. The challenge picks up again with a solemn warning from God in the first person. You see the first person now. It's not David. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. God says, do not be like a horse or a mule without understanding, which must be curved with a bit or a bridle, or it will not stay near you. Now, the image that God warns against is that of a stubborn animal. Don't be like an obstinate, stubborn mule or horse. Now, these metaphors, these images were very, very important. David had been such an animal. Like a wild, stubborn horse in his stampede in to sin. And then he became a stubborn mule in his brainless refusal to acknowledge sin He knows what he's talking about. So you want to say when you see this, let the stubborn sinner beware. That if he does not humble himself and submit to God and confess his sin, he's going to reach up a hand and discover a bridle over his snout and long ears. and the taste of a metal bit in his mouth. Elsewhere pictured as, in Proverbs twenty six, three, a whip for a horse, a bridle for a donkey, and a rod for the back of four. Luther, Luther he always said it in very bluntly. He always said things very kind of earth-like. He said this when he's commenting on this, we would not need to be treated like mules if there was not so much jackass in us. The Lord says that he doesn't want to put bits in in any of his stubborn children's mouths. He doesn't want to afflict them with indignity of a halter, but he will do it if he has to. What a less lesson to learn if you're 12 years old. To hear this word and have it penetrate your heart, or fifteen, or twenty, or twenty-five, or fifty-five, right? Amen. Now, what du what David does now is he provides a brief two-part summary of the lesson of Psalm 32 in verse 10. First, he says, many are the sorrows of the wicked. And you have to say, oh, what sorrows. The roar on the other side of silence, the screaming consciousness, the audible groans. The misery, the bones, the inner frame wasting, crumbling. God's almighty hand pressing guilt weighing heavier and heavier and heavier, and then the lethargy of a desiccated soul. Soul, such sorrows. Many are the sorrows of the wicked. But then they experience the righteous. But the steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts the Lord. The steadfast love of God is his hesed, his covenantal love, his unconditional commitment to his children, which he fulfills. And when David confessed his sin, His experience is one of being embraced by covenantal love. Thus David's Psalms ends the way it began. Remember, it began with rejoicing. He says in verse 11, be glad in the Lord. And rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Well, we should. Because what David taught in Psalm 32 is the heart of the gospel. Now think of this. King David had broken three of the Ten Commandments outright. Outright. He had coveted Bathsheba, another man's wife. He had committed adultery. breaking the seventh commandment. He had murdered Uriah, breaking the sixth commandment. And the Old Testament, now listen to this. The Old Testament sacrificial system made no provision for such premeditated sin. There's nothing you could do when you sin like that. That's why David cried out in Psalm 51, I'm quoting verses 16 and 17. is he says to God, when he understands, he says, For you will not delight in sacrifice I, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. There is no offering that he could give. It wouldn't be accepted. And then David says in realization the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. O God you will not despise. David's case had been hopeless. There was nothing he could do but cast himself on God's mercy, which he did, and was thus forgiven. as the opening verse of Psalm 32 celebrates. Now the opening verses of Psalm 32 are of massive theological weight. Massive. See, David trusted in God alone for his salvation And that is why the Apostle Paul quoted Psalm 32, 1 and 2 in Romans 4, 6 through 8, to show what Well, he's arguing through that whole chapter is that you're saved by faith alone. So he argues that David is saved by faith alone as he writes, and I'm quoting Romans. 4, 6 through 8. David also speaks of the blessing to the one whom God counts righteous apart from works. And then he quotes the Psalm: Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. Paul calls David blessed. David twice calls himself blessed because there is no work. that could possibly atone for his sins as he was forgiven by faith alone Therefore, to all sinful humanity who labor under the roar and desiccating heat of their own sins, the blessing of forgiveness and the shouts of deliverance are available through faith and faith alone. alone. This is the gospel. Whatever. Your history Whatever the sin. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ Christ's death on the cross. As Paul said, This is my gospel. That Christ died for my sins, that he was buried, and that he was resurrected on the third day That's the gospel. You believe it, you trust it, there is no work but simply believing, and when you believe. Your sins will be lifted, your guilt will be gone, and you will enjoy the fullness of life, and your soul will dance in ecstasy. Have you been forgiven? It's all a grace. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.