I'm not we're not going to read through all of Second Chronicles, but I will be commenting things about Second Chronicles But rather than read at this point, what we're going to do is take a little walk through Ezra and Nehemiah. So why don't we rise? Let's begin with a word of prayer. And then we shall move on to items from Ezra and Nehemiah. Father above, you are the one who has given your word. And Lord, in that day of Nehemiah, you uh brought your people to ask Ezra to read your word. And they delighted in it. Lord, those around Ezra uh translated the word for the people, and Lord, they took it in eagerly. And now, O Father, we pray that you would grant us that same grace that we would take it in. with all eagerness, that Lord, where there is need for change in our lives we would confess, and yet where there is a place for deep joy and gratitude, we pray that you would give that. Grant, O Lord, that grace for us to hear your word, to trust it, to be changed by it, to be moved by it, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. I did start off thinking that I would um go through some highlights of Kings and Chronicles. Um and yet what happened on the way to the store or wherever is that I've been reading through Ezra and Nehemiah and I thought, well I'll work backwards and I thought that I'd see a few things there, but I'd get to Kings and I'd really see some really interesting tidbits. Well, I never got the Chronicles and I never got direct back to Kings. So here are some things that I think are very powerful from the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. And what I've done is I've arranged them somewhat in topical form. And what I've actually tried to do is uh uh work them in the topical form. So if you want to follow me in the scriptures, that's fine. We'll be dancing around a bit in Ezra and Nehemiah. And in a sense, I'm actually finishing up where our pastor left off this morning, and that is meditation. You know, we can easily read through scriptures, and we just, they just go on by when actually there's lots there. If we just ponder a little bit. So that's what that's what uh what grabbed me was perhaps there are things that that I have pondered a little bit. I think God has given me some some exciting things and I thought, well let me pass those on. So let me begin then by first speaking about new things in the scripture. One of the things that we wrestle with. is that we've read the scriptures and in a sense we've read it enough times that we become accustomed to it, right? We we think that we know something And yet, I think we need to keep two things in mind at least. When we read the scriptures, what happens? What happens in our lives? We change. And because we change, as we read the scripture again and again, it's not that its meaning necessarily changes, but it fullens It enriches. It broadens. It heightens. So what we see is a word that is changing in a sense because we are changing. And secondly, We see new patterns as we read more of it. We actually begin to put more things together. So, two reasons why we need to read the word in that sense afresh each day. Now, I have an illustration about the bigness of Scripture for the little ones, for the younger ones. I shouldn't call these little ones, for the younger ones. Now, what it strikes me is that when we know something, it's kind of like looking to the horizon. And I know that sounds a little puzzling, but when you're very small, let's just say you're this high, when you look that way, you can't see very far. If you're on the ground, you can't even see over the grass. And that's sort of what you know when you're a younger person. You're very small, you can't see very far. As you get taller and taller, what happens? you can see further and further. So you're growing and knowledge seems to be increasing. Your knowledge increases. Now imagine you're standing on the Washington Monument Okay? Now it's what 555 feet tall and now you can see for miles. You can see Mount Vernon, which is what five or seven miles away. You go out west, and if it's a clear day, you can see 100 miles. So imagine being on a tower in Washington, D. C. , and now you can see to Richmond. I trust you young ones know where Richmond is. It's a long way away. Can you imagine seeing to Richmond on a clear day? The point I'm making is what? As we grow in our knowledge, the knowledge, our understanding of what we don't know, keeps going further and further and further out. And I'm saying this is how we ought to approach the scriptures. We will never exhaust it. And in that sense, the horizon keeps going further and further out. And so as we read the scriptures, we ought to be made aware that it is. That kind of a situation where we'll never exhaust. We will never get to a place where we say, well, this is the end of the earth. I've seen all there is, the horizon's right here. Happened upon it like the leprechaun happens upon the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. That won't happen. We won't reach the edge of the horizon. We'll simply grow and grow in our knowledge and never reach the end. So That's a reason, another reason to meditate. So And by the way, if you do get out west, it's a glorious sight to be able to see a hundred miles. So I encourage you young ones to ask your parents to take you there. You'll be excited. Okay. Let's let's speak now of uh let's go to Ezra two. Ezra two And in Ezra 2, what do we read? We read about a long list of people who were coming out of The land where they were taken in the exile and they're being brought back. And we have a list and a list and a list of names and a list of names and a list of names and a list of names and more names and more names. Well, When you see that what you should you be asking Okay? Do you just skip to the end? Well, I would like to suggest that, okay, you might skip to the end, but we might ask one simple question. Why did the Lord put this in here? Does he just multiply words for no reason at all? Does he just go on and on and on because he well he sort of loses track of all his knowledge and well let's just write them all down? Well, you could summarize. No, what is it, why has he put it there? Well, I don't know that I know the full answer to that. But I'd like to suggest at least one reason. And one reason is that this is not a book of tales, it's not a book of fables, it's a book of very interesting details. It's a book which, at least it at some level of analysis. This is not a typical tales book. This is a book of history, of details, of persons, of events. It's just it's woven together in such a way it's very difficult that that somebody just puts this together and he wants to be a prophet of the world. He wants to be a leader of all men like Buddha. Come, gather, and hear my wisdom. Well, can you imagine Buddha just rallying off these names of people coming out of Israel? I can't. And what that means is I think that it's an evidence of the fact that God has written it. He has written all sorts of interesting things that come together, not all of which we understand why. So it's a testimony then to God's authorship, in my uh opinion. Now you may come up with other reasons. I I challenge you to think more about it. Why has God put all these names in here? Meditate upon that. All right. One virtue of getting before the Word of God, or a quality that we ought to be cultivating or we ought to be finding ourselves in, is that of humility Now, let's look at some occasions in these two books, Ezra and Nehemiah, where we read Whether directly or indirectly of this quality of humility. By the way, if we think we know a lot, we read the Bible and we know everything, you really have to grow in humility. You really have to grow. But let's read an interesting verse here. In Ezra 8, verse 21, let's read, Then I Ezra proclaimed a fast there at the river of Ahaba. This is just as Ezra is leaving the land where they were taken away from, the land where Judah was exiled to, he's bringing a company back. So then he says, then I uh just at the start of this uh leaving, then I Ezra proclaimed a fast there at the river of Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God to seek from him a safe journey for us, our little ones, and all our possessions. That's quite an interesting word, isn't it? That we might humble ourselves, who was probably one of the most godly men of the time, one of the most knowledgeable, one of the most great seekers of God Himself I would like to think that it was Ezra, but what does he say? Let us humble ourselves Okay, if some of these giants of the past speak of humbling themselves, where does that leave us? I think it it causes us at least to ponder this verse. Wow. This guy's is humbling himself before God. What does that mean for us? Immediate application. We ought to be thinking hard about what should what should I be learning from this that God is teaching me. Perhaps about humility. Let's go on from there. There's more. Let's go to some very interesting texts. Uh And we read let's get there let's get to those texts here. We read We read in Ezra 10. 1. Where's that text? Let me go to that text. Excuse me, lost my place here. So an Ezra Ten one What is going on? In this passage They have just had happen the recognition that they have married foreign women. They have also realized that this violates the word of God. And what is Ezra doing? It says in the scriptures in Ezra chapter 10, verse 1, Now while Ezra was praying and making confession, weeping and prostrating himself before the house of God, A very large assembly gathered to him from Israel, for the people wept bitterly. And then it says, and Ezra came up with a great idea. Well, if you read the text, that's not what it says. What does it say? And Shechaniah, the son of Jehael, one of the sons of Elon, answered and said to Ezra, We have been unfaithful to our God. And it goes on. What Shechaniah does then is he proposes a solution to the matter. It doesn't come from Ezra. Ezra doesn't seem to gather from the Lord something that he individually received. Shechaniah does Shekaniah speaks it to Ezra, and Ezra says, That appear that sounds like that's from the Lord. We shall implement that. Now how would you like it? If you're the leader in a particular Bible study and you sense yourself to know really more about that subject than other people, do you know the scriptures better, you know the reform thinking better, you're teaching these Folks bringing them along and somebody says something that knocks you flat because you realize he's made an observation you never even thought of. How do you feel? You're a little humbled So the point here is that we need to be aware of when somebody speaks and we ought to be listening I mean, I would claim we always ought to be listening because God will speak through his people. He will speak through the mouths of babes. He speaks through the mouths of unbelievers. He speaks through all these, and our duty is to listen and to listen with humility. Further on Uh the men were gathered in Jerusalem. He gathered all the men. They're going to implement this policy that Shechaniah proposed. They're going to send off these women and children. So then what happens? It's raining and it's pouring. And the people say, uh, do we have to stand out here in the rain? Why don't the elders come to you? Why don't they then come, why don't we then work with the elders and we'll handle this thing? So again, was the idea from Ezra? No. It came from the people themselves. What did Ezra do? He said, No no no no I the Lord hasn't given me that. No, Ezra humbles himself He receives this from the people. So once again, here's the leader of Israel and what is happening, the priest of Israel, what's going on. He's hearing these ideas from different places, and he has the humility to receive them. So be very careful when you discard things that other people say, regardless of where it's coming from, from an unbeliever even, from the radio, from the TV. From anywhere. God could speak, and we need to be listening. Are you listening? And are you listening with humility? Let's speak about prayer for a moment. And when we speak about prayer, I know that it's a subject that we can often think, well, okay. I'm not quite sure I need a sermon on prayer, but let me say some things that perhaps might be new or perhaps you've forgotten them. What's going on in Nehemiah 1. 1? The words of Nehemiah the son of Hakalah. He receives word that Jerusalem's walls are broken down, the gates are burned. And now he's distressed. He says, starting in verse 1. 1, or shortly thereafter, he says, Now it came about when I heard these words, I sat down and wept. and mourned for days, and I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. And I said, Beseech thee, O Lord of God of heaven, the great and awesome God who preserved the covenant. Let thine ear now be attentive, and thine eyes open to hear the prayer of thy servant, which I am praying for thee now day and night. So he's in great distress here. What does he do? Let's go on. What does he say? He says in verse 8, remember thy word. So there's a principle there. Again, read the words of Scripture and ponder why are these in here? Remember thy word. What is he doing with God? In a sense, he's recounting God's words himself. He's not just sort of floating words up there, is he? He's dialoguing with God. He's speaking back and forth. He's saying, Lord, you have said this. You have said this. And I would suggest to you there's a there's something there for us in our own prayer lives. We ought not just to say, Well, Lord, I pray for Bobby. No, dialogue with God, persuade him. In various places, in Psalm verse 30, what's David doing? David bargains with God, does he not? He says, Lord, if I'm not healed and I go down to Sheol, who will praise you? He is bargaining with God. And I would suggest to you that there are very interesting things in the scripture about praying, and one of them is bargaining with God, seeking to persuade God. Dialoguing with him, speaking to him as with a friend in a sense, a friend in Christ. And I would suggest to you that just as Nehemiah was deeply stressed over these things. He was deeply burdened about these matters. What are you deeply burdened for? Are you deeply burdened for anything? I know some who are here. But when we're deeply burdened, what happens to our prayers? They become much more intense, do they not? They don't get out of our minds, do they not? What are you praying for that just won't leave your mind? Now I'll pass something along that I heard from Marcy Sproul, and typically I don't do this, but I thought that is such a good meditation. I will pass it on. Marcy said that when there are things that are just passionately within us, we can't get them out, we are prompted to pray as we think about them, then he says there's a very strong probability that God is in fact working that because he has that in his views. And I would suggest to you, it's perhaps only a matter of time before that prayer is in fact answered. So what Sprohl has done is he's linked these power pat powerful passionate prayers. to what in fact God may indeed be doing because we have that passionate prayer. So again, I would ask you, who or what are you praying for? What do you feel passionately about? I would suggest if you don't feel passionate about anything, maybe you ought to start there and say, Lord, what would you have me bring before you? The state of the nation, a relative, a child. Whatever. The church. The church at large. The local church. What is it that you are passionately concerned about? Bring that before the Lord. I hope we all have such things. Okay. Some interesting things about work. This really struck me. They're working on the wall. Okay? Let me read this text. This is in Nehemiah chapter chapter three. Verse 8. And he lists these long list of names. Again, God puts all these names of folks working on the wall. They're rebuilding it. Okay? Then what do we read? We read that next to him, Uzael, the son of Harhiah of the goldsmiths, made repair. And next to him, Hananiah, one of the perfumers, made repair. What is a goldsmith? or a perfumer know about repairs on the wall. Does that does that strike you as a little odd? But what might it be saying? What might it be saying? God put it in there. He put it in there for a reason. What did he say that for? Let's muse about it a little bit. Perhaps, just perhaps, God calls us into places that we don't even understand that we're equipped for. Does that make sense? We believe that we have certain gifts and talents, and all of a sudden, boom, God puts us somewhere, and we're not even sure we can function there. Well, you know, a text like this at least I think it structs us in saying if God puts us in such a situation where I don't even feel prepared, I don't know what's going on, perhaps. Perhaps he gives all the gifts he needs, all we need, to do that particular job. He gives us, in a sense, on the spot. He provides for us then Are we feeling a little out of place? Does Mr. Goldsmith feel a little out of place working with stones? Probably. But I gather he learned how to put the stones in place. So children, one day you will probably also be placed in a place where you don't understand quite what's going on. So again, the word of God could be useful for you. Such that you can recall it and know that God will equip you when you go into a different place. You may start a new school. You're going to go off to college. And you may not know much about that college. You're away from your parents now, you're in a place by yourself, you don't know anybody, now all of a sudden you're thrown into something new. And I trust most of our little ones will be in that situation. God provides for that situation, just as he did the goldsmiths and the perfumers, which I thought was quite an interesting scripture. Joy. Speak of joy. There's several scriptures here I'd like to read. I think for the purpose of time and brevity, let me read Nehemiah 12, verse 43. Nehemiah Chapter twelve, verse forty three This is at the dedication of the wall. The wall's been rebuilt. They're dedicating the wall now It's a time of great jubilation and celebration. And it says, on that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced Because God had given them great joy, and even the women and children rejoiced, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard from afar. One of the interesting things to me that the scriptures speak of Is that God has given them joy. You know, which let's just ponder that for a minute. What In Ezra chapter six, verse sixteen, or verse twenty-two, we also read what God's people celebrate with joy. But it says, the Lord caused them to rejoice. Now I don't understand how God interacts with our human emotions. I don't understand how he interacts with our minds. I don't understand how emotions interact with the mind. But I do know the scriptures say the Lord caused them to rejoice. I don't understand all that that means. But what it does mean, among other things, is that It's not just something from me and I exist completely apart from the Lord, so it's just sort of me all by myself. No, there's a connection here, an interaction with the Lord I I can't explain. All I can state is that the scriptures speak of the Lord giving joy in a way that I don't understand. I can't see that I do. But what's the point here? You're gonna read text like this and you're gonna think, ooh, why did God put this here? Why did God put this here? And as our pastor spoke to us this morning, what does that call us to do? Meditate on it. Why did God put that there? What does it mean? Will you exhaust its meaning? No. But you can ponder why why might God have put it there? Certainly you can go to your commentary. If you have a Geneva Study Bible, you go down to the notes to see what sh insight that may shed. But at the same time, ponder these things. What are they saying to us? I'd like to close by speaking of something that's struck me recently. And if you go to Revelation and you go to chapter 5, and what you find Is are you find the um the creatures, the four creatures, the twenty-four elders, angels all around God proclaiming praise. They are singing, praise is going on. And when we read in verse Let's read verse 8. And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having each one a harp. Now, what does the world say about that? It says being in heaven is sort of floating around like a butterfly and will be strumming a harp. Right? I would suggest to you there's a bit more in the imagery here than that. Let's suppose that you're an angel It may be that we are in the same position, but we are around God offering praises. For example, and I looked, this is verse 11, I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, and the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying in a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. to receive power and riches and wisdom and light and honor and glory. And it goes on. And it says, and every created thing which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them, I heard saying to him who sets on the throne and to the Lamb, Be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. So they're before God. They're before his throne. Now how do we, where am I going with this? Again, the world sees what in this. They see nothing. They see something to laugh at. When you are standing before God offering these praises, what will you be thinking in that moment? It will never be more divine, right? It will never be more fulfilling. It will never be more exciting. Ever. All we can do is continue to grow in our excitement, in our fulfillment, and our satisfaction as we offer these praises to God. Yes, he is honored But we ourselves are enjoying him forever. Are we not? Are we not? Now I can't speak for you, but I can only imagine being before God. I have no idea what he looks like. I'm not going to imagine him in my mind. But I look at him and I think, wow, look at that. That is fascinating. And I turn my head, and oh, look at that. That's fascinating. So for all of eternity, this finite creature is looking endlessly upon a infinite. And just saying, huh, the fascination, the endless joy and delight. So when you read this text and you read about the harps or you hear someone mocking, The carrying of harps. We may well have a harp with us in order to speak our praises, but let's consider the fact that these people before the throne of God are doing that which is absolutely the most delightful thing imaginable. The unbeliever will never know it. So there he sits with his vision of the heart, and it sounds terrible because to him it is terrible. So