Hmm. If you haven't already done so, would you please turn your Bibles or your journals to James chapter two? That's in James chapter two and it's as you're uh turning to your the passage We're going to be entering chapter 2 of James this morning, and it's helpful, I think, for us to sort of refresh our minds to what he has just taught us. He spoke about a religion that has value, meaning a faith that has value beyond this life, an eternal value. He contrasted that against a faith that has no value, and it was broken down into three parts, if you recall. The first was bridling one's tongue. Using the very words that come out of our mouths to not hurt but to bless. The second was to live where we can live a life where we help others. Basically to love our neighbor without expecting anything back from them. If you recall, that was demonstrated by helping widows and orphans. Thirdly, it was to live in a world but not of the world, be in the world but not of the world, abstaining from the world's ways and values when contrary to God's ways. Now, that's so that we cannot allow ourselves to be stained by the world or sullied by our walk with Christ. Now, we were to be what? Single-minded in our commitment to God, not doubting or wavering because God Himself is single-minded in his commitment to us. He illustrated this by referring to a man who was double-minded, who looked himself in the mirror, seeing himself with the spiritual warts and all, who then walked away not doing anything about it. James has called the church. James has called us to be doers of the word, not just merely hearers of the word. Let us now turn our attention to the passage this morning, which is of course from James chapter 2, verses 1 through 13. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man were wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in. And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor man, you stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers Has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which He has promised to those who love Him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you, and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it. For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So, speak, and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Let us pray for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, attend to us now, we pray, as we embark upon our study of God's Word. Open our minds, hearts, and eyes to the teachings you have preserved for us from long ago. We ask not simply for a mere understanding of the word. But a binding of it to our minds that leads us to putting it into daily practice. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. James begins in chapter two this new thought with my brethren. Now, this indicates that he is writing to the church of God. He continues to make no distinction between believers and unbelievers within the church. Now at this point, he's presenting truths, facts, and realities of what it means to be in the family of God. It is up to the individual member, you and I, to reflect upon James' teaching and take the appropriate action necessary. Although this is a new thought, let us not think it as a disjointed thought. It is connected to what he has just written. That of what true faith looks like in action. A faith that has eternal value is a faith that evidences itself in the ethics of a believer's life James wishes to express that there is no such thing as a dormant faith. Is your faith a dormant faith? If it isn't, how have you found it demonstrating itself in your life? Perhaps over the last six months? Perhaps over the last six years. And if you've been a saint for many years, or many decades, over the last sixty years, reflect upon that And so in verse 1, he teaches that we should show no partiality towards one another. Now We are not to live our Christian lives in such a manner that favors one brother over another. And as later he states, and now this is very important, with an evil intent This particular verse has, due to its Greek uh grammar, been an incredible challenge for our translators. Much has been written and many ideas have been offered as to how to translate the first verse in the local vernacular. Now I'm not going to spend much time on this other than point it out. Dr. James B. Anderson, in his commentary on James, I think translates this first verse very well. He I think he captures what James is attempting to say. And he offers the following translation. Dear brothers, do not try to combine faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, our glory. with the worship of men's social status. I hope that as I begin to unpack this passage, you'll begin to see why I think it is a rather good translation from the Greek. In verse 2 and after, James provides an illustration to demonstrate what he's talking about. But I think before we go headlong into the passage, it's important for us to not lose sight. That is, to go off on a rabbit trail, as to James' intent in this passage. So really I'm asking, what's going on here? James is now putting what he has taught us to the test. And I think addressing the heart issues of concerns that was brought to his attention that moved him to write this book in the first place But he's doing it in a pastoral manner. That is that he is not naming names. He's even using hypothetical language. Let's just say, if this was to occur, but we must not fixate upon the problem as it manifests itself. Partiality with an evil intent. To the point where we lose sight of what James is really addressing here. So what is James not teaching? Number one, he is not condemning preferential treatment outright. He is not condemning preferential treatment outright For example, we are called to show respect and honor for our elders. For many generations, which one of them it was proper. of to teach boys to allow girls to go before them, to open the door for them, to give them preferential treatment. Indeed in the book of Philippians, when we consider this, we are taught in a very positive way to show preferential treatment in the form of considering the thoughts, the opinions, and preferences as if more important than our own. Number two, he's not saying that there's this intrinsic special honor in being a person in poverty Nowhere does he say that. But throughout the history of the church, it has been commonly accepted and practiced that you need to take a vow of poverty or to to to become uh poor to show that you're really a super saint, if you will. He is not teaching that here. Next one is, he's not saying that being wealthy is a sin, and that God does not save the wealthy as well as the prosperous. We can look at people like Abraham. David was a very wealthy man. His son Solomon was a very wealthy man. Zacchaeus, Levi, Job. All wealthy and all believers. So he is not teaching that it is sinful to be wealthy. Number four, you will be surprised by how some will use this passage to address their political, philosophical, and social concerns. No, this passage is not arguing for socialism. It is not even arguing for social equity. In fact, he does not blame the poor man for being poor. He does not blame the rich man for being rich. What he has is an issue here is with the behavior of those within the church interacting with these two hypothetical men. So then, what does he need to say and for us to be able to take away? What he's saying is, church, let's take a look at ourselves in the mirror. Let's put our faith to the test. So the challenge for us is to consider God's word today and look in the mirror and see if we are lacking. Will we become doers? Or will we be the ones that look, understand, and then forget what we look like? So James gives us an example of what he means framed in a hypothetical illustration. Suppose some translations have. Let's say are other translations. When you gather for worship and two visitors walk in. but are distinguished from one another by their clothes, upward appearance. One is obviously well to do, he has a gold ring and fine clothes, and the other is seemingly poor, right? He's got shabby clothes. One obviously has social status in society, and the other is a nobody. As visitors, both of these men have to be seated. The greeter showers the man with status with special attention. He finds him a good seat. Come this way. as a steward and come sit and enjoy the worship service here. The poor-looking person without status in society is treated with disregard He is told to either stand by the corner or sit on the floor by someone's feet. Now, in comparison, we could say he was basically ignored. It seems that there's some sort of snobbery that's going on here. Within the context of Christ's kingdom, there is no room to combine faith. And snobbery with Jesus. This snobbery is, frankly, very worldly. Social status has been around for as long as sin has been around. And the people of God in the first century were not immune to this type of worldliness. Did not Jesus recoil against the high and mighty, who were concerned about being invited to the coolest parties in Jerusalem Having the best seats at these parties, being offended when they didn't get them. Absolutely. The people of God were infected with this type of worldliness, and it was in the church. Are you affected, infected by this type of worldliness, Christian? Do you look at the outside of a person and give him honor based upon where you think he falls in society and treat him or her accordingly? See, but the problem here goes much deeper than this. This is going beyond the surface, but there's much, much more here to look at. James gives us a verdict in verse number four. It comes in the form of two clauses, each of them in the form of rhetorical questions. The first question is, have you not, in many translations, discriminated amongst yourselves? The answer, of course, is yes, right? Now before we move on to the second clause, the Greek word for what is commonly translated as discriminate, diapri fetae Can have two possible meanings, equally possible translations, and one of them is to discriminate, but it can equally mean to doubt or to waver It makes sense to me to translate it when you do translate it as discriminate. However, I think i it it's obvious that what he's making or w the point that he's making has already been made and he's not really advancing the argument any further by using the word to mean discriminate. I think the second meaning is insightful and frankly fitting into James' overall argumentation in his book. Now, if you recall, James back in chapter 1 and verse 6 introduced a meta-narrative that Christians should not have a divided heart when it comes to their relationship to God. And ultimately to one another. If we choose doubt or waver, then amongst yourselves should be translated as in yourselves. not to have doubt in yourselves. Then we ought to understand that preferential treatment or discrimination practiced by anyone within the Christian community is another manifestation of what? a wavering divided attitude towards God. Y'all see how this connects together? Consistent Christian conduct comes from single-minded trust in God. A single-mindedness trust in God. Having pointed out, those believers who act this way are not only double-minded and should carefully consider their thoughts, he now moves towards the heart of the issue. The second clause. Christians who show favoritism in this manner not only demonstrate a divided heart, but also they have become judges with evil thoughts. The idea here is that the believers are surmising, preferring, showing partiality for one person over another with. Evil motivations. James offers three reasons why we shouldn't do this. But before we move on I want to delve into this evil motivation. What would be a reason why one would pander to a wealthy andor powerful person in the first place? I think that some of the answers lies in perhaps a hope that one would make a generous offering to the church, whether it's in the form of money or real estate or cattle. Yes, we we have a lot of land yet to be developed, so if anyone has any cattle that they'd like to donate. In general, perhaps access to other people with power, maybe favor to get a job. Now, if if we sat down, we can go on for quite a while, right, why why it is that people pander to those that have power and are wealthy. But what do all these things have in common? Well, we are pandering and showering people with status because we are hoping to get something back in return. But the poor s poor person cannot bestow anything. So with the mouth that welcomes and comforts with words of acceptance and defines favor for one, also ignores, hurts, diminishes the other. You go sit in the corner of the room. And if there's no spots, you can stand. And if there's no spots, there you sit at somebody's foot. Hmm. So with the same tongue one can build up and also destroy. With the same heart, which is where the tongue is getting it from, the way you conduct your life is now showing up that your kind and gentle and welcoming to someone who can give you something back in return. But not so with someone who has nothing. Finally These are evil motivations because it does not reflect kingdom ethics, God's ways. But in fact, it closely coincides with worldly ethics that stains our souls This is the way the world behaves, isn't it? If someone, for example Hears on their door several knocks, and then they open the door, and standing before them are two people. One is obviously a homeless person who is asking for help and for food, and the other one is Taylor Swift, who tells you she's lost her cell phone and needs to make an urgent call. Can you help? How do you think the world would respond? Look, I've got a GoPhone here, Taylor. Why don't you take that? And by the way, can I take a selfie with my cell phone with you? Right? That's the way the world would think. That's the way the world would would would act So do you see how James is using an example so commonplace to have us look at the mirror and examine ourselves to see the religion? The type of faith that we have has value or not. That's the evil motivations that he wants us to see. Now he moves on. In verse 5, he tells us over the first of the reasons why we should not be this way. As if he needs to, James goes on to give us these reasons why we shouldn't be. Number one is the world The world, when it is asked to choose, tends to be on the side of the rich. In, let's just say, for example, in money. But God has taken in those that are not to become rich in faith. This type of favoritism based on social class, outward appearance, is wrong because it does not reflect God's own attitude. God is gracious, and it is the poor who have equally become rich in faith. However, when the church shows favoritism towards the wealthy, we are acting like the world. The very people that God honors, the church is dishonoring. Ouch. Reason number two. In verse six, James offers us this second reason. So the rich were taking advantage of the poor by using their wealth. They would use the legal system by offering bribes or offers of gifts or positions to judges to take advantage of the poor. They would use the legal system to get their property, their goods, rob them of their pay. Now, he's not referring to the wealthy that would turn to the courts for genuine justice. It is for those that would use the courts by their wealth for injustice. Listen, this requires judges who are what? Malleable, who would take bribes then they, these judges, would demonstrate what? That they are judges with evil intentions, evil motivations. So when we are doing this, pandering to the higher social class, we in essence have become like these judges. Judges with evil desires. Do you see why he says that about us? James points out to his readers, don't you see that the people that you are favoring are the same ones that are taking advantage of the poor in society like you? And then he says in verse 7, Are they not the ones who are blaspheming the noble name of him to whom you belong? No. Where did that come from? Right? To blaspheme is to violate the name of and person of God. However, it can be extended to include slander that indirectly involves God. So this is when Christians are slandered. For standing up for righteousness. They're indirectly blaspheming the name of God, these people. This could be when someone says about those Christians. Those Christians are haters, just like the one that they follow. That would be an example of blaspheming the name of God. They're blasphemers. I think James is making a little bit of an opaque point here, but he's making the point nonetheless We should not participate in this kind of partiality within the church. Because when we do that, we are acting like the wealthy. In that they are what? Blaspheming the name of God. Whoa! James, how deep does this go? Ouch! Those that blaspheme the name of God are not those that practice a religion that has eternal value. Hmm. We would be acting in a manner that is not Christ-like, but yet are calling ourselves Christians. This would be the equivalent of blasphemy. Now, as he goes on, he speaks about this royal law. For James, this royal law is a way of saying God's demands in summary format. What is the summary form? Well, it is love God and love your neighbor. But how is it lived out in summary form? Well, Jesus taught us, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. So he says, if you're living your life by this ethic, well you do well to do so. It is proper and it is good. However, he says in verse 9, if you show partiality, you are committing sin. Obviously, he has already stated that this is a favoritism that is based upon evil desires. Now, isn't this a logical conclusion when you think about it? If you're showing favoritism, one person over another with evil motives You cannot possibly have love in your heart for the one you are favoring against or discriminating against How then are we to exercise this commandment? It isn't a problem, I think, right, to show love to those whom we are naturally attracted to. That's easy to do, right? It's an exercise of love for us to show kindness and genuine interest to those whom we don't have an affinity toward And even more, what is even more difficult is to be merciful towards our enemies. To love our enemies, is it not? To love them is Christ-like love, isn't it? That's the type of love that we all received. Because, as the scripture says, we were all God's enemies. And he came to die for us, to love for us, when we couldn't give him anything back. Do you see? We were those people. So James concludes that when we are not living by the royal law, we are law breakers, transgressors. In verses 10 and 11, James justifies this statement regarding becoming a transgressor, a lawbreaker. This verse, these verses, ten and eleven, tell us how we are breakers of the law and not just a law. Make that distinction? Right? Not a law, but breakers of the law. It is because of the law's indivisibility. As a whole. To understand the law fully, we must understand that the whole, the entire law, is given to us by one source. If the law was given to us by many gods, small g, then we would be liable to each God's specific laws. But there is only one God, and only one lawgiver So, to break one law is to break that one lawgiver's requirements. James brings this out clearly. The lawgiver who said, Do not commit adultery, is the very same one that said, do not murder. But if you break the one and not the other. It does not mean that you are a half a transgressor. Simply put, you are a transgressor. You are a lawbreaker. And thus you must suffer what a lawbreaker must suffer. An eternity without God, in a residence that is not pleasant. Now in summary, James has given us three reasons why we shouldn't discriminate. Interestingly enough, the first reason is that it does not reflect God's own attitude. Right? The second reason is from the first table of the law, blaspheming. And then the third reason comes from the second table of the law, our relationships to one another. Wow, James, you're really putting this all together, aren't you? And we uh and it's really it should show us that when we commit this type of sin, that We really have a lot to repent from. That we really have a lot to think about in our own personal lives And maybe it also should make us think that just with this one particular sin that is actually going on in the church As he's writing to the church, that sin is so surreptitious It is so sneaky, and our hearts are so deceptive That look at this passage and see how deep the rabbit hole goes into our hearts. We need to stare into that mirror more and more, don't we? And recognize how much repenting we have to do, how much changing we have to do. Because there's a price if we don't Because he calls a certain person something when he looks at the mirror and walks away and doesn't do anything about it. Remember what he calls that person? Deluded. A person who is deceiving themselves. And we talked about that last week. We'll get to that in just a moment. So that it seems that in verse 12, in conclusion would be apt at the head of this verse. In conclusion, James would say, live like you are under the law of liberty, like you are going to be judged under the mercy afforded by the gospel. Is there a judgment for Christians? It seems so in this text, doesn't it? But this judgment has a future dimension to it. Let us remember that James' biblical lenses are not only looking through the Old Testament, but also through the teachings of Jesus now. Jesus said that when he returns, he will reward those who showed compassion to others. Matthew chapter 25 John states that those who obey his commandments live in him. 1 John 3 24 And let me point out that Paul, who is often said in contrast to James, said in 1 Corinthians, sorry, 2 Corinthians 5. 10. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive what is due him for the things done in the body, whether good or bad. When God graciously ushers and accepts us into his kingdom, does this mean that our obligation to him has just ended? We're good. Nothing else to do. Praise the Lord. We're done. Hallelujah. Now let me let me go have a party. Hmm. No! It means that we're on a different footing now. We no longer are looking to obey his law as a condition to enter into his kingdom We obey it because we want to. And he has given us the Holy Spirit to help us obey, serve, and love our neighbor. We will be judged by the law of liberty. James is saying, behave like you're saved. Behave like you've been plucked out of the fire. You see, for everyone that has received the salvation of Christ will be judged by a different standard That standard is the law of liberty. The law of liberty will render a verdict of innocent because of the crosswork of our Lord. Those that live under the law of liberty, well, they practice mercy. That's how we are to live. For we have received much mercy. We are to live with compassion. Pity and love for our fellow men. A person who shows favoritism is not living by the law that brings freedom Loving your neighbor as yourself. God will show mercy to those who have been merciful, Christians. But for those who claim to be Christians and do not live a life of extending genuine mercy will themselves on Judgment Day receive no mercy. They will have been those who deceived themselves. They looked in the mirror. They saw it was not good. And they walked away, not doing anything about it. These were perhaps, well they were. They were hearers of the word, but not doers of the word. James ends on a positive note. He states that mercy triumphs over judgment. Now, I believe that the mercy that James has in mind here is not God's mercy, but the mercy exercised by believers. As believers, we know that God demands perfection from us. He tells us that in Matthew chapter 5, and he certainly has the right to do that and should do that. But our merciful attitude and actions will count as evidence. For the presence of Christ in us. You guys catch that? Our merciful attitude in this life, our actions will count as evidence. For the presence of Christ in us. Our proclamation of faith in Christ as our Savior will be vindicated, will be justified by the mercy exercised in our extending love and compassion without sinful partiality. And it is on this basis that mercy will triumph over judgment. Praise be to God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed that you are merciful to us. You have shown that to us by sending your Son. In giving us life when we deserve continued death. We pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to not be those deluded people. That we would look into the law of love, the royal law, the law that gives us perfect freedom. And that when we see what you want us to see, our sinfulness, that you would grant us grace to turn away from it and to turn towards righteousness. May we be doers of your word and not just hearers. May we not be those that delude themselves. By seeing Christianity as something just intellectual, cerebral, but rather it is more than that. That it is all those things, but it is. Your grace working actively within our souls and our persons, changing us to become and to behave like your sons. And we ask that you would do this for your glory, and we ask it in Jesus' name.