Well, it is good to be back with you again. And I have to say I was especially encouraged, especially struck by what Tom said as we began worship this morning that what we're doing right now is to gather as a congregation in the very presence of God. And I suppose what's especially striking about that is you think about all the things that go on in this building in the course of a week in the course of a school week and all the things that go on in this room and the hitter patter of little feet and so forth, all of the activities, all of the hustle and bustle. And yet on this day Something so different happens. Something extraordinary Something heavenly, something eternal, unlike anything else that goes on in this room all week long. And we are privileged to be a part of it. Though the world may not see it, we are privileged So let's worship our God now. And we turn now to the reading of his word. And you can see in your bulletin this morning. That our text is a relatively brief one, all of three verses. So let me go ahead and read it for us, and then we'll pray together. Hear now the word of God. Lamentations 3, beginning at verse 22. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul, therefore I will hope in him. Let's pray together. Our great God, we thank you for the privilege that it is to be able to come into your presence like this. What an extraordinary gathering in this room on this day, the Lord's Day. And we thank you that we can hear your word and grow in our understanding of it. And Spirit of God, we pray that you'd help us now to that end. The Savior lived and died and was raised, that we might be taught, that we might be renewed. So would you teach us now, for his sake, for his glory in our lives, and we pray it in Jesus' name, amen. Well, lamentations. I think it is fair to say That Lamentations is not one of the better known books of the Bible. I think it's also fair to say that even if you don't know well the Book of Lamentations, you can probably tell from the title what sort of book it is. That's a pretty good clue because we have some sense of what Lamentations means. If you flip open your Webster's dictionary, it'll tell you this: that a lamentation is, quote, a passionate expression of grief or sorrow. A passionate expression of grief or sorrow. Tremper Longman in his commentary puts it a bit more vividly than that. He says that a lament is a cry uttered when life falls apart. And that's a pretty good way of capturing it. What's a lament? It's a cry uttered when life falls apart. And you don't need to read a lot of commentaries on lamentations to know that that's what we've got in lamentations. All you've got to do is just read the book itself. Or, if you prefer, you can sing it It would be an exaggeration to say that everything I learned about Lamentations I learned by singing in the Virginia Glee Club. But we did learn a thing or two. And that's because we did sing several choral works based upon Lamentations, and that has always suck struck me as somewhat ironic given the fact that we were called the Glee Club. But make no mistake, we sang Lamentations. And like any self-respecting choral ensemble, we sang it in Latin. And so we sang. In Shipit Lamentazio Ye Remie Profetae. Here begins the lamentation of Jeremiah the prophet. Reflecting the view that it was Jeremiah the prophet who wrote the Book of Lamentations. He may have, he may not have, we can't be sure. In any case, that's how that piece began. And then we went on to sing in that piece. By Thomas Talas. We went on to sing what is chapter 1, verse 1 in the book of Lamentations. I'll spare you that Latin. Here it is in English, the very first verse in the book. How lonely sits the city that was full of people, how like a widow has she become, she who was great among the nations, she who was a princess among the provinces, has become a slave. First verse in the book. So that was one piece that we sang. We sang another one, also in Latin, based on chapter 1, verse 12. O vos omnes. Here's verse 12 in English. Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look and see. If there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which was brought upon me, which the Lord inflicted on the day of his fierce anger. That's chapter 1, verse 12. I think I might have mentioned to you before that Christy and I have been taking our kids through a little scripture memory program that we've been making up on the fly. The idea was to have them memorize a verse from each book of the Bible, ideally a verse that would give them some sense of what that book was all about And so slowly but surely we've made our way. We have reached Malachi, so we've sort of reached a significant moment. But anyway, we were making our way through and we came to Lamentation. So I had to pick a verse from Lamentation that my little ones are going to memorize and recite back to me, and that's the one I picked. Chapter 1, verse 12. Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which was brought upon me, which the Lord's, the Lord inflicted. On the day of his fierce anger. And let me tell you, that is quite a thing to hear back from your seven-year-old twins. And your five-year-old little girl, to hear those words back from them, a passionate expression of grief or sorrow As I said before, we don't know with certainty who wrote the book of Lamentations. The book doesn't tell us. It is an ancient tradition that Jeremiah wrote it. And that he wrote it about a particular event, about the destruction of Jerusalem at the hands of the Babylonians in the early 500s B. C. We can say this much that the text of Lamentations, as you read it, it certainly fits that episode. In other words, as you read Lamentations, you think, yes, this definitely makes sense as describing that event. The destruction of Jerusalem at the hands of the Babylonians. And remember, that wasn't just at the hand of the Babylonians. That's just Part of the truth. There's a more ultimate truth, which is that that was at the hands of God Himself. God made that happen. God brought the armies of Babylon to do all that. And he did that just as he said he would, because his people had turned their backs on him. And so he sovereignly, faithfully Turned the sword of Babylon toward them. There are five chapters in the book. Each of them is its own separate poem The first four of them are what are called acrostic poems, which means that stanza after stanza, the opening letters are the consecutive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. That's true of the first four chapters, but chapter three, which is our chapter this morning, it's even more impressive than that. In chapter three, you don't just have the stanza as a whole. beginning with the next letter in the Hebrew alphabet. You also have all three lines within the Sansa beginning with that same letter. So it makes this the most extraordinary book because it has the effect of making Lamentations this remarkable combination of raw emotion on the one hand. And careful poetic crafting, on the other hand, it's remarkable The poems themselves have been called dirges. I've even seen them referred to as funeral orations. And it's no wonder that the chapters and lamentations have been called those things, because what's going on? Jerusalem has been laid waste. And the people of God have been conquered. They've been exiled. Here's this city that was supposed to be the apple of God's eye. Here's this people that was supposed to be his treasured possession. But now it is destruction and desolation everywhere you look. And the book of Lamentations describes that in rather grim terms. Describes what happened to Jerusalem, communicates what it felt like to see it and to remember it. Talks about who is to blame for it. And it talks about what the people ought to do now that it has happened. And it touches on all of those things as you make your way. Listen to Tremper Longman again. He describes the book in these terms. Quote, the language is vivid and intense. The reader can almost smell the smoke from the smoldering buildings. See the bodies lining the street, and most poignantly, hear the cries of the children. The poet is so effective that it is almost too much for the reader to bear. And if you've read Lamentations recently, or if you remember having read it a while ago, you know what he's talking about. Poem after poem, chapter after chapter, after a while, it can be almost too much. So, no question, Lamentations is in many ways a dark book But there is light in it. There is light in lamentation. And there is light especially In these three verses in chapter 3, verses 22 to 24, the verses that I've read for us. So it's no surprise that this may be the one passage in Lamentations that people know. Certainly, this is a passage in Lamentations that people are drawn to. Why? For that very reason, there's light here. In the midst of all of this darkness that begins to envelop you as you read it, there's light. There's hope. And that's what I want us to see this morning. And that's what we're going to do this morning as we look at these three verses. I want to point out for us. I want us to see together the light that is here. In particular, four beams of gospel light that shine from these words. Four aspects of light. That shine here, and I'll note them as we go. The first of them is this: in the midst of devastation Steadfast love. That's the first of them. Steadfast love. And look at verse 22, because there it is. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. Now, some Bible translations have that translated a bit differently. In some translations it reads. It is because of the Lord's steadfast love that we never cease, that we are not consumed. In any case, however precisely you translate it It's clear that the steadfast love of the Lord is before us here in this verse. The word that's translated steadfast love, it carries with it the idea of covenant loyalty. So what the writer of Lamentations is saying here is this: the loyal love of God never ceases. His loving commitment to his people never ceases. Now stop and think about that. Stop and think about the fact that the writer is saying that here in lamentation. This isn't Revelation, the book of Revelation that we're studying here. This isn't one of the songs of heaven that you come across in Revelation. This is Lamentation. Remember what's going on, what he's remembering when he says this. The city's been laid waste. The people of God have been conquered, exiled. If you take all of that in. If you survey that scene, and I mean if you survey that grim scene without the word of God to interpret it, without faith in that word, You take it all in, all of this destruction and desolation. There are a lot of words that are going to come to mind. But steadfast love probably isn't it. Loyal divine love. I mean, if you survey that scene with the naked eye, loyal divine love probably isn't going to come to mind. Certainly not. The loyal love of Yahweh never ceases. Because apart from God's word, apart from faith in that word, if you take in that scene of destruction and desolation, The best you could probably do would be something like this. Well, he may have loved you before, but apparently, open your eyes. That has ceased He may have loved you before, but just look around you, at this city, at this people Apparently that ceased to be the case. That's no longer true. Mere flesh takes in this awful scene. And the two words written over it are utter abandonment. Utter abandonment, not steadfast love But the writer of Lamentations says otherwise. And he's able to say otherwise precisely because he is not surveying this grim scene with the naked eye. He's surveying it with the eye of faith. Faith looking to, resting upon the Word of God as his interpreter. And what is it that the word has taught him? What is it that the word has brought him to believe? Well, the word has taught him that the steadfast love of God runs through this whole episode from start to finish. The love of God isn't just the alpha and the omega of this episode. It's the alpha and the lambda and the omega. Not just beginning and end, but I mean beginning, middle, and end. Because in the beginning, it was because God is true to his word that he brought this to happen in the first place. And then in the middle. It's because of his loyal love that God was there even while it was happening. Even while the burn the buildings were burning. He was there. Ready to forgive, ready to sustain his people who would trust in him And then as well, in the end, it was because of his loyal love that God was determined to restore his people, to restore his own good name. So all around this passage in Lamentations, the writer is making it very clear that the Lord is burned with anger. And that that's why this has happened to this city and to this people. That's all around chapter 3, verses 22 to 24. But then we have these verses. Almost in the middle of the book. as a kind of oasis, as a kind of beacon, where the writer is saying, don't be mistaken. Don't let all of this destruction and desolation lead you to the wrong conclusion, which would be to conclude that the Lord has completely, utterly abandoned his people and broken his covenant straight through. Because that would be a wrong conclusion to come to. And so he can say here, he says here, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. So that's the first of them. Steadfast love. Then a second, a second beam of light here. God's new mercy. His new mercy. Look there at the end of verse 22 into 23. It says his mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. They are new every morning. Remember what mercy means? It means showing kindness to those who deserve otherwise. In particular, showing kindness to those who are in dire straits and who deserve otherwise than being rescued from them. That's what mercy is. And the writer is saying that the Lord is like that. He is continually merciful. His mercies are new every morning. Now, what does it mean to say that? Mercy's new every morning. Well, it means a couple things. It means that his people are every day on the receiving end of new acts of kindness from him New provision, new forgiveness, new encouragement. Day after day, new acts of kindness. It means that. But it also means this. It means that his people grow in such a way that they come to have a new appreciation, a deepening appreciation, for his acts of kindness to them in the past. So, to say that his mercies are new every morning, it's a combination of new blessings received today and old blessings newly grasped. Newly appreciated. His mercies are new every morning. And this is especially encouraging on the heels of our first point. Which was God's steadfast love. Because if you put the two together that we've touched on so far, steadfast love, new mercies. What you see is that steadfast doesn't mean static in the relationship. Steadfast, steady does not mean stagnating or wearisome or dull. Think about it. The writer has just said that the Lord's love is steadfast. He's steadfast toward his people. Well then the question becomes Steadfast to do what? To be what? And the answer is to be ever new Not to be a changing God, not to be a God who's actually different tomorrow than he was today. We wouldn't want him to be such a God as that. But to be a God whom to know is never dull. Knowing God never gets old, though he never changes. Knowing him never gets old. And in effect, he's promised that. It's remarkable, isn't it? God has promised from of old, I will be ever new. From of old, an ancient promise, knowing me will always be an adventure. And the writer of Lamentations is saying, yes, yes, I know God to be such a God as that, whose mercies are new every morning. So, steadfast love. That was the first one. New mercies. That was the second one. Here's a third. Great faithfulness. Great faithfulness. And that's there at the end of verse 23. There it's stated short and sweet. Great is your faithfulness. Great is your faithfulness. Now, human beings can demonstrate faithfulness in our relationships. God calls us to do it. By his grace, he enables us to do it. But all you've got to do is stop and think about your own relationship. Stop and think about your own heart. And you can see that your faithfulness, our faithfulness, is not so great. Our faithfulness has its limits. Eventually, one way or another, we all show ourselves to be little promise breakers. But God never does. And he never will. And the writer of Lamentations had learned that as well. He'd learned that God isn't just faithful, he's faithful with a great faithfulness. A faithfulness that never wanes, never fails. Great is his faithfulness. So those three beams of light thus far, in verses 22 to 23, steadfast love, new mercies, great faithfulness. And that brings us to our fourth. Steadfast love, new mercies, great faithfulness. Then in verse 24. We get what we might call the practical payoff of those things. Steadfast love, new mercies, great faithfulness, the practical payoff of those is hope. Reasonable hope for the future. Look at verse 24, because here it is. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I will hope in him. Don't you love it when a Bible writer has to talk to himself like that? The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I will hope, I will hope in him. If you look to the next verse as well, verse 25, it says this, the Lord is good to those who wait. For him. That's the language of hope as well. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. In the midst of this devastation, Hope. And he can say that to himself. I will hope in him. Think about some of the devastation that we've seen in recent years on the news. And we can all conjure up those images, for better or for worse. Think about what we saw a little over a year ago in Japan. Think about what we saw last summer in the States, tornado damage. And here in early June, you can't help but tremble. You don't know what tomorrow may bring, where the next picture is going to be that we see paraded before us on the news and on the web. And you think about these images that you see, it's sweeping and it's targeted at the same time. Because on the one hand, there are these panoramic shots of devastation that you cannot begin to comprehend. Like a 360 view all around you And then the next image, it isn't a sweeping image. It's kind of a close-up shot of some solitary figure who is standing there weeping where his house used to be. And we've seen those images. So think about that kind of devastation. In the midst of devastation like that, there is nothing quite so devastating as feeling hopeless in the midst of it. That that's the cruelest blow of all is to feel hopeless. Because at that point, it's not just that you've suffered, it's worse than that. At that point, you've suffered and it feels like there was no point to it. No purpose. Just pain. Pain without purpose. That's the cruelest blow of all. But the point is the writer of Lamentations is not there. Because he can survey his scene. He can remember what it was like. And he can say, I will hope in him. Now how on earth can he say that? What are his reasons? Well, there are three of them. And they are steadfast love, new mercy, and great faithfulness. That's the point. It's because of those things that he can say, I will hope in him. Notice what he says in verse 24. He says, The Lord is my portion. So here's this God of love and mercy and faithfulness, and the writer is saying that God is mine, and I am his. And I always will be. Armies can come, cities can burn, whole peoples can be uprooted, but he will always be mine, and I will always be him. So that's why I say what the writer is expressing here is a reasonable hope. It's a well-founded hope. Because in the midst of devastation, he's confident about the future, and he is that because he's got good reasons to be that. And they are the very things that we've seen. Steadfast love, new mercies, great faithfulness. That's why he's got hope. Reasonable hopefully. So the question for us now is, having gone back in time to survey this scene and to overhear the writer's words, the question for us now is. Is this still true? Is this still true in Christ? Is God still like this? Do we still have him like this? Can we say, the way he said, the Lord is my portion? Of course it's true. Yes, God is still like this. Yes, we still have Him like this. And it's a very good thing that it's all still true, because there is still devastation. And that's true in a number of ways. Devastation, I mean, in our own lives, in our own circumstances, in our own circles and communities. First of all, there's the devastation of the curse of Genesis 3. We fell into sin and we made a huge mess of things when we did. And we are still suffering the consequences of it. The world is still a mess because of it. And just as there were faithful Israelites who suffered when the Babylonians came. So too believers today are not exempted from the curse of God over the whole of humanity. With all of its frustrations and its sorrows culminating in the devastation that is death itself, we are not exempt. So there's that. The kind of steady hum of devastation and frustration that marks our lives. And then in addition to that, every once in a while, something extraordinary happens. Something extraordinarily devastating. And we've seen the pictures Maybe winds reach 200 miles an hour. Maybe the flames reach neighborhoods. Maybe the ocean extends its grip three miles inland. Or maybe wicked men reach the cockpit of an airplane. And then there's devastation. And then there's also the wreckage of our own sin in our own lives. And we all know something of that. Sometimes, mercifully, the wreckage is small, relatively confined, but sometimes it's not. And the fallout of our own sin isn't just confined anymore to our own lives, but it spreads and it poisons and it damages others. So it's a very good thing that what we saw in Lamentations 3 is still true. It's a very good thing that this light that we've studied this morning is still shining. And in fact, if anything, it's shining more brightly now than it was then, because now it is shining brightly in the face of Jesus Christ. And you can revisit all four of these in him, in Christ, in Jesus Christ, steadfast love The loyal love of God never ceases, and there is no greater proof of that than the demonstration of his love in Christ. I am sure, says Paul, that neither death nor life, angels, rulers, things present, things to come, powers, height, depth, anything else in all creation will be able to separate us. From the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. So in Him there is steadfast love. So too in Christ there are new mercies. The mercies of God in Christ are new every morning. Day after day after day lived in Christ, there are fresh supplies of forgiveness. and strength. And not only that, but day after day in Christ there is a new deepening appreciation of what he did for me when he died for me. So long ago, his death for me, that ancient mercy, becomes ever new to me. Not because he has to do it again and again and again. He doesn't. That's what's so wonderful about it. But because I grow in my grasp of it and in my memory of it. New mercies. So too, our third point in Christ, great faithfulness. Our faithfulness isn't great, but God's is. And again, there's no clearer proof of that. Than the demonstration of his faithfulness in Christ, the one in whom all the promises of God are yes and amen. I will never leave you, nor forsake you, so says our Savior. So all three of those, steadfast love, new mercies, great faithfulness, and therefore our fourth, which is reasonable hope. We have that in Christ. Think about what Peter says in 1 Peter 3. He says, always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason. for the hope that is in you. So there it is, in Christ, reasonable hope. And Peter's saying you need to be ready to say something about that. Peter is anticipating that you might actually be asked. And think about the question that he's anticipating you might be asked. Christian, what makes you a hopeful person? The answer to that question, the truest, deepest, highest answer is not, well, I just happen to find myself to be a generally optimistic fellow. That's not a reasonable hope. And that's not really hope in the first place. That's a personality trait. Now there's nothing wrong with that personality trait. It's a fine thing to be a generally optimistic fellow. Oh, that there were more of them. But there has got to be more to Christian hope than that. There's got to be more of a ground, more of a reason than that. Because in the midst of devastation, being a generally optimistic fellow is only going to get you so far. And in fact, eventually, what's going to happen? Your general optimism Is going to be devastated too. Because it only lasts so long. There's got to be more. And there is. And it's the love and the mercies and the faithfulness of our God, all of those things revealed in Christ. All of those things pointed forward to our eternal destiny. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death shall be no more. Devastation shall be no more. That's our hope. So this helps us to see how important this passage is in the Book of Lamentations. Because it helps us to see how important hopefulness is in the very act of lamenting. We've got to learn how to lament Can you imagine a bestseller on the shelves of your local Christian bookstore, Seven Steps to Better Lament It? Probably not. But the reality is even the act of lamenting is something that can be done either faithfully or faithlessly. And one aspect of lamenting faithfully is lamenting hopefully as a Christian. If you allow yourself to lapse into crying out to God about your sorrows without any sense of hope for the future in Christ, at that point you no longer have the Book of Lamentations to stand on. You cannot claim this book. If you allow yourself to wallow in a hopeless lamenting. Because at that point you're doing something other than what the writer of Lamentations did. If you can imagine meeting him and setting before him all of your hopeless lamenting, he'd say, well, I don't know what this is. I don't know what you're about. I know what I was about, and this is not it That doesn't mean that you've got to give explicit expression to your hopefulness for the future every single time you pray. In a given prayer, it may not be in your words, at least not at great length. The question is, is it in your heart? That hopefulness for the future, that hopefulness for the heaven. And by the way, if it is, if it is in your heart, then it will regularly come out in your word. Because that's the way hearts and words work. And you know who set you an example of this? Your Savior set you an example of hopeful lamenting. You know he lamented. Hebrews says so. Hebrews 5 says, in the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. He lamented. Loud cries and tears. But he was not hopeless in his lamenting. Because you know what that passage in Hebrews goes on to say in the very next breath. Says this. Loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him, being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. So you see, he he lamented But he lamented with hope. In his case, it wasn't the hope of the redeemed sinner, it was the hope, it was the confident expectation of the redeemer. And he had the reasonable, well-founded expectation. That suffering would give way to glory, that his humiliation would give way to exaltation. And he cried out with loud cries and tears, knowing that that was true, knowing that that was in store. His was the hope of resurrection and renown. Jesus was a faithful, hopeful, even joyful lamentor. And now it is that same Jesus who says to you, Christian, take my hand. Christian, in the midst of whatever devastation, You are experiencing or remembering or fearing. Take my hand, he says, and tell me about it. Tell me what's on your heart. I wonder what shapes and sizes of devastation you're dealing with this morning. It could be anything. From water in your basement to intractable sin in your heart. It could be the pain of a broken bone. It could be the pain of a broken relationship It could be the memory of those pictures that you've seen on the news, because I know those are not easy pictures to see, even if those places and those people. Seen worlds away. Whatever it is for you, now and in days to come, this light still shines. All four beams of it. And Christian, it shines for you. It shines to show you the way to the throne of grace, where there is a faithful high priest at the right hand of God, and you can go there. And when you get there, you can lament. And you can lament with hope. Why? Because the one who sits on that throne is just as loving and just as merciful and just as faithful as he ever was and will ever be. Amen