I haven't had an opportunity to sit down with all of you yet, but um I've enjoyed the fellowship that we've had with you and beginning to talk to you and getting to know you uh not just as a congregation but as family. And um I don't consider myself an emotional person. Um At least I don't express it a lot. I like to play my cards close to the vest. And um and because of that, it's been hard sometimes as a pastor. Uh because people want response. You know, they're talking to you, they're telling you this story, but I'm trying to protect myself and hold things close to the vest, right? And Not really let you know what's going on. And so then, you know, it's hard to have a relationship with people. So I've had to learn to do that. So I enjoy singing, but I don't always get emotional about it. But uh Lord willing, we will sing later on. Come thou fount of every blessing. And when I get to the part prone to wander, Lord to feel it, prone to leave the God I love. I'm so often overwhelmed there. Because I don't find that a rare occurrence. I find it more often than not that I would like to say it. Now I don't mean leaving by running away and Being a Jonah, you know, getting a boat going somewhere else. Just the hardness of my heart, or just the coldness of my heart Not having a warm heart for the Lord. And so to hear the gospel then and the rest of that hymn just breaks me because of the steadfast love of the Lord. The book of Hosea is a great book to hear the gospel in. The Old Testament is full of looking forward to Christ. And his steadfast love for his people who often go whoring after other gods, idols, things that we think will satisfy us Things that we believe will give us safety and security. And I find myself so quickly running there And so thankful for the Lord and his continual mercies that are new every day. So as we come to the book of Hosea this evening, we'll be in chapter 6, just another place where we will. Rejoice to see God's mercy. And one of the things that we need to See as a picture in this chapter is uh what repentance is. So often our repentance is shallow. Our repentance is we're sorry we got caught. We're sorry there's going to be some kind of consequence to what we've done. But no real heart change. And then a heart change to lead to difference. I hope that in your walk with Christ you can see Some of the fruits of repentance because of his mercy being great in your life, and you've seen changes. And yet there are times when You have a besetting sin or something else that you may have repented of often and see and not see that change and be overwhelmed and maybe even want to give up. So Hosea 6 is a good chapter to teach yourself repentance. So some of the Puritans had said we need to repent even of our repentance because it's just not very good. We don't understand the depth of our aggravation against God. We don't understand the guilt of our guilt, of our offense towards God. And uh believe me, this uh in talking about this repentance, it's to it's to give us an understanding of what is biblical repentance, and then just to see the amazing wonder of the love of Jesus. And it's really that. It's it's judgments in some measure. We should fear God. But that's not enough to have us change. It's really when we're amazed at his love for us that we want to run to him and follow him. So I hope as we read Hosea 6 tonight, God will Will be gracious to show him himself and his tender mercies and his love and give us the kind of hearts that we need. So uh let us stand, we'll pray and read God's Word. Our Father, how great you are to work in mysterious ways and have blessings break upon our heads, even in the difficulties of life. Some of the difficulties we face are because it is a broken world. We look forward to new heavens and earth where righteousness dwells. But until then, the truth is that we sin. We rebel against you and we are sinned against. And so we thank you that as we come tonight, we look to hear you speak to us through your word. that you would set us aright, that you would give us hope, and that even as Hosea looked forward to your coming, and pictured even by his marriage to Gomer, the one who was continually running from him to other to other lovers. And we see that that he uh ran and sought after her uh and even raised up her illegitimate children as his own to show us the love of God and Is it pictured for us the love of Christ? May you encourage all of your saints tonight and teach us what it means to return to you And may we find hope even in the love of God through Christ our Savior. Amen. Well, let us uh follow along as I read from Hosea, the sixth chapter, be reading verses 1 through 7, Hosea chapter 6, 1 through 7. Come, let us return to the Lord, for he has torn us That he may heal us. He has struck us down, and he will bind us up. After two days, he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up, that we might live before him. Let us know, let us press on to know the Lord. His going out is sure as the dawn, and he will come to us as the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love is like a morning cloud Like the dew that goes early away. Therefore I've hewn them by the prophets, I've slain them by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as light. For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. But like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. There they dealt faithlessly with me. The word of the Lord. Amen. Please receive it. Well, as we come to this passage in Hosea, you see in the first three verses, and if you have been reading earlier in Hosea, God had disciplined and was disciplining especially the the northern tribes. He calls Ephraim here. He speaks to Judah e also, but he's speaking to Ephraim, which is the largest of the northern tribes. He's speaking to Israel really. The judgment through Hosea is really coming to the n the northern kingdom first. Rebelled as much at this time, they will fall later because of their sin. But he's uh speaking to the northern kingdom especially here. And God has already disciplined them. And we're not sure if this is the people, the first three verses, or Hosea leading the people, but they're saying God has disciplined us here. We are in trouble. And so they know what to do. You can see that. Look what they say in the first three verses, verse 1 especially. Come, let us return to the Lord. For they know that he is sovereign, for he has torn us that he might heal us, that he has stricken us down, that he will bind us up. They are the people of God. They have hope that even though they need to return, the the hurt that they've had, the discipline, is because God loves them. And they said, let us return. Let us go back. He's doing this not because he hates us. He's not dissipating us because we're not his children. He's distant because we are his children. He desires that he might heal us. He desires that he might bind us up. And one of the joyful things that if you would follow and do a word study through the Old and the New Testament is seeing that God as our Father disciplines us because he loves us. Not because he hates us. And that was their hope here. If we return to the Lord, he is not going to turn us away. It's an interesting picture if you look at verse 2. The commentators, and I'm not sure what it means, but it's almost as if they're looking forward to the resurrection of Christ here. Or or at least maybe thinking uh of of uh Jonah. uh maybe in the the belly of the fish for two days and coming out in three because if you just look at that second verse there after two days he will revive us on the third day he will raise us up that we might live before him. And so they're not sure. I mean it's not clear, clear. But if you look at 1 Corinthians 15, it says, For I delivered to you a first important, that which I also received. that Christ died with our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. So at least whether that's picturing that or not, they they were thinking that God won't keep us here forever. If we return to him. And that word return there is really what repentance is about. Remember Metanoia in the New Testament to change your mind? To go from one direction to another, from stop following sin to following God. Let us return. And the nature of our fathers, if we return from our sin unto Him, He will heal us. What a joyful thing that is to have a father like that. To have a father, you don't have to be afraid. to tell the truth to, because he loves you and wants the best for you if you will return unto him. Then verse three said, Let us know, let us press to know the Lord. His going out is as sure as the dawn. And uh if if you were a child, maybe you couldn't wait for the dawn because you thought there were boogeymen at night in your closet or somewhere else. But for the rest of us that couldn't sleep at night sometimes, we can't wait for the dawn, can we? Because of the things we're fearful at night. Sometimes we swim in our beds because we're concerned about our children or grandchildren or a job or finances and we and it's we can't sleep. It's just like the sun has to come up. And God is as faithful as that sun. Every morning when it comes up, it's a picture of his care and love for us. And they're saying that. That's our hope. That God is like the sun that comes up in the morning. We're unfaithful. But he is faithful. And if you lived in the arid places of Israel, now some of you remember Arid. Some of you have used Arid. Right? Any you ever used erod? It might even not be a deodor anymore, but I used erod before it, right? You put it on because you're wet. You want to be dry. And and Israel is an arid, a dry, dry place. And if they didn't get the rains, they would be destroyed. And what do they say about the nature of God? He will come to us as the showers. The spring rains that water the earth. And without the spring rains, there are no crops. And they were talking about not their faithfulness, but the faithfulness of God. That's where their hope was. Not in themselves. And boy, that's good news that we don't have to gump it all up or to provide for ourselves, that our hope is in the faithful God. That when life is dry and broken and bitter because of our sin and because we've been sinned against, that's where our hope is. Our hope is in God. Now if you look at verse 4, it's very interesting what we see here because it's talking about, okay, the people knew they should repent, they come back to repent, but God seems almost befuddled by him. God is Hosea is speaking God's mind to them here. Look what he says. What will I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, Judah? Your love is like a morning cloud. like the dew that goes away early. God seems confused here. God seems befuddled. What am I going to do with these children? They're returning to me, but they're never serious. Now, of course, God isn't confused, right? He's an infinite God of wisdom And so the speaking here that Hosea gives us, it's called anthropomorphism. Try that three times. It means speaking of God as if he were a man. He condescends. to speak to us so that we can comprehend what's going on here. And God is saying, you know, I've called them to return I've called them to repent and change, but he's talking about our nature of our repentance. What does look what it says about our repentance Remember, he's as faithful as the dawn. He comes up every morning. He's as faithful as the spring rains. You know that every year the spring rains are coming. Right? That's faithfulness. But when it talks about us and a faithfulness of our repentance, how is it described? Like a morning cloud. You've gotten up in the morning and you and you thought, oh man, I was I had s I had picnic planned today and there's clouds out there and you thought picnic's canceled, but by ten o'clock the morning cloud's gone. It didn't hang around. Or maybe you're like me. You know, you're never supposed to go outside in your slippers. Right? Especially 'cause it's got dew out there in the morning. Right? So, you know, you gotta take the trash out. You're not really supposed to go out and get your slippers, you know, and you're well you probably shouldn't even worry about the trash can anyhow You know, but you know how it is, right? We're lazy, don't want to switch them. So in the morning you got all that dew and you're like, I can't take out the trash. But but then about a half hour later the sun's come up and all that dew's gone. And you just go, whoop, there goes the trash. You take it out because it's dry. But he's saying then our nature isn't that we come up every morning and be faithful, that every year the the rains are Or the rains come in the spring, but we're just the opposite of God. Even in our returning to Him, we're like a cloud. You see it in the morning and It's gone. It's ephemeral. It's short-lived. We're like the dew and the grass. You get up in the morning and you think, boy, it's wet. And then in very long, that's gone. You've taken the trash out. And he's saying, God is steadfast, but even in our returning to him, it's quick. And it's not very long. So what this should have us think about, what is biblical repentance? I think this passage just brings that up. You know, if if if if that's not really what it is to return to God, what Is it to return to God? What's the difference between true repentance and biblical repentance? A pastor that I've met before, he talks about it when he says, he says. Biblical repentance is the difference in our view of sin between an oops view of sin. You know, I sin, whoops, sorry, or an oh my Jesus. Oh my, how did I do that to you? Right? You know the difference when someone comes to you and says, Yep, sorry I hit your car. I just back it out and put a dent in it. Yeah. It's kinda tough, isn't it? See ya? Or someone who comes in and says, Oh my. I was I I wasn't paid very good. I put a debt in your car. What can I do? There's a big difference. Right? But we have a whoops, I sinned. I guess I just always will sin. I I'm like the I'm like the dew in the grass. I'm like the morning cloud. Whoops. Versus that of a dawn that comes up each morning in the spring rains, that kind of faithfulness. And in the scriptures in 2 Corinthians 7, I'd like you to turn there. Because as we think about what God is speaking of God's people and how we need to repent, what biblical repentance is. In 2 Corinthians chapter 7, in verse 9, the second part, Paul had written a letter to the Corinthians. And they think it's a third letter. He had 1st and 2nd Corinthians, but a third letter that may be lost that he wrote to them that broke them in their sin. And it was hard for them. It was a letter, if it wasn't to the first letter, it was a letter that he just had to speak hard Hard things to them, and he was their spiritual uh father in part, it had in in in a sense, and was coming to care for them and had written these letters. So he had to say those things that you don't want to say to people. But but the letter by God's grace worked. And in Second Corinthians 7, uh verse 9, the second part, it says For you became sorrowful as God intended. So you were not harmed in any way by us. Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret. But worldly sorrow brings death. There's a repentance that people feel because they've been caught. Or there's consequences. But that's not biblical sorrowful repentance where there's fruit, and with God's help, you desire to change And we see this difference all the way throughout Scripture. So when we think about returning to God, our own repentance, we need to think about, is my repentance real? When I'm convicted of sin, is it godly repentance or is it the repentance of the world? Godly repentance leads to life. Worldly repentance leads to death. King Saul, when he was uh found, uh they found out his nature as he was supposed to uh not give a sacrifice and wait for Samuel the prophet to come, but he couldn't wait because of the pressure from the people. and other sins like that where he he wanted to be lifted up above the rest. And when he repented Listen to his repentance in 1 Samuel 15. He says, I have sinned. He was talking to Samuel. He's saying, I've sinned. Yep, I did it. But please honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel. Come back with me so that I might worship the Lord your God. It wasn't his God. He just wanted to look good in front of the nation. You know? He said, oh, yeah, I've sinned. He said, whoops. I shouldn't have done that. But there wasn't any brokenness, and Saul was a king who was lost. He was one who was concerned about his reputation and not about his breaking God. Verses King David in Psalm 51, after his sin with Bathsheba and the killing her husband, having him killed Uriah, he says, Have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love. According to your great compassion, blot out my transgressions, wash away all my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. It wasn't any trouble for him to say, Oh God. I have no hope. You're my only hope. You see the difference in the two? Whoops. Oh my. Oh my. In Luke chapter 7, there's a difference between the Pharisee and the prostitute when they're at the dinner with Jesus The Pharisee says this. When the Pharisee who invited Jesus saw this, that means he saw that there was a Prostitute also in their company. When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet, he would know who's touching him and what kind of woman she is, that she's a sinner. The Pharisee wasn't reminded of his own sin in this and his own need of Christ. He was just judgmental. There wasn't any brokenness for his own sin But the woman, it says, in Luke 7, who knew her sin and was broken for it and came in faith to Jesus, it says, when the moon woman who had lived a sinful life in that town learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house. She brought an alabaster jar of perfume. She stood behind him at his feet, weeping, and she began to wet his feet with her tears Then she wiped them with her hair and kissed them and poured perfume on them. She just laid it out before you. I'm undone. I need you, Jesus. It wasn't the judgment or the whoops. Probably the clearest place that you see it in the scriptures And we think of Judas as this big betrayer of Christ who turned him in, right? And the men came. Jesus went up and kissed him. He gave him away. Jesus gave him away to the men who were carrying Jesus away to kill him. But but our brother Peter, right? He denies Jesus three times of those. I don't know him. Aren't you one of his? I don't know him. Didn't you follow him? I don't know him. Both horrible betrayals. Right? But the repentance, Judas tried to give back the money. He didn't want his name going down in posterity as the Judas. We we call betrayal Jewish, right? He's a Judas. But he went out and hung himself. It was it was it was a sorrow that he got caught. Versus Peter, who said three times, I don't know him, but was broken, and his tears were such that, oh Lord. Forgive me. I need you. And it led to life. It led to him becoming an apostle. It led to the two letters that we have. It came to him being known as the rock. Being as we have in scripture, we we we not scripture but tradition we have when he was martyred, when he was killed, it was done upside down because he didn't think he had the honor. of being crucified upside regularly crucified So as we think about this in our own repentance, that this should picture us, you know, because the truth is, w when I was reading in this and studying it on, I know that so much of my repentance is just oops. You know, it's it's like that morning cloud. Yeah, I feel bad. Right? Or or that dew. It's there for a little while. But biblical repentance is, oh Lord. So God's not done with Hosea. and his children in Israel. It's hard to look at this. You go back to Hosea 6. You see it this another verse. Hi Hosea chapter 6 and uh verse 5. Uh I believe it is. It says, um, Therefore I've hewn them by the prophets, I've slain them by the words of my mouth, my judgment goes forth as the light. He The prophet kept coming. Hosea said, listen, don't you understand? Oops doesn't cut it. God wants to get to your heart. You can be religious and come to church every week. There are a lot of people who fill the churches of America that fill easily our own church, and we at times. We're just a bump on the chair. We haven't really come to worship. We've come because we should. We've come because someone would be disappointed as if we don't come. There's just the Sundays. Hopefully they're rare, but they come, and maybe for some of it's more than that. I don't know. But we're just here. It's out of tradition. I should do it. Oh, yeah, I'm a Christian. Oh yeah, fourth commandment, I'll get to church, okay. You know And so God is willing to continue to discipline us with the pastor's words. With a word from a brother or sister, and maybe if we don't show up from an elder that's going to call and say, I miss you. How are you doing? What's going on? So God will bring us his word And I hope that you can be like the writer of Psalm 119, where three times he says, it was good that I was afflicted. Psalm 119, 71, it was good that I was afflicted that I might learn your statutes. Now Hosea will go on, and I could have talked about what true repentance is here. I'm just going to spend a moment here, but verse chapter 6, verse 6, if we want to find out what true repentance is, he's giving us a picture here. He says this. For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. Now, does that confuse you a little bit when you read that? Because if you read the Old Testament, Hosea is still in the Old Testament, we have the book of Deuteronomy and Leviticus. What are they telling us about? Or offerings, sacrifices, right? God's commanding that we do these Right? And so, you know, you read this, wait a minute, what's going on here? We have two old books that that put in detail God's commanding Hosea and his people to have sacrifices and to have burnt offerings. So what's he saying here? It says, for I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice the knowledge of God rather than burn offerings. Well John Calvin helps us a little bit. He says this. For a better understanding of the prophet's meaning, we must first notice that under the term sacrifice And burnt offerings, they refer to the outward worship of God. All the formal ceremonies are included. There's no doubt that the prophet prophet is setting faith or devotion to God in love. of neighbor in opposition to all the external ceremonies. What he's saying is that you can go through all the outward act But if your heart isn't in it, it's empty By God's grace, my wife and I have now been married forty-three years, is it, sweetie? We've gotten to the age we can't figure it out anymore. We have It's not that we don't care, we just forget. Right? So we we we constantly try to figure out how many how many? 1973, right? Add four, divide by And we're pretty much to the point where we don't yell anymore. Oh, there were some years. By God's grace, those years have passed. There's sometimes I think, well, I don't raise my voice anymore Why could she be mad at me? We're not having knockdown drag-outs. You know, we don't raise our voice anymore. But I still give her the look. You all know the look, don't you? Or When one's snoring, maybe none of you snore ever, but when we tend to be tired, we really snore. A lot of times we don't And so there's the snoring that goes, Honey, versus touching and going, honey, sweetie. Right? Or I I guess I cough, right? I can go. And Marg talked to me the other night and says, you coughed meanly. And I and I wanted I was I was I I had enough. I said, come on now. Coughing meanly I mean, I'm not yelling. I'm not pushing you. I'm coughing meanly. But the truth was, it was the irritated cough, right? Right? It wasn't uh right? It wasn't uh it was uh right? I was sending a message You see, I wasn't yelling. I wasn't being a mean guy, but I wasn't having a heart for it. And that's what the Lord is saying to his people. I desire steadfast love. It's not that I don't want sacrifice, but remember what our pastor was preaching to us today about all the gifts? You can have all the higher gifts, but without Love, they are nothing. Now, I was pretty amazed today because I always remember that this is quoted in the New Testament. Jesus quotes this very passage, and I'm thinking of the scribe or Pharisee who comes to him and he quotes it and he lays out the scribe. scribe or Pharisee, but in Mark we have a we have a different picture and I want you to see how this is quoted in Mark because the scribe gets it right So let's go to Mark chapter 12. Mark chapter 12, verses 28 to 34. Mark, and I think this is just to show us what um what true repentance is from the heart. How Jesus uses this. Mark 12, 28. And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked, Which commandment is the most important of all? And Jesus answered, The most important is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind and strength. And with all of all your strength. The second is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. This is the one commandment greater than these. And I always think that it stops there, that Jesus kind of lays out the scribe, and he sort of does that in the other two places, but here in Mark, notice how verse 32 goes on. And the scribe said to him, talking to Jesus, You're right, teacher. You've truly said that He is one, and there's no other beside Him. And to love Him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the strength, and to love one neighbor as yourself is much more Then the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You're not far from the kingdom of God. Yeah, all these things are good, but without the heart. And so what Jesus is saying is if your repentance is just because you got caught. Just because there's consequence or just because you want to look bad, look good to the world, that's no repentance. A repentance is one that's not saying, whoops, but oh my. Well, he ends here, and he says, Hosea says to them, But like Adam, they've transgressed the covenant, they've dealt faithlessly with me. Yes, Israel was being like Adam. Israel said, I don't need you. I'm going to do it my own way. And that's where we end up too. It's so easy to read the Old Testament. I read it this way for years when I finally got an Old Testament and I read it and I said, how could Israel be like that? And then God got to me and said, Jerry, you're Israel. You have that heart that's prone to wander. You have that idolatrous heart that thinks that safety and security can be found somewhere else. You too are like Adam, even God's people. And our hope, beloved, I want to call you to real repentance when you're convicted of your sin. I want to call you to more than an oops. I want to call you to an oh my And as God works in our heart, there'll be more of that, and we'll be drawn to follow Him. But we're drawn to follow Him Because we are like Adam. We sin as Adam did. We need the Savior that Adam had, and that was the second Adam, even Jesus. Jesus Christ, the God man. Adam could not and would not follow God. We cannot and will not follow God on our own. We need the hope of a second Adam who has done it all for us. And when we look to him and his sacrifice for us, that gives us the hope to repent. Because he is the one whose love is like the sun that comes up every morning Like the water that r waters the spring in Israel and gives it nourishment each spring. It's the second Adam where hope is. In Romans 5, 18 and 19, it says this Therefore, as one man, Adam's trespass, led to condemnation for all men, so the one act of the righteous one, Christ Leads to justification for all men. For as by one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so that by one man's obedience the many will be made righteous That's our hope. That's what changes us, that God, instead of putting the wrath that we deserve for O minus with him, it doesn't really matter. He laid it on his son, the one who always looked to him and said, Father, what would you have me do? That's what causes real repentance. When we see the love of the second Adam, Jesus Christ, given for us. Let us look to Him Let us praise Him. Let us be moved by His gift for us of giving His life. That we would return and turn from our sin. And turn to our God. Let us pray. Father, how we thank you for your word and the wonder of the scriptures. How we thank you that through all the Old Testament the gospel is seen and found for those who will look. And we thank you that you've opened our eyes to see your mercy anew. You know us. You know our repentance is like the morning cloud that disappears. That our repentance is like the dew and the grass that dries up. But we thank you for the second Adam that you have given for us, even Jesus Christ, and your love to us through him is like the dawn that breaks forth every morning. And a spring rain that even we've had here today that should remind us of the showers of blessing through Christ our Lord. For we pray in him. Amen.