Back in the nineteen sixties, there was a movie series, or uh a sci-fi series, I should say. uh that many of you have probably heard of. It of course was called Star Trek. And that was the original series that came out with, I'm sure many of you who are somewhat familiar with it. uh a Canadian actor by the name of William Shatner, who was playing the role of Captain Kirk Now, what you may not know or may not remember is that the first the pilot episode of uh Star Trek starred another captain and his name was Captain Pike. Now it it seems like it it didn't take off, so they bought in this new actor. And so we don't really see this Captain Pike until about two seasons after where he literally gets rolled in as a paraplegic. And there's an episode that goes along with that. And then um we don't uh hear of him again for the rest of the time in the series from the nineteen sixties. So you fast forward about About 60 literal years. And the writers of the the series start to bring him back. It's sort of like pre of the time that they had in the original series. And we discover that he has learned about his future and what causes him to be a paraplegic. Now this we find very interesting because the writers of the show are playing um uh uh certain uh with ideas, philosophical ideas and hypotheticals that You know, if if he knows what's going to happen in the future, will he do something to prevent that from happening? Will will knowing what's happening in the future affect the the kind of responses that we have in life today. And so it it's interesting because he he he thinks that first he shouldn't, and then there's a hypothetical episode. Later on Where in which, uh I won't get into too much of the detail here, but a future version of him comes when he's decided that he's going to take a decision to prevent him be from becoming a paraplegic. tells him that if you if you know you you made a decision to do that, but now it's caused a cosmic galactic war. And so you need to go back in time and undo the decision that you made and take um the the paraplegic uh direction in your life. So, you know, this is a very interesting thing. And I kind of wonder if you know what your future will bring. How will that affect the decisions that you make today? We're studying through 2 Peter, and we're actually getting to the point right now where Peter is starting to think in these um uh categories. And hence, you know, we have the title of our sermon this morning, which is Living in the Light of Eternity. He is going to appeal to knowing what the end is and how that will impact our behaviors. And so I think that it's important for us to recognize that. How is it that we live knowing how things will end? How does that impact your ethics? So having said that, let's turn to our passage this morning, which comes to us from 2 Peter 3, verses 10 through 16. Would you please be so kind to rise for the reading? of God's holy and inerrant word. It's from 2 Peter 3, verses 10 through 16. Hear now the word of God. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar. And the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? Waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to this His promise, we are waiting for a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace. And count the patience of the Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you according to the wisdom given him, as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction as they do the other scriptures. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer if you would. Holy Spirit, we come before you now asking that you would grant Us the eyes, the spiritual eyes to see and the spiritual ears to hear the word of God. Help us to understand and help us to apply. And help us to conform to the will of God, so that we may reflect the Lord Jesus more and more. And we ask all of these things for his glory. And in Jesus' name. Amen. So as Peter gets into this in this verse here, he sort of describes the destruction of the world in three parts. The heavens, the first one is the heavens will be destroyed. Now he uses the word war. The war that he has in mind is sort of like fire. Have you ever experienced that whooshing in and burning things up? The heavens were thought to be, sort of like the atmosphere above the earth, sort of like a an envelope around it. So that is the first section that he defines. The second is that the heavenly bodies will be destroyed. These are to be understood as the sun, the moon, the stars we see in the daytime as well as at nighttime. And thirdly, he says the burning up of the earth and all of its works exposed. Now what we are to understand from this is that it could mean the earth and all the fine and intricate works made by the hands and minds of humanity. Things like dams and sky rises, the technological and engineering marvels built from the pharaohs all the way to the Army Corps of today, the engineers. Now, with this understanding, expose doesn't mean reveal. It means subject to the calamity. In this case, subject to destruction by fire. Now, a second meaning regarding this passage is that it it could have in mind the deeds of men In this case, mankind and all the works of men will be before the tribunal of God, standing before his judgment. I think this is a better understanding of this passage because it is the final judgment that Peter has in mind and its impact which he is appealing to in this passage. And so it is in this way that the earth and the heavens will pass away, and all of mankind will be judged. And the verdict of God is binary. One or the other, binary, either innocent or guilty. I know that in human courts there's always the possibility of a home jury, perhaps insufficient evidence, a person getting off on a technicality, or the rules of law were not properly observed. But in God's court, there are no mistakes. There isn't insufficient evidence with him He is always everywhere and knows all things perfectly clearly. His judgment is not subject to making any errors. It's either guilty or innocent. There are no appeals to be made. There is no higher court than God Himself. It is at that time that all mankind will be judged. Peter is obviously referring to the time when Christ returns, the Second Advent. All of mankind will be judged guilty, except those that belong to Christ, by faith in him. They will be found spotless, perfectly righteous. Will you be found perfectly righteous? Will you be found spotless when that day comes? So we are to see the doing away with the current order, the fire representing utter destruction. at the same time being used to refine and expose. The exposing is of the sinful and the wicked The refinement is for separating the pure, those made holy by the work of Christ. Now there are many who look at this passage and understand it to mean a literal destruction of the physical universe as we understand it, God destroying and remaking anew. Some look at it as a figurative language where God puts an end to sin. I think that the language is clear, and in other places in the scripture, we find that this is not a figurative. View, but rather it is a literal destruction and ultimately a renewal Now, all of the apocalyptic imagery here does have a future reality, but Peter is bringing it up to make his point, which is for the present. The future does have an impact on how we live today, doesn't it? If you had a crystal ball And discovered what the future looks like, given your current course in life, if you didn't like what it looked like, I would assume that most of us, if not most of humanity, would make changes to our lives today Whether it's going somewhere or not going somewhere. Taking a job that you didn't think that would be good. Not taking a job that you thought would be good. Not marrying someone you will meet in the future. The possibilities are endless, are they not? Well, that's Peter's point here. We know, we, you and I, brothers and sisters, we know the future. And it will surely come Jesus will return. Despite the fact that some are teaching in the book here in 2 Peter that he will not return. They say things like, How long must one wait? How long must humanity wait? This is what's been said from the beginning of time. And look, life is like it's always been and it'll always be like this forever. So Peter is saying the fact that the second coming hasn't happened yet, it will, because God keeps his promises. God's reckoning of time is different than our reckoning of time. Remember, as he said earlier on, that a day is like a thousand years to him. And there's no chronological equivalent. We can't look at God with our human perspective of lifespans. Because we know that Jesus will return and every everything will be done away with, verse 11 says. What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? And so the moral imperative. Follows the indicative. The indicative describes what will happen or what just happened in Scripture, and the imperative. is as a consequence of what was just described. How are we to respond? Delief in the Lord's return produces the following indifference or apathy. But what should an anticipation in his return inspire? Well he tells us lives of holiness. The error that the false teachers were promoting was just that. The Lord is not returning, and this promotes apathy. indifference, a lack of zeal, and often a pursuit and indulgence to sin. We are to live lives of holiness and godliness. And verse 12 tells us that we are to lead our lives with the expectation that the Lord is coming back and that he could return even today. The Lord Jesus himself said to us that we should keep watch. What does it mean to keep watch? The duty of a watchman or those keeping guard duty was simply to be or maintain vigil. Vigil against an enemy or someone coming to do harm. Sometimes a watchman can keep vigil for the return of loved ones. Spouses would keep vigil for the time when a war would end and their loved ones would come back. It seems to me that as it relates to the Lord saying, keep vigil, both of these really do apply to us. The first one is that we should keep vigil against something that is harmful to us. In the Christian context, we must be vigil against the temptation to sin. Temptation to sin comes at us from three main sources: Satan, the flesh, and the world. Some of the things that they all have in common are. That they are all shortcuts. They appeal to our flesh, our senses. They bring us pleasure. They are not painful. They promise a solution to our problems that won't be painful. And finally, when they're combined together, they offer to solve a problem right away. They're extremely short-sighted. They tell you to ignore the tomorrow. They would tell you, you live in the now. The today. Who knows what tomorrow will bring? No need to seriously take the future into consideration. Go. Go ahead and enjoy. Live a little for crying out loud. This is the siren's call to sin. Now, if you're not familiar with what a siren is, sirens were mythical creatures with the heads of women and the bodies of birds. who used their charming singing to lure sailors to their death. The most famous encounter is in Homer's Odyssey, where Odysseus, if you remember. had his crew plug their ears with beeswax while he had himself tied to the mast to listen to their song without surrendering to it. I think there's a lot in common here, isn't there? Well, what's the what the sirens had to offer was very tempting. It was very hard to resist It was presented as something that was pleasurable to them, enjoyable to them. They did not have to wait. It was right away. Just come. But it led to death. It led to their death. The Bible says that sin leads us to death, doesn't it? So what do we need to do? We need to put on spiritual beeslecks Now the Apostle Paul talks about putting on the armor of God as we read just a moment ago, so we can prepare for this battle against temptation. But he doesn't use beeswax per se. He tells us we need the Word of God. We need to be equipped for the battle. We need the Holy Spirit to grant us grace. We need to pray. The second side is that we must be in anticipation of the return of Christ, the church's bridegroom, our warrior, our protector, and our king We must be prepared. And we should live life to be prepared at all times, for we don't know when he will come back. Now, what does that being prepared look like? Now we're going to talk about this some more in detail next week But in a general way, it's finding a balance between him potentially coming today and at any minute, and him not coming for a very long time. The date of his return is unknown, but it is a certainty So we must refrain from sinning and making foolish decisions with our personal possessions and our finances, for example. This means that we don't sell the farm and give it away or go enjoy it on a month-long cruise, and neither does it mean that we don't pay our bills because we think he's coming right away. It's living a life with that balance, with that tension all the time. This means we have a call to piety Personal piety. And I think that what must be brought out here is not a a pious that is in a piety that is inactive. We're not called to abstain from sin in the world sitting on our couches watching sermons and podcasts, ignoring our Lord's commandment to love our neighbor. Do you like sitting on your couch? Maybe listening to sermons and podcasts? Maybe not listening all the time to sermons. Maybe not all the time listening to podcasts of sermons. Not wanting to get involved with the body of Christ, serving, volunteering, become engaged with the body of the fellowship of the saints, is this maybe something that You would not like to get involved with? In verse 12, Peter says That we should be looking forward to the return of Christ, and that we should hasten it by pursuing lives of holiness. Now, at first blush, it seems a bit confusing, and understandably so. It appears that God selecting the return of Christ has not been fixed Do y'all see that in the passage? Now this runs contrary to the idea that God is sovereign and that He has already ordained what will come to pass. And that presumably includes the time and the day of the return of Christ. Jesus revealed to us what the Father had given him to share with us. He clearly said that. He said that the Father had not shared with him, however, that the time and the day of his return. He didn't say, look, it's up to you. The more you want it to happen, the more you have to be holy. He had none of that talk Now, what he did tell us was that certain things had to happen in order for his return to come about For example, in Matthew chapter 24 and 14, he told us, and the good news about the kingdom of God will be preached throughout the whole world, so that all the nations will hear it And then, finally, the end will come. Now, what will it take to move the church? Now I'm I'm talking about any church or even individuals to get up off that couch to proclaim Christ to their own neighbor or even go to another part of the world. I think what happens is that when we draw closer to Christ, when we pursue holiness, Not based on our willing or power, but turn to the Holy Spirit so that we may grow in our closeness to our Heavenly Father So that we may naturally want to love him back. One of the ways we do this is by being obedient to his preceptive will. We talked about that last week. Remember, preceptive will was what he has told us that he wants us to do His revealed will. And one can't argue with the fact that we are called to go out and proclaim Christ. Evangelism happens because of love. Love for our Heavenly Father, love for our unbelieving neighbor. Please note that Peter just said that God does not wish any that should perish. That is why he hasn't sent his son back as of yet. He is gracious in giving mankind time to repent. I think to understand Peter and what he means by hastening, we should see it as we understand and see prayer. God has ordained the means, but he has ordained the ends, but he has also ordained the means. Just as he ordained how he would accomplish things through our prayers, he similarly does so by our pursuit of holiness. In this case, to bring about the parousia, the revealing, the return of Christ. Now verse 14 introduces us to the consequences of this argument. Peter has detailed God's promises to send his son back, to put an end to the last age in redemptive history, to save his elect, to punish the wicked, and create a new heavens and a new earth. So then, with all of these promises, we're told that in the meantime, in the light of eternity, we should be diligent. A diligent person is one that is characterized by steady, earnest, and energetic effort. The words root comes from the Latin verb, and I'm sure that I will be mispronouncing it, diligere, meaning to value, or esteem highly, or love. The point is that we are more likely to do something if we love doing it. We don't love being diligent. We love being with what comes next in the verse. The end result of our diligence is so that we are found by him when he returns to be without spot or blemish. Christ was spotless and without blemish. Jesus was that way because he loved his father and wanted to be like him. And his followers and his children, as his followers and as his children, we should also want to be like him. We should be diligent in our pursuit of holiness. We should not be, for example, like the false teachers that Peter has been warning us against. Peter's writing reminds us again that being a Christian is much more than becoming a Christian. Let me say that again. Being a Christian is much more than becoming a Christian. It's not enough to make a profession of faith for Christ and be done with it. It's not enough to come down the aisle or sign the back of the card and return back to your old life. is being actively engaged with God to reflect his character in our lives. This means that we are to be diligent in our pursuit of the pure milk of God throughout all of our lives as Christians. So that, should he return, within our lifetime, he will find us actively engaged in a life pursuing the glory of God and not ourselves. Now, embedded in this verse, verse 14, is a question that I think that we should all ask ourselves. How will he find me? How will he find me? If the Lord were to return today How will he find me? What will I be engaged in Very profound, I think. In verse 14, finally, he tells us there's another thing that we should be experiencing on that day. Peace. And we're talking about the day of return of Christ. We should be experiencing peace. Right? There will be a day, that will be a day of satisfaction for us. A day of vindication for us. A day of unspeakable joy. For our bridegroom will have returned for us. Not so for those who rejected Christ. Our watching at that time will come to an end. Earlier on in the book, Peter mentioned that they must follow the apostolic faith. The teaching of the apostles that the church must adhere to, and has been, Peter has been silent regarding this apostolic teaching until now. Peter now points out that he's not the only one arguing for personal diligence. He refers to another apostle. whom his recipients whose recipients would have known who taught likewise. That would be the Apostle Paul So in verse 16, Peter points out that there are some of his teachings, Paul's teachings, that are hard. challenging to understand. And some would use that to twist it to mean what they want it to mean. What Peter must be referring to here is the doctrine of justification. That we are justified by faith alone and no works whatsoever. The twisting that Peter is referring to is that some would twist this teaching to mean that once justified, one can then do whatever they wished without impunity. without punishment. Now, this is starting to sound like the false teachers that Peter is dealing with here also, doesn't it? In context, he is talking about the false teachers, twisting the word of God just like they do Paul's teachings. And finally, he says of these false teachers We teach that one, that the Lord will not return, two, that they don't have to grow in grace. Believers don't have to grow in grace. These are the things that they're teaching. He says about their approach and their teaching that they do this. To their own destruction. They are destined for an eternity of punishment That should bring us, I think, some sort of relief to know that even on the day that all these false teachers that have existed and are here with us today and will be with us until the very end, that there will be judgment for them. And that we can be vindicated. And that the people of God will be vindicated. But in the meantime, knowing that Christ is returning, How does that affect the way that you lead your life? Peter's made it very clear that you should be leading a life that is filled with the diligence to follow Christ. to live out a life that that reflects Christ more and more. And this would should be in the sense of anticipation with great joy, not knowing that it could be any minute or it could be in several lifetimes. And so when the Lord Jesus returns, how will he find you? How will he find you? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we are so ever thankful that you have extended your grace to us through your Son, the Lord Jesus. And we take great comfort in knowing that when the Lord Jesus comes back, that because of his works, because of his sacrifice, that we will be found righteous. And we are eternally grateful for your sacrifice, Lord Jesus. We pray, Holy Spirit, now that we are saved. That you would move us, grant us the empowerment and the grace to learn more about our great God, to learn more about our great salvation. Grant us the grace to reject sin, to reject the temptations that come our way. so that we may lead more lives of holiness, so that we may reflect the Lord Jesus more and more. That when he does come back, that he would find us pursuing righteousness, pursuing holiness. And that he would be pleased with the efforts by the grace that you have given to us to pursue him, to reflect him, and to bring glory to you. And we ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.