So this evening our nation will celebrate two champion football teams. Might as well mention the giant in the nation, right? The Carolina Panthers of the National Football League and the Denver Broncos of the American Football League. As they're scheduled to fight tonight out near San Francisco for the championship of the 50th Super Bowl. No doubt at the end of the game, you'll cameras will pan over to the winning team and center in on the quarterbacks, either Cam Newton of the or Peyton Manning Manning, and you'll hear the chorus of Queens, we are the champions. Playing in the background. It goes, we are the champions, my friends. And we'll keep on fighting to the end. We are the champions. We are the champions of the world. Now, as you can see in your bulletin, the Oxford Concise Dictionary defines a champion as a bulletin who has surpassed all rivals in sporting contests or other competition. A defender of a cause or person, so that historically a knight might find in single combat, might find himself fighting for his king. So in America, our understanding of a champion is often linked to the sporting world, both in biblical and ancient times. Champions were often known as the best warrior that an army could put up and bring forth to fight for their nation. The opposing forces would line up across from one another, and their champions would face off in the middle. It was a winner-take-all grudge fight with the losing army becoming the slaves of the winning opponent. Therefore, as we read the scripture in a minute this morning, I want you to take and listen to the story of David and Goliath with new ears. I know you've heard it. I know you could tell it. I know you like it. But there's more than one champion there. There are at least four champions fighting. There is Goliath, the conceited champion, who looked and trusted himself. There was Saul who was supposed to be, who was the king, supposed to be the champion of Israel, who looked to and focused on his enemy. And then there was David, a courageous champion who looked to and focused on his God. But all three of those champions will point us to the only champion, the one who need we need for our Savior of our souls, even Jesus Christ. So let's stand together as we read. As I read 1 Samuel 17, I'll pray. Get your legs ready. It's a long chapter. But God will sustain us. Let me pray. Father, I thank you for your word. And how I thank you that it uh speaks to even the things that we look at in this world. And as we read a story that's also familiar, would you, by your spirit, give us ears to hear? And may you have us understand and set our hearts, look to the one who's the real champion, the one who saves our souls, even Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. First Samuel seventeen. Now the Philistines gathered their armies for battle And they were gathered at Sokoth, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Sokh and Esca in Ephesh the Meen. And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and camped in the valley of Elah, and drew up line of battle against the Philistines And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side, with a valley between them. And there came out from the camp of the Philistines a champion named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. and he had a helmet of bronze on his head, and he is armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat of the mail was five thousand shekels of bronze. And he had a bronze armor on his legs, and a javelin of bronze slung between his shoulders, and the shaft of the spear was like a weaver's beam, and the spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron. And his shield-bearer went before him, and he stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a Philistine? And are you not servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us. And the Philistines said, I defy the ranks of Israel this day. Give me a man that we might fight together. And when Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. Now David was the son of the Ephraimite of Bethlehem and Judah named Jesse, who had eight sons In the days of Saul, the man was already old and advanced in years. The three oldest sons of Jesse had followed Saul into battle. The names of his three sons who went into battle with him were Elod. the firstborn, and the next to him Abinadab, and the third Shema. David was the youngest. The three eldest followed Saul. But David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. For forty days the Philistine came forward, took his stand, morning and evening. And Jesse said to David, his son, Take for your brothers an ephaf of this parched grain and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp of your brothers. Also take these ten cheeses to the commander of their thousand. See if your brothers are well, and bring some token of them from them. Now Saul, and they all, the men of the Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting the Philistines. And David rose early in the morning and left the sheep with the keeper, and took the provisions, and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the encampment of the host that was going out to the battle line. shouting the war cry. And the Israelite and the Philistines drew up for battle, army against army. And David left the things in charge of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the ranks, and went and greeted his brothers. And he talked with them. Behold, the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, came out of the ranks of the Philistines and spoke the same words as before And David heard him. All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him. They were much afraid. The men of Israel said, Have you seen the man who's come up? Surely he's come up to defy Israel, and the king will enrich the man who kills him with great riches, and will give him a daughter and make his father's house free in Israel. And David said to the men who stood by him, What shall be done to the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the reproach of Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine? That he should defy the armies of the living God. And the people answered him in the same way. So shall it be done to the man who kills him. Now Eliab, his eldest brother, heard when he spoke to the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why have you come down? And with whom have you left these few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumptions and the evil of your heart, for you've come down to see the battle. And David said, What have I done now? Was it not but a word? And he turned away from him towards one another and spoke in the same way. And the people answered him as before. And when the words that David spoke were heard, they were repeated before them to Saul. Let no man's heart fail because of him. Your servant will go and fight this Philistine. And Saul said to David, You're not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him? You are but a youth, and he's been a man of war from his youth But David said to Saul, Your servant used to keep sheep for his father, and when there came a lion or a bear and took a lamb from the frock, I went after him and struck him and delivered him out of his mouth. And he arose against me, and I caught him by his beard, and I struck him, and killed him. Your servant has struck down both lion and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them. For he has defied the armies of the living God. And David said, The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion, and the paw of the bear, will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord be with you. Then Saul clothed David with his armor. He put a helmet of bronze on his head and clothed him with a coat of mail. And David strapped his sword over his armor, and he tried in vain to go, for he had not tested them. Then David said to Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not tested them. So David took them off, and he took his staff in his hand, and he chose five smooth stones from the brook, and put them in a shepherd's pouch. His sling was in his hand as he approached the Philistine. And the Philistine moved forward and came near David with his shield bearer in front of him. And when the Philistine looked and saw David, he disdained him. For he was but a youth, ruddy and handsome in appearance. And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog that you should come to me with sticks? And the Philistine cursed David by his God. The Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I'll give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field. Then David said to the Philistine, You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defiled. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head, and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth. That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, and that all this assembly may know that the Lord saves not with a sword and a spear. For the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hand. When the Philistine arose and came near David, to meet David, David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet the Philistine. And David put his hand in his bag, and he took out his stone and slung it and struck the Philistine on his forehead. And the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face on the ground. So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine and killed him There was no sword in the hand of David. The David ran and stood over the Philistine. He took his sword and he drew it out of its sheaf and he killed him, and he cut off his head with him. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled. And the men of Israel and Judah rose with a shout. and pursued the Philistines as far as Gath and the gates of Ekron, so that the wounded Philistine fell on the way from Sheman as far as Gath and Ekron. And the people of Israel came back from chasing the Philistines, and they plundered their camp. And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his armor in his tent. And as soon as Saul saw David go out from against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the commander of the army, Abner, who is this youth? And Abner said, as your soul lives, O king, I do not know. And the king said, Inquire whose son the boy is. And as soon as David returned from striking down the Philistine, Aberner took him and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. And Saul said to him, Whose son are you, young man? And David answered, I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethelemite. The word of the Lord. Please receive it. Well, we have them before you the three champions. Goliath, the conceited champion who looked to and trusted in himself. Well, why not? He was six, he was nine foot six inches tall. He had a bronze helmet, bronze shin guards, bronze javelin, and a bronze coat of mail that weighed 125 pounds. And the spear was like a beam of wood that had an iron tip that weighed 15 pounds. In the Hebrew, in this passage, the word champion is mentioned three times. The first two, in verse 4 and 17, the Hebrew word just means man. But it means a man. And so you can just hear them, you know, on their side and on the mountain, the Philistines. Goliath is out there. And they're singing, you know, how they do at football games in other places. Goliath, Goliath, he's our man. If he can't do it, nobody can. You know, every day it would just go on and on. But in verse 51, the word for Hebrew word for champion is a hero or a warrior. So you can hear, you know, almost like he's in the ring on a grudge match, Goliath, the undefeated, heavyweight Philistine champion, against the champion that the Israelites might put forth. It's hard to imagine just how frightening he was. And this went on and on, 40 days and 40 nights. Did you hear it? And it happened, Philistine, Goliath came out in the morning and the evening when the Israelites were worshiping their gods. You see, it was more than a battle between nations. It was a battle between gods that God is showing us. He's showing us who is the God, who is the one that we need to trust, who is the one we need to trust when we fight our battles. physical and spiritual. How do you fight them? Whose strength do you fight them in? And Gly said, here I am And he would come out 40 days, morning and evening, while the Israelites were having their morning and evening sacrifices while they were worshiping. And it was then that he would give his taunt. Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a Philistine Then if I prevail against you and kill your champion, you will serve us. I defy the ranks of Israel this day. Goliath was fighting for himself and for Dagon, the god of the Philistines. He wanted the glory for himself. And we know that there are so many champions today in the world that fight for themselves of their own glory, that their name might be put up on a building or their name might be remembered. Or you might be able to speak their name or at least get your 15 minutes of fame on the YouTube. You know, we all know what that's like. We all love it. I loved it when I played football and I heard that chant. Jerry, Jerry, he's our man. If he can't do it, no one can. And you want it in a play or you want someone to read your blog or you want someone to we all know it. You want you want to advance. You want you want your your co-workers to know what a champion you are. I'm number one. Right? No, Pastor, I'd never. Yeah, we've all done it in our hearts. We all want others to serve us and know us and recognize us. us. So we, if we know it, that's like that's certainly the champion that our culture puts forth, but it's the champion that we love too. The next champion is a cowardly champion, King Saul. Earlier in the book of Samuel, we'd already found out that Israel rejected God from being their king and champion. Earlier in Israel, in 1 Samuel in chapter 8, verse 20, it says, the people said, There shall be a king over us. We want a king like the nations, that our king may judge us and go out and fight our battles for us. They'd already stopped wanting. God to be their champion who had redeemed them and saved them time after time in the battle because they wanted someone they could see and touch. They wanted a big guy So God gave them what, you know, sometimes God will show us by giving us what we want. And so he gave them Saul. 1 Samuel 9, 2, it says. Saul, a handsome young man. There was not a man among the people of Israel more handsome than he, and from shoulders upward he was taller than any of the people. Man, what a quarterback he'd make. He could see over all of them, right? And handsome. He could do the commercials, you know. Gillette, look at his face as he glides over those hard corners. Right? He was the man. It was like Goliath except a coward. And we see his response As he tried and trusted himself. 1 Samuel 17, 11. Then Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine. They were dismayed and greatly afraid. Saul, not being able to fight himself, what did he do? Well, he looked in his purse. He said, I'll buy my way out of this. I'll buy a champion, tells us in 1 Samuel 17, 25. Men of Israel, the king will enrich the man who kills Goliath with great riches. I'll give him his daughter. Well apparently she mustn't have been too good looking because it didn't work, right? No one no one well she's uh not that good looking. I'm not sure I want to give up my life And then he said, I'll give him great riches, and he won't have to pay taxes anymore. Boy, that should have been enough But no one would come forward because Goliath was nine foot six. The champion who? Fought for his own glory. One who wanted to be champion and tried to buy some glory And then David, who gloried in God. Thankfully David came. David had already fought off beasts. He fought off lion and bear, entrusting himself to God, not having a sword. And he said, if he can allow me to kill those beasts. I can kill this beast Goliath. Goliath is no more than a beast because he only lived in his own strength for his own glory and rejected the living God. First Samuel 17, 45, David says, You come to me with a sword, Goliath. You come to me with a spear and a javelin, Goliath, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you've defiled this day, the Lord. Will deliver me you into my hand. David was able to look and trust God. He knew that God was faithful. He had cared for him in the past. And isn't that what we need to do when we come up against new spiritual battles? Right? We have them all the time. And we could God really do this? And we have to look to his promises. But thankfully, if you're in Christ, you have a history of God caring for you in the past. You know that he's never left you or forsaken you. You know he's always stood in the gap and protected you. And so when you face these things in the future and you can't see him, but you know that he's been faithful in the past, and that's where David was. He's still living and he'll still care for me. And he trusted him. And the difference in these was where their heart was. Goliath trusted in his own heart Saul trusted in his money to buy himself out of it, but David trusted it in his God. All through the scriptures we keep finding the reason that God worked and spoke through David because his heart was one who could trust in God. Imperfectly. Oh man. I mean, you know, we're kind of embarrassed sometimes to hold up David as the one whom our Savior comes from, right? David's an adulterer. David is a murderer. But David knows exactly what he's made of. And he hates that. And he confesses that. And he gives his heart to God and says, You're the only one I can rest in. I was born in sin. Forgive me, O God. Psalm 51, Psalm 32. So we know these things that God worked in Samuel's life for Samuel 13, verse 14, said the Lord has sought a man after his own heart, and that's who he found in David. 1 Samuel 17 verses 16 and 7. When David is anointed, when they came to pick the king. They looked at Eliab and thought, his older brother, Surely the Lord's anointed before him. But the Lord said to Samuel, Don't look on his outward appearance or height of his stature. Because I've rejected him, for the Lord sees not as a man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. You know when I'm looking for a champ, you know what I look for? That outward appearance. I mean I want to fight someone with someone who's big, who's gonna stand beside me and has good weapons That's where my natural first instinct is. I wish I could say, oh Lord, you know, I'm just going to look to you. This is easy, no problem, easy peasy, you're God. But remember we can't see our God so often. Right? We d we and we don't hear him. We see him in the word, we hear him in the word, but that's not always before us. The big enemy, Goliath, is before us. And so we're looking for another big guy or a champion, or to buy our way out and find a champion. Rather than going to the living God with our hearts and say, oh God, here I am, I trust you So how good it is to have in here David, one who's broken, who knows his own sin, who suffered often. He had years and years of suffering before he was a king. Over fifteen years, where Saul was chasing him. There was no hope. He knew what it is to be broken. He knew of his own sin, but he says. The living God is my champion. And the same as he fought the bear and the lion and Goliath Even through his sin and becoming king, he came back and said, I have no hope unless you create in me A new heart. I need my heart to be brought back to you. You may hear a lot about champions today, all this next week. You can buy a shirt. We're the champions. Whatever. They're pro-printed. Doesn't matter which team. They're printed. You can order them on eBay right after the game or Amazon. And yeah, yeah, that I'm not saying football's evil. But when our hearts are drawn to those champions, and we miss the real champion who's been given to us. Remember, the scripture here ends Did you see how the chapter ended? I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite. And it pictures the last champion for us, the one who was. Even born of Bethlehem and Judea, our Savior Jesus Christ. Thank God that He has given you, if you are in Christ, one who is a go-between. The one who stood in the middle, your mediator, Christ Jesus, who has fought and won the spiritual battle for your salvation. Jesus stands between you and me and the wrath that we deserve for God for our sins, for seeking to be a champion ourselves and to be recognized and glorified. for seeking to buy our way out or get our way out, find our own conniving way out of our problems, rather than to come with broken hearts before the living God and say, We need you to strengthen us to fight our battles and help us. And thankfully, 2 Timothy 2 5 says for you who are in Christ today. For there is one God And there is one mediator between God and man, the one who stood in between us and the wrath that we deserve from God, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony at the proper time. By faith and the finished work on the cross, you, your champion, Jesus Christ, took your sin and your punishment on himself and has placed on your account his perfect righteousness That's a champion. And you couldn't buy him. He bought you. He bought you with a precious blood, even his blood, the blood of the lamb. Therefore, 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says for you, if you are in Christ this morning, for our sake, he, God, made him Jesus to be sin who knew no sin. so that in him Christ we might become the righteousness of God Having been saved by Jesus, your champion, from the penalty and the power of sin. He's now promised you his presence to help you in the midst of your spiritual battles you fight every day. Yes, some of us might actually go to war. Some of you have been to war. And sadly, some of you who are our daughters, it seems like, might go to war in the future. But it's not just actual wars with other countries we fight. We fight wars every day, don't we? Who'll get the glory? Will we fight for the living God or will we fight for ourselves? Will we fight with the living God or will we fight ourselves? And praise God, we have a champion who has been victorious, even Jesus Christ. First Corinthians fifteen, fifty-four to fifty-seven. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin. The power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Beloved, now as we come to celebrate the Lord's table, remembering our champion's victory over sin and death for us May you and I be strengthened to continue to fight our battles for Jesus' sake and with Jesus for his sake. And maybe we'll sing for his glory. He is our champion, my friends. And we'll keep on fighting to the end because he is our champion. He is our champion for the world. Let us stand and pray. Our Father and God, how we thank you that in history you have given us examples to look to and to trust. And to run from Father Even as believers, I know that all of us know what it is to want to be number one and get the glory and be recognized and have our name in lights or people chanting it. So we would confess how being your creation, we want to be like the creator So remind us that uh we're often like Goliath, that we might run from that And we we like to try to strike deals with you to buy our way out of things. We like to say, I'll be real good now, Lord, if you'll just get me out of this. We'll try to offer our daughter or riches or freedom of taxes our own conniving and we find ourselves terribly afraid and and like Saul But we thank you for the child's like faith that David often had where he said, I don't need to fight by armies or swords, but I I'm going to rest in you. He still fought the battle. He he still had to throw the sling and the stone. These little implements, hardly big enough to hurt anyone, and yet because you directed them and used them and strengthened, David You were glorified. And so, God, bring us to a place where we desire to glorify you in our lives and find great joy and strength because you have won the victory for our souls. And stand beside us in our fight. For Jesus Christ's sake. Amen.