Need to pray because evil is real. And we started in on the second point, we need to pray because the strategies of the evil one, or the schemes of the evil one, as the ESV puts it. And I want to end on our hope as we pray, which is Christ's victory. So last time we considered a little bit about the world, the flesh, and the devil. And those are the three classic ways of speaking from Scripture that the church has used to kind of capture the totality of teaching. about the presence of evil. The world is in 1 John 2, it's the values of the world in particular that he writes about The flesh, perhaps Galatians 5 is one of the most famous passages where it talks about the works of the sinful nature. That's the flesh. And that's our human nature as it's fallen in Adam. But even in Christ, we still have remnants of that flesh. We have to still war against the flesh, as Paul points out in Galatians 5. And then there's the devil or Satan who makes his first appearance in Genesis 3. We see him throughout the scriptures, but especially with intensity in the life of Jesus. in and especially in the moment of his temptation in Luke 4. One of the texts that I want to kind of ground us in Let me see if I can get this to work. There we go. I don't know if I don't know if that uh shows up completely. You may your screen may cut some of this off, but this is Ephesians 6. 9 uh 10 to 12. Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. against the spiritual forces in the evil places. That language, as we saw last time, speaks of these Angelic beings, Satan's armies, and their uh work in our world. And um It's hard for us to see that, to really accept that. I think that in a lot of ways it's hard for us for many reasons, as we talked about last time, to see that But Paul says we're a wrestle. That word wrestle in in verse 12 is an athletic contest. It speaks of great effort. We in this effort put on the very armor of God. The language of armor that's drawn in Ephesians 6 is drawn from Isaiah 59. And our ultimate weapon is the weapon of prayer. So if you have your Bible, turn to Ephesians 6. I'm going to look especially at verses 18 and 19. Paul says, praying at all times in the Spirit With all prayer and supplication, to that end, keep alert, with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints, and also for me, that the words may be given to me in the opening of my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. So as Paul goes through the armor and he mentions our putting on the belt of truth and the breastplate of righteousness and shoes for our feet and the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit. He adds, praying at all times, this is our ultimate weapon And that's what Jesus is driving at here in the Lord's Prayer, that this prayer is how we actually battle evil. It's how we fight evil. And then we began to look a little bit at these strategies of the evil one. Last time we considered briefly domination, which in its most obvious form is demonic possession. But it's more subtle in his keeping the nations in spiritual darkness and includes false religions. the idols of materialism, money, sex, power, comfort, leisure, pleasure. And then we began to think about temptation In 1 Peter 5, 8, Peter writes, Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion. seeking someone to devour. And I put out that shadance in the email here from Thomas Brooks precious remedies against Satan's devices. Because I think he has some real insight as he unpacks what the scriptures have to say about temptation. But the evil one tempts us to be unbelieving, to disbelieve God, to prefer our own personal opinions to his truth, to doubt the goodness. and of God and his promises. And of course that's what happened in the garden. And he tempts us to disobey God's commands And if he can't get us to do that, what Brooks argues, and I think he's right, then he tries to tempt us to uh omit our duty, to keep us from doing what we're supposed to do. And if he fails in that, then his last strategy is this. It is to keep us in a sad, miserable, doubting condition. In other words, to keep us joyless. And joyless Christians fail to adorn the gospel It's joy, it's gospel joy in our lives that makes the gospel attractive to other people. After all, who wants to Sign up for a massive life change that leaves you joyless, that makes you dour, uh, that makes uh it look like your life's miserable. And so the evil one works against uh joy very intentionally in our life. And that handout teases out just a small portion of what Brooks says. about that. Anxiety and depression are one of the things that he tempts us to, and I don't want to simplify depression and anxiety altogether But there is a spiritual component to all depression, and there's certainly a spiritual component to our experience of anxiety. And we often passively float on the sea of thoughts that moves through our hearts and minds, often without considering that there are influences, spiritual influences on our uh thinking that come from outside of ourselves. I think one of the Perhaps easiest ways to recognize this is those impulsive, intrusive thoughts that many of us have. A young uh mother who finds herself with thoughts of harming her children. Just this intrusive, powerful thought comes into her mind. And while it's not something she's going to act on, it Many, many people have these kinds of thoughts that's very troubling to them. Or perhaps someone who's very financially comfortable has just this strong desire uh to shop with. It just makes no sense. They're going to take something that they don't need that they can easily buy. And these kinds of thoughts come from outside of us. They're not all just residing within us. And so as we pray the Lord's Prayer, we're praying for protection, for the strength to resist, for victory over all kinds of temptations in our lives. And we're praying to be alert. The third strategy that the evil one uses is accusations. If you have your Bible turn to Revelation 12, 10. Let me give you just a moment if you want to see this in your Bible. It reads, and I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and power and kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. So Satan's in his death roes. He's been thrown down, crushed by the death of Christ on the cross And as he's on his last breaths here, he is seeking actively both to destroy the character of God. And that's what we see in the opening of the Bible, in the dialogue between the serpent and Eve. He charges really in a very subtle way that God is not good. And uh he does this especially as we suffer, as we experience uh losses, uh trials. uh difficulties in life. He puts the thought into our minds that if uh God loved us or God was good, he wouldn't let these things uh happen to us. And he also attacks the character and motives of Christ's followers. He wants to divide Christians from one another. He knows that as Christians are in conflict with each other, as they're divided, as they can't put up a common front. And as they can't demonstrate for one another, then it undermines the very message of the gospel. And so he will ever bring accusations. He brings them against us. you probably have had the experience of having a very vivid uh technicolor uh ultra high definition memory of something in Dolby Sound the some where someplace where you send. And that comes back and back again to you, even though you've asked forgiveness and trusted that it's been forgiven. That's the evil one. He's accusing you. And until you learn to fight against that, he'll keep it up. He's a quitter. If you resist him long enough, he'll quit. Uh uh but as long as he sees you yielding ground to him, he will press that kind of attack And the fourth strategy I want to say a word about is confrontation. In John 17, in that prayer Jesus praised for the church, it includes this line in verse 15. I don't ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. So the evil one confronts the church with false teaching. false miracles, with persecution, uh, and we are commanded to pray for protection. Satan is very dangerous. We can't stand against him. That's why Paul urges us in Ephesians 6. to stand in the Lord's might. We need God's strength to stand up against them. And we receive that strength as we pray. And as we pray this prayer, we're praying for protection from all manner of satanic assaults. Now our hope in praying this is that Jesus has conquered and defeated the evil one. Jesus came for the very purpose of defeating Satan and destroying his work. Jesus is the promised one whose heel is bruised, or some understand that he bites with poison. And so He dies. But he crushes Satan's head in the process. And that venomous snake poison might be the right way to understand this wonderful promise. But of course, Jesus is raised from the dead. He has a victory over the evil one. All of his earthly life, the testing, the trials, and the conflict that he takes place are at one measure or another, either overtly or uh less than overtly, subtly, the attacks of the evil one against him. It begins in the very moments after he's baptized And the Spirit comes upon him in the form of a dove. The Spirit leads him into the wilderness, and there he's tempted. Mark tells us it's there that he faced wild beasts. That's not about animals. Those are the demons. Satan himself. comes to the Lord Jesus and seeks uh to derail uh his calling. He seeks to persuade him not to go to the cross. The demons confront him repeatedly as they dominate people and as Jesus comes to set people free. One of the more famous stories is of the Gennessarine demoniac. who calls out to Jesus, what have you to do with me, Jesus, son of the Most High God? And what the evil one is doing there, what this devil is trying to do, he's trying to use the name of Jesus as a power over him. And this is a an ancient belief that if you can name something, you have power over it. And so he's trying to wrestle Jesus down, revealing his name publicly. Of course, he failed in that. Satan's influence is seen in the disciples when Peter tells Jesus. that he should not go to the cross. God forbid that he should suffer. And Jesus famously responds, get behind me, Satan. In Judas, as Judas betrays him, and as the eleven sleep in the garden when Jesus invites them to pray The hour of darkness reigns during the trial and the humiliation and the torture and the death of Jesus But in it all, God is secretly at work. Jesus gains the victory in his cross, and it's made plain by his resurrection. Jesus' prayer for deliverance from the cross was answered no in that he didn't escape the cruel death of the cross itself. Yet it was answered yes, as Jesus was wounded and as Satan was crushed. Now, we're afraid to face evil in ourselves. Solzhenitsyn once said that the line dividing good and evil runs through every human heart. And he's right about that. There's evil within us that opposes the purity and goodness of Jesus. It's evil that dwells within us, and it's not simply out there. And when we pray, deliver us from evil, we're asking the Lord to save us. To say, save me Jesus, is the simplest prayer of deliverance. It's the beginning of rescue. When we pray this, we're praying, Lord, rescue me from evil. Enable me uh to resist it. Come with your coward. Our resisting evil doesn't end with praying this prayer. We resist evil as we live out all our callings. whether marriage or singleness, school or work, in showing kindness to our neighbors, seeking the lost, and living in the community of the church that's centered on Jesus Christ. Glory be to him. He's a victor, and it's in that confidence that we pray. Well, I think you can unmute, and I don't know if it we can stop the recording part of this, but I don't know if any