Apostles, especially Paul's prayers, all form the school of prayer. And the church uh the the church of the New Testament, but even the church of the Old Testament recognized that the Psalms uh were the great school of prayer. And um Relate, I I don't know if you've entered that school or not. Um, but uh dozens and dozens and dozens of generations of Christians have and they've found it immensely uh enriching. But probably the easiest place to enter is the Lord's Prayer. Now I don't know about you, but a lot of times When I read the Gospels, I thought, these guys are really dense. You know, they they can't uh they can't find their left hands. They don't have any idea what Jesus is doing. But they were really on to something when they asked Jesus to teach them to pray. They undoubtedly saw him pray. And if you were to search through the Gospels, you'd find that we have very few prayers by Jesus. The longest one, of course, is in John 17. But this prayer which Jesus gave to us is meant both to be used as we used it this morning in worship, but also as a model. uh for our our prayer. And uh um one of the things I uh would ask if we were in a room together is just Well, how many of you actually have prayed through this prayer as a model? You use it sometimes in your prayer life as a model to guide you in your prayer. So it is a model, but I want to suggest you do something else with it tonight, and it's this. Use it as a yardstick and ask yourself of these petitions Are there any that you infrequently pray? If you think of these classically, there's six petitions in the Lord's Prayer. When we pull it apart, there's really, well, there's more going on in the prayer than just six petitions, but that's that's classically how most of the Reformed confessions treat it. Are any of these ones that, well, maybe aren't a part of your regular prayer life? Here's how Matthew records the prayer and the Sermon on the Mount. This then is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven Give us today our daily bread, forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Well did you take did you take inventory? Did you did you did you heard that? You say, well, which of these might m might you be leaving out? Well, in my experience in asking groups of people, the one that most people leave out is the last one, the the uh prayer to not be led into temptation and to be delivered from evil. And I want to focus just on that last uh uh phrase, but deliver us from evil or the evil one. Probably both are intended here. Evil is a reality that's rooted in a supernatural, intelligent powerful spiritual beings. And classically, the Christians, Christians have understood themselves from the New Testament to be at war with the world, the flesh, and the devil. The larger catechism reflects that language down in it. And this this are our three enemies. They're on the Holy Trinity, and they are constantly at war with us And to pray this prayer is to pray for rescue. It's to pray for rescue from danger. Now some of you are active duty military. Many of you I don't know you very well. Many of you may have served in the armed forces. We've been as a nation at war, although most of us haven't participated in it for a very long period of time, the longest single war in our country's History. But most Christians in the course of my ministry don't think of themselves as being in a war. They think of themselves as safe, fairly comfortable, but we are not. If you're a Christ's follower, then you're in a war. To be a Christian is to have problems you would not have otherwise had. uh problems uh that you would have had no experience with at all. And older generations of Christians understood this really, really clearly. One of the ladies probably left a copy of one of the best-known books in the English language, at least up until the early 20th century, Pilgrim's Progress, written by Bunyan. And that work tells in an as a manner of allegory the Christian life Bunyan describes the main character Christian as someone who is burdened with sin, encounters the cross, is free of that burden, and then begins a lifelong journey. toward the celestial city, to be in the very presence of God. And in this story, after Christian encounters the cross, He goes on a very dangerous journey. In fact, my favorite version, illustrated children's version, is entitled that a dangerous His just these beautiful, beautiful illustrations from a BBC series of it. And among those that he encounters is Apollyon, the destroyer. It's one of the Bible's names for the evil one. And we each face a powerful, intelligent enemy who's bent on our destruction. We're absolutely no match for him. And our only hope is that we might have Christ defend us. Now, I started here on purpose. I could have equally started at the beginning and put the honey out of communing with the Father and the Son and the Spirit. And we'll come back to that. But we need to pray this prayer. We need to feel the pressure of our knee. Often it's our need that gets us to pray. and not the not the sweetness of communion uh with God. And that's okay. Jesus has both of these in. There's a reason for the order he gives them in, but it's it's okay to pray backwards. And it's okay to start at the end of this prayer and work work uh toward the other. Um there are really a number of reasons why we don't think that we're in a war. And in fact We don't really think about evil. And we live in a time when most people pretend evil doesn't exist. After the uh crisis of 9-11 and the towers came down, Oz Guinness wrote a book called Unspeakable. And uh in it, he talked about how really in the 20th century uh Western culture had lost the language of evil. We don't speak about evil and people for at least a short time after the towers began to think in those terms. Of course, we can have an unhealthy interest in evil. C. S. Lewis talked about this. We can act like evil is at work in everything and everywhere. We become paranoid and puzzled by it. We can be self-righteous and tell ourselves that while yes there are evil people in the world, we're not one of them. We're the good people. We have white hats. I tend to construct most of the stories in my life around me being the good guy with the white eye. I don't know if you've ever been that good guy in the stories you tell. It's a lot harder to see and recognize the evil in my own life. Um most of us I would say I have been numb to evil. We've been exposed to so much images and stories of evil that we've kind of tuned it out. It's just so unpleasant and we try to ignore it. And we've been taught in really by our culture, not just the public schools, but largely in the culture, to look at life both without God and without the categories of good. and evil. And that's really shaped us to, well, to let's say pay less attention To what the Bible has to say about the presence of personal cosmic evil. And I want to look at a couple of passages with you tonight, and I'm really not in a hurry. We may not finish tonight, that's okay. What we're looking at is so rich and so important. And I want to bring it down to the particulars of where you are, because many people in the church in North America are surprised at what happens in their churches. as if it's just a series of human forces at work. I want to tell you what happens in churches and the difficulties churches experience. is very much because these supernatural powers are at work. And we leave ourselves open and unprotected when we don't seek uh the defense and the and really the victory that Christ has obtained for us. So I'm going to anticipate the end here, but I want to invite you to turn to Ephesians 6. So Christ has conquered all these powers, but nonetheless the New Testament tells us that our experience of his victory is both already and not yet. It may seem paradoxical, but though they're defeated, they're still very active in the world. And we ourselves are under attack by them. Paul puts it this way at the end of Ephesians in verse. 10 of chapter 6. Finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world. and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. So I want to just uh mention to you a couple of notes. Unless you had someone tell you this, you probably wouldn't know it. It's maybe in the notes of your study Bible, but these words rulers, authorities. and powers all refer to fallen spiritual beings. They're not governmental powers, they are not human authorities. These are spiritual realities, spiritual beings, intelligent beings I wonder how many of you have read C. S. Lewis's screw tape letters, just a show of hands. Oh good. That's very good. But of course Lewis got into a very dark place to write about that, and he was trying to make a point. He made several points, but one of them is the reality of these powers at work in the Christian life. And uh uh uh life on planet Earth, Paul tells us, can uh be characterized as this present uh darkness. And these powers are at work whether we perceive them or not. And so what you're up against, what you and I are up against as Christ followers, isn't isn't simply your personal bad habits. Not simply your mistakes, the small temptations you have, even the dumb things that we sometimes say. But you're up against these principalities and powers. And these powers are disguised. They don't ordinarily appear to be evil or coercive And they masquerade often as freedom as freedoms or necessities So we're so accustomed to thinking in a way about cause and effect to explain things that we don't recognize The mystery of this other realm. And for a lot of reasons that have to do with Western history, we've pretty much kicked out everybody. uh except God. And a lot of people, of course, have kicked God out too. But we kind of depopulated the spiritual world. And we need to recapture that. So just think for a minute about a couple of examples. So uh the media. Now I I like to keep informed, probably all of you do, um, and it's not a it's not it's a good thing, right, to know what's going on in the world, but Every form of media, no matter where you get your news, it doesn't matter Fox, CNN, Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, Facebook, Google. All those sources of news involve a process selection of images, stories, names, and even the trivia they pass on to us. And they tell us what's happening in the world. In other words, they define for us what's real. And actually, I would say they pretend to tell us what's uh real. And when we're praying the Lord's Prayer, we're joining the battle actually over what's real. Here's a not not entirely trivial example, but but this one's kind of straightforward. So in any given Sunday, somewhere, at least pre-COVID, about 55 to 60 million people go to church in America. And only actually a very small number go to see a movie. And yet the media regularly talks about movies the actors, the story plots, and the prophets of Hollywood as if they're far more significant than Christ's his church or the gospel. But in fact, those things have much larger play every week in the life of the nation. And that impression that it creates defines reality for us. We actually don't think very many people are in church as a result. The powers are at work and things, they're not the they're not the social structures we have, but they're at work. behind the scenes in almost every human activity. And so we think of the economy, for instance, as this Well, it's just this power. It's this thing that's autonomous and freestanding, and, well, it affects our lives. But in fact, when as a power is something that the demonic powers influence, it becomes something we think our future depends on the economy. That's simply not what the scriptures teach. And we end up serving the economy. That's the influence, the distortion, the influence of these powers of darkness. Um let me put it a different way. Do you really think that all the blood that was shed in the 20th century, all the violence, the cycles of ethnic violence, of the global industry, of pornography, of drugs of sex and the human trafficking in slavery is simply human in its origin? I'd submit to you that there's something deeper going on. something beyond all the level of human explanation. I'm not saying there aren't human explanations, but it doesn't capture the depth of what's taking place. And when we pray, deliver us from evil, we are standing with Jesus and asking him to intervene in all these spheres of reality. Because all these things are uh forces at work. So the reality of cosmic personal intelligent evils, one of the reasons to pray for this, But there's another, and it's the strategies of the evil one that directed at us. The evil one is opposed to God He hates Christ and his gospel and his church. In other words, every one of us has a target on our backs. And he hates us, uh he hates all human beings because we're image bearers. And he hates us because God's at work in restoring his likeness in us. So God's uh God's uh too big for the devil to box with him And so he he attacks us. And there are a lot of different stratagems that are mentioned in the Bible that the evil one uses, and I want to just look quickly at a couple. One of them is domination, and if you turn to Ephesians 2, Paul talks about this. In verses 1, 2, and 3, he writes this. As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the Spirit who's now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were objects of wrath. So before Christ comes into a person's life, they're actually dominated by the evil one. That's who the ruler of the kingdom of the air is. That's just another uh way of speaking of uh the devil. And this evil can overtly dominate. The evil one can overtly dominate somebody. And we see that in the Gospels in demon possession. But it's much more uh common for him to subtly uh work and He leads people to think that they are free and self-determined, that they are living only for themselves when in fact they are serving his agenda. to remain alienated from God. His dominion extends to all nations. He's at work to deceive the nations. Let's turn to Revelation 20. where John tells us this in verse chapter 20 verse uh 7 and part of verse 8 reads when the thousand years are over Satan will be released from his prison and will go out to deceive the nations in the four corners of the work world. And so he's at work to keep the truth about God and his gracious work of redemption hidden. And he does this both through false religions as well as idolat the idolatries of materialism, comfort, leisure, and pleasure. When we pray the Lord's Prayer, we're battling against this dominion. We are praying that the Lord Jesus would tear down the kingdom of darkness. that he would deliver people, as Paul puts it in the letter to the Colossians, from the kingdom of darkness into the glorious kingdom of light. Of course, another one of Satan's strategies is that he tempts, and we'll take that up next time, but one thing that I want to point out tonight. is that we live in a time when depression and anxiety are epidemic. And in large measure they're due to the failure to be responsible about our thinking. I'm not trying to in any way suggest that there aren't uh biochemical factors involved in that. I don't want to uh uh dig down into that But the depression and anxiety are related in a significant degree to the way that we think about things about what we tell ourselves, the internal conversation that we have, that dialogue that we maintain, it actually goes on all the time, but we often don't notice it. And uh have you considered that the thoughts that we have, these often very negative thoughts, these fearful thoughts, these thoughts that are really based in lies? aren't just the product of our own thinking that are being influenced by these dark powers. The New Testament's clear that the evil one spoke into the heart and mind of Judas. And I know nothing in the Bible that suggests that somehow we are spared from that, that we are somehow naturally freed from that, that it's not possible for the evil one to whisper into our hearts and minds. And this is where Lewis's, C. S. Lewis's uh screw tape letters put it so masterfully. Um, the devil's not really very clever. The strategies he's got though work very well, and so he keeps using them. He has a very, very good work ethic He works around the clock. He doesn't sleep. He reads us with great skill. We can't hide from him. He's acquainted with us in our ways. He has a lot of experience working with human beings, and we shouldn't be surprised that he can manipulate our thinking, that he can influence our thinking. And we one of the reasons we have to Pray that we'd have the helmet of salvation, that our minds would be guarded. And so when we pray this prayer, we're praying for protection Well, it's time it's time to stop. And uh I hope uh it this been s this has stimulated some of your thinking. Um we'll come back and we'll finish this up next time and I'll I'll uh try not to Well, I'll try to be a little tighter on the time and finish a part of the prayer each night. Thank you.