So this morning we are going to be starting a new book, as I'm sure you all have noticed. It is the Book of Ruth. And if you have not already gotten one, uh please help yourself. Um uh it we have the journals as we have normally been providing uh um either of one of the two of different uh uh covers, but um this way you can uh keep up. Okay, so Marty's coming down. If you would like one, please raise your hand and this way Marty can get it for you. I have been I guess you could say joking uh with some folks uh when it comes to the book of Ruth, I sometimes want to call it the book of Naomi. uh because um so much of uh what is going on is in the life of Naomi uh and less so in Ruth, but Ruth is a very uh important figure as we will discover as the weeks and months go forward in understanding in redemptive history who she is in relationship to our Savior. But uh For those of you who have not read through Ruth, I don't want to give a spoiler, so I'm just going to go ahead and assume that no one here has read through the book of Ruth. Knowing fully that that is not true at all. Is there anyone else that would uh need a copy of um the journals? I think we're good, Marty. Thank you. I appreciate that. And uh Yeah, I think that that's good. All right. So I came across the story of a gentleman by the name of Robert. who was a professional musician who played guitar for about 18 years in the state of Florida. And he led a very highly productive and prosperous life doing that. And one day, tragedy struck. One of his fingers was shot off in an accident. Rob underwent several surgeries over a period of time to help reattach his finger. But in the process, he wouldn't even pick up a guitar. He viewed himself, he saw himself as a cripple, and so he didn't want to pick up the instrument, or any instrument for that matter. Eventually Rob and his wife divorced. He told her to keep their home and he decided That his wonderful life in sunny Florida had uh officially come to an end. At that point, he decided that he was going to move to Arizona to care for his aging parents. They at that time had been married for approximately 69 years, and by that time their health was starting to fail during the last years of their lives, Rob stopped working in order to care for them so that they wouldn't be placed in into a nursing home. His parents died three months apart and both passed away at home. With no income to pay bills, his parents' house was lost. You wake up one morning and you have no place to go, Rob said. He lived in his car for more than three years. It didn't take long before Rob quit looking forward to living and enjoying life. He lived a moment Then suddenly, Rob was in a car accident. It wasn't even my fault, he explained, but because I didn't have the money to pay for my insurance. They took my license and impounded my car with everything that I had in it. Rob lost, well he lost it all, as well as his self-confidence, his self-esteem, they were all gone. Unable to pay the fine for the ticket that he received, Rob ended up in jail. This is a true story, by the way. Imagine being in his situation. Being married, being successful, and loving what you do for close to two decades. And suddenly, everything that you have worked for begins to unravel. In this case, in an accident Well, really two accidents, right? Then losing your spouse, your parents, your home, living in the streets in your vehicle, getting into an accident, and then arrested. How would you feel? What would be some of the questions that would go through your mind? What have I done to deserve this? Why is God out to get me? Is there any hope for me? When will this ever stop? I think in a short period of time, one can become bitter, can't one, going through this. This morning, we begin our study, our new study from the book of Ruth. And in it, we will immediately discover that one of the main characters in the story, Naomi, experiences something that is quite similar. She loses. Well, she loses just about everything. Would you please rise For the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word. And if you've bought your Bibles, please open to the passage from Ruth chapter 1 or from the journal. The following is from the book of Ruth, chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. Hear now the word of God. In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land, and a man of Bethlehem and Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab. He and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi. And the names of his two sons were Mehlon and Hilian. They were Ephraithes from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there. But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons. These took Moabite wives. The name of one was Orpa, and the name of the other Ruth. They lived there for about ten years. And both Mehlan and Glian died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husbands. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would open our minds and hearts to the Word of God. Enable us to understand what it has to teach us. Aid us in being singularly focused upon it. Keep our thoughts focused and to not be distracted by the concerns of the week that has passed, nor the one that is to come Help us to delight being in the presence of our God, as he speaks to us through the very words and thoughts that you have so graciously compiled and preserved. so that we may know the great love of our Heavenly Father. And we ask this in the name of the Son, name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So our book begins this morning immediately by giving us clues as to when this is going on. And as well as where it's happening. Our author, by saying that this took place in the time of the judges, and by the way, our human author doesn't identify himself. We frankly don't know with any certainty as to who wrote the book of Ruth, and as you may well have guessed, it is not short of any speculation. I don't wish to spend much time on this, but the Jewish tradition that comes to us says that it was Samuel who wrote the book of Ruth. Critical scholars would disagree and point to a time written by someone after the return of the exile. The truth is, we really don't know whom or when, but what is clear is that it is written sometime after the judges, as making reference to a time when the judges had ended. And so the time of the judges shows that the time period was well known to his audience. He references it as a time period in the history of Israel that really needs no explanation The time of the judges itself was believed to be and estimated to be from 1200 B. C. to 1020 B. C. That's about 180 years or so That era was between Joshua entering into the land and conquering the land to about King Saul's coronation, which can be found in 1 Samuel chapter 10. Now, if you've ever done a study of the book of Judges, you would have come away with the impression that it was a time of social upheaval. sinfulness by the people, a call to repentance and repentance, and then we have judicial chaos going at the same time. But then ultimately God raises someone to come and to save his people. And this is a story that is sort of like rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat. over and over again in the book of judges. Now if you're wondering what a judge was, in short, it was a sort of like a military hero. Some scholars prefer chieftains. That Yahweh God raised up to rescue God's people from military threats, foreign military threats. Their leadership was local and not really national. It was hence less political, but really more military. One last item regarding the timing. Many scholars have made an attempt to locate under whose administration this story is taking place. We can't say with certainty, but it is plausible that it was between the times of Ehud and Jephthaf. Jephthah, depending upon how you pronounce it. Now, having identified a chaotic time period in the history of Israel, our author reveals that this story is occurring at a tragic event of a famine. in Bethlehem and its countryside. There are several reasons for famines. Some are droughts, warfare, locusts, and even loss of livestock. But we do see that famines, although on the surface, are truly devastating and have a devastating effect upon those who live in that land. Biblically, we see that God uses these famines to accomplish his goals. When we consider the book of Genesis, for example, we see that Abraham went to Egypt. Genesis 12, 10 tells us Now there was a famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. Sounding a little familiar? Isaac, his son, went to Philistia for the same reasons. Genesis 26:1. Now there was a famine in the land. Besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Gerar to Abimelech, king of the Philistines. And if you recall, it was a famine that drove reluctant Jacob. And his sons to Egypt. We saw this in Genesis chapter 41. And when you consider that it was in those times that Abraham came back. Wealthier. And Isaac as well came back wealthier. And Jacob and his descendants were greatly blessed by God in the Exodus and by becoming the new nation of Israel. And so here we are at the beginning of this book, where the setting is being framed at a time when there is a famine. Now, this history from Genesis may well be the author's way of communicating that although this is a tragic event, as all famines are We should at least put it in the back of our minds that God may be using it for a blessing in the life of, as of yet not revealed, in the characters of the story. Through all of this, we are introduced to a family. A family of four members, a husband, a wife. With two sons who reside in the city of Bethlehem. Bethlehem literally means a house of bread. Bethlehem got its name because it was an area that grew a lot of barley and a lot of wheat, as well as other crops too. There's some irony here, and I hope you're catching it, in that this town doesn't have sufficient bread to feed its populace. And so this family sojourns, leaving Bethlehem and goes to Moab in order to find food so that they may live. Not to spend too much time on this, but Moab was an enemy of Israel. And for a Jew to seek refuge there was considered dangerous. And shameful. By moving into Moab, they traded out a life that was known well to them to that of an unknown one. Sometimes God does that to us as well, doesn't He? Trading out a life that we know for one that we don't know. And against sometimes our desire. It is in verse 2 that our author gives us the names of our sad, unhappy sojourners. The husband's name is Elimelech, which means my God is king. Perhaps a bit of irony continues in the story This man and his family must flee from their land and the land of their God to a foreign land where Yahweh is not recognized A second irony is that his name implies a truly religious and biblical understanding that God is the true king of his people. You see, this is all happening at a time when there are judges. There will be a time when the people will clamor for a king. Like the other nations. Naomi is listed next, and it literally means pleasant. Lovely, to be pleasant, to be lovely. The parents' names were easy to understand and derive in their meaning But their sons' names are not really easy to identify. It's relatively uncertain what their names meant. other than the fact that their names actually rhyme. Perhaps their name, the names that the parents had given them to make it easier for them to say. And our author tells us that they were Ephraithites from Bethlehem This may have been a way to tell which clan they belong to within the tribe of Judah. To be an Ephrathite might have been alluding to the fact that this clan descended from Caleb of all people. Caleb, if you recall, was one of the two faithful spies that trusted in the Lord. If this is intended meaning by our author, It may suggest something like this is an aristocratic family, one of the leading family lines within Judah thereby pointing out to the humiliation associated with one of the most well-known families of the area and the turn of events in their lives. It's like saying something like, look at how the Rockefeller family has come upon hard times. Their house has been foreclosed, and they are looking for a soup kitchen to get some food. Well, more tragedy strikes this family, and our author wastes no time in reporting it. We are not given the length of time that they are in Moab or what they accomplished financially at this time, but we're told that Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, dies. There is no explanation as to his death, what he may have suffered from, but simply that he died. There is no hope of a quick return. And if they had decided to make a new life there Happiness and satisfaction in a new land is immediately dashed by the news of Elimelech's death She is now a widow. In a land that is not her own, she is a sojourner. Full of grief having lost her husband and her support, both emotionally and financially I think that it's fair to say that in the grand scheme of things, this is the normal way of life, is it not? We're not told the cause of death, but it's a normal way of life that in a marriage that generally death doing a couple apart is usually with the husband dying first. As difficult as this must be for her as a widow, she would have been able to take comfort. From the love and the support she would receive from her two sons. For it was the responsibility of sons to care for their mothers We can commiserate with Naomi, the pain of losing your spouse. But all is not lost. She has her sons The sons, by the way, grew up and married while they sojourned in Moab. The verbiage is unclear whether they married while Alimelech was alive. What is of course clear is that both of her sons married. They married Moabite women. This goes to show that there wasn't a large Jewish community for the boys to draw upon for Jewish wives. Now some discussion is had by theologians regarding the approval or the disapproval of the boys marrying non-Jewish wives Some rabbis have said that they married only after their father died. As a self-respecting Jew, he would have opposed their marriages. We don't really know. And it is left for us to speculate. Nonetheless, they married. And this would have given Naomi. Even more hope for a brighter future. We're introduced to the daughters, the daughter-in-laws Now, for those of you who struggle with dyslexia, it is not Oprah, it is Orpha and Ruth. Our writer doesn't really tell us who married whom. We don't even know that information because it's not relevant to our storyteller's purposes The meaning of Orpha is uncertain. However, root probably means something to the effect of refreshment. Comfort or satiation. You know, like when you eat a good meal and and you're satiated, it's it's just just right. You feel well. Or like when someone gives you an explanation to a question that you have, it's satiating to your mind. Now we're told that they continue to live there for ten more years. This indicates that the family was much more entrenched in Moab, leading us to wonder the following. If they would have ever returned to Israel on their own. However, as we move down to verse 5. As with the tragedy of the loss of her husband in verse 3, we are given the news of the double tragedy of the loss of her two sons. And against all expectations, there are no children born to the two couples. Again, we are not given the details regarding their passage. The passing. It's not relevant to the storyline. What is, is the fact that Naomi, as the verse focuses our attention upon, is that Naomi was left. Without her two sons and her husband. And no hopes of a future as she had no grandchildren. This would puzzle the mind of a Jewish reader back then, as it may be puzzling you today. Why? They would wonder, did they die? Were there deaths because they married Moabite wives? Was it that they did not return to Bethlehem? These, by the way, were reasons offered by many a Jewish commentator in the Talmud and the Midrash The Talmud and the Midrash are commentaries on the books of the Bible from rabbis and Jewish biblical scholars throughout the ages. Even till today, conservative Jewish rabbis would argue that all of this calamity came from the fact that they were disobedient and that they shouldn't have left Bethlehem for Moab. This was God's punishment, they argue, for them leaving, not returning, taking on Moabite wives. Now, let me point out that our author does not make those observations. He does not say what was the purpose behind those events. And this leaves us guessing and speculating and ultimately not knowing. Now, I hope you continue to see the irony Moab, the place where they would be seed to provide food for survival and a future, is now the place where we discover a barrenness. That provides no seed for a future for this family. It is only a place of barrenness in the end. This is a family that has no heirs. You have to understand that one of the most feared and tragic circumstances for a Jewish family to find itself in was that there was no heir to carry on the family name. This meant it was like some sort of an extinction For you and your family, this was also seen as a source of a curse or a punishment for your sin. God blotting out your family name from the covenant community. But is this what is going on here? Is God upset with this family for leaving Israel during a famine? Or is there something greater that is going on here? Is God using this tragedy to bring about something better? As God is known to turn famine and tragedy into greater circumstances, as we have already seen in Genesis. Does God have something that will bring joy into the lives of these widows? Are you undergoing some tragedy in your life today? Have you been living in a tragic state, perhaps for months, or years wondering what it is that maybe you have done for God to be upset with you? wondering what sins that you have committed, what sins that you have not confessed. Why such a long period of discipline? Why sorrow for such a long time? These certainly would be things that would run through Naomi's mind, wouldn't it? You can certainly understand why she would think that. Naomi's life is not only bitter, but now it's dangerous. She has no husband or sons to protect and provide for her in a male-dominated ancient society. Her age at this point in life would in all probability preclude her from finding a husband who would provide for her. Chances are, at her advanced age, she couldn't return to her parents, as they would have already been passed. It seems that all the doors and the opportunities in life are closed to her. She has lost everything, hasn't she? Do you sometimes feel that you've lost everything? Being without hope. Well, when you compare to Naomi's situation, You may say, I have felt that way, but this puts things in perspective. And that may be so, but it doesn't take away the feelings of pain. The loss, the sorrow, the hopelessness that we can share with her. Are you there today? Naomi is an aged woman without children. Simply put, this is the worst situation. A Jewish woman can find herself in in those days. Even after giving birth to two sons. After the death, she is in the same boat of feeling the same shame of Sarah, Abraham's wife. Hannah and much later Elizabeth, all for childlessness. You know, we can never tell why God, in his providence, does what he does. But with God, everything has purpose. Your pain, Christian, has a purpose. Your suffering, Christian, has a purpose. Oftentimes we can look back at our lives and see certain good things that have come out of tragedy in our lives. But the truth. is that we really never see all of the things that God does to bring about good in the s in the cases where we actually experience suffering. You see, when Robert was imprisoned, he heard the gospel, and it was there that he was saved. In his testimony, he shares, one day I just hit my knees and said, Lord, I'll turn my life over to you. By the time Rob was released from jail, his car had already been sold with all of his belongings in it. I had no clothes, nothing, not even a dime. I went about three days without eating. I finally just had to get something to eat, he stated. That's when Rob heard about a Christian ministry. where he got food and was helped to get back up on his feet. By God's grace and help of the church, he said that he overcame. He started a tile business, got a place to live, and said, I have a new guitar and amplifier. I play music three nights a week. I'm in the process of actually recording an album right now with some other musicians. It seems that this was a man who had no place for God in his life. But through tragedy of losing almost everything. Well, actually, he did lose everything. God saved him. From and in prison. And now he serves the Lord. We've been introduced to this woman, Naomi, who is in very similar circumstances in life. She has lost her husband, her sons, in hope of carrying on her family's name. As we shall see next week, She will send away her two Moabite daughter-in-laws. A woman whose name means pleasant. Is living a life that does not reflect anything like it. Where is God in this woman's life? Is that a question that you're asking? Certainly, that would be a question that she would be asking.