How'd you do this week picking cards? Did you all pick a card? Some of you send Valentine, some of you didn't. We do. But it's hard to pick a card. Because they say so much goopy stuff that just isn't quite where we're at and what we think love is. Um the card that Marg gave me today, one part of it said that I made her breathless I've had lots of bad breath at times, but I don't think I've ever made her breathless. Even on my very best day. And the card I got her, I you know, and I all the rest of her card was very nice, but the card I got her, I really liked most of it and the sentiments in it, but one part said Um, I you're like the air, I can't breathe without you. Well, we have a great relationship, 42 years, but I don't know that Mark's ever been quite like the breath that I couldn't breathe without her. So that, you know, the culture as they have this day, other than the Lord's Day, and it comes today of Valentine's, you know, they we're really talking about what love is. So, you know, the question I would have for you to think about tonight, what is love? If someone were to ask you, describe what love is, what would you tell them? And if you're talking about that being love, would it describe you? Would you be known as a person who loves? So my goal this evening is to help us think about what biblical love is. Now, 42 years ago when we were first married, there was a comic that was one frame that you would see in newspapers often that Marg and I would sometimes cut out and give to each other, and it said, Love is. And i it had two little characters. The fellow, the husband, uh which I always imagined to be, had dark hair, and the and the and the and the wife had uh longer hair with braids Ananab and they didn't have any clothes on, but it didn't matter because you never saw anything but a belly button other than their head, so it was it was fine. But it had Love Is and it would have things like this And I want you to notice how they talk about love because even there, you know, our culture talks about all these feelings and emotions we're to have with love. And Love often does have feelings and emotions, but it really is about so much more than that, especially a love that lasts. So these are some of the phrases that you saw in these little one-captioned pictures. Love is letting him have the last word. Sometimes. Love is helping her peel the potatoes. Love is forgetting how good mama's cooking was. Love is looking the other way when he drops food on his shirt. Love is giving her a clean shaven face to kiss. Love is nursing him through his cold when yours is worse. Love is telling her she's as lovely as the day you were married. We're going to pray and then I'm going to read God's word. So that we might be directed not by the newspaper, but be directed by our God. So let us stand together as I pray. Our Father and God, we come to you this evening because we want to be lovers. It's not a bad word. It's a biblical word. It's a great word. And our culture, like so many other words and phrases, has captured it and changed it from uh the beauty of how you planned it and made it and hijacked it and and uh often take what is beautiful and made it corrupt and dirty And broken. So guide us this evening by your word. Help your spirit to help us see and understand. That you would know and follow you and be lovers for Christ's sake and glory. Amen. You're reading from the scripture, Ephesians chapter 5 and verses 1 and 2. The Apostle Paul is calling the church, the Ephesian church, but he would call us this evening. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love. As Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Amen. Please be seated. Apostle He's talking to the church. So he starts off talking about the beloved children, that you have become God's beloved children. The Ephesians were, you are God's beloved children. By faith. It's talked about the whole way through Scriptures. Ephesians certainly chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, where it says we're not saved by works, but we're saved by grace through faith. And that's how we become God's children. Galatians chapter 3, verse 26, you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. Therefore, he says, as beloved children of God, we are to imitate God. We're to be like God, and this way we are to be like our Father. It was interesting to me. I remember in my first congregation where I was for ten years, I got to know the people and got to know them well. And I would be in my study, and sometimes I could tell who was coming into the church. I'd hear the door open, but then I would hear footsteps. And after a while, by the cadence of the footsteps, I knew who was coming. I didn't have to hear a voice, I didn't have to hear them breathe. I could just hear the way they they walked. Everybody has their own cadence. It's not just one, two, three, four, but it, you know, some people slide afoot, some people uh, you know, just walk faster, some slower. And so, you know, one day I was in there and uh I heard the door open and shut and I heard the familiar cakes, the dun, the dee, the daunt, the bee, and I knew it was ten meals And so I couldn't wait to open the door because Ken was just one of these guys who was lovely and you loved him and he was just a joy to be around. He always made my day better. And besides I lived in the manse next door and he was one of the deacons and he fixed everything when it was broken. So uh I would hold his tools, that's how I learned to fix things. I would hold the tools while he fixed something in the manse that was broken. And so I I couldn't wait to see to see Ken. And I opened the door, and there was Gary, his son. But you see, he had imitated his father. His cadence, his walking was the exact same way. And so what God is saying to the church here, who are you imitating? There's lots of things you see out in the world and we imitate and we become light. But he's saying, be imitators here of God. God's children are to be like their Heavenly Father. You who are his Sons and daughters by faith are called to be like him, to mimic him, to watch him, to follow him, to be like him. So therefore it says, therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. Well, how do you imitate God? Most of us won't be able to say, let's have a cold front, cover the eastern United States. You ever try to do that? Well, I don't think any of it, but I know you couldn't do it, right? He's not talking about these qualities which we call uh incommunicable. He he can't give them to us because they are part of him being God, but he gives us communicable qualities. We've talked about many people in the church who prayed for tonight to be in six because they've had uh viruses or Cold germs communicated, shared with them. That's why they're sick. So God communicates to us some of his qualities. That's why we can imitate them. And it says, if you are going to be like your heavenly father, you have to have one of his communicate qualities. And so therefore, we're learning what it is, because he says, therefore, did you see how verse 5 started? Therefore. Now you all know, let's repeat it, right? When you see a Bible, when you see therefore in the Bible, what do you do? Find out what is there for. Right. You look and say, what's it there for? And you look usually previously. So let's look at the verse, the last verse of Ephesians chapter 4 and uh 29, I believe it is. Let me look here. Yes, Ephesians chapter 4 and actually 32. And this it gives actually a whole list of things, but let's just look at the last one. If we're going to imitate God, This is one of the ways that we imitate him in loving. So it says, if it says, therefore, in 5. 1, let's look at 4. 32. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. So one of the things to be an imitator of God and to be loving as he is, which we're going to be called to, is to be forgiving. Tenderhearted. And how is it that God would take and look upon rebels like us, who spend a lot of our time saying, God, I know what you would have me do, but I'm not going to do it. And he destroyed the whole world at one time in the flood. And he said, I'm not going to be doing that anymore. And in this tender-heartedness, those who are rebels like you and me, he forgave us by sending his son for us. So that if we're going to be uh imitators of God, we have to be ones who are forgiving. We have to be ones who say, I know what you've done, but in spite of that I am going to choose to give myself and love you. Oh my. You know, and I really am of Of the nature that I can forgive you in my heart, but the relationship really isn't going to be restored until you ask for forgiveness. I'm ready if you come. But God didn't wait for us to straighten out as he gave his son Jesus Christ for us. I only remember this by reading books and seeing an old life magazine, but in 1955 there were five martyrs. Five men who went to the Aka Indians in Ecuador to reach out to them. The most known names that we know from it are Jim Elliott and Nate Saint As they landed their plane to reach out to these Indians who they'd been dropping a presence to from a plane and and speaking to them and trying to minister to them and come to their place. As they landed their plane and they camped there for a couple of days. They were eventually speared to death by these Indians. And where you see this kind of love and tender hardness. and commitment to go to someone, even when they haven't asked for forgiveness, we find out that that Jim Elliott's wife Elizabeth and Nate Saint's sister Went to those Indians and lived among them. They went out, both Elizabeth Elliot and Rachel Saint established their home amongst the Indians And after ten years, they were able to translate one of the gospels. And as they translated the gospels into the language that they actually made up, as they listened to what they were saying, and they taught to them to read, conversions came. And the man who speared Rachel Saint's brother Nate Became the pastor of that congregation. And end up baptizing his children Can we even imagine that? Can we even think about how that could happen But beloved, that's the kind of way we are. If we're going to imitate our God And it can only come because we know him and we are his children and have been forgiven. The next portion of the scripture in Ephesians 5. 2 We know that we're God's children when we imitate God, but we know we're God's children when we imitate our Savior Jesus when we love as he did. Look what Ephesians 5. 2 says. It says He live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. You see, loving is an action. It's not feelings. Feelings can come with love, but you can often love do the right action even when you don't feel like it. Ryan's gonna go home this evening. Ryan's tired. Ryan's had to put the kids in the car and out of the car. Ryan's had to feed the kids. Ryan's had to dress the kids. Ryan will put the kids to sleep tonight. And they'll go in and say hi to his wife or give her what he needs. And he probably won't feel like doing a lot of those things. But he'll love in spite of how he feels. And that's the joy of giving ourselves. And that's exactly what Jesus Christ did. I'm going to read to you. And you might get tired of this, but I hope that you won't. But I want you to listen carefully. I want you to listen to these scriptures. And here is just uh seven of them, I think, or I guess there's actually six that I have written down. But notice how each one of them, the love of God, is described not by, he had ten warm feelings towards us. He said nice ooey-gooey things that made my spine shiver. Wasn't any of that. Notice what it says every time. God loved us because he either gave himself or he gave him son for us. It was action. Matthew 20 and 28. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give. His life is a ransom for many. Notice what he's giving. He's not just giving a little bit of his time or a little bit of his energy, but his very life. Romans 8, 31 and 2. What then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave Him up for us all. Galatians 1, 3 to 5. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and Lord Jesus Christ. who gave himself for our sins to rescue us from our present evil age. Galatians 2. 20. I've been crucified with Christ. I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. And the life I live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Do you see how it's always action? How it's not even easy action. There are some things we do and it's just easy. Marg was having a rough day yesterday. I had other work to do. Our ovens not qu quite working right. And so, you know, uh the the cupcakes she was making for me just they were a disaster. Oh, I guess I shouldn't say this. But, you know, she was just having a rough time and it was time to cook dinner, right? And she said, Oh. I said, you know, she says, can we go out? And I said, sure we can go out. And she was acting like I was Prince Charming by taking her out to dinner. One, we have money in the bank account. Two, we have restaurants all within a mile of us. And three, I like to eat out. So I mean, come on. And I was like, I didn't do anything except enjoy my dinner with my bride. Right? But notice that this kind of giving here is much, much different than that. It's giving when you don't want to, or the one you're giving isn't very nice to give yourself to. And so again and again, I've just read some. Let me just read at least two more. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. 1 Timothy 2, 6, for there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all men. We have to give ourselves when it's not easy. I don't think of uh Rick as being very tender or deacon. I think he's a good deacon. I there were some things that needed fixed around here and I told him and other guys came to me and said, we're gonna fix them. I got a vet, I got that one. Ricky, I don't think you, you know, you don't seem like Mr. , you know, uh tender, uh uh quiet, uh I was talking to your wife today. And we were talking about Valentine's, and she just said, every day. You give yourself to her. And it hasn't been easy because of her own struggles. And uh that was a good picture for me and us, brother. And we need to tell each other when we hear those things. Because we want to hear of love that is always easy, you know, or quick. Quick down and dirty. I got my my Valentine's Day card, I got my candy, it's all taken care of. Or really the guy who said, honey, when they got married, I told you when we got married, I love you, and if it ever changes, I'll let you know But our loving has to be, if we're going to imitate God, it's when we don't feel like it and when it's hard. It's a joy for me. I'm praying for a time with the winter shelter. I'm so excited that there are people we don't even know. They probably won't ever do anything for us. And yet we're giving ourselves for them. I'm praying for the heart as we cook the meals that we'll be praying, as we serve the meals we'll be praying, but we'll come next to them and talk to them and find out about their lives and care for them. And so praise God that we have that opportunity and we can multiply that with our own neighbors, our own people around us. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 2, look at it says that we we give an aroma off, but there's a sacrifice to what we do. And our sacrifice, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. The world watches and responds to us. Now, the trouble is, is for some it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verses 15 and 16, as we love them in Christ's name, that if they come to Christ, we're the aroma of life. But as we go and love some of our neighbors and tell them about Christ and why we're loving them, it's going to be the aroma of death because they're not going to respond to him and they're going to say, I don't like it, and I don't want it. And that's going to happen sometimes. So loving is not just loving someone when you get the response back and you say, oh yeah, I love your Jesus God. Thank you so much. But there'll be some you love in Jesus' name, and they'll say, I don't care, and don't do it again. Because we're the aroma of death. But notice that Jesus came giving up his life for those whom he could save and would save who are elect And many rejoiced in that, and we rejoice in it, but of course he was killed because of the aroma that he was giving as he was even giving his life. For God gave. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believeth in him would not perish. Would never perish, but have eternal life. Well, will you be a giver or a taker? It's easy to take. I like to take. Back if you give me a bowl of MMs, I'm gonna take 'em In fact, I'm only going to take the two that you see me take from the top. I'm also going to take the ones you hopefully don't see me as I take my fingers, I go and get a whole handful. I like to take. But I'm not so sure I want to give up my M<unk>Ms. Now that's just a silly picture, isn't it? My uh my daughter and and son-in-law are up in New York. Uh excuse me, Northern Pennsylvania and it's snowing up there and and all the rest. They may have to make another trip up there. And uh and uh the roads aren't very good and it's really snowing. And um and it's going to be dangerous for them to come home. We we were I was thinking of adding uh our them to the name and s uh of our prayers. Um and they're probably gonna have to go up in in another couple weeks, Lord willing, and it's probably snowy again and cold. And my and my wife said, Well gee, it's it's a shame we didn't give them your car, honey, because it's the four-wheel drive. Right? And there was one part of me that said, yeah, it's a shame we didn't give him that car. There's another part that said, am I going to give him my car? Now can you believe I just said that about my own daughter and son-in-law, who I'm concerned about their safety And yet I'm thinking, I'm not so sure I want those miles put on my car. But my own beloved family Right? You see how we need to come to God and be changed by Christ. That's the only thing that'll make us even move and love a husband to love his wife when he doesn't feel like it. And parents to love their kids when, oh, did they do that again? And children To love your parents when you think, why don't I have that them and Mr. and Mrs. Jones instead of my parents? And what changes us is we have to come back and look to Christ. Because he gave himself for us when we were not pretty, when we were rebels, when we were saying, No way do I want you, O God. Brothers and sisters, God calls us to imitate him. And it won't be because you and I make a decision tonight and say I'm going to go away tonight and I'm going to imitate God. I'm going to imitate. I'm going to imitate. I'm going to imitate. That won't be enough. It will only be when you remember that He has given Himself for you. When you look back time and time again, I wasn't pretty And I didn't deserve it, but he gave himself for me. Brothers and sisters, as we talk about love, let me just end this evening by reading John 15. And may God speak as he does through his word to our own hearts, that he would tenderize us You know, when I was in high school and college, if you ever asked me if I wanted to be sweet, I'd say, are you kidding me? Sweet? I don't want to be known as being sweet, but I wish I would be known as being sweet now. Not in any feminine type of way, but as someone who is soft and can be a You would want to come to and speak to and would be tender with you and would care about your needs. And Jesus talks about this as we give to each other. It's going to be hard sometimes. And we can't do it in our own strength. But just listen to what God and remember what He's done for us and calls us to. That we might be moved by the wondrous Love of Christ through the gospel. We would love not only one another and our families and the family of God. But indeed, this coming week, uh next week, as we reach it, especially with the winter's shelter, we would be loving. But it would be more and more the tendency of what they would call us in this congregation. They love. John 15, verse 9. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I've spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this. Then they lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends, if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you my servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you my friends, for all I have heard from my father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide. So whatever you ask in the Father's name, he may give it to you. These things that I command you, so that you will love one another. Let us pray. Father, how we need to hear and remember the gospel that we've heard tonight over and over again that you have Given and love Christ for us, especially when we don't deserve it. And that your love is steadfast, that you continue to love us even though we don't deserve it. And Father, my own heart was pricked to the core even as we were driving over this evening, and Marg asked about whether I would share my car or not, even to my own loved ones. And I found my heart. uh holding back. And that's just with my loved ones. It's not even talking about my brothers and sisters in the church and And uh and those who live near me and my neighbors. So, God, we ask you to do a wondrous work of the gospel. And call us to be loving for Christ's sake, even as we've been loved in his name. Amen