The following is from the 46th Psalm. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her She shall not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter. He utters his voice. The earth melts The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come, behold the works of the Lord. How he has brought desolations on the earth, he makes war cease to the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. We're gathered this morning to celebrate the homecoming of Linda Christine Pranat, daughter of the Almighty Living God. Not by natural birth, but by rebirth, and not by any of her works, but by faith. By virtue of the crosswork of Jesus Christ and the gift of faith which he received and placed upon the Savior Today, her soul can be found not in Laurel, but in heaven. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, be with us now, as we gather to remember the gift of your Son and the gift of faith that you bestow on all of your people, and as we remember the life, Of our sister Linda and the gift of faith that you gave her, we ask this in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen Let us sing together our first hymn, which is found in the Red Trinity hymnals in front of you underneath your seats. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. That's hymn number 679. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. Hymn number six hundred and seventy nine. So sweet it has he tossed last Just to rest from all these promises, thus to go, thus take the road She must be a crosswick, our true. She must be Jesus, Christmas Jesus, oh Lord praise to trust him more sweet to trust in Jesus. Just to cross his went in Jesus, Jesus, how I trust how I fruit and door. Jesus Jesus. Precious Jesus, oh Lord, grace to trust him more. Yes, it is sweet to trust in Jesus. Jesus, Jesus, now I trust him, how I proved the door and more. Jesus Jesus Precious Jesus, oh grace in a board And I know that with me will be with me to me. Jesus, Jesus, thou I trust him, thou I prove and go to Jesus, Jesus, Christus, Jesus, go for grace to us in call Please be seated. I'd like to ask Elder Tom Clement, who is Linda's shepherding elder, to please come forward and read scripture to us this morning. Do you have a mic? The first reading is from The Gospel of John chapter eleven verses twenty through twenty-seven. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord. I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. The second reading is from Lamentations, chapter 3, verses 22 through 23. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. Let us join together in prayer the 23rd Psalm, which is uh found for you or printed for you in the bulletin. Please join me now as we pray. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Linda Purnett went home to be with her savior on Friday, the 10th of October She died peacefully at her home at the age of 73 with her husband, sister, and best friend Vonnie at her side To her last days, she steadfastly testified to the full assurance of her faith in her Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, who lived a sinful life on her behalf. And died in her place on the cross to pay for the penalty of her sins. Linda was born on March 11, 1952 To William Ross Clayton and Laureen Wilma Hacker. She is survived by her husband Jamie and their daughter Sarah Her sister Karen Clayton McConnell of Encinitas, California. Her daughters, Jennifer, forgive me my mispronunciation. Schoenick and her husband Chris of Carlsbad, California, and Michelle Dorsett of San Diego, California. Her half-brother William Ross Clayton Jr. , who resides in Orange Park, Florida. Growing up, Linda moved around a lot as her father was in the Navy She went to Annandale High School in Anandale, Virginia. She went to the Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colorado, where she met where she majored in residential design. While she was in college, she learned to be an accomplished skier and after graduating worked with for a lighting design firm in Colorado. She later went back to California, where she worked for a high-end kitchen design company in Los Angeles. Later decided to join the Marines However, she experienced an injury during boot camp. And then eventually she decided to join the army, where she became a Russian linguist and intelligence analyst. And did her duty, active duty, in Heidelberg, Germany, which is the headquarters of the U. S. Army 7th Army Corps. She fondly remembered her time there as she served our country. One of the officers there who headed to the DIA as a civilian convince her to join her Between her time in the Army and the DIA, the scope of her analytic responsibilities spanned the full spectrum remarkably Soviet and then later ground forces from forward deployed Soviet forces in Eastern Europe to the Far East, as well as the Mongolian People's Army. She spent time in Beijing supporting the Defense Attaché office and traveled with the Defense Attaché into Mongolia. It was in 1986 when a young man, we'll call him a young man, Jamie Edward Purnat also working at that time at the DIA, introduced himself to her as they were working at the same desk. And Jamie shares I was struck by how attractive she was, smitten at first sight. It is so interesting as we look back on our lives and the providence of God. That they would have never met unless it was that officer who convinced her to come to join her with the DIA. By the time Jamie arrived at his second shift, Linda had reorganized his entire system. And Jamie shares. She never said anything about it. Hers was a vast improvement over mine. She was a much more experienced analyst. But I remember feeling very humbled, he sh he shares. A few weeks before her death, as as they were reminiscing, She told me, Jamie says, one of her colleagues told her, probably jokingly, that I might just be the one Indeed, he was. They were married for 39 years and had their daughter, Sarah. Linda did love the Lord. She became a Christian in her mid-twenties and dedicated herself to serving him. Linda had a zeal for sharing the gospel and led a number of people, including her husband Jamie, to the Lord. She was always ready to help others, especially here in her church family. As her health issues began to catch up with her later in life, limited her what she could do physically She said the one thing she could do was pray, and so she devoted herself to praying. Even during her final days, her primary concern was for other people. She shared with myself that she wished for two things, that she would recover sufficiently enough to be able to come and worship the Lord at her church. And not do so by watching the live stream service. And the second was that she would go home. By God's grace, she did both. I remember my I I've known her now for a little over two years and When you have an opportunity, there's a handout that's available for you that Jamie has shared, which really gives so much more detail about her life. Goodness, I I didn't even know. A little fraction of all the things that she's accomplished and her interest is really, really remarkable. And when I was introduced into her life, my only memory of her has been when she's been ill. And so I really didn't know all the things that she had done. Really remarkable. And she would always bounce back. Like she would get sick and then she would bounce back and she would get ill and she would bounce back over and over again. I thought it was her genes or something, but it wasn't. It was her her tenacity, her And when you read the entirety of what Jamie has provided for us, you'll know exactly what I'm saying. She was strong-willed, and she didn't give up. If we only have half of her strength. The missed having Linda gone from us, we rejoice that she's finally free. From the pain and sin of this life. And she is in the presence of her Savior even now, face to face. Would you please rise as we sing our next hymn, which is hymn number 32. Great is thy faithfulness. That's hymn number thirty two. Great is thy faithfulness. Praise my ability, for in my glory. So I could start to all So I live all day, to make it all great, Through thy greatness mercy as God is my great friend Great is my gratefulness, for is my glory All of my hands I broke. Morgan, course we can I own give breath to children to rise. Strength and full as you day and I hold for But it's all right with round and restrict. Praise thy gratefulness for in thy warning mercy, my flee Please be seated I would like to call the first of our three speakers who will eulogize, who will remember our beloved departed, Linda. I'd like to ask Mrs. Bonnie Clement to please come forward and share with us your remembrances of Linda. I'm going to try to do this without crying, but that's going to be very hard, so have to listen to me through my tears. Okay. Linda has been a dear good friend of mine for a long time. Shortly after they moved back here from Hawaii, we carpooled to Annapolis. Christian school together. Sarah was in fifth grade and my kitty was in kindergarten, which was a very long time ago because they're now both very beautiful young ladies. Linda and I became prayer partners probably about twelve or fifteen years ago. I can't say how long or how that happened, but we would sit in our respective homes, our pens and notebooks. And have a prayer date once a week. If anyone here has a prayer partner, you understand how important that is. And the blessing that is in your life. I looked up the definition of prayer partner because I wanted to cover everything, and it's a trusted individual who agrees to pray for another person. Often on a regular basis for spiritual support and shared concerns. Th these partners pray for each other for their needs, they share their struggles, they provide encouragement, which can be simple or deep. And it's an ongoing relationship built-on trust and mutual support. That was everything Linda was to me and more I was not only the I was not the only beneficiary. Linda was quite a prayer warrior as Pastor Beers mentioned. If you felt that you had been prayed for the past few years, Lynn w was probably praying for you. And she just didn't pray in general. One of our members, Gina said, was it would come up to her and say, How are your migraines today? I mean she knows specifically what people were struggling with and she would pray about that for them. One of the things she really cherished was uh an online directory, church directory that Rick Peterson provided for her a while ago. And she could take that when she was in her room on her phone and just pray for people, which she did regularly. She loved having that directory. Um, about three weeks ago when she was in the hospital, Tom and I visited her and Tom prayed for her and before she left she said, Wait, I want to pray for you too and even in a weakened voice uh she prayed for us. She managed to pray for us. She was also quite an evangelist. She shared the scriptures with her first roommate, Susan. And as far as I know, Susan became a believer. This is a woman who had multiple health problems. She would also talk about the Lord to others who were caring for her, doctors, nurses, you know, anyone who would come into her room. And for the past almost three years, I visited her about once a week in Lorien. When she was able, we would walk around in her wheelchair, go outside, or just chat. And when the doctors or nurses would come in, she would always introduce me and say, this is my good friend Vonnie. I know they didn't care who I was, but it was important to Linda to say, this is my good friend Vonnie. About a month ago, she said to me, I want you to promise me two things. I said, two. She said One that you won't be sad. I said, What's the second one? And she said, um and she said I I said, You know I can't promise you that The second one was she prom she said, promise me that you all will take care of James. And I said, That one I can promise you Well in conclusion, I want to share my last moments with Linda as was mentioned. On Friday, October 10th, Pastor Bears and I both arrived at the house around eleven o'clock. Pastor Beards read scriptures and prayed with Linda. And after he left, I sat down next to her and read the 23rd Psalm, which we just sang earlier. I thanked her for her friendship, for praying for me and my family through our joys and sorrows of life, and for giving me Um, and for forgiving me for when I wasn't as good of a friend as I I could have been and how much I appreciated and loved her. I looked at her and at that moment I realized that she had gone to be with the Lord. Well, I think when I get to heaven, she's probably gonna ask me, what was I yakking about during our last minutes together? So, because of her faith in Christ in her lifetime, I know that she's dwelling in the house of the Lord forever. And one day I will see her, my dear friend Linda, again. This is what gives me comfort in the midst of sorrow. And I pray that if you know the Lord, that this will give you comfort as well, that you will see our dear Linda again. Thank you. Thank you, Vanya. I'd like to ask um Linda's sister, Karen Clayton McConnell, to please come forward and share with us her memories. Well welcome. Um thank you all for coming here to Linda's celebration of life. I'm Karen Clayton-McConnell, her sister. I am four years younger than she is. We grew up mostly in a town called Powie in North San Diego County And I can honestly say that Linda was a beautiful, funny, smart, courageous, God-fearing, and strong sister. I'm going to share some funny times we had together. When I was young, I was totally convinced that I was going to catch up to her age. So I must have been like five, I guess. I wanted to do everything she was doing. One of the most fun things we did, I think we started maybe when I was five and she was nine. is that every Christmas, the night before Christmas, after the parents went to bed, we'd sneak into the tree area with tape, we'd unwrap all the gifts And we would wrap 'em back up again. I I think that went on until I was like eight and she was twelve. Now, as a parent and now a grandparent, I'm pretty sure I would have woken up during this clandestine activity, but I mean maybe they just went along with it. It w it was a lot of fun. The other thing she did for me um when we were little is that I was a really picky eater. And I used to wrap up food and throw it in the trash can and leave the dinner table. And my mom caught on to that, so she made me sit at the table for a long time and uh my sister felt bad for me so she'd sneak around and she'd eat my t food and then I could leave the table So I I did like to do a lot of things that she did, but when she got braces for her teeth, it was at the time where the orthodontists had you wear those headgear. devices, even to school. I felt so bad for her 'cause I I knew she was made fun of. So when it was um so that's the one thing I didn't want to do that she did 'cause When it came time to the dentist saying, Oh no, I think she needs braces for her overbite, I went, No. So I never did Um, she played the flute and she was beautiful at it doing little concerts and re uh recitals Together when we were after I think I was in junior high and she was starting high school, we did synchronized swimming one summer and it was a lot of fun. She was artistic and creative and she loves sewing. So she had a Barbie doll and she decided she was gonna make it clothes. You know how little their little arms are and everything? I don't know how she did that, but she made a lot of Barbie clothes. I wore a lot of her hand-me-downs, which I was happy to do. There was one dress that she wore to a prom that I absolutely loved And um so when I got into high school and got to go to prom, we still had the dress around and my mom resized it for me. And that was a great privilege. And she never complained when mom would ask her to take the little sister to the friend's house. I mean, think about it. You're twelve and you're dragging your eight year old sister with you to a friend's house. So But every everybody accepted me. Um in high school in Poway she was a uh cheerleader and um She learned how to ski in high school and that became a love of hers. We moved to the Virginia area the last two years of her high school. There was a community pool and she was a lifeguard there. And um She uh did graduate from Annandale High School before she went to um to college. In Powie, our dad was an elder of our Presbyterian church. In high school, she attended a Christian camp in Colorado and she fell in love with with the state and went to Colorado State University where she lived in the Alpha Cai Omega sorority and earned a bachelor's in residential design. Of course, when I went to UCLA, I also became a member of the Alpha Chi Omega sorority. Linda moved to LA and worked for St. Charles Kitchens and had a really cute single apartment within steps to the beach. Then our mom died suddenly. My mu our mother was 46. Linda and mom never had a chance to re reconcile a lot of issues and it was really difficult on Linda. And um our dad helped her to transition into a new life in the military. Um and you can just see the God open exciting doors for her um, you know, to be going to the Defense Language Institute and the DIA and best of all, meeting the love of her life, Jamie, and having a beautiful daughter, Sarah. Lynn and I became very close, mostly over the phone as we lived on opposite coasts. We did fly to see one another with families throughout the year. The last three years we shared a lot of fun reels, you know, on the phone about dogs mostly I would uh send her lots of photos of my family and my grandsons. We would talk about so many things. We tried to solve the problems of the world. And did a lot of praying. Now I cannot do that. I already catch myself saying, Oh, I think I'll call Linda. But I'll just have to call her in a spiritual way. We would share our faith and she was able to forgive our mother for the issues that were not resolved. It was such a blessing, knowing we are all justified. by the cross, given the Holy Spirit through sanctification and during our earth during our earthly lives. And now she has her glorification right next to Christ. Thank you, Karen. As I uh was listening to you share uh the early years, I can't help but wonder if um you guys have practiced. Um appearing shocked when um or happy when you opened up the Christmas presents in front of your parents. You fainted I'd like to ask uh Sarah Purnett to please come forward as uh she shares um her remembrances uh about her mother, Linda. I'm a little taller than Bonnie, so I can I gotcha. I can hold it. Woo, hello. All right. Um Hi, everybody. Thank you for coming. I think I know everybody that's here. For the few that I haven't met, hi, I'm Sarah, Linda's only child. It means a lot that you guys are all here. Again, so thank you for coming and bodying it, Karen. Thank you. That was really beautiful. If it was appropriate to clap and stand, I would. Okay. Um so I'm gonna share two uh two things with you guys. The first is my eulogy, and the second is a poem I wrote, and I'll get more into that when I read it, when I'm about to read it. Um what's funny though is as I was preparing to um write this, I actually last minute decided I would be able to communicate more effectively what I wanted to by actually writing my eulogy in um poem form. So y'all get two poems today. I want to tell you of the hidden beauty of my mother. You might not know of her amazing analytical creative mind, always planning, always projecting, always tinkering with optimizing her time. She always wanted to run, raging work ethic to do all she could, considering how to bless others and create beauty, bring life as she should. Researching, cooking, cleaning, decorating, sewing, painting, selling her creations, never enough time and energy to fully fill all her stations. wealth of talent to share, personally, professionally, artistically, and all the rest. But now let me tell you about the one in which I knew her best. Not just a role, but a relationship, an outworking of her identity. She was my mother, and she took that very seriously. Sacrificing, guiding, correcting, protecting, spurring on, and being being silly. instructing to live with consideration, class, and grace, always celebrating me, my life, wanting and helping me to find my place. Even when it was trouble I caused and faced, her warm comfort came close. Never to give up, caught up, cut off, throw away, or replace. Where did this come from, you ask? Her most important gift, contribution, felt responsibility in my life's race. came from knowing her savior, receiving his forgiveness, and then beckoning me to see his face. Her refrain, born again, new creation. She knew in whom now was her identity. Instead of condemning, she taught and wanted me to rest in him, his love, his goodness, growing in Christ-likeness forever free. So let me tell you of the beauty of my mother. Forever-bound first love of her savior creator led her to patience, hopefulness, to forbear. As a wife, family member, church member, neighbor, friend, she knew Christ could change people, even up till the very end. Soft-hearted, persistent prayer, even in suffering space, quiet endurance, birthed by what she had received from Jesus, generous grace Not repaying in return. Heavenly relationship lived out and confirmed. Come and see the beauty of my mother. Because it's not hers, it is Jesus Christ's. Come to know him, see him, love him, as we love one another in beautiful, righteous life. So, as promised, the second thing I'm gonna read to you all is a poem. Another poem I wrote. I'd welcome, it's in your programs. I'd welcome you all to read along because the visual layout of this one kind of matters. I share this one for a few reasons. Especially in the last year, year and a half or so, was these theology poems I started writing that were an outlet for my own meditation on scripture. And if memory serves correctly, this poem I'm about to read to you guys is the first one I ever read to her. And she really, really liked it. She really liked my poems. It was very special to me to share that with her. And this is I share this as a little window into our fellowship. And I share it also because Um I think it touches on and reflects some of the spirit I saw in her. This poem is called Grace. Grace comes in different colors, different flavors. Grace for today. The grace of conflict, the grace of challenge, the grace of quieting your mind. All of it undeserved, and yet right, because it is a reflection of the king. Humble and regal, how can it be both? We give it as a reminder of the one who has given it to us. He is the one who gives unilaterally. He does not need it. He only gives. We give as we have received from him, so we give not as we receive from them. Do we even know how much we have given? We do not. That's part of the point. Grace does not minimize, but shouts triumphantly in the face of the failing, here you go! Boisterous with joy, it beckons to generous freedom. Quietly and gently it covers and soothes with hopeful healing voice. Come back. Come out. I see you. Keep coming here. You are not alone. I am here too. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. Wonderful memories of our beloved Linda. The text that I have chosen for today from the Word of God are from Psalm 39, 4 through 7, and 1 Timothy 6, 7. Would you please rise for the reading and the hearing of God's holy and inerrant word The following is from Psalm thirty-nine, four through seven. Show me, O Lord, my life's end, and the number of my days. Let me know how fleeting is my life. You have made my days a mere hand breath. The span of my years is nothing before you. Each man's life is but a breath. Man is a mere phantom as he goes to and fro. He bustles about, but only in vain. He heaps up wealth, not knowing who will get it. But now, Lord, what do I look for? My hope is in you. 1 Timothy 6. 7 For we have brought nothing into the world, so we cannot take anything out of it either. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And join me in prayer as you're being seated. Holy Spirit, comfort us as we pray. As we grieve the loss of our beloved sister by the words committed to us by our Heavenly Father, may the gospel of Christ speak to us at the point of our greatest need. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Each of us has hopes in this life. Each of us have goals in this life Some of them are from very early on in life, and sometimes they pop up later in life. We go about making plans to make them come about These hopes and goals come in many shapes and sizes, and they can come from a desire to achieve a life of comfort. To that of safety, security, power, and glory. I recall that when we experienced the COVID pandemic, which really wasn't that long ago. Many of our plans to achieve our goals took a turn. Things like the joy of traveling, to go somewhere, to see something we've always wanted to go in a place in the world. So perhaps even starting a business. Instantly they came to a halt, and in many cases, permanently. Our psalmist tells us that man hustles about in vain. Vanity The word vanity literally equates to meaningless, empty, shallow, worthless. Why does our psalmist say that? Why does he say that all, not some, but all? is vanity. Everything that we save up for, the many kingdoms that we built in life, all that we aspire to own and have at our disposal. Well, I think the Apostle Paul begins to answer this question very poignantly, doesn't he? He tells us in 1 Timothy 6. 7. We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out of it. It really does bring things into perfect clarity. The reality that we all have acquired, well frankly, nothing will go with us into the afterlife, not even as we say, the clothes on our backs. We seem to live in an age of great confusion, I think. Great confusion about faith, spirituality, religion, ethics, and of course the afterlife. If not confusion, certainly there are several worldviews, belief systems to choose from, aren't there? The circumstance is understandable that since the birth of modernity and its greatest allurements and promises of health, wealth, world peace. Have led to greater poverty, epidemics, World War I, World War II, and countless regional conflicts. the like of which has not been experienced for centuries prior. The disillusionment of the promise of man to recreate Eden on earth has given birth to new age. Which we call, and may I add not too cleverly post-modernity. These failures have left our society unable to trust ourselves. to the authoritative proclamations of spiritists and scientists alike, which has caused us now to retreat to a new authority, the self. Regarding the afterlife, man has now said, I know something is true because I think or feel it is true. And if another person has the exact opposite view, you will be told as I have been told many times, well, it may be true for you, but it's not true for me. I have my truth and you have your truth. Now, if you ask the person, what will happen to you when you die? You may get a variety of answers. Whatever the answer is, if you ask him to prove it, or what evidence he has for this belief of his You will walk away, I guarantee you, as I have, unsatisfied. Confusion and uncertainty about this topic have led to creating our own reality, which of course is not based upon evidence, but oftentimes on feelings Upon wishful thinking, fantasy, or adaptations from charismatic personalities or even movie celebrities So let me ask you a question. What do you think will happen to you after you die? What will happen to your soul after you die? Some of you just simply don't know. Some of you may be trying to work your way into heaven, and some of you do know. And some suspect you know and you don't like the prospects of where you're going to end up All of us can agree at least on one thing, can't we? That we're going to die. We are all going to die. Our bodies will eventually give out. One way or another, we will die. This fact is brought clearly to our minds as we are remembering the life of our deceased sister and friend Linda. I remember several years ago watching a documentary on a movement that believed that you can join their organization and they will teach you the secrets of living forever. They had cracked the code to eternal life. I kid you not, it made the national news. But all you had to do was to look in the obituaries, and you will find their names of the former members. They no longer exist because I think it died out. Moving forward into the realm of science, science fiction. There is a vision now that our thoughts and experiences can be encoded and downloaded into computers where we can reside for an eternity. Sort of like a human computer digital reality. Well, I suspect that this is being done now, and I think we will be successful at it. But all that is is nothing but our thoughts and experiences being downloaded to a computer. It's not our souls. Computers cannot contain our souls. So then If man is confused and has retreated at one end of the spectrum into intellectual absurdity, how can you not have anxiety about life after death? So the question remains, can a person have genuine peace about the afterlife with some evidence for it? Over the last two plus years, I visited with Linda on several occasions, and we had conversations about a variety of things. But we talked about the matters of the afterlife. She had courage. She had peace. And in the face of death, and that courage and peace came from God's revealed word. The Bible, and the wonderful offer of the good news that was contained in it. She believed its promises, rejoiced in it, took comfort in it. And this very minute, she is indeed experiencing the glorious fruits of trusting in those promises. Wouldn't you like to have courage and peace in the face of death just like Linda? It's very simple. The Bible says in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only unique Son That whosoever should, and here it is, believe in him will have eternal life. It's all right there. All you have to do is trust in him. Trust Jesus' crosswork as being entirely sufficient. To get you into heaven and to avoid an eternity in hell. What exactly is it, you may ask, about the crosswork of Christ that you need to believe? Well, it's about God the Father punishing Jesus, his son on the cross, for your sins. By trusting in the finished work of Christ, you will have the price, the punishment of your sins paid for by the Lord Jesus. It's really that simple. And it really is that easy. So let me ask you If you believe that Jesus died for your sins and that you get to go to heaven when you die to be with him, wouldn't that give you peace and make you courageous at the prospects of death? Okay, you may say, that's all nice, Pastor. And I'm in too, if I could know that this is true. How do I know that I can trust the claims of Christ as recorded for us in the Bible? Is there any evidence? That proved it. Something that is grounded in time and space. Something that has documented in history Did Linda and all other genuine Christians stemming from the first century, the first generation of Christians? Till today, believe in a fairy tale. Did Linda simply choose to believe a fantasy? Are we Christians? Nothing but yet just another voice in the postmodern world claiming truth to something that we simply don't have any evidence for. What's right for us is only right for us. And if someone else believes in Buddha or Muhammad or oncoming asteroids or becoming a basil leaf, an ant or a cockroach the next time around. Well, that's right for them. Well, this is not an issue of a right to believe. What you want to believe. This is an issue that is based upon what? Let's face it. You die only once. No do-overs. Your eternity is hanging in the balance. There is one thing that Christians can point to that will settle the matter. It has for myself, and this should settle the matter for you. One thing vindicates the Bible's truthfulness, one that supports the promises of Jesus. This one thing is something that many have tried to disprove, but have only come back becoming Christians themselves. One fact that impacted just a small handful of followers that has made Christianity into the dominant world religion that it is today. One thing that will give substance to our faith as it did to Linda. What is it you may ask? Well, the Bible records for us on several occasions, Jesus prophesied that he would go to Jerusalem to be crucified. buried, and be raised from the dead by God the Father. And get this, on the third day It is the resurrection that proves the truthfulness of Jesus' claims, which assures and authenticates And proves that the God of the Bible is the true God. Dead men don't come out of their grave on the third day after their death. Frankly, they don't come out at all. And they certainly don't predict it on a couple of occasions God, the Father, authenticated the words and work of Christ by his resurrection Do you know anybody like that? Know anybody who knows anybody who predicted their death and resurrection? Especially to that precision? Now I think we can return to our psalmist and answer our question. And what do I place my hope in? The psalmist said in the last verse, My hope is in you Let us take comfort in knowing that we have a great and mighty Savior who is capable of finishing the work that He has begun in us. Let us take comfort in knowing that Linda knew in whom she believed in. And she was persuaded that Christ is capable of that which he committed unto her against that day. And today, this very day, Linda is no longer. encumbered by the consistent and persistent pain she experienced for such a long time Instead, she sees Christ clearly, and her joy has been made complete by being in the arms of our Savior. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed for your great grace. We thank you for the life that you gave to Linda, and we thank you for the grace that you extended to her. And we pray now that you would be with us and extend grace to us as we need them, to grow in Christ or to come to Christ. And we pray that you would do this for our good and your glory. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. I'd like to ask you all to please rise as we sing our last hymn, which is hymn number 460. Amazing Grace. That's hymn number 460, Amazing Grace. I was forced. And when this touch and large shall and more so I shall be one. We broke us to speak God's praise, and when we first be brought Immediately after the benediction, you are all invited to join the fellowship hall for a light lunch We hope that you can join the family as we continue to remember and give thanks to God for his grace upon Linda's life. After the benediction, I will dismiss the family first and continue to do so until the end of the sanctuary. Receive now the benediction. May the grace of the Lord Jesus and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.