Well, before I read from the scriptures, I want to remind you of something that happened in the book of Acts. Paul and Silas, after passing through Thessalonica, came to Berea and there is was Paul's custom as he entered the synagogue and proclaimed uh the gospel. And Luke writes this. Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica. They received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so As I understand my task this morning, and every morning when I stand before you, it is to open the text of Scripture. to show you how it ultimately speaks of Christ Jesus and how it applies to us And while every uh preacher has his uh style, as truth moves through his own personality, mine stick very close to the text And so I'm more of a photographer than a painter. And if uh you understand this first, you'll understand your responsibility to see if I've done my job. And you might do that here by keeping your Bible open. It might be that you want to read in Philippians before you get here to be more familiar with the passage. And you can go home and check it out like the Bereans did. Let me pray, and I want to invite you to stand as we turn to Philippians chapter 2. And that is Page nine eighty in the Pew Bible. We thank you, Father. That your word is a light to give direction to our lives. And it also has the power to warm our hearts. May you make both of these things true for us that we might see the light of the Lord Jesus Christ and be transformed by him, that our hearts would be warmed. by hearing his words through this letter. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Paul writes in verse 12, I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. so that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry. but others from goodwill. The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaim Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. You may be seated. A while back, I received a missionary report. about the Jesus film project. Willie Erasmus was put in charge of the process of translating the film for the Yale people who live in Mozambique. There's more than a million Yale speakers, and most of them had never heard the gospel before. And on his way to finishing the recording for the Gay of Voices that would be dubbed in for the soundtrack, he was assaulted. In the middle of the road, an axe-bearing maniac came at his vehicle, shattered the window, and cut his arm. Will he done his best to avoid the man, but it that wasn't possible. And so he went to the police station and reported this event. And when he came back out, he discovered they had a flat tire and the rim was cracked. Even though he can't remember hitting anything at all. After getting the car repaired, he uh headed to the border and he was delayed overnight and slept in his van. Numerous problems came when they finally reached the place where the transition would be done. Numerous times tracks that were made were somehow lost, but eventually. The recording was done, and they headed off into Mozambique to the area where the Yale people lived. But the trip was attended with difficulties. All the bridges had either washed away or been destroyed in the Civil War, and in their place were these rickety makeshift bridges that were comprised of sticks and of rocks. and tweaks. Even in all-wheel drive vehicles, it was difficult uh to cross them. Everybody got out of the vehicles And they prayed and sang praises to God as they crossed these bridges. It took hours to get across these bridges. But There were no mishaps. And Willie writes in his report, it was as the angels were carrying each vehicle across the bridges. In fact, Willie insists that in fact is what happened. Exhausted at 3 a. m. in the morning, they finally decide uh to bed down in their sleeping bags. But it's very windy, and they wait until they reach some seemingly deserted buildings. But in fact, they found out that morning as they woke to the muzzles of AK-47s headed down in a rebel base. And the soldiers demanded answers, and it took considerable negotiation to satisfy them and to be allowed to proceed on. When they arrived in Yeoland, um They were met at the premier showing by 3,500 people, and those people heard the gospel proclaimed with authority and power. For four days, though they'd arrived late, for four days they showed the film, and the imam uh for uh that area gave them authority uh to show the film in every mosque. All told, 40,000 Yeah speakers saw the film and six I think you probably agree with me. That's a great story, a wonderful mission report. Every obstacle is overcome by prayer and praise. And that's wonderful when that happens, isn't it? But It doesn't always turn out like that. Things go south. We encounter reversals, not only when we're seeking to advance the cause of Christ, but just in our ordinary living. And it doesn't uh it just doesn't always turn out well. This is Paul's experience He had been without freedom for four years until he arrived in Rome, and he would spend two more years in prison before a jury was reached, and his trial was held. That was not Paul's life's plan to spend six years in prison. Now the church in Philippi is quite concerned about Paul. They want to know how he's doing. And he writes to answer their question. In verse 12, he begins this way. I want you to know, brothers So he's answering their question. How are you? I want you to know, brothers. And the word brothers there is in Greek, Adelpha. And so it could be translated brothers and sisters. That's exactly what Paul intends. That what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel, so that it has become and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ Paul's answering their questions and what they expected was a report about his circumstances. Now, a conventional report would include the kinds of details we would expect a reporter to have about an event like this. Actually, a reporter would give you the backstory You know, he'd tell you about Paul's arrest and his imprisonment, and it would lead up to the the story of being in prison in Rome. There'd be a description of where he was staying, about his daily activities, his physical condition, and of course We want to know how he feels about all of that. But Paul does none of those things. He refers to his chains. The word imprisonment is literally chains. He speaks of his chains, but he doesn't speak of the calluses, of the chafing that those chains have had on his body. Instead He gives a missionary report. In fact, the report goes from where I started reading all the way to the end of this chapter. And he says, I'm rejoicing. Because the difficulties I've experienced are in fact advancing Christ's purpose. Paul wants them to know this because he wants them to be able to face the difficulties in their lives with joy. Now you might wonder, can what Paul says here that worked for him really work for us? It's a fair question. Just how is it possible to know joy in our circumstances? And I just want to be completely honest. Joy in difficult circumstances does not arise naturally in me. It's just not my first response to difficulty. But Paul shows us here The answer, and I want to present it in two parts. First is this that we can have joy by being confident, as Paul was. that the circumstances in his life and ours are ordered by God, or to put it very simply, by trusting in God's providences. And the second is, the second way we entered joy is by choosing, as Paul did, the advancement of Christ's purposes, the advancement of the gospel over our own personal agenda. Or again, simply by choosing God's agenda over our own. Now, Paul wants us to know that in spite of what they think or may have heard, that his imprisonment has actually brought great blessings and joy. And he wants to set them at ease. And that's why he writes, I want you to know. Brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. And then he gives them the evidence. That's in verse 13. So that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. The gospel is spreading through the Praetorian Guard. That's 9,000 elite soldiers whose job is to be the emperor. They had a lot of influence in Rome. And sometimes they removed emperors and sometimes they installed new ones. And then Paul hints at how this happened See every six hours there was a changing of the garps. And every six hours when the new guard came. Paul, who was very gregarious, would strike up a conversation. And sooner or later, one way or the other, because he may have been asked or because Well, he was just good at moving the conversation in this direction. He would tell them why it was he was in chains. He would say, I'm in chains because I belong to Jesus Christ. I serve him. He has died on a cruel Roman cross for our sins. God raised him from the dead, vindicating that he was innocent, and now he is the exalted Lord over all. And Christ personally summoned me. into life and entrusted to me the gospel to proclaim. This good news that's for all the nations That Jesus is the Savior for everyone who turns to Him and puts their trust in Him. And one day it will come about that everyone will recognize this Jesus as Lord of all. Now what you may not realize, but the soldiers certainly did, that the gospel and the claim that Jesus is Lord runs completely counter to the claimed the emperor. The emperor was the Lord and Savior of the world, and when a new emperor was born, it was proclaimed as good news to the entire Roman Empire. Paul became the talk of the barracks. You know, his attitude, his joyful attitude, stood in sharp contrast. to most of the people that these soldiers routinely interacted with. There was none of the bitterness, none of the complaining that accompanied most prisoners. And then Paul continues. It's a little phrase at the end of 13, the whole imperial guard and to all the rest. That refers to the members of Caesar's In fact, he tells us at the end of this letter that there are believers in Caesar's household. You see, Paul's Prison has opened doors for the gospel that otherwise he would have never been able to open on his own. Instead of seeing his imprisonment as a tragic end to a brilliant career or a sign that God had cast him aside and forgotten him, Paul's perspective is that my imprisonment is for Christ. That's how the ESV puts it, but literally it's chains. Are in Christ. You see, Paul sees those chains as evidence of his union with Christ His chains are a fulfillment of the ambition he'll write about later in chapter 3 to know Christ and participate in his sufferings. Those chains are a mark to him of Christ's faithfulness to him, of his deep longing to have his life conformed to the life of Christ. In fact, let me just say as an aside, this insight that Paul writes about this aspiration is the aspiration that actually makes sense of the whole pattern of our lives. Just as Jesus' life was suffering, then glory, so our lives are too. And on the macro scale, our lives in this world are suffering, as Jesus was, the predominantly suffering, and glory awaits us. But, and I will do this later, Paul's also intimating that there are small moments of glory in our lives. God doesn't just leave us in a valley of suffering and darkness. He raises us up. There's these many resurrections in our life. That's what God's doing. When you encounter suffering in your life, part of what he's doing is conforming you to the very pattern of Jesus' life. I'd like to take credit for that little thing. But actually John Calvin wrote this in a wonderful little book of the Institute called the Golden Book of the Christian Life. Well back to the sermon here. We won't be passing the plates and that was free. There's more evidence of progress. In verse 14 he writes, And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Paul's fearless witness while in chains, in other words, inspired others to proclaim the gospel. Now most of the brothers and sisters were influenced. to be bold. They were motivated to take a public stand, even if that meant opposition and rejection. In other words, Paul's courage was contagious. The courage of faithful witnesses has throughout the centuries stirred the church, not just its official leaders, but the entire rank and file in the church. to faithfully proclaim the gospel. In 1555, two of the foremost leaders of the English Reformation, Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley were condemned to die by burning at the stake. As these men uh were tied and as the fires were being lit Latimer shouted, Be of good comfort, Master Ridley, and play the man. We shall light this day. Such a candle by God's grace will not be extinguished. In all of England, Paul's imprisonment met not less evangelism, but more. Now life has to be lived forward, but it can only be understood backwards. Life has to be lived forward. We move forward through time in our lives, but we actually can only understand it as we look back. In a way that Paul probably didn't see at the time, his imprisonment would advance the gospel down to our own day. You see, it was During the years he was imprisoned in Rome, that he wrote the letters to Ephesians, Colossians, Philippians, and Philemon. And those letters have had a more lasting impact than the churches that they were actually written to. Life, how our circumstances advance God's purposes, how they move the gospel forward, how they pursue making us more like Christ. And our confidence cannot be, it must not rest, on what we see, whether it's the evidence or results or our assessment of what's actually happening at any point in time. Paul in fact says this, and it might seem subtle to you, but it's quite intentional. In verse 12, he writes these words, What has happened? That's a passive. The scholars like to say it's a divine passive. It's what God has done. And in verse 16 he says, I am put here. They both point to God's ordering in Paul's life. God's sovereignly working populations, God set me apart before I was born. In other words, God's plan for Paul's life, which was planned by God before the creation of the world is unfolding and Paul's resting in that. This is what we mean by the word providence. That's a, for you children, that's just a fancy word that means that God is involved in shaping, sustaining, and ordering everything Whether it's in the world outside these windows or in our lives in here. He's at work ordering all things. And this is affirmed many, many times in the scriptures. Three of my favorite are this. Psalm 115, our God is in the heavens. He does all that pleases him. Hebrews begins with these words. Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. Jesus did not choose to let you take this next breath. If he was not consciously willing your existence, you would not only not breathe, you would cease to exist. It's his conscious willing to allow my hand to open. This is truly a miracle that my hand opens and closes because supernaturally Jesus is sustaining my life. Are these familiar words from Ephesians 1? In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined. according to the purpose of him who works all things, all things, according to the counsel of his will God Himself will bring challenging, stretching, faith-building experiences into our lives. But how different we all are. What one of you might find easy to bear, another finds crushingly difficult. But all of us at some time experience anxiety, fear, deep discouragement. We get impatient. And so it's important if we're going to share in Paul's confidence that we develop a deep conviction. About God's rule and order in the world and in our own lives. We'll need to find passages of Scripture that speak to us, that are full of light to us. Perhaps none of the ones I mentioned are full of light for you. And we'll need to meditate on those. And perhaps memorize them until this becomes a rock solid conviction in our hearts. Now we can tell whether this has really become a conviction of our hearts and not simply a mental notion. by how we respond when things are difficult. You see, it's easy to think your faith is strong when life is as smooth as glass, a lake on a windless day. But when things get turbulent, when things uh uh are well not what we'd like, when pressures come and trials are are experienced. Then we see, in fact, how stable our faith is. We see really whether what we say we think and believe is in fact really the place our hearts rest. Has your faith been doing? What have you learned about it? Well, Jesus is in the business of uh refining our faith. And so if you've fallen down, it's okay. You're in good company. Probably everybody in this room has a fall-down experience they could tell. I'd have a lot to tell. We fall down. Jesus knows that. We're just little children learning how to walk on the life of faith. Now Paul's report on what has happened is written so that we can meet our adverse circumstances with joy. But the easy manner in which Paul relates this in this letter might be deceptive. It might lead you to think, well, Paul never struggled. Paul never had any difficulties. It was nothing for Paul to look past what ordinarily would awaken self-pity. or to talk of Christ and not his complaints, or to accept each circumstance as something that Jesus had brought into his life. uh with a purpose. He doesn't relate the hard-fought battles in his own heart and mind. And we must remember that the things Paul experienced were really quite different than what he'd planned for his own life. Paul, as you know, was the great missionary to the Gentile, to every uh city that he was able to reach. He traveled through Syria and Crete and most of what is now Turkey to Greece. And he planned to take the gospel to Spain, to preach it, to see people respond to it, to plant churches, to raise up leaders, to instruct those that had come to faith in Christ. His plan was to go to Spain and then return once more to Jerusalem, stopping off in Rome. But those plans never took place. The events of the last seven chapters of the book of Acts tell the story that leads up to Paul's entrance into Rome. Paul, as he determined to set foot in Jerusalem, even if it meant suffering, for him is immediately encounters False accusation from his own people. He's nearly lynched by a mob. He's put in a Roman prison. He barely escapes the flogging only by pleading his Roman citizenship. His whole case is a mockery of justice. He was kept imprisoned in large measure due to the corruption of the officials that were in charge of him. They were looking for a bribe. When he was finally transferred to Rome, he met a terrible storm at sea, where his life seemed to hang in the balance. And both because of the storm, because it was a very fierce storm, but also because of the soldiers who were responsible to get their prisoners into place. And their intent was to ensure they'd completed their duty, no one escaped, by putting them all to death. When he reached Rome, it was probably far different than the trip he'd planned. Instead of Entering in a way that had a sense of triumph to it, he came in the company of the condemned. Bound by a chain, his trial was drug out for two years, all the while waiting an uncertain outcome from a mere human leader. Consider it. All the frustration, all the delay, all the physical suffering. He must have been like a horse being held back. in a bridle, wanting to get out, wanting to make the gospel known, and remaining there in prison year after year. How do you respond when life's unfair? What do you do when you feel trapped by some circumstance? When nothing seems to be going right? Do you take out your frustration, which is a polite word for anger, on other people? Or do you go into a funk? Or do you fail to carry out your responsibilities? And for Paul, as he's in Rome, he tells us there were fellow Christians at Rome who were seeking to add to his misery. Verse 15. Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from goodwill. The latter do it out of love Knowing that I'm put here for the defense of the gospel. The former proclaimed Christ out of rivalry, not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment. These people were not false apostles. Paul doesn't say well they were preaching a false gospel. They're not wolves in sheep's clothing. No, they were pro-Christ Jesus and anti-Paul. They love Jesus. And they despised Paul. Now Paul uh Paul uh doesn't tell us just how their preaching aggravated his conditions in prison. We don't know if thought to provoke Paul. by their freedom to proclaim the gospel and his inability to do that publicly? Or perhaps they were hoping Paul would receive harsher treatment because the gospel was going forth in Rome. We don't know. But he does expose their motives. He says that Their motives are envy and rivalry. Now envy for your children is simply wanting what someone else has, or thinking, I deserve what that person has. And most likely they were envious of Paul's influence as he comes to Rome. They may have felt diminished by the presence of this famous man. And they are rivals, acting out of a partisan spirit. All of you know that our politics at this point are just full of a partisan spirit. And they use the pulpit. to make sly innuendos, veiled attacks, concealed and damaging hints about Paul himself. This was personal. And on the one hand, while Paul doesn't condone in any way their envy or their rivalry, their partisanship. For these are well, these are not the motives that a Christian should ever have. It's an unspiritual Christianity. But Paul isn't threatened by it. Paul can say In first eighteen, what then? What does it matter? I rejoice that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, that Christ is proclaimed. Now, how could Paul do that? How can he respond like that? he be so gracious in such a a moment when people he's encountering personal animosity. These people, they hate him. Well let's be clear, it wasn't because he had a thick skin. How I would love sometimes to have a thick skin. I just never developed it. It's not that he's detached like some Buddhists. It's not that he's a stoic. No, it is that Paul is free from self-preoccupation. He is the apostle, the heart set free. He has entered into self-forgetfulness. He's not constantly preoccupied with himself. What a gore. Thing to actually have. Paul has achieved this by choosing, and I'm sure many, many times, over and over again, the advancement of the gospel in Christ. purposes over his own personal interest. Let me say that again. Because it's essential to finding joy. It's to choose over your own interests. Christ's interests Christ's agenda. And Paul is undoubtedly hurt by those who oppose him. But he's not controlled by those feelings. He's living for a purpose bigger than entirely. himself bigger than his own comfort and welfare, which is hard for us middle class Americans to do. Because life for us is so much about getting comfortable and then getting more comfortable. And it really troubles us when life gets Uncomfortable. Paul's joys because the gospel is advancing. His attention is not on himself. You see, Paul's joy is rooted in a person. The source of his joy is a person. And you may have noticed that you can certainly check this out when you get home That in every verse in the text I've read this morning, Paul mentions either the person of Jesus or the message of the gospel or the person who is the message. Jesus, the eternal Son of God, equal with the Father, has become truly one of us. He is now our brother, and he did this so that he could not only secure for us forgiveness and acceptance, but to grant us the gift of his own righteousness. So that everything that God would ever ask of you has already been done. A Christian should never feel condemned. They should never feel like I don't measure up. You measure up because Jesus has given you the measure of everything that would ever be required of you. Whether as a child of the father or as a spouse. Or a child or an employee or a member of the church or as a citizen. This good news, this amazingly good news of God's grace has set Paul free. from himself. It set him free from his previous pursuit of religion and moral achievement. Paul's not a moralist. He's free because of the gospel. Christ, who's the hero of Paul's message, has become the very center of his life. And the gospel has captured him for a cause bigger than himself. Now, if you're anything like me, and I don't want to presume that you are, you all are probably further along in the Christian life than I will ever get to be. But for me, my mood flourishes or withers depending on the circumstances in my life. If my health is good and others appreciate me and have a little money in the bank, I'm pretty satisfied with that. I'm pretty happy. I smile at you. But when things go wrong, whether it's a cold, cancer, or COVID Others are indifferent or even oppositional, then my spirits plummet. My inner landscape gets dry and brittle. There is only one person who can set your heart and mind free, and that person is not Paul. It is Jesus Christ. It's only you surrender to his grace. that you can know the joy and the freedom that Paul's describing. If you have not ever known, never tasted this joy, then you can You need but come to Jesus Christ. Now is as good a time as any to come to him. Ask Christ Jesus to cleanse you of your selfishness, of your self-preoccupation. Ask him to come and as you trust him to impart to you his righteousness, all that he's done to make you right with God. But if your joy's been diminished, you're here and you've tasted that joy, but your joy's, well, your joy tank's low. Conflict often diminishes people's joy. If you've lost your joy, and that happens, it happens in the Christian life. Then what you need to do is you come to this table this morning is to come and be honest. Lord, I'm not joyful the way I should be. You know, Paul, Paul's joy beams like the sun, and mine's barely a candle at this point. Mine seems to flicker with the winds of the circumstances in my life. Turn to Christ as you come to the table. Turn to him and surrender to him. And ask him to fill your heart with faith that whatever you've experienced or now are experiencing, that he's at work in it. Can you believe that? Can you believe that for yourselves as a church? Can you believe that Jesus is really up to something good in spite of all the difficult circumstances you've been through? that he's at work in these to advance his purposes. Can you believe that in what you're experiencing? Some of you are experiencing great losses Even as we speak this morning. For some of you things hang in the balance and you're not sure how they will turn out. This, my friends. What I've declared to you today is the glorious gospel. Let's pray. Father, if we are honest, our first and lasting response to adversity and difficulties is anything but joy. Awaken and deepen in each of us a confidence that you're at work sustaining and ordering and bringing about your purposes, not only in our lives, but in this church, as well as the church around the globe, so that Jesus might be known and glorified. We surrender to your grace now. Captivate us by the beauty of Jesus, that we might find our joy in him who gave up his rights. To seek our best to redeem us. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.