Let me uh pray for us this morning. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are a Good and comforting Heavenly Father that is with us in brokenness, is with us in our sin, is with us to redeem. So Lord, we ask for your spirit. We know that there's hard news that was mentioned, and I don't know all the details. Lord, you know. I pray that you would be with my friends. as they uh are here to worship you and we pray Jesus that you would be lifted up as we read and consider your word this morning. That you would comfort us, meet us where we need to be met, that you would change us as a result of being here in worship. Ultimately, Jesus, that you would be glorified and lifted up. And we pray that in Christ's name. Amen. So if you would turn in your Bibles to Psalm 27. Psalm 27 is a psalm about dealing with fear and anxiety. And anxiousness. The situation is that David is being surrounded by his enemies. He's under not just the thought of a threat, but some sort of real. incredible threat for his life. Evildoers are seeking his life. And in the midst of that, he teaches us how to deal with fear. I remember my first experience with fear, I think I was five or six years old. And uh I I grew up not too far from here, a little place called Granite, Maryland, and uh My we our family we made a big deal of trigger treating and uh I remember dressing up And my neighbor, Mr. Herb Ford, had a van and where we lived it was very rural, not many houses to get candy. So he said, Well let me take you guys to a neighborhood where there's more houses. So I remember dressing up and uh you know with my bag I was ready and uh waiting for the r the rest of my cousins who kinda lived around me and and other neighborhood kids to get into the van and as I sat there I was waiting, anticipating the candy that would possibly be be mine. And uh I looked out the window and I saw a sight that scared me. There was someone standing there with a black pointy hat. and long wiry hair and a mask on. And as I stared at this person, I began to sink down, sink down to get out of the way. And uh I found out it was my mom. And she she liked it she liked to dress up and and and scare us here and there. And uh I really love that about her because she had fun. And uh but it was terrifying. So I always look back to that point in my life. If anything is wrong I go back to that point. That was the the the issue that probably uh, you know, h hurt me for the future. No but Just just joking, but um This Psalm is about fear. And it's about how to deal with fear. And David gives us some really excellent points and excellent things to consider as we think about uh the anxieties and the things of our world and even of our own hearts that would paralyze us and get our eyes off of God And who he is calling us to be and what he is calling us to do. So if you have your Bibles, take them and let's read. Hear the word of the Lord, Psalm 27, of David. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh. My adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war rise up against me, yet I will be confident. One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock, and now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me. And I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, seek my face, my heart says to you. Your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. O you who have been my help. Cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation. For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. This ends the reading of God's holy word. Amen. Amen. So I work with college students and they have lots of fears and as I think about their fears, they're the same fears we have as adults as well. But let me just point out a few of the fears and anxieties of college students. Maybe you can remember leaving home. You know, the fear of leaving home and leaving your family and leaving friends and and the fear of a new roommate or roommate's plural and what that's going to be like Sometimes they're difficult. Sometimes they're a bit weird. There's new challenges within the dorm itself. A in a lot of places a very difficult time, especially on the weekends There's the fear of not getting good grades. Can I make it in this new place What will my parents think of me if I fail out? How can I live up to their expectations, the fear of approval? Maybe even The fear of changing majors. If you feel like that's really not for me, I'm not good at that, but they want me to do this. What do I do? There's all kinds of social fears. Fear of relationships. Will you be single forever? Fear of being alone. Fear of rejection and shame. If people really knew me, they wouldn't like me or accept me. There's the fear of rejection. There's the fear of crowds. So if you're an introvert this morning, thank you for being here and taking the chance, right? There's the fear of the future. Will you get a job? Will you keep your job? Will you have struggles or health issues? What about political fear, right? What will happen to our country? The fear of safety, gun violence Right now we have a huge health year, don't we, with the coronavirus that's going on. Are the numbers correct? How big is it And ultimately for the Christian, we may even have a spiritual fear of judgment. Uh fear of our not living up to God's standards. The fear of his wrath. We can be ruled by fear. You know, biblically the big picture, where does fear come from in the first place? Well, it comes from Our separation from God due to sin. If you remember back in Genesis, right, chapters 1, 2, and 3, which really is the the beginning and and and really the answer of of of really so many of our questions. God creates this good creation, right? And he puts the man and the woman there in the garden. They have this perfect relationship. with God and they're walking with Him and they are enjoying the goodness of God and His creation, but then the tempter, the serpent uh comes in with his ideas and they believe the tempter and they fall into sin. And here's where the first fear comes, right? They hid from God and and God uh came to them with his first counseling, really gracious thing where he's chasing them in their sin, and he says, Where are you? And they run and hide. And the Lord said I heard, or Adam says to the Lord, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. Then the Lord said, who said, who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? This is the first picture of fear we have in the garden. And it's due to the fact that they had sinned and they had gone against God's commands. The spiritual relationship was broken. They were separated from God. The wrath of God was now upon them. They were full of guilt and shame, and they couldn't be in this holy God's presence, and so they ran and hide and tried to cover. themselves. Fear is the result ultimately of this disobedience Against a wrathful, a God who is just and will display his wrath on sin because he is holy Ultimately, they're cast out of that perfect garden, right? Because the tree of life was there and they couldn't be sin, sinful and eat of the tree of life and be forever sinful. And separated, and God cast them out of the garden. But we know the rest of the story, don't we? We know that God is going to make a way. For sinful people to be forgiven and justified and be able to enter back into that relationship. I mean, that's what the gospel is all about. We're going to get to that here in the passage, but the gospel is the antidote to fear. Fear spiritually from God, which is the beginning of fear of anything else. In 1 John 4, John writes, perfect love drives out fear. Because fear has to do with punishment. In the gospel, fear is dealt with through a Savior who dies for us and takes upon himself God's wrath instead of for us. And this restores that relationship. And so in the Psalm here, we see David Who really is a forerunner of Jesus, understanding where his security lies, and it's in God. And we see him really confessing what it means to believe in God in the midst of his fear. And so this is a psalm. to meditate on and to grab a hold of because it really helps us in a world which is full of fear and anxiety And David helps us by giving us three things, I believe, that help us with our fears. A bold confession. a worship commitment and an honest cry of the soul. And so the first thing is this David helps us with our fears by a bold confession of faith. As you look at the beginning of this psalm, it's almost as if David is asking himself, David, what do you really believe in the midst of these enemies, in the midst of the anxiety, in the midst of the confusion What do you really believe? And here is a confession. He says this, verse 1 and 2, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? And then almost at the very end of the Psalm 13. He says a similar confession of faith. He says, it's almost like someone would say, Well, David, what do you believe? And he says this, I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. When it comes to fear, it's either fight or flight. You've probably heard that, right? We either run away or we fight it. And David is showing us what it means to fight against our fear, but it's not with A, you know, it's not with just trying to ignore it. It is boldly taking our heart by the hand and leading it to God's truth and promises and his gospel. And so David is ultimately preaching the truth to his own fearful, anxious heart because he realizes that God Is the Lord and he is on the throne and ultimate reality comes from him. And so David is full of faith in the midst of this. He calls his heart to fight. You think about David's life. Right? He was his life is a picture of You know, enemies trying to get him. You know, you think about even as a shepherd boy, right, he was out there in the dark, but the uh And the lion we we learned that the la that God protected him and uh from the lion and the and the and the bear, you know, and he was able to save the sheep. But just the fact that he was out in the wilderness and there was bears and lions I think some of us might not go out there, right? You know, then then then we have the whole incident with Goliath, right? As a young teenage boy, he goes to the front line. He's so full of faith And desire for the Lord's glory that he enters in and decides to be that person who will take the fight to Goliath. Because he's so full of faith. Uh he he defeats Goliath by God's grace. He he he's in Saul's household, but Saul then becomes his enemy, right? And on several occasions, Saul tries to kill him with a spear at his house. He's on the run He's fleeing. He's out in the wilderness. He's in caves. Time and time again, though. God delivers him. God saves him. He becomes king. Later on, Absalom, his own son, tries to go against him, right? But God again and again saves him and delivers him. So David has an experience of the Lord being with him, delivering him. And so he cries out with a confession of who God is. He says, The Lord is my light and my salvation. He's centering himself on who is God? The character of God. God is light. And he is my salvation. Again, we've seen from those little examples how God has been his salvation time and time again. God has been his light in dark places. At night in the caves, right? And this element of God being light is all through the scripture, right? With Israel, you know, the the pillar of fire at night You know, leading them through the wilderness, through the desert, that God is our light, that God is the one who shines on our situations of confusion, of anxiety. You know, when you're a little kid, what are you afraid of? Ultimately you're us usually afraid of the dark, right? Keep that night light on. You know, some of us still have to have like just a little bit of light somewhere, right? If it's pitch black, it's scary, isn't it? But we have God, right? We have a God who shines in the darkness for us. God is our light. And and he it's interesting too, he uses the the name Yahweh. Obviously, you know in your in your uh English Bibles, the capital L-L-R-D, that's the Hebrew Yahweh, and that's significant too. Uses it some 13 times in these verses. Because he's thinking about the covenant-saving Lord, Yahweh, the God of Israel, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Not just anybody out there, right? This is the covenant God who loves his people and ultimately loved and covenanted with David himself. And so he knows this God. It says God, this is a God who promised Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and promised him that always he will be with him. And so this is the kind of God that we have. He's a God of light. He's a God of salvation. He's a covenantal God who knows us and he will never let us go. This is a God you can bring your fears to and you can confess to him. And so where are you this morning? Where are you going with your fear? Where are you going? going with the anxieties even and the confusions maybe that are very real in this church right now, I would commend you and call you to boldly confess that God is our light and our salvation. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? What situation can I really fear? Because we have God. He is on the throne. He is our light. He is our salvation. So that's the first thing. A bold confession of faith. Secondly, is a commitment to worship. A commitment to worship. What we see David do in this Psalm, this is verses 4 to 6, is that as he is out there maybe in the wilderness hiding, He is desiring of one thing to seek the Lord in his temple, to gaze upon the Lord. to see the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Really a beautiful passage here about the desire to Know and reflect on and commune with the beauty of the Lord. This is what he says in verse 4. One thing have I asked of the Lord that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, and to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. He's caught up with desiring the beauty of the Lord. And guess what? It's bigger than his fear. It's bigger than the enemy shouting out threats of violence. It's bigger than the unknowns. And so, you know, as you think about even maybe your children when they're when they get hurt or something like that or when they're crying, what do you do? You want to console them, right? You want to Change the situation for them. I'm here, mommy's here, daddy's here, here's a pacifier, right? Here's that truck. Here's you know, you you give them, you change their focus, right? David is ultimately Changing his focus in the midst of battle. He's saying, ah, if I could just see be in the temple of the Lord and worship the Lord, everything would be right. Everything would be good. Now, it's an interesting issue here is what is David actually thinking about? He says I would like to be in in to inquire in his temple. Well, what was the temple at that point? Well, it wasn't later on Solomon was the one that built the temple. With all the ornate carvings and the gold-covered things, right? But at this point, the temple is that tent, that tabernacle. But ultimately, he is looking at this issue of the sacrifice. What was the centerpiece of the tabernacle, the holy of holies, right? The place where the Ark of the Covenant was, and the place where uh the Day of Atonement, happened, right? One day of the year where the priest would bring the blood and sprinkle it on the Ark of the Covenant. Signifying what? Forgiveness of sins. Forgiveness of the wrath of God against you and I. This is what he is viewing, and this is what he sees as beautiful, the forgiveness of God. God who is ultimate is now a friend because of the blood being shed. That we no longer have to fear God, who is the ultimate one who can bring judgment, not just in a short time, but ultimately judgment for our souls for eternity. This is the God who was able to deal with that because of the blood that Is shed as a sacrifice. A sacrifice. Provision for sinners. We think about David's life, right? There was a lot of sin in there Two, the whole issue with that Shiva, right, and the adultery and the murder. Oh, what he truly loved was the fact that Blood has been shed. I'm forgiven. I'm restored. I can enter into relationship with this Lord because I'm forgiven. Ah, the sacrifice. You see, the temple, this vision is where he was reminded of God's love for him, God's desire to dwell with his people and to forgive them. This is what David was rejoicing in. This is where fear of judgment, right? Fear of death Is taken away to understand that God will provide. And so David is understanding the beauty of the Lord And that is changing his desires and what he wants to do. The heart is overtaken first in beauty. And that leads to duty, the joy of doing things for the Lord. And so as you go through the psalm, we see David growing in his desire to worship. To adore God. There's a confidence that's growing. Verse 5, look at this. He will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. You can just feel the confidence growing. And he says, and now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies, all around me. See, as he thinks about the beauty of the Lord and his relationship and being forgiven. And being in the presence of God, his confidence grows, his fears flee, and ultimately his motivation to do the Lord's work grows too, because now we see him desiring. to worship. He says, I will offer in his tent, verse 6, sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. David wants to now get involved with praising God, worshiping God, bringing sacrifices to the Lord, singing and shouting. For the Lord. When you get a hold of the gospel And understanding that Jesus loves sinners and forgives you, it changes you. And it makes you desire to worship this Lord and be close to this Lord and serve this Lord and obey this Lord. Not out of anything we can merit for him, because Jesus merited all that at the cross. But it when we dwell on that beauty, Of the sacrifice of what Jesus has done for us, it sets us free and it desire and makes us want to love Him and serve Him all the more. And we do that at worship. You know, we especially do it here, right? On this on the Lord's Day, where we sing these hymns that That point us to Jesus and his gospel, where we take part in the Lord's Supper, where it reminds us of his love, his death for sinners, and what he has done And this is how worship reforms us and recreates us. My friend Kevin Twitty's a campus minister of Belmont. He said, and he's he studied a lot about hymnity and worship. And he says, worship reorients our hearts and minds. Worship is important. These hymns we sing are important because they reorient us to the truth. The world is giving us lots of messages about fear and anxiety and everything else, and our own minds are talking to us as well as we interact with everything that's going on. And what the truth of the scriptures are and what the truth of the hymns we sing is it reminds us again and again of Jesus and who he is and what he has done for us and what ultimate reality is and this reorients us and reforms us and makes us more and more like Jesus. That's why Boy, like for my students, you know, the key thing is like get them to the church. Get them to work. I always say it's a miracle if you see a college student on a Sunday morning at a church, right? And uh bec because it's so easy just to live the college life and to, you know, stay up late on Saturday night and just not worry about it. But no Like, this is what changes us. It's the worship of God and reforms us and renews us and drives us to love Him more. Some of you may remember that that little movie. It's been it's been a few years now, Castaway with Tom Hanks. Maybe you've seen that movie, but um it's probably twenty years old now, but He's a FedEx employee. His plane goes down on a deserted island, and uh he's there all alone. With a volleyball by the name of Wilson he calls, right? And he's he has this conversation with Wilson during the whole movie And uh as the movie goes on, he's he's you know he's learning how to survive alone, but boy, it's several years now, and he he's kind of given up hope. And there's a scene when he's in the cave, I think he had a toothache, he took a rock and knocked his toothaw out keeps looking at this little locket. And inside that locket is his fiance. And throughout the movie you see him looking at that locket and writing notes basically about that I love I can't remember her name but Telen Hunt the actress but writing her name on on rocks What is driving him and motivating him to get back ultimately is his love for his fiance. I'm not going to tell you the end of the story if you haven't seen it. But it's a powerful illustration of the love, his love and her love is what drives him on. And that is what ultimately the gospel in a much more magnificent way does for us. The love of God in Christ drives out fear. Because we are now friends of God, forgiven, and there's nothing in this world that can touch us. Cancer can't touch us, right? Being feeble can't touch us, right? People uh against us That ultimately when we know that God loves us, gives us a security, a a peace in the midst of our enemies and in the midst of everything that could go wrong. And so a bold confession of faith, a commitment to worship, and lastly, a cry of the soul, a cr of an honest Being honest with your fears. At seven to twelve the psalm kind of changes changes and it goes more to a prayer where he says, Hear O Lord. When I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. You have said seek my face. My heart says you, your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. O you who have been my help. And so he's pouring out his heart. And he begins, we begin to get uh a flavor also of what he was going through in verse 7. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me. He's sensing that God has abandoned him. He's crying out to him. Verse 9, hide not your face, turn not your face from me, hide not, or turn not your servant away in anger. He's feeling like he's cast away from the Lord He's feeling rejected from his family. He says, for my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Verse 12, again, his enemies, false witnesses, give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me. But what we learn in this is a really a model for prayer. He is crying out honestly to the Lord how he feels He's not trying to pretend, but he's being totally honest about his situation and what he is going through. This is what God is calling us to in prayer. If we if you know, I think a lot of times you think, well you have to pr we have to pretend we have to get our we have to say these like words that Sound good and flowery or something? And no, David's just bringing his honesty before the Lord and crying out to God in conversation to this close Lord, this covenant Lord who loves him. So what do you do you pray like that? Do I pray like that? Do I bring my false self or my true self to him? My pretend self. He wants our True self. Here's how it is, Lord. I feel distant today. Lord Jesus, I have sinned. Forgive me. Don't cover up and be honest. You know, this relationship with God is not stuffing our emotions, but it's it's bringing them to the Lord. Do you do that with prayer? The Psalms really teach us that, aren't they? The Psalms are very emotional. The Psalms are very raw, so to speak. David is just pouring out his heart to the Lord. He's being honest. This is how this is what a relationship with God looks like. It's beautiful. We can pour out our hearts to him. We can cry out to him. Ultimately, this is what waiting on the Lord means. Waiting on the Lord is focusing. Verse 14 He says, wait for the Lord, be strong, take courage, and wait for the Lord. It's focused on the Lord Jesus. Tim Keller writes, the weight is not twiddle your thumbs and do nothing, but it's what a focused faith looks like We are looking to our Lord seeking his faith, face, and prayer, laying our lives before him. He he it's like an employee to his boss watching every move and every gesture to know what to do, anticipating Anticipating answers and direction, pouring out our hearts to the Lord by faith and seeking to obey him and serve him while we stay focused on him. This is what David is doing with prayer. He's focused on the Lord and he's being honest and he's crying out and he is waiting and praying But this prayer also shows us something else because it sounds somewhat like a prayer that our Lord Jesus, the greater David, prayed when he was on the cross. Now, in this prayer, David cries out, Lord, hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger and cast me not off. Forsake me not And the Lord comes to his rescue time and time again, doesn't he? But you know, the greater David, the Lord Jesus Christ, he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And his father turned his face away. Why? Why? Well, you see, the Lord Jesus was the one who was rejected for our sin on the cross so that we would never be rejected and we would always have access and we would always be able to run to him and we would never be forsaken because he, the Son of God, was forsaken for us. See, this is why we can be so confident and know that God is with us in the midst of our trials, in the midst of our fears, in the midst of our anxieties, because Jesus went through all of that and he was forsaken. For us. He died for us. We will never be a castaway, right? We will never be sent out because Jesus was that castaway for us. Some of you may have heard about uh George Matheson, the hymn writer who wrote, Oh Love that will not let me go. Have you ever heard the story behind that old hymn? So George Matheson, I'll close with this. George Matheson, at the age of 20 years old, was a Scottish minister, and he was engaged to be married, but he was going blind. And when he broke the news to his fiancee, she decided that she could not live her life uh with a blind husband. And so uh they broke the engagement. And before losing his sight, though, Matheson had written two books of theology, and some feel that he was probably going to be the greatest Church of Scotland leader in the day. One of the special things that happened during that time was his own sister offered to care for him as he went blind. And so for some, I think, twenty years, she helped him, and he ended up going into pastoral ministry and preached to 1,500 people each week at his church. Blind. Well the day came in 1882 when his sister fell in love and she was going to be married and she was preparing for her marriage and so the evening came before the wedding. And George and the whole family were there, and they the the whole family w left his house to prepare for the wedding the next day, and his sister left, and he was alone. And I'm sure he was thinking about his own aborted marriage some 20 years before. And I'm sure he was doubting and reflecting on his the fact that here here his sister who had helped him for so many years was not going to be there as well. So it's not hard to imagine the the grief uh washing over him. And so in the darkness of that moment, Matheson wrote this hymn, O love that will not let me go. And he remarked afterward that it took five minutes, and that it was the only hymn he ever wrote that required no editing. Let me read it to you. Oh love that will not let me go. Let me uh I'm sorry, I I oh yeah, here it is. Um O cross that lifts up my head, I dare not ask to fly from thee. I lay in thus life's glory dead. And from the ground there blossoms red life that shall never end. Fear of being alone is washed away understanding that God's love, a love that will not let me go, will never let him go, that Jesus Christ has done everything for us in the cross and that we are secure. We have nothing to fear and that we can be confident as we go out, knowing that He is on the throne. And he is with us. Let me pray for us. Lord Jesus, thank you for this morning, for this time to look at your word. For this time to reflect on the gospel of grace and to realize that you are good To realize that you have gone gone to great lengths, eternal lengths, to bring your people back. So that we would know your love. So be with these folks today, especially during this season. They would know your love and your grace. We pray that in Christ's name. Amen.