Well, that is our text this morning. And I thought we might spend a minute or two getting our bearings. Before we take a close look at our text, I want to pay some brief attention to historical background here. And by that I mean the historical background that the Bible itself gives us. Because you can learn a fair amount about Paul's relationship with the Thessalonians from the book of Acts. In particular, Acts chapter 17, combined with the things that we can pick up from what Paul said in his letters. So let's trace out the historical background here. We're in the midst of Paul's second missionary campaign. He had set out with Silas and Timothy, joined them along the way. The three of them, in the course of the second missionary journey, go to Thessalonica. They preach the gospel there, and sure enough, a church is planted there. Thessalonica is located in what we would know today as northern Greece. But then opposition from the Jews is aroused there in Thessalonica, so much so that they've got to leave town. From there, it's on to Berea. From there, it's on to Athens. It's while they're in Athens That Paul apparently sends Timothy back up to Thessalonica to find out how they're doing. He hasn't forgotten them, this church that he had to leave behind under such hard circumstances. He wants to know well how they are doing. So Paul sends Timothy up there on a fact-finding mission, an encouragement mission. While Timothy's gone Paul moves on from Athens, makes his way to Corinth, but he's still waiting, still eager to get word about the Thessalonians, and that's what he gets in Corinth. It's there that Timothy rejoins him. And he brings his report, and the report is very good news. He says, in effect, Paul, you wanted to know how the Thessalonians are doing. Let me tell you how they're doing. They are thriving in the gospel. And their love for us has not waned. They have remained steadfast. Well you can imagine the um the joy, the relief that Paul feels when he gets that. Report. And it's in that moment of relief, of joy, that he writes First Thessalonians Among other things, what he does in the letter is to remind them of how things had gone when he was there preaching and ministering among them. And it is such an encouraging review. Doubly encouraging, because he reminds them of the fact that not only had Paul and Silas and Timothy been faithful ministers But he also reminds them of the fact that the Thessalonians, at least the ones that he's writing to, they had been faithful hearers of the gospel. It had been a glorious encounter on both ends. His time in Thessalonica hadn't been all glory. As I said, there was persecution there. That's why they had to leave when they left. But in terms of the relationship that existed between Paul and the ones who came to believe, what he has to say in this letter is that things couldn't have gone any better. It was ideal. It was model. Model ministers and model hearers of the gospel. And it's that second point that Paul's making in our text, which is chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. reminding the Thessalonians of how they had been model hearers of the gospel that they had heard. So let's take a look there at verses 9 and 10. Let's take in verse 8 as well. He's saying at this point to them, My dear Thessalonians, you've become famous. Look at verse 8. Not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere. So that we need not say anything. Now, remember, by the way, the geography here, he refers to the regions of Macedonia and Achaia. Macedonia was the region where Thessalonica was located, along with Philippi and Berea, up to the north, roughly speaking, the northern half. of what we know as Greece today. That was Macedonia. Achaea was the southern half. And so that's where Paul is now. He's down in Corinth. And so as you think about the trajectory of the second missionary journey, they made their way down from Macedonia south into Achaia. And he's saying, wherever we've gone. Along that pathway, we don't need to boast about you. Because wherever we've gone, we find that people already are. They've heard about you. They're boasting about you. That's what he says at the beginning of verse 9. They themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you. And then he goes on. The rest of verse 9 and all of verse 10 to describe what that reception was. And notice the verbs, three verbs that he uses to describe what their response was. One, he reminds them, you turned You turned to God from idols. Second, he says, you did so so as to serve. You turned to serve the living and true God, and then third, you did so as to wait to wait for his son from heaven. You turn to serve and to wait. And it's interesting as you read Acts And as you get glimpses of Paul's ministry as he goes around the Mediterranean world, you see that that's just what he told people over and over again to do. Turn. So as to serve, so as to wait. In other words, these uh verses, verses nine and ten, they sound an awful lot like some of the speeches and sermons in Acts. And that's his point here. Remember, he's saying, word has gotten out not just about you, but about us. Word has gotten out about how you received us. Paul and Silas and Timothy are going around the Mediterranean world and people are saying, ah, we know who you are. You're the ones who were received in Thessalonica in this way. That's the point. Paul, Silas, and Timothy came preaching, turn so as to serve, so as to wait, and that is precisely how the Thessalonians responded. They said yes and amen to that message. And they then had become a model to imitate in their own day. And the point is, they still are that. It is still true to this day. The model hearer of the gospel is one who, in response to that word, turns To become a servant and to wait for the return of Jesus. Still true. And so that's what we're going to do this morning. We're going to take each of those three in turn and reflect upon it. To think more about how it was true then, in the case of the Thessalonians, and then to broaden our horizons a bit and think about how it's true today. Turning, serving, and waiting. Before we do that, before we take each of those in order. Let me point something out by the way, which is that this trio It just so happens to correspond to an earlier trio in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and a more famous one at that. And no, it is not the Trinity. Take a look at verses 2 and 3. The very beginning of the letter. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father, your work of faith. And labor of love and steadfastness of hope In our Lord Jesus Christ. Faith and love and hope. Now I call that a famous trio, it's not so much First Thessalonians that's made it famous. It's 1 Corinthians 13, verse 13. There Paul writes, So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three, but the greatest of these. is love. And it's in other places too, near the end of 1 Thessalonians, chapter 5, verse 8. Paul says, since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. Same thing in Colossians 1, beginning of the letter. He's saying we give thanks to God for you, and there it is again. He says we've heard of your faith in Christ Jesus. And of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. The same three appear in Hebrews 6, Hebrews 10, 1 Peter 1. Faith and love and hope, notice that that trio matches our trio this morning. Because the one who turns to God Well, he turns so as to have faith. That's what the turning means. The one who serves the living God, well, another way of saying that is that he loves God. And loves neighbor. And then third, the one who waits for Jesus is the one who has hope. You see, it matches. Now, I point that out not just because that's some interesting piece of Bible trivia. Oh, isn't that neat? But the trios match. I point that out because it's telling. It says something about just how meaningful is this report that's gotten around about the Thessalonians. They've become famous throughout Macedonia and Achaia for nothing less than embodying the abiding virtue. Faith and love and hope. And so that only reinforces the reality that they were a model then and they're a model still. Because they were marked by the abiding virtues. And everyone who hears the gospel ought to respond in just the same way. So that point, by the way. Now let's take a look at them. Each of the three. First of all, turning. Paul reminds them: you turned to God from idols. In other words, you repented. That's what repentance means. It means to turn around, a turning of your convictions, of your actions. A turning that results in faith, repentance, and faith go hand in hand because the one who turns is the one who ends up believing and living like it. And so the point is, Thessalonians, remember you did a 180. Spiritually and morally, you'd been heading in one direction, but then in response to the gospel that you heard from us, you turned around. Notice he says, um, you turned to God. In other words, you turned To the God that you heard about from us, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then to further fill it out You turn to God from idols. From idols, which implies that most of his readers were Gentiles and not Jews. You turn to God from idols. A Bible background commentary sheds this light on what the situation was in Thessalonica at the Quote, among major cults in Thessalonica were the Egyptian cults of Serapis and Isis, as well as those of the more traditional Greek gods like Dionysius. So clearly in Thessalonica there was a mix. You had Greek gods, Egyptian gods, you had native and imported, and that would have been common at the time. Idolatry in Thessalonica. Now, just like today, if you stop and think about it, the original readers of this letter, these Thessalonian Christians. Prior to their conversion, well, there would have been varying levels of commitment to those idols. It's likely that some had been firmly devoted, say, to Dionysius, but others of them, well, relatively indifferent. But whatever The varying levels of personal commitment may have been to those idols. The reality is that all of them Had come out, all of them had turned and come out of a culture of idolatry. They had turned from idols to God. And then to further fill it out, notice a bit later in the verse, Paul refers to God as the living and true God. That helps us to appreciate their turning. Because the implication is that the idols from which they turned were not living and true. They were dead and false. They were unreal, as Paul puts it in 1 Corinthians 8. They were so-called gods. There's nothing really there. And that has always been the case with respect to idolatry. Take, for example, Psalm 115. Psalm 115, beginning at verse 4, it says this: their idols, the idols of the nations, they are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths but do not speak, eyes but do not see, ears but do not hear, noses but do not smell. They have hands but do not feel, feet but do not walk, and they do not make a sound in their throat. Psalm 115 Idols, false gods, they're dead. And you can tell that they're dead from the fact that they don't do anything No life means no activity. No life means no activity An illustration of this point comes to my own mind thanks to my mother-in-law. She has served as an elementary school teacher. And she shared this story with us. It had become sort of a teacher's lounge legend. One of her fellow teachers. had given an assignment to her little kids, and it was one of these assignments meant to get them out into the world, observe. the world, take notes and so on. The assignment in particular was go out, find an animal in its natural habitat, and watch it for a little bit and take some notes. And this teacher gave the kids a worksheet to fill out. Question one, what animal are you watching? Question two, where do you see your animal? And so it went. One dear little boy turns in his worksheet and it read as follows. What animal are you watching? And he scrawls. Squirrel. Next question. Where do you see your animal? Answer. In the street. And you think, oh no. But sure enough, next question, what is your animal doing? He writes, It do nothing And the next question was, what sound does your animal make? And he writes, No sound. And you think, oh, this deer boy sat and observed roadkill in its natural habitat. And took notes and you want to take the kid aside and say, you know, no life, that means no activity. You can move on now. You're not gonna hear or see anything. Well, you can imagine the um analogous worksheet. What idol are you watching? Oh Isis. Where do you see your idol? In the temple of Isis? What is your idol doing? It does nothing. What sound does your idol make? No sound. And that's right. There's nothing really there. To act, to speak, to hear, to save your soul. It's dead. Now, as I say, that helps us to appreciate the Thessalonians turning. Because it was from that deathliness, that lifelessness, that they turned. That's how radical, that's how meaningful the turn was. And not only that, but the very fact that they did turn was an indication that they themselves had been brought from death to life. Because Psalm 115, after it goes on and on like that, mouth but do not speak, ears but do not hear, it goes on to describe The deathliness of those idols, then it says, those who make them become like them. So do all who trust in them. In other words, it's the spiritually dead that worship the dead, that is to say, dead gods. And conversely, it's those who have been brought to spiritual life who leave the dead behind. And who turned to the living and true God, to the real God instead. And that's what the Thessalonians did. They repented. And so they came to faith. They were a model then, and they still are. Everybody who hears the gospel ought to do the very same thing. Think about it. Everybody who is refusing Christ, by definition, that person is running away from Christ. And the call of the gospel is HALT. Stop. Turn and start running towards him. And don't stop until you reach heaven. That's the call of the gospel. When a person first comes to belief in Christ, that is the turn. That's turning with a capital T. But then think about it for the believer. There are small T turns every day because the gospel still regularly calls the believer to repentance. It's because the Word of God regularly has the effect of shining a light on the believer's sin. And so that which he did at the dawn of his Christian life, the turn. That then becomes the abiding principle of the Christian life. Every day, seeing his sin and turning from it. A life of repentance Martin Luther understood that. His 95 theses that he nails to the door in October of 1517, you know what? The very first one of them was. The first thesis of the 95 was this: quote, When our Lord and Master Jesus Christ said, Repent, Matthew 4:17, He willed the entire life of believers to be one of repentance. The first of the 95, and Luther was right. The Christian never gets to the point that he graduates from repentance. And doesn't have to turn anymore. In a sense, that first thesis was simply a matter of applying to the individual what the reformers had come to grasp about the church. Ecclesia reformata sempre reformanda est. The Reformed Church must always be reformed. And so must the believer. Must always be reformed, must regularly be turning from sin unto God. The model hearer turns and then keeps turning from sin until sin is no more at death over the return of Christ. So that first dimension of the Thessalonians' response. Now the second of them, Paul reminds them, you turned to serve. You turned to serve the living and true God. It was no half-hearted service. The word that Paul uses there Means to serve as one who is bound to that service. And it was no part-time service either to serve the living and true God, that would have communicated all that Christian service entails. Because notice Paul doesn't limit it, he doesn't qualify it. And so it runs the gamut from public worship to private prayer, from daily labor to personal holiness. The Thessalonians had become servants like that. They were a model by virtue of that service, and they still are. Everybody who hears the gospel ought to turn so as to become a servant like that. Wholeheartedly, full-time. That's why Jesus said count the cost. Because the turning is only the beginning. You've got to understand from the beginning what that turning is going to mean for you. It's going to mean your life becoming a life of wholehearted, full-time service. And the model here of the gospel is the one who says, yes, of course it is. I wouldn't have it any other way. He doesn't say, I wonder if there's some way I could work it out that I could get the forgiveness and not have to serve. To say that is to betray that you haven't really come to life in the first place. The model hearer of the gospel is the one who turns and says, Lord, here am I. Here's my life. Lord, take it and let it be consecrated to thee. It is a comprehensive life of service, a wonderful mix of the sacred and the secular. So, on the one hand, the Christian serves God by taking up heavenly pursuits, worship, prayer, the study of the scriptures. But it's not just the heavenly things, it's the earthly things too. He serves God by rendering unto God as a sacrifice all that he does. In all of his ordinary earthly responsibilities, there is nothing so mundane, so down to earth, that it can't be done out of love for God. And it ought to be. It's comprehensive and it is wholehearted, although every believer admits that his heart isn't wholly in it in the way that it ought to be. We're works in progress. We know that. We're not the servants of the living and true God that we ought to be, but by his grace he's making us into that. And the hope is that in heaven we will be servants of the living and true God without spot or wrinkle, holy and without blemish. And that's one of the reasons why we're waiting. Because we know that we're not done. Which brings us to the third point, the waiting. Paul reminds the Thessalonians, you turned, you turned to serve, and then thirdly, you turned to serve and to wait. The um the word that Paul uses there, it carries with it the idea of waiting expectantly. This was no mere waiting around, watching the clock, twiddling your thumbs. It would have been the kind of waiting, for example, that you read about in Psalm 130. There it says this: I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than the watchman for the morning, and then he says it again, more than the watchman for the morning. And if you've ever worked a graveyard shift in any job you've ever had, you have some sense of what that's like. Groaning, waiting, longing. It would have been the kind of waiting that you read about in Romans 8. There, Paul says this, we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons. The redemption of our bodies. That's the way the Thessalonians were waiting. They were longing. They were groaning internally. They were craning their necks, waiting for the end of all things. Notice the way Paul goes on to fill it out in verse 10. He says you turned to wait for his son from heaven. For his son from heaven. It was personal. They weren't just waiting for something to happen. They were waiting for someone. Someone to come who had been here before. And you can tell from both of the letters that he wrote to them, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, this was something that he had hit on. This was something that had been a main theme in his teaching, the sun coming down from heaven on the last day. He talks about it in both of his letters to them. And not just in his letters to the Thessalonians. 1 Corinthians 1. 7, he says, you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians 3. 20, he says, our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And then Titus 2 verse 13, he says, Grace has trained us to wait for the blessed hope. And what's that hope? The appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. We're not just waiting for the next big thing. We're waiting for Him. Paul goes on, he refers to the Son as the one whom he, that is the Father, raised from the dead. That means that the Thessalonians were no fools to be waiting for him to come back. He was alive. And they knew that he was alive because the Father had raised him. And then finally, Paul refers to him in verse 10 as Jesus. who delivers us from the wrath to come. And so their waiting is not only longing It's not only well-founded, but it's also solemn. There's a gravity to it. Because these are people who know that wrath is coming. They know that Jesus, their deliverer, has delivered them from it. But that doesn't mean that the wrath isn't coming. It's coming. And it's thanks to Christ that it won't touch them because it touched him first on the cross. And so that's how they were waiting for him. And one more time, a third time, in this respect, they were a model then and they still are. Everybody to this day who hears the gospel ought to turn in order to wait like that, to wait expectantly, to wait longingly. That is part, an important part, of a proper response to the gospel. I'm waiting for Jesus to come back more than the watchman for the morning, more than the watchman for the morning. So those three aspects of their model response, let me wrap up this morning with a few words of application for us. First, let me address any who might be with us for our service today who are not believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. As I said before, the Thessalonians responded to Paul and Silas and Timothy by doing just what they urged them to do. Although notice they didn't do it for Paul's sake, or for Silas's sake, or for Timothy's sake, they did it for God's sake, because they'd come to realize that it was true this gospel that they were urging upon them. And I urge you today to respond in just the same way. Not for my sake. Not for the sake of those who are sitting around you here, but for the sake of the Lord, because his word is true. And so I urge you today to turn, to turn to the living God in repentance and faith. And I urge you today to serve To serve him wholeheartedly in full time. And I urge you today to join those of us who are waiting eagerly for Jesus to come back. It is certainly true that the 21st century is very different from the first, our world today, so different from that of the Thessalonians. And yet, in a way, how little has changed. How steady and unchanging are the basic concerns of human life. Things like where you're headed and what you're devoted to and what you're waiting for. Your direction, your devotion, and your hope And it's the Lord Jesus Christ who offers answers to those issues that you will not find anywhere else. And so I urge you today, if you are not in him by faith. Come to him by faith. Turn and serve and wait with us. And to those of us who are in Christ. A few final words for us, the first of them being, stop and look up and give thanks. It is true of you. If you are truly in Christ, you have turned. And you've become a servant of the living God, and you're waiting for Jesus. to come back. The old is gone, the new has come. You are not now what you otherwise would be. And I urge you today, don't overlook that. Don't diminish or downplay the work of grace in your life. Yours is a new direction. You're headed the right way. And yours is a new devotion. You're serving the one who is true and living. And yours is new hope. And your hope will not be unsatisfied. So give thanks for that. And then examine yourselves Then stop and think about, well, the turning and the serving and the waiting in the sense that they ought to continue to be true of you. You did repent. The question is now, do you grasp with Luther that our Lord and Master Jesus Christ willed your entire life to be one of repentance? And I urge this upon you. Don't be surprised. Don't despair that you find that you've got to keep repenting of your sin. Some Christians are thrown by it. Oh, I've got to repent every day. Every day I find that I've got to turn from sin. What's wrong with me? Am I not a believer? You're a believer. That is to say, the fact that you're repenting every day is no sign that you're not. That's a good sign. You ought to be grieved by your sin, but you shouldn't despair over the fact that you've got to keep turning from it. And again That's the model way to hear the word. That's the point. So whether it's a sermon in public worship or something that you read in private worship. You come to it with that expectation. I may very well come away with this having to turn in some way. So don't be thrown, thrown into despair if you find that that's the case. Second, service. You are servant of the living and true God. The question is, have you lost sight of that? Have you forgotten that serving God is one of the reasons why you turned? And it is easy to forget that. It's easy to lose sight of why we turned. There's an illustration or an analog of that in our own personal experience. You know the moment. You're in a particular part of the house. And it occurs to you, oh, I need to get such and such from the bedroom. And so you make the long walk to the bedroom, and when you get there, the sense of despair washes over you as you look out upon the room and say, for the life of me, I can't remember what on earth I came in here to get. And you start looking over the room. Was it the book? No, it's not the book. It wasn't the sweater, it's July. And you just sort of look over and you think, I know, the minute I get back to the first floor, I'm going to remember what I came up here to get. But you know when it's especially frustrating is when you turned to go to the bedroom. I mean you were going down the stand You had gravity going for you, momentum, and then you remember the such and such. And you think, now am I really going to turn? Is it really that important? No, it's important. I'm going to defy gravity and I'm going to turn and I'm going to head up. And that's when it's frustrating. You get to the bedroom and you think, ah, it must have been important, or I'd have just kept going. In the way in which I was headed. How true is that spiritually? As Packer might say, too true to be good. We are awfully prone to lose sight of why we turned to God. So we're prone to lose sight of what life is all about. And so be reminded today. That is one of the reasons why you turn, to be a servant of the living and true God. Your turning at the beginning was just that, only the beginning. And you are a bondservant of Christ. And then third, waiting. Everyone who's truly in Christ is waiting. The question is: do you have much of a sense of that? Is there in your soul the how long, O Lord? The cry that longs for his return. There ought to be that. And if there isn't much of that, then look to the Lord for the grace to be stirred up in that respect. And then, having looked to him, look to one another. Because we are fellow hopers, fellow waiters, so to speak. So that when you come into this room, for example, you're surrounded by others who are waiting with you. It's as if you look around and you see all these other people who are craning their necks, who are leaning toward the end, longing for the end to come, and you look around and you think, oh, that's right. I'm supposed to be leaning too. Like those experiments when somebody gets on the elevator and the other people who are in the know turn and face the side. And the guy who's not in the know sees that and thinks, oh, maybe I'm supposed to turn and face face to side. Well, this is actually a good illustration of that. You come into this room and you see a bunch of people who are leaning toward the end of time. And you think, oh, that's right. I've forgotten. I've been kind of standing straight up or even falling back. I'm supposed to be leaning, craning my neck for the end. And you get that from 1 Thessalonians. As I say, in that letter, he talks to them about the sun coming back from heaven, and he describes what it's going to be like on that day, and then he says, Therefore, encourage one another with these words. Your hope, your waiting is not a private possession. It belongs to the body, and you need to help one another in that way. Turning, serving, and waiting. It is extraordinary to think that for those realities, the Thessalonians had become famous. Well, let it be said of us as well. There are all sorts of things for which a person might become famous or infamous. And the same thing is true of churches. Well then let it be known that there's a people in Laurel, Maryland, that's marked by faith and love and hope to the glory of God.