Thank you, Tom, for leading us in prayer. And it is interesting in God's providence, as uh Brother Tom had mentioned, the the pastor. Palmer Robertson. He was one of the professors at my um my seminary. And um before I came there he he was nicknamed um C. Palmer Robertson. And um that was because he was a hard grader. And so the most you could ever expect to get is a C. And uh by the time I got there, I uh I was very happy to hear that his name was now B, Palmer Robertson. as uh he had begun to mellow as a uh greater as the years had gone by. So I'm very thankful for that. This was down in South Florida. And speaking of South Florida, many years ago I used to work, as some of you may know, as a biblical counselor and life coach in a Christian counseling center in in Weston South Florida. People came to the counseling center for a variety of concerns that they had. But the thing they all had most most in common was that they wanted to have a better understanding about what was bothering them and what it is that God had to say about their concern as found in the scriptures. As we began to dig into their distress, I would ask several questions to identify their problem and hopefully what really was beneath it all. As part of their therapy, I had them get a journal so that they could take notes during our sessions and for them to write for our next session. as well as when experienced what we would call an aha moment. You know what those are, right? They're simply moments of clarity. When we come to understanding things, see things. With a clear understanding of how things genuinely are. There are moments of absolute clarity. Maybe you've heard this described as personal epiphanies. Not only did we call these aha moments, but we also call them yurika moments. Some describe this as a sudden shift in consciousness. They can be instances where complex problems are suddenly understood, profound truths are revealed. Another way of saying these things and putting them all into one category is truth. Now, this can be a little tricky sometimes in understanding and defining truth, as we live in a time period where truth can be defined in a variety of different ways. So it's important that we kind of define our terms. There are, just by the way, there are lies that masquerade as truth. Example of this would be, if any of you are Star Wars fans, of Anakin. He was lied to by the evil Sith Lord. And as such, uh his life was transformed, but he thought he had an epiphany. But in fact, it was a lie. Complex easy. You say Sith Lord, and suddenly bad things happen. Where was I? Truth is a very complex concept. And apparently so are these microphones Philosophically, it's debated whether truth is objective, out there, or socially constructed. And we have to be careful when we talk about these things not to confuse facts with opinions. Truth aligns with facts while opinions are subjective feelings or beliefs. even if widely held. Objective versus subjective. Objective truth exists independently, as in gravity Whereas subjective truth relates to personal experiences, like having a very tasty meal would be an example of that. And then we have to be considered of relativism. The idea that truth can vary by person or culture, contrasting with the view that truth is absolute and unchanging. The arena of art helps us in understanding this distinction well. So I looked up what good old Miriam, Miriam Webster had to say about truth, and I got the following. Really four entries here. The body of real things, events, and facts, actuality. The property, as of a statement, of being in accord with fact or reality. Three, sincerity in action character and utterance. And then finally, just one word, God. As Christians, that's exactly where we need to go for a good working understanding of truth. I recall back yet again when I was in seminary, and one of my professors was asked this very same question. It happened to be a Dr. Sprohl. Forgive me for mispronouncing his name. He stopped for a moment and said something I hadn't thought of At least to that point in my life, and I thought and still think it to be quite profound. He stopped and thought for a moment, and then he said, truth. Is whatever God believes to be true. Of course, the reason why is because he is omnipresent and omniscient. everywhere, all the time, and knows all things before they happen with 100% clarity. He does not misperceive or make any error in his understanding of the universe, which he, by the way, created. So whatever he tells us is true in Scripture is by definition 100% absolutely true. Now, when we come into these moments of clarity, truth, they really are life-changing, or frankly, they really should be life-changing. It is in this passage that we have this morning what we would call an epiphany of sorts. And we shall see that we can react in different ways when we encounter God with truth. Our passage this morning will focus on verses 8 through 13 of chapter 3 in Genesis. However, for context, I will begin reading from verse 1 Would you please turn your Bibles to our passage this morning from Genesis chapter 3 and rise for the hearing and reading of God's Word? The following is from Genesis chapter 3, beginning with verse 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden. But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. And you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave me, she gave me the fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we pray now that you would imbue us with the truth of God's Word. Help us to understand the meaning of our study today. Help us to apply it to our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. In our passage of this morning, we have an instructive example of an epiphany Actually, we really have two epiphanies experienced by Adam and Eve. One is set upon a lie, and one is set upon the truth. First, let's briefly look at the lie. It seems that Adam and Eve are led to believe certain things about God by Lucifer. In the discourse between them, the devil leads them to question if they will surely die. For when they eat of the fruit, verse 5, their eyes will be opened. And there it is. God is holding something back from them. They will discover a truth that will be life-altering. What is it? When they eat of the fruit, They themselves will be like God. Now there's a tempting, juicy reason to disobey God. We can be like God. Certainly, the first of these epiphanies is based upon a lie. The lie is that God will not keep his word. He is holding something back from you. Since he won't keep his word, you will die. Then you should go ahead and help yourself disobey. Deity awaits you. Obviously, there are consequences to believing lies. Now this moves us to our second of our Epiphanes. In verse 7, we see that indeed their eyes were opened. They had an epiphany. And what was this epiphany? That they were naked. They had been naked all along. That had never been an issue for them. Why was it that suddenly it was an issue? And they saw a need to cover themselves in their what is commonly called their private parts. Was there epiphany that they were naked? Or was it something more than that? Was it something that they didn't themselves quite understand? What we read next gives us insight into the quality of relationship that God had established with his regent, his vice regent. They hear God coming their way. God and man walked together in paradise. unencumbered by sin, enjoying each other's company, enjoying fellowship. It is only when sin enters into the picture that this intimate relationship is broken. We're going to get to that in just a little bit. As they hear God coming, what do they do? They hide themselves. Now it's interesting to see how God interacts with Adam. The omniscient God, who knows all things, calls out to Adam Where are you, Adam? Adam responds by, I heard you in the garden. I was afraid, and the reason given was because I was naked. And three, therefore I hid myself Now let's get into this a little bit. When Adam recognized he was in the presence of God, he became fearful. The reason that he articulated both to himself and to God was because he was embarrassed, and so the way he would deal with this guilt or shame that he was feeling was to hide from him. First was to clothe himself, and secondly, to physically hide from God's presence. Now we have to note the way God helps Adam to understand, for Adam's sake, what's really going on here. He is helping him to understand, open his eyes. and to confess his actions to God. Sometimes, I think that describes us, doesn't it? What I mean is that we have feelings like joy, shame, sadness, whatever it may be. And we go about living our lives in a variety of ways that seems right to us, but we can't seem to put our finger on exactly why we're behaving the way we are, or sometimes why we're even feeling feeling the way that we are. Sometimes I think as I've spoken to people, they've shared with me, they they say that they feel like they've escaped from the factory. The quality control guys didn't quite catch them, and so they escaped from the factory, and now they're outside. And they know that there's something, they feel that there's something broken about them, and so they hide. They don't open up. They don't share because they feel that they're broken. And if they are discovered, they will be sent back to the factory. You sometimes feel that way. That there's something wrong, but you can't put your finger on it. Something's broken. Sometimes we think we do, but sometimes we are very much like Adam, aren't we? What reason does he offer to God for hiding? He simply says, because he was naked. God asks a second question. Who told you that you're naked? In a rapid fire succession of questions, God gets Adam to think and see things the way that they are. Who told you that you were naked? And then have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? There we are. Did you disobey? Another way of saying disobedience to God's law is sin. Did you sin, Adam? Did you see that when you, you and I disobey? There's something that happens inside of us. We feel the shame for our sin. And we respond really in a couple of different ways. You know, don't you that you have fallen short. Although some may talk of big talk, you know that you've fallen short of being in good standing before God. As a consequence, what are things that we do? Well, we we feel guilt and we feel shame. We hide from God, and we also hide from one another. What we really need is for God to open our eyes to the reality of our sin and how that has affected our standing before God. When our eyes have been opened, that moment of absolute clarity, we can respond in a couple of different ways. The question that God is asking are really rhetorical questions, right? He knows where Adam is. He knows that Adam disobeyed. He even knows the answer to how Adam concluded he was naked. This is all for Adam's benefit. And this is also for our benefit. It is so that Adam can see what his real problem is. Sin. So how does Adam respond? Does he say something like I failed. I disobeyed you, and I need my punishment. Well, no. Clearly, that's not what he said. His response to sin is one to blame his wife. And if that's not enough, to blame God for his sin. Verse twelve. The woman, here it is, you gave me You do realize, Lord, that if you hadn't given her to me, I would have never been in this situation. In my humble opinion, Lord, maybe you may have some culpability in all of this, don't you think? Already we are getting some form of Allah Adam. If God is so good, how can there be evil in the world? All right. So on the one hand, he is pointing up to God, and on the other, he continues in verse 12. The woman that you gave me. And now the second is it was the woman. If it wasn't for her, don't you see he wouldn't be in this predicament. Now this wasn't going to fly with God, because God created Adam to be in charge, to protect and cultivate all that God had given him, including his wife. He was, after all, the covenant, federal head of all of humanity. What was Adam's epiphany? I think a couple of things really. The first is that his idea of what God would consider a covering for his sin was unacceptable. God would provide what was acceptable. And as you read later on in verse 21, we see that God provided leather skins. A sacrifice was made. Blood was shed for a sacrifice to cover their sins. The reason that he felt fear, Adam, was because he disobeyed God. Being naked before God was not sin. It was a feeling that he felt exposed when he didn't have righteousness before God. His sin was disobedience. Now let's take a look at this passage and see what we can glean from Adam's need for clarity First is realizing our status before God, our estate before God. We are in a sense different from Adam because he was born or created more properly without sin. God created him righteous as he did Eve. What he did experience was the effects of sin upon his thinking and feeling Sin has a tendency to make us intellectually dull, but in reality, because of it, we are spiritually dead. Let's take a look at a at people in Scripture who have had an encounter, an epiphany, that they are in the presence of God Himself. They have very similar reactions. It is a sense of hopelessness. It's a sense of wanting to get out from his very presence. How would you respond if you received an epiphany and were placed right before God? Let's look at these two examples from Scripture The first is when Isaiah realized he was in the presence of God. Chapter 6, verses 1 and 6. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of the robe filled the temple. Dropping down to verse 5. And I said, this is in response to having seen the Lord as he is, and I said, Woe is me. For I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Isaiah saw the Lord. He came into his presence and realized, in comparison to God, In the splendor of his holiness. He didn't, and he couldn't measure up. His response was, Woe is me, for I am lost. A second time is when Peter had that moment of clarity that was given to him by God. And this is in Luke chapter 5 and beginning in verse 4. Jesus said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a cow, a catch. And Simon answered, Master, we've toiled all night and took nothing. But at your word I will let down the nets. And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish. And their nets were breaking. They signaled to their partners in other boat to come and help them. And they came and they filled both the boats. So even then they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying the following. Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. Peter recognized just as Isaiah That he was in the presence of God. And his reaction, depart from me. He knew that as sinful as he was, he could not withstand being in the presence of the Almighty. These really are moments of perfect clarity. It really takes God working in us to realize the depths of our sin. And our estate before him. Now this really works on two levels. The first is when we receive the gospel of Christ. We must necessarily see ourselves as sinners and in need of cleansing and pardon for our sins. If we don't see it, there's no need for us to entrust ourselves to Christ. We may otherwise think. That we're good enough, or that we can make ourselves good enough. At that point, we don't really see the gap. Between ourselves and a holy God. But when it is a moment of clarity, We see the gap. We see the inability to bridge that gap We gladly accept the gospel and the forgiveness that comes from its gracious offer. Now the second, second level, is for those who are saved. You and I. We must continue to recognize our sins. And we continue to need the work of God The Holy Spirit to help us to recognize our sin and repent from it. What must be our response to recognition of sin? Well, sometimes we respond like our old father Adam, right? We hide, we deny, we downplay. How bad is it? We think we got this. Recover ourselves by doing good works. In a sense, what we're doing is we're making coverings of our fig leaves by doing works. But we must not be like Adam. We must not hide. But rather we must confess our sinfulness so that we may enjoy the fellowship that we have with God again. Not only confess, but turn to God to repent from our sins. So that's the first. recognizing our status before God, and that we shouldn't hide ourselves from God. For when we do that, there really is no hope The second is when the husband and wife hid themselves from one another. Another thing that we continue to do is hide ourselves from one another. Now they hid themselves by clothing themselves in the most private of areas and the most intimate expression of love for one another. I guess we hide ourselves in some ways with the type of garments that we do wear, but that's not really what's going on here. We hide ourselves by not sharing our thoughts, our feelings, our opinions. We feel that we may expose ourselves and be rejected by others if we do. This means that if we open up, we may be hurt by another. So we're not perfectly clear about our wants and desires. We don't share them to those whom we love. Christian, does this describe you? Do you feel this way because maybe you have hurt someone else in your life? And you feel the shame, and you have to hide in the trees or the bushes. The fact is that as redeemed people, sin continues to play a role in our lives. First, as we mentioned before, we have to confess our sins to God, and we also have to confess our sins to one another. Sometimes we don't do this, but go another route. This is perhaps the third thing that we do. We decide that we're going to dictate the terms, that we're going to dictate the terms of how we're going to present ourselves before God. That is, make ourselves acceptable by our terms before Him. We do that by we make up all these rules. sort of clean ourselves up before God. We make these, I guess, sort of sacrifices that take the place of our sins. We do good deeds. We give out of our bounty, or we give out of our daily supplies and go without, thinking that this will make up for our sins before God. We see this type of behavior immediately from Adam and Eve's sons, Cain and Abel, and the first of the what we call the worship wars. Cain decides that he is going to dictate what offerings he is going to give to God. Instead of giving the first of his flock, he decided he was going to give him fruit from the ground. That's what I'm going to give. I'm going to give the choicest and best fruit of my ground. When God didn't say that's what he wanted. We often make up ways that we think we should do in order to make things right between ourselves and God, don't we? It's like it's like we make meals, right? It's like God is like Monty Hall or something like that, right? The guy who did Let's Make a Deal show. Did I get that right? It is my deal. Okay, good. But none of this is correct. or leads to acceptance by God and man. What I mean by man is that when we hurt someone Let's say we hurt their feelings. We give them a gift to take the place of harsh words. We then complain to them why they're so upset with us. It must be done God's way. We don't dictate the terms. We must accept the way God has made for us to first have a relationship with Him, and we must accept the way He has prescribed for us to be in relationship with him. Did you guys catch that? One, he tells us how we are to be in relationship, and then how we develop and are in a relationship with him. It is by realizing and accepting our sinfulness before God and resting by faith in His Son for forgiveness. That is how we enter into our relationship with God. Have you done that Have you entered into a relationship with God by faith? By simply transferring your trust From what you can do to what God has already done? You know, it really is all unmerited favor. Also known as grace. It is all the grace of God. If you haven't And you're experiencing a moment of absolute clarity. Do so now. Believe in Christ. Repent from your sins. And follow Christ as your sovereign King and God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you that your word allows us to come into your presence. And by doing so, we can see you. And we can see ourselves in relation to you. And we pray, Heavenly Father. That you would continue to give us these moments of clarity where we can truly see ourselves. as we are. And as you do, we ask that you would grant us your grace to acknowledge Where we fall short, where we sin. And not only that, but you would grant us the grace to turn away. To give us the strength and the desire to overcome sin in our lives. so that we can enjoy what your son came to give us, and that is fellowship with you. that we may walk with you, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, with intimacy and with love Enjoying every moment with you, living a life that wishes to be obedient to your word And we ask this for our good, but more importantly, for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.