Well, it is a delight to be back with you this morning. And I did remember to come to this school and not the other one. So you can see in your bulletin this morning that we're going to be considering together Deuteronomy chapter 34. Deuteronomy chapter thirty four So let me read for us. Hear now the word of God. Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo to the top of Pisgah. which is opposite Jericho. And the Lord showed him all the land, Gilead as far as Dan All Naphtali, the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah, as far as the western sea, the Negeb, And the plain that is the valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar. And the Lord said to him, This is the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, I will give it to your offspring. And I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there. So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the Lord. And he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab opposite Bethpior. But no one knows the place of his burial to this day. Moses was 120 years old when he died. His eye was undimmed, and his vigor unabated. And the people of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days. Then the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended. And Joshua, the son of Nun, was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him. So the people of Israel obeyed him and did as the Lord had commanded Moses. And there has not arisen a prophet since in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. None like him, for all the signs and wonders that the Lord sent him to do in the land of Egypt. To Pharaoh and to all his servants, and to all his land, and for all the mighty power and all the great deeds of terror that Moses did in the sight of all Israel. Let me pray for us. Our Father, we thank you for your word. And we thank you for the record here that we have in your word of the death of your servant. And we tremble at this. And yet we draw near. For we know there are great and glorious lessons here for us to learn. And we pray that you would grant us to learn them. Your own son lived and died for us that we might be taught and transformed. And so we pray that you would honor him now. By the power of your Spirit, that we might learn and be changed indeed. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Deuteronomy 34. Obviously what I've just read for us is the very end. of the book of Deuteronomy. And since Deuteronomy is the last of the five books of Moses, well then what we've just heard is the very end of this great opening section of the whole of the Bible. And in order to appreciate the the power, even the poignancy, even the drama of this last chapter, you need to bear in mind the storyline that's led up to it. All of the twists and turns and ups and downs, and there have been plenty of them. In fact, if you had to come up with a subtitle for the books of Moses, the books of Genesis through Deuteronomy, if you had to come up with a subtitle for them, a very good one would be the same as the subtitle of the Hobbit. And I think I have the hobbit in mind these days because our family recently went on the longest vacation we've ever taken. We drove up to Maine and then all the way back down from Maine to the Delaware shore, spending a week in each place. 2,200 miles, and we still loved one another by the time we got home And I think that's largely attributable to the fact that Christy had a very good idea, which is before we left, she borrowed from some friends of ours a 10 CD reading of the Hobbit. And it was fantastic. And that got us all the way to Maine, and that got us all the way back down to Delaware. In fact, we were just about a mile away from our Delaware beach house when we reached the end. So I have the Hobbit very much on the brain. And you know the subtitle of the Hobbit. There and back again. And that would not be a bad subtitle for the books of Moses as a whole. In the beginning, we've got the Abraham family in the Promised Land, but then the family goes down there, meaning Egypt. Eventually, the Abraham family, now the nation of Israel, is brought back again. Back to the promised land. And that's where we are here at the end of Deuteronomy, almost. And I say almost because here at the end of Deuteronomy, they haven't crossed over into the promised land yet. They're still on the other side of the river They're still just to the east of the Jordan River, camped out in the plains of Moab. And it's there in the plains of Moab that Moses Speaks to them one last time. He speaks to them all the words that are recorded for us in Deuteronomy. And then it's there in the land of Moab that Moses dies. And so this one chapter comes after all of that and makes it all the more powerful, all the more poignant to read and hear. Here is where Moses dies. We don't know who wrote Deuteronomy 34, but that's okay. What we do know is what he wrote, whoever he was. And that's what matters most. So this is the chapter that we've got before us this morning, and let me tell you at the outset how we're going to approach it. First of all, um an overview of the chapter. We're simply going to notice the storyline that unfolds here. And then, second of all, lessons to be learned from it. And in particular, lessons to be learned from it about what our God is like, what's true of our God. So that's our twofold approach. First, an overview of the chapter. Second, lessons to be learned from it. So let's start with our overview. Look again here at the story. Look again at the first section, verses 1 through 4. Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo to the top of Piscah, which is opposite Jericho, and the Lord showed him all the land, and then you have this description of the land that he sees. And then verse 4. The Lord said to him, This is the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, I will give it to your offspring. I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there. So that's verses one through four. And remember the reason that Moses shall not go over there is that there was that episode way back in Numbers 2 20, in which Moses didn't believe the Lord. He didn't uphold the Lord as holy in the eyes of the people as he should have. And you remember when that happened. The Lord made it plain. He said, Therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them. So that hard word spoken back then, it's coming true here and now. In Deuteronomy 34. In any case, God still takes them up to the top of this mountain, gives them a view of the land on the other side of the river, and then some way or another What he gives them is a view of the whole land. In fact, the the geographical references that we have here describe the land counterclockwise. You start up in the north and make your way around back to where Moses is. And it's a vision of the whole land. Maybe the idea is that he could see a lot in every direction. And what he could see stood for the whole because he could see to the horizon in every direction. Maybe that's what's meant. Or maybe the idea is that God supernaturally enabled Moses in that moment to see more than the human eye can naturally see. See, John Calvin suggests that. Calvin says what we've got here is a miracle, a miraculous vision of some sort of this whole land, from corner to corner. In any case, however it happened, God shows him the land, but says to him again, you shall not go over there. So there's the first section, verses 1 through 4. Let's keep going. Look at verses 5 through 8 now. Because here's the death of Moses Verses 5 through 8. Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the Lord. And he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab opposite Beth Peor, but no one knows the place of his burial to this day. Moses was 120 years old when he died, his eye was undimmed and his vigor unabated, and the people of Israel wept for Moses. In the plains of Moab thirty days. Then the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended. So here Moses dies, but notice, even in the record of his death, He's called the servant of the Lord, which is striking when you think about why he's dying now here. He's the servant of the Lord. Which means that on the one hand, being chastened like this didn't mean that he wasn't God's servant anymore. On the other hand, it meant that the fact that he was God's servant didn't mean that he was above being chastened like this. It works both ways. So he dies. He dies even though he's still in a condition of some strength and vigor. I was going over this story with one of my boys not too long ago, and we noticed. That when he died, his vigor was unabated, and Philip looked at me and said, but what about his Vim? And I had no answer to that In any case, his vigor was unabated. We know that much. And then after he dies, he's buried, and notice how that's put. He buried him He buried him. That is, God buried him. Most likely, we're not told how, we're only told that he did. The same God who once made the first man from the dust of the earth, now. In some way, returns this man to the dust of the earth. For you are dust, and to dust you shall return. So that's the death of Moses in verses 5 through 8. Let's keep going. Look at verse 9 now. Here's the provision of a new leader. Verse 9. Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom. For Moses had laid his hands on him. So the people of Israel obeyed him and did as the Lord had commanded Moses. Now obviously we've dropped right down into Deuteronomy 34 this morning, but if you've been reading the books of Moses from the beginning, this does not come out of nowhere. Because all the way back in Numbers 27, this was Moses' prayer. And at this point, Numbers 27, it's already been made clear, Moses isn't going to lead them in. So in Numbers 27 we read this. Moses spoke to the Lord saying, Let the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation. who shall go out before them and come in before them, who shall lead them out and bring them in, that the congregation of the Lord may not be as sheep that have no shepherd. So the Lord said to Moses, Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him. Make him stand before Eliezer the priest and all the congregation, and you shall commission him in their sight. you shall invest him with some of your authority that all the congregation of the people of Israel may obey. All the way back in Numbers 27. That was Moses' prayer, and that was the Lord's answer to it. The Lord's answer was Joshua the son of Nun. And here too, the end of Deuteronomy, that word is coming true. A servant has been provided. And then finally, pressing on, verses 10 through 12. A last word about Moses Verses 10 through 12. There has not arisen a prophet since in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. None like him for all the signs and the wonders that the Lord sent him to do in the land of Egypt. To Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land, for all the mighty power and all the great deeds of terror that Moses did in the sight of all Israel. So that's what made Moses unique. He knew God in a way that nobody else knew God at the time. Face-to-face intimacy And not only that, but he served God in a way that nobody else served God. Signs and wonders in Egypt. power and terror in the sight of Israel. And isn't it sobering that that's the last of the last words? Deeds of power and terror. We don't know who wrote these concluding words of Deuteronomy. We don't know precisely when these words were written, but whoever it was who wrote them. And whenever it was, the writer could say, there's never been one like him, not before and not soon. So there's an overview of our chapter. A view of the land, the death of Moses, the provision of a new leader, and then the uniqueness of Moses. There's our chapter. So that brings us to part two this morning, which is what are the lessons to be learned from all of that? And in particular, to focus things. What are the lessons to be learned from all of that about what our God is like? And there are several of them here, and there are three of those lessons that I want to point out for us. Lessons about what our God is like. Three of them. The first is this: God is true to his word. God is true to his word. This chapter teaches us that. And not only that, but what this chapter teaches us is that God is true to all of his words. All of them. Words of all sorts. Because what this chapter shows us is that God kept his ancient word of promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the promise that their descendants would come back to this land, they would inherit this land. And he also kept his more recent word of chastisement spoken to Moses, that being the word that he would not enter the land. God is true to all of his words. Words of all sorts. Words both sweet and stern. And that is definitely something for us to take to heart today, when we as Christians today think about The promises that belong to us, the words that we have heard, that we're to embrace, that we're to count on. So, for example, take a promise like 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Christian, God is true to that word. He's true to that word in your own life. And every time you confess your sin to God in repentance and faith, you can bank on that word. Faithful and just to forgive. Take another example. A different example. Hebrews 12, verse 6. Here's a promise. The Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives. That's Hebrews 12, 6. And Christian, God is just as true to that word as well. He disciplined Moses, whom he loved. He chastised Moses, whom he had received, and the same goes for you and me, which means that you should not be cast into utter despair. When you find yourself in the midst of disciplining, chastening circumstances. And make no mistake, you will You will find yourself, at least on occasion, in the midst of circumstances like those, hard circumstances. And not only that, but like Moses, they may very well be hard circumstances chastening circumstances of your own making as a result of your own sin. But even then you need to remember God is true to his word, and you need to remember that even that word is a loving, fatherly word. So that's the first lesson that we can learn about God here. He's true to his word. Now here's a second lesson to learn about God in this chapter. And it is this. God is good to his people. He's good to his people. This chapter teaches us that as well. And in particular, what this chapter teaches us is that God is good to his people in such a way as to give them just the leadership. they need. First he gave them Moses. Now here at the end of Deuteronomy he's given them Joshua. And each of those men was called by God and equipped by God to do just what the people of God In the days of Moses, what the people of Israel needed was to be brought out. Out of Egypt. And Moses brought them out. But now at the end of the days of Moses, what the people of Israel need is to be brought in. into the promised land. And sure enough, Joshua was called by God and equipped by God to do just that, to bring them in. And eventually he did it. He brought them in. God is good to his people to give them, to give us just the leadership that we need. And now that's come true in Christ. That has come true in Jesus Christ. Because think about it. What is it that the people of God really needed all along? What we needed was one greater than Moses, greater than Joshua. What we needed all along was a prophet who is both God and man to reveal the will of God to us. And we needed a priest who was both God and man to die for us in a way that Moses never could, and to stand for us now. And what we needed was a king who is both God and man to win us and to defend us. And God is so good. Because that's exactly what he's given us. And he hasn't given that to us in three people. He's given that to us in one person. Jesus Christ. Who is greater than Moses? Who is greater than Joshua? God is so good because he has given us Christ, just the one we needed. And so, Christian, I urge you today, give thanks to God for this. Live a life of thanksgiving to God for this. Because He has been good to you. He has given you just the one that you needed. So that's our second lesson here. God is good to his people. Now one more. One more lesson that we can learn about God from this chapter, and it is this. God gives life to the dead. God gives life to the dead. And to be sure, this third lesson, God gives life to the dead, this one's going to take a second glance. It's going to require a second glance on our part, but it's in there. And I urge you to take a second glance at verse 4. Let's look at that one again. Stop and think again about verse 4. The Lord said to him, This is the land of which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, I will give it to your offspring. I have let you see it with your eyes but you shall not go over there. Now you can imagine somebody reading that and thinking, well, that's cruel. That's rubbing it in. God didn't have to do that, did he? Didn't have to show Moses this wonderful land that he wasn't going to be allowed to enter on account of his sin. He didn't have to. You lead me to the water, but you won't let me drink. Lord, you lead me to the land, but you won't let me enter. And Lord, I know you won't let me enter because I deserve it. But do we really have to go through all of this? Do you really have to bring me up here and show it to me and remind me of that? Is this cruel? Of course, the answer is no. This is not cruelty. This is an extraordinary mercy. Because it's true, God didn't have to do this. Didn't have to show Moses this wonderful land that he was not going to be allowed to enter on account of his sin. He didn't have to, but he did it. He did show him, and I want you to stop and think about what it meant for Moses that God did it, that he showed him. What it meant for Moses was this. In effect, the last thing he saw before he died was a vision of the faithfulness of God. That's what it meant. Moses knew the promise. Hundreds of years ago, God had promised Abraham that his descendants would eventually come back to this land. And the last thing Moses saw before he died was a vision from corner to corner. From border to border of that promise kept. A vision of the faithfulness of God. God had brought them back to this land just as He had said He would. And God gave that vision to a sinful man. He gave that vision to a man who had failed him. And in fact, Moses is dying here and now because he'd failed him. But God showed him anyway. What God did for Moses was to say, Moses, you can die in peace. Though you are dying here and now, a death that is a kind of chastisement. Moses, you can die in peace. You can close your eyes knowing that I'm a faithful God. Which means, Moses, that I'm not just faithful to Israel as a people. Moses, I'm faithful to you. Remember what Simeon said in Luke 2, Jesus in his arms Simeon said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. That you have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people Israel. That's what Simeon said. What God did for Moses was to say something like that from the divine vantage point. Moses, now I am letting you, my servant, depart in peace according to my word, for your eyes have seen my salvation. Which I have prepared in the presence of all people. Moses, with that thought, with the thought of my faithfulness, with the sight of my faithfulness. Close your eyes. That wasn't cruel. It was merciful. Moses was about to die. Moses was in the position of needing to know of the faithfulness of God, and in that respect. He was not unique. Every believer who's ever lived, Moses included, in the face of death, needs to know of the faithfulness of God. Every believer in the face of death, what I need to know is that God's going to be faithful to follow through on his promise that my death will not be the death of me. That my earthly death will not be the end of my story. In the face of death, what I need to know is that God is going to follow through on his promise, I will not leave you nor forsake you. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. I need to know that he's going to follow through on that. Now, admittedly, you will not find explicit teaching anywhere in the books of Moses to the effect that when the believer dies he goes to heaven to be with God. But of course the gospel is nonsense if that's not true. The gospel, even as Moses understood it and recorded it dimly and in shadows, the gospel is nonsense. If the believer's death is the death of him, if it's the end of his story. So think about think about Moses' experience in this chapter. I think this is one of the most extraordinary things about this chapter. It's a gospel reality that's implied here. It's not spelled out, but it's in there. The very logic of the gospel puts it there. And it's this. When Moses died. Moses, who'd been told, you shall not enter. When he died, he entered. And I mean he entered. He didn't enter Canaan. He entered a realm that would have made the milk and honey of Canaan look pale and tasteless by comparison. When he entered, he wasn't disappointed anymore. Because what he entered was a heavenly realm. And the most amazing thing about it is that that's not even the end of it. It gets better. Moses entered that realm knowing that one day God would enter this one. Again, dimly in shadows, but he must have had some sense that one day God would visit this land. And that he would do so, God would enter this world in order to accomplish the salvation that Moses himself had written about. The salvation that Moses himself was banking on when he died. Listen again to some of the words that Moses wrote. I will put enmity between you, the serpent, and the woman. and between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Genesis 3. 15. Moses wrote that. Or the words of Balaam, I see him but not now, I behold him but not near, a star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. Moses wrote that. Or from Deuteronomy 18, God said, I will raise up for my people a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. Moses heard that, and Moses wrote that. And then many, many, many years later, John wrote this, the words of Jesus Jesus said, if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. At the heart of Moses' ministry all along was in a strange way what Balaam had said, which was, I see him but not now. If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. And in the Gospels, to make it even more incredible, in the Gospels we learn not only that Moses had written of Jesus, but that Moses appeared with him. And maybe you know what I'm talking about, the transfiguration. Listen to that as it's recorded by Luke, Luke 9. Jesus took with him Peter and John and James, went up on the mountain to pray, and as he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling white And behold, two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. And then you know, Peter, who doesn't even know what he's saying, makes a proposal. Master, it's good that we're here. Let us make three tents, one for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah. That proposal didn't prevail. As he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. A voice came out of the cloud saying, This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. So at this point, the Mount of Transfiguration, it's no longer I see him, but not now. Now it's become I see him now. I'm with him now in some extraordinary way. And what did the voice say out of the cloud? This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. In effect, that's what Moses' testimony had been all along, though he barely could have understood it himself. Moses' testimony to Israel was to say, Israel, one day the chosen of God will come. And when he comes, listen to him. And not only that, but what were Moses and Jesus and Elijah talking about on the mountain? It says there in Luke 9, they spoke of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. And the word that's translated departure there is the word Exodus. And of course, the exodus that Jesus was about to accomplish at Jerusalem was nothing less than a resurrection exodus. He didn't just leave town. There was a whole lot more to his departure than that. He left this life. He left this age, and he left it by passing into the age to come, into resurrection, into glory. And Moses was standing there talking with him about it before it happened. Moses, whose body was buried in the valley in the land of Moab, was standing there with Jesus talking about the resurrection of the body. Which was Moses' hope, and which is now our hope, the resurrection of the body. And so Moses knew and must have known then, God gives life to the dead. And isn't that what Moses had been hoping for all along? That's what Hebrews says. About these Old Testament believers, it says that about Abraham and Sarah and some others, but certainly it was true of Moses, Hebrews 11, it says these all died in faith, not having received the things promised. But having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, can you almost imagine Moses at the top of that mountain looking at the land and having those things running through his mind? But as it is, they desire a better country. A better country. A better one than the one he saw. That is a heavenly one. And then it says, therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. That's Hebrews 11. God gives life to the dead. And that's what Moses had been hoping for all along. Now you can imagine that at this point Somebody might object to this whole third point that we've been talking about here. God gives life to the dead. And you can imagine the objection. Somebody comes back and says, look, I've read Deuteronomy 34 time and time again, and frankly, I don't see it. I mean the believer going to heaven to be with God when he dies? The believer looking forward to the resurrection of the body at the end of the age? I've read this chapter and I don't see it. You're forcing all of that into the text. You're reading that into the text instead of reading out of it what's actually there. So there's an objection. And to answer it, I'd simply say, well, consider another example in the books of Moses. There and back again. Consider the words of God to Moses spoken out of the burning bush. So this takes us all the way back to Exodus 3. God said, Do not come near, take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. That's Exodus. 3. Those were the words of God to Moses, and Jesus said, there's resurrection in those words. It's not spelled out. But it's in there. Listen to Jesus in Matthew 22. As for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. And then he says, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Moses says there's resurrection in those words. You've just got to stop and think about what God is like. And then you'll see it. Well we can do the same thing with Deuteronomy thirty four. Jesus said there's resurrection at the burning bush because God is not the God of the dead but of the living. Well there's resurrection in Deuteronomy thirty four because God is not the God of mere lifetimes but of eternity. There's resurrection in Deuteronomy 34, because God is not the God of mere lifetime, but of eternity. Otherwise, is he really God? Is he really a savior? If the end of this life is all there is, that can't be Moses himself said in Psalm 90, the years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength, 80, yet their span is but toil and trouble, they are soon gone, and we fly away. Now, apparently Moses lived little longer than eighty, but even his extra years were toil and trouble as well, and they were soon gone as well. And if God is the God only of that, If he is the God only of brief, troublesome lifetimes, then let's not kid ourselves. We are of all people most to be pitied. And not only that, but if that's true, then Deuteronomy 34 is absolutely crushing. I mean, no matter how many praises are heaped upon Moses. for the kind of man that he was in this life, and for all of the privileges that he enjoyed in this life. No litany of praises heaped upon a man after he dies. Can truly resolve the toil and the trouble and the sin of his earthly life. The only true resolution for all of that Is life with God at the end of this life, and then the resurrection of the body at the end of this age. Nothing less will do. And Christian, the good news is that's what awaits you. Life with God at the end of your life, and then the resurrection of your body at the end of the age. So obviously you don't know when you're going to die. In case you've lost sight of how obvious that is, let the obviousness of that sink in again. You do not know when you're going to die. But what you can know, what you must know today, is that this is how to be ready to die. Be firmly persuaded that God, your God, gives life to the dead. Because nothing less than that conviction will do. So just as Moses closed his eyes in death, we close the book of Deuteronomy. With a vision of what God is like. Just as he did. So we close the book. With a vision of God. He's true to his word. He's good to his people. He gives life to the dead. You want to be well-versed in those truths. And you can practice tonight when you go to bed. When your head hits the pillow tonight, and it's the last few fleeting moments of the day, as you close your eyes, remember to give one last look at God. Remember to give one last thought to your Savior. Let that be the last thing you see. As you close your eyes and as you see it You can say with David, Psalm 17, As for me, I shall behold your face in righteousness when I awake I shall be satisfied with your likeness. Amen.