Okay, the passage this morning is in Isaiah chapter forty-two, verses one to nine. Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom I del in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry out or raise his voice, nor make his voice heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a dimly burning wick he will not extinguish. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not be disheartened or crushed until he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands will wait expectantly for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and its offspring, who gives breath to the people on it. And spirit to those who walk in it. I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will also hold you by the hand and watch over you, and I will appoint you as a covenant to the people. and as a light to the nations, to open blind eyes, to bring bring out prisoners from the dungeon, and those who dwell in darkness from the prison. I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. Behold, the former things have come to pass. Now I declare new things. Before they spring forth, I proclaim them to you. Thus far God's word. One of the things that we learned early on in our time in Japan is that Japanese people have a dislike for making strong statements. And in fact, in the Japanese language, there's a special verb form for making weak assertions. So for example, if you wanted to say it's raining now, you'd say, Amedes. But to say that it will rain tomorrow, even a professional meteorologist, even an expert in the field, would use the weak assertion form. Ameidesho. When Japanese people state their opinions, they use this weak assertion form in order to take into consideration that someone else may have a different opinion. It's expensive. Takaidosho. It's difficult, muscashi to show. Even parents, when they correct their children, use the weak assertion form when explaining why the wrong behavior was unacceptable. It's dangerous. Abunaidesho. It's rude. And so since there is in Japanese culture this dislike for making strong statements, You probably won't be surprised to learn that some of the strong statements in the Bible are stumbling blocks for Japanese people. As we read the Bible with Japanese people, often they have a very favorable response to what they see. They love the golden rule. Do to others as you would have them do to you. They like the second greatest commandment. Love your neighbor as yourself. However, the first sign of trouble usually comes when we get to John 14. 6. Where Jesus says, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. This very strong statement is difficult for Japanese people to accept. It flies in the face of a famous Japanese proverb that says that there are many paths to the top of Mount Fuji, by which they mean one way is just as good as another. The Japanese are a people who had no difficulty accepting the Chinese religion of Buddhism or the religion of Buddhism that the Chinese brought to Japan in the 6th century. They simply mixed aspects of Buddhism. with aspects of Shinto, the native religion of Japan. And so the result is that when you hear figures about religion in Japan, you hear things like this. Seventy-five percent of Japanese are Buddhist, and 85% of Japanese are Shinto. Yeah, I was a math professor, and so those are a math teacher, so those uh those numbers sort of blow my mind a little. Incidentally, less than one half of one percent of Japanese are evangelical Christians. And so many Japanese would be happy to take the things that they like from the Bible and throw that into the mix as well. But the God of the Bible could never tolerate worship for him being mixed with the idolatries of Buddhism and of Shinto. Such eclecticism is repulsive to him. He says in the Bible, This is what the Lord says, Israel's king and redeemer, the Lord Almighty. I am the first, and I am the last. I am the Lord, and there is no other. Apart from me, there is no God. Or, from this morning's text, I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not give my glory to another, or my praise to graven images. Recently, we experienced this clash between the strong statements of the Bible and the Japanese dislike for strong statements with a woman named Mrs. Inoue. Mrs. Ineley had studied in the United States during her college years. Now she was back in Japan, she was married, and had a kindergarten-aged son. As she was living in Japan, she began to feel her fluency in English starting to slip away, and she didn't want that to continue. And so she decided that now that her son was in kindergarten, she had time to do something about that. So when she heard about my wife Ree's uh Wednesday morning English Bible study, she asked if she could come. At that Bible study she met a group of women, only one of whom was a Christian, although another one has since become a Christian. Some of the women she met there were genuinely seeking spiritually. Others were just intellectually curious about what the Bible said, and others just wanted to speak English. But it was clear in Mrs. Inoue's case from early on that she was really thinking about what she was reading in the Bible. She asked very sincere questions. She freely shared her response to things that she was reading. Some of the things she found very appealing, others she just didn't seem to understand at all But soon we began hearing her asserting biblical truths as her own convictions. She believed that Jesus was God. She believed that he had been raised from the dead. There were times when instead of Ree or me explaining the truth to the group from the Bible, it was Mrs. Inoue explaining the truth to the group. And just before we left Japan to come back to the U. S. , she volunteered to host the English Bible study, which had been meeting in our home, in her home, while we were gone. But there was this one issue that kept coming up a few times. It was her grandfather. Not that Mrs. Inoue was concerned that her grandfather would disapprove of her growing interest in biblical things, although that is very common in Japan. In Mrs. Inway's case, she never knew her grandfather. He died before she was born. But she believes that her grandfather watches over her. She says that he helps her. She gives an example of a time when she had an important meeting the next morning and she forgot to set her alarm clock. In the middle of the night, she suddenly woke up and she realized that she'd not set her alarm clock, and so she was able to set it and to be at her appointment on time. She's convinced that it was her grandfather who caused her to wake up in the middle of the night. She prays to him during difficult times. She thinks of him as a kind of a God. And it's at this point that some of those strong statements from the Bible are difficult from Mrs. Inoue. I am the Lord, and there is no other. Apart from me, there is no God. I will not give my glory to another, or my praise to graven images. Mrs. Enoy is a very kind lady, and she's been very good to us. We love her, but we've had to say some very hard things to her. Things about demons seeking to deceive her. Things about the devil masquerading as an angel of light. We've tried to say those things in humility. We've tried to say them lovingly. But you can imagine how hard it's been for her to hear some of those things. We've taken something that she's always thought of as a kind of intimate guardian, and we've called it a demon or a devil. It's been difficult for us to say these things to her, and we haven't said them lightly, but because we love her, we had to say these hard things to her. We couldn't say that we love her, and yet let her continue in deception by something that would ultimately keep her from the source of eternal life. Now, this isn't just an issue for missionaries on the mission field. All of us need to face it in our relationships with our non-Christian family members and friends, co-workers, and acquaintances. There's a strong temptation in our relationships to let things about God go unsaid. We don't want to stir up the dust by bringing up spiritual things. And I have to tell you that for us, it's very much the same as it is for you when we're back in America. When we're in Japan, we have a label. We're the missionaries, and people expect us to talk to them about God. But when we're in America, we blend in just like you do. And I know that that makes it a harder obstacle to overcome. Of course, we don't want to be prideful or forceful when we talk about spiritual things. But just like people in Japan who worship idols. Our friends and our family members face a terrible eternity if they remain apart from the God who will not give his glory to another. The stakes are very great for them, and if we really love them. Then we can't sit by quietly. We need to ask God to give us opportunities to talk to people to these people about spiritual things, and to give us the courage to take those opportunities when we have them. We also need to remember that God calls us to sow seeds and to harvest. He doesn't call us to cause those seeds to bear fruit. That's something that only God can do. And so the pressure is not on us to persuade our loved ones to believe. There's another reason why we had to say those hard things to Mrs. Inoue. And that's because God wants Mrs. Inoue's worship. And he wants it exclusively. Jesus told us that the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God seeks true worship from Mrs. Inoue. He doesn't want to share the glory that he is due with the idol of Mrs. Inoue's grandfather. And if God cares so much that his glory not be given to another, how can you and I not care? The passage that we read this morning is a messianic prophecy. It's the first of four passages called the Servant Songs, in which Isaiah prophesies about the Messiah that God will send In the same passage in which God says he will not give his glory to another, he tells us what he will do for the people who have turned away from him to idolatry. He will send his servant, who will bring justice to the nations. This servant will be a covenant for the people and a light for the Gentiles He will open blind eyes, set captives free, and release those in darkness. Now, since you and I can look back on this prophecy's fulfillment, we know that the God who speaks it is our Redeemer. It's he who loves us so much that he did not spare his own son in order to rescue us from the consequences of our sins. We once were his enemies in idolatry and in rebellion against him. And yet, as the Bible says, at just that time, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. This is one of the motivations that the Bible talks about for serving God. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, it says that for Christ's love compels us. Because we are convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him. Christ's love compels us. When we understand how much God loves us in Christ, we're overwhelmed, and we can't help but want to serve Him. If we truly love God, and if we truly want to serve Him, then what's important to God must be important to us. Sometimes I think that we're we're afraid that if we live by God's priorities, if we put the things that God puts pr priority on first in our lives, it'll mean that we won't have any happiness or enjoyment in life. But that kind of thinking is not correct. Jesus said that he came that we may have life and have it to the full. And we dishonor God if we make him out to be a hard and demanding taskmaster. We're not only his servants, but we're his adopted children. And he pours out abundant blessings on us. But if we're truly his servants, then it's inconceivable that we could not place great importance on something so important to him He's told us, I will not give my glory to another. And yet we see all around us a world that's ignoring him, not giving him the glory and worship that he's due. If we're truly his disciples, then we can't ignore the fact that millions are giving God's glory to another. It's happening right here in America, which is becoming increasingly secular. In fact, there's a growing tendency here not only to leave God out of people's private lives, but to exclude any reference to him in from public life as well. Since coming back to the U. S. last summer, we read in our newspaper about moves to remove the words One nation under God from the Pledge of Allegiance and about the removal of the Statue of the Ten Commandments from the courthouse in Alabama. And so the darkness is certainly growing darker right here in our own land. Ree and I were sitting in a doctor's office in the waiting room shortly after coming back to America. And sitting there with us was a father and his two young daughters. One of the daughters looked at him and said, Daddy? Why do you always have dark circles under your eyes? The father looked at her and said, well, that's the way God made me. Now to you, that may not seem like a very significant conversation. But I've been in Japan for eight years now. And I have never heard that kind of conversation in Japan. Never have I heard a Japanese parent explaining to their child about the God who made the world. Never in eight years have I seen a Japanese stranger bow his head and give thanks for a meal at a restaurant. Never in eight years have I met a Japanese Christian by chance on the street. The spiritual atmosphere here in America certainly is darkening. And yet there are many places around the world where it is so much darker. Outside America's shores, there are billions who are giving God's worship to spirits, to ancestors, to idols, to nature, or to nothing at all We can't ignore that. We've got to care and we've got to act. Practically speaking, what can we do? Well, all around us there are people who are not giving God the worship he seeks from them. In his final instructions to his disciples before returning to heaven, Jesus told them, You will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. He wanted them to begin right where they were. And the same is true for each of us. God has put us in a certain geographical location. He's put us in a certain family, a certain neighborhood, a certain school, a certain workplace. And in doing so, he's given us relationships with many people who are not giving his glory, who are giving his glory to another. As the Bible says, God gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting men's sins against them. We are therefore Christ's ambassadors, as though God were making his appeal through us. God is calling the people around us to be reconciled to Him, and He's calling them through us He wants us to be the ambassadors who are bringing his offer of reconciliation to the people that we have relationships with. And so we need to make sure in our daily lives that we are not insulated from non-Christians. We need to have relationships with non-Christians, and we need to make sure that we're spending time with them. And as God gives us opportunities, we need to be his ambassadors in those relationships. Skip mentioned that last month you uh Look at the passage where Paul wrote about covetousness, which is idolatry. And I think there's a Similar issue at stake in this issue. There's another form of idolatry that sometimes hinders us in being Christ's ambassadors and taking on that responsibility. And that's the idolatry. Of our worship of our reputation. What do other people think of us? How will people evaluate us if if we speak to them about spiritual things? what will they say about us to other people? And sometimes we we place uh our um our reputation on the altar and that becomes our idol. In reality If if you have known anyone that you had a part in in leading to the Lord, the thanks that they have to you The appreciation that they have for what you have done is just overwhelming. And the exact opposite is true. They have the highest opinion of you. However, notice that Jesus' final instructions to his disciples didn't stop at Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria. He instructed them to be involved in the ministry of reconciliation not only locally, but also globally. They were to be his witnesses to the ends of the earth. There were many people in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria who were not giving God the worship he was due. But there were a far, far greater number in other places. And there were far, far fewer people in those other places who could serve as God's ambassadors. The same is true today. The vast majority of people who are giving God's worship to another are geographically distant from us this morning. We need to be concerned about being ambassadors to those that God has put around us. But that doesn't mean that we can be unconcerned about those who are at the ends of the earth God wants their worship as well, and He's called us to be witnesses to them too. How can we be witnesses to people who are at the ends of the earth? John Piper has answered that question with some very strong words. He said that we have three options. We can go, we can send, or we can disobey. We can go. Now clearly God isn't calling every Christian to go to the ends of the earth, but he is calling some For both Ree and I, the idea of going overseas as missionaries was something that we resisted initially. We didn't even want to consider the possibility. But a point came where we realized that we couldn't say that we were followers of Jesus if we weren't willing to consider the possibility that he might want us to serve him overseas. Years later we laugh at ourselves as we remember that time because we see that in many ways God has equipped us to be able to do this task and we love what we're doing. We wouldn't change it for a minute. Now I don't know each of you, and I don't know what God is calling you to do, but I'd like to encourage each of you to seek God and to ask him, how do you want me to be involved in bringing the gospel to the ends of the earth? You know, the world is a very different place than it was even 20 years ago. And being a missionary is also very different than it was. Perhaps you've heard of the 18th century century missionaries to Africa who packed all of their belongings in coffins before they went to the mission field because they knew that most of them were not coming back. Well, that's not the world that we live in. The world has changed, and world travel has changed with it, and there are so many possibilities today that were not available even a short time ago. To help you to envision what it might mean to go, let me share with you a couple of ways in which our missionary team in Japan uses short-term missionaries. First of all, when our team plants the church, the first thing we do is that we form a small sub-team consisting of a career missionary, a Japanese co-worker, and one or more short-term missionaries. The short-term missionaries sow the seed broadly, but forming relationships and opening God's words God's Word with many people in the community through things such as English classes, cooking classes, children's outreaches, Thanksgiving dinners, and a wide variety of other special events. From that comes a large network of relationships. And unfailingly, God brings to us from that network people who are interested in learning more about what the Bible says And so what we want to do with those people is we want to get them into a Bible study. For some of those people, they may want to study the Bible in English, others will want to study it in Japanese. But later, from those studying the Bible, some will begin to attend worship, and then some will come to faith, and some will even go on to be leaders in the church. But the thing I want you not to miss, Is that in many cases the first contact that those people have with Christians and with the Bible comes to a relationship with a short-term missionary who probably doesn't speak very much Japanese. These short-term missionaries are typically in Japan for a period of a time lasting from a few months to a few years. Often there are people who are at a point of transition in life. Maybe they're graduating from school. Maybe they're changing jobs. Maybe they're retiring. And God is using these types of people effectively in Japan to introduce the Bible to Japanese people, many of whom have never held a copy of His Word in their hands. At the church plant that we're involved with, we'll tell you a little bit about that in Sunday school, we have a short-term missionary working with us now who's from Australia. She's been there for a year, she'll be there for another year. Next February, next March, something in that time frame, she'll be finished. And so we'll have lost her. Having another short-term missionary ready to join us at that time is very important to keeping the uh um Possibility of making new contacts going on. Another type of short-term missionary in Japan is a teacher at our school for the children of our missionaries. Our team has started its own small school because we realize that one of the biggest threats to our continuing presence in Japan is our children's education. At this school, in a given year, there are 15 to 20 students and two to three teachers. Of course, we're thrilled if we can have a certified teacher as one of our teachers. But that's not always the case. And yet some many years we've had just a general college graduate come and serve as a teacher. And occasionally we've had just a high school graduate come and serve as a teacher's assistant. Each year it's a challenge to find the teachers. And until this year, we've always found them. But this year, we were not able to find teachers for the school for our missionaries, for our children. And so three other members of the missionary team are teaching the children this year. One of them is our team leader's wife, Carol Iverson, who's been in Japan for 13 years and has a very fruitful ministry with Japanese women. Another is Linda Carner, who's also from Maryland, who's been in Japan for 12 years, and is our team's best Japanese speaker. Our children are a high priority to us, and so we're glad to have these people teaching our children. But the fact that they're teaching our children this year means that they've had to cut back very, very significantly on their ministry to Japanese people. So short-term missionaries who come to teach our children not only teach our children, but they also enable much ministry to Japanese people to take place. So sending a teacher to Japan is also like sending a Carol Iverson or a Linda Carner in addition to do ministry to Japanese. Going as a short-term missionary is often a very good step for discerning whether God is leading you to serve Him longer as a missionary. And if anybody is interested in talking about that possibility, I'd be glad to talk with you. If your role in reaching the ends of the earth isn't as a goer, there are only two. Now that may involve giving financially so that somebody else Can go, but I hope that you will never think of being a sender as primarily a financial thing. Other very important aspects of being a sender are being informed. Praying and helping others to be informed. And Re and I can't emphasize enough what an encouragement it is to have faithful senders. The highlight Anytime that we visit a church, the highlight is always meeting somebody who has been praying for us for years. And usually it's their questions or their comments that give them away, and we understand, ah This is one of the people who really prays for us, and nothing is more encouraging to us than to meet such people. And so being a sender is every bit as vital a role as being a goer in the task of reaching the ends of the earth. Each of us has a different capacity for how much that we can do. And I'd like to encourage each of you to consider adopting a foreign missionary whose prayer letter you will receive and for whom you will pray on a regular basis. Personal devotions or family devotions are an excellent time to do that. I want to warn you not to be over ambitious about doing that though. We make many great plans that fail because they're too ambitious. And so if you would choose just one foreign missionary that you'd pray for. I think that's a very good starting place. And we'd be thrilled if you'd pray for us. There is a way to sign up to get our prayer letter. uh on the table there. But you all are involved with many real uh many missionaries who need your prayers and uh they each need faithful senders just as much as we do. And so let me encourage you to seek God's leading in finding a peace that's realistic for you in the role of ascender. The God who made us and who made the world deserves our worship. He should be worshipped by all he has made, and he wants the worship of all that he has made As those who've been loved and redeemed by Him, we should want that worship for Him as well. And so my encouragement to you this morning is to seek God. Ask him to give you his heart for his glory. And ask him to lead you to know what your part should be in the task of reconciling people to him, that they may give him the glory that he's due. Let's pray. Our God in heaven, you are a great and glorious God. You're our maker, and you've given us our lives. And not only that, but you're our Redeemer who set us free from the consequences of our sins and has given us the priceless gift of eternal life. We thank you for the privilege that you give us to share in the Ministry of Reconciliation. We know that you don't need us to bring people to know you. But still, you give us the privilege to share in your work, and you give us the joy to see you work through us. We pray that you'll meet with each one of us. We pray that you'll give us your heart for your glory. And we pray that you'll help us to see the role you have for each of us in bringing men to give you the glory that you were due. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.