Okay, if you have our Bibles who were our passages from Philippians chapter 2, we'll begin reading at verse 12. And go to verse eighteen Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence, but more much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or questioning. And the NIV here has also complaining or arguing. So that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God, without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation Among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life So that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. Likewise, you also should be glad. And rejoice with me. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the Apostle Paul and for your speaking through him of To us tonight. I pray that the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts would be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, our rock and our redeemer We pray that we would all grow in grace tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. You have the outline on the back of the bulletin here. It's uh relative Relatively brief and straightforward. There's an introduction, which is basically that working out our salvation calls us to do and to not do certain things. And then three points. There's a precept about complaining, a preventative for complaining, and then a remedy to complain. Complaining. Sorry I didn't quite get the alliteration in there. Just couldn't quite work all the P's. Maybe some other English major could, but hey, I'm a chemistry major, right? So you have to deal with with that. So fan to see you. Oh thanks Bob. I should have consulted with you before I wrapped up my uh final preparations. Thank you. Okay, so by way of introduction, which is based on verses 12 and 13, working our out our salvation calls us to do and not do certain things. And uh so this is the verse that speaks about uh working out our salvation, which some have contorted to imply that we work for our salvation. I assume speaking to this crowd that we don't have that problem, that error. But uh just to be clear, uh we don't work for our salvation as one commentator has put it, we work out what God has already worked in to our lives based on many other passages and abundant passages in Scripture. Scriptures. It's clear that we can't work for our salvation. We can't do enough good works to earn our way to heaven. So what Paul is stating here is that we should work out the grace that God has worked in We should walk in the works of sanctification that God has called us to, as God has worked in us, so we should work out fruits of the Spirit, gifts of the Spirit. And various good works that He's called us to do in order that we might be more like Him, that we might be more like the Lord Jesus Christ and grow in His image. And as we do that, one way we are to be expressing particular behavior is that we are called not to point one not to grumble, to complain, to argue, or to fuss, as various translations have uh the comment there in verse Verse uh fourteen. So do all things without grumbling or disputing, complaining, arguing. There are various words there in ver whatever translation. So, all that God commands us to do throughout His Word, we're to do it cheerfully, with a cheerful obedience, with no murmuring or complaint. Complaining or discontentment or grumbling, says Matthew Henry. Webster defines complaining in this way: to express discontent Resentment, grief, to find fault, to make a formal accusation or charge. Now, children, those very young, particularly under about age six, I see a few in the population here. Listen here, this message is for you. If you don't get anything, just listen for the next few seconds. The message here is clear. It's what your parents want you to. you to hear and it's what God wants you to hear. Are you with me? You listening? Here's the message. No fussy. Okay? No fussy allowed. That's what God is telling to you in this. Massage, okay? Did you get that? No fussy. It's that clear. Okay? For little kids a little bit older than that, the message is uh A little bit different. No whining, no wimps allowed. Okay? And a good reminder to all children: God has instructed you to obey your parents. As a first rule, that's the clear will of God for you, and something you should be careful to do without complaining. Obey your parents without complaining And note this particular instruction. Here's a good threefold rule. Children, again, are you listening? Obey first time, all the way, and cheerfully. If you do that and you do it regularly, you'll not only make your parents happy, you'll make God happy. And you'll make your home a happy home Home to be in. Try it. You'll see. And God will bless you for it. So now back to all of us here. We see in the passage actually, the Greek text. Um at least Greek scholars tell me. I know I'm not a Greek scholar, nor do I play one on television. The the words all things are at the beginning of the Greek construction. uh to indicate uh that it applies to the whole construction and um it emphasizes the importance of doing everything So we're to do all things which is with such a spirit of not complaining that that's to be the characterization. of our lives. And I come before you here with a confession. This I'm preaching to myself here. God brought this passage to my attention several months ago. I was clear. I thought, you know, I need to make this my next session. exhortation and I need to apply it to my life, of course, too, because it's something I'm struggling with, particularly at work, which I'll share about more in in a few minutes. But um I've been reflecting on it. I've been seeing the need to apply it to my own life. Uh as my wife and children can testify as well. It's a struggle in the home. I have a tendency to complain. And so I'll just confess to you right up front here it's something I'm working on because I can tend to be a complainer. Everyone complains. I hear it at work, uh in the grocery store line. I had the car in for uh service this week. Uh I was really tempted to complain about how long some things were taking. So uh God is working uh with this on me and in my heart. So I just I just want to let you know I'm not there. I'm working on it. I'm sure it's going to be a lifelong process. But it's something that God wants us, wants me and all of us to work on. in our lives. Because you know, when you complain, bad things can happen. And we have a testimony of that throughout the Old Testament. I'll give you two examples. Numbers chapter 11 and the first verse. I'll read that for you. And the people complained in the hearing of the Lord about their misfortunes. And when the Lord heard it, His anger was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some outlying parts of the camp. It doesn't seem to be pointing to a specific people. It was a very um intense and uh serious incident here. And it it's a result of the people's complaining And uh as many of you are aware, with uh wanderings in the wilderness, it wasn't an isolated event. It happened many times. Uh I'll mention again just a few chapters later in Numbers 14. It happens again. Now, this is right after the report of the spies. You remember the 12 spies that went to spy out the land? Ten of them came back with a measly negative report. two, very positive, Joshua and Caleb, you remember. They said, let's do it. We can we can do this. And the other ten, oh people are big, the walls are big, the cities are big, I don't know. No. And so this is Numbers 14, 1, after they hear the majority report, the negative report. Then all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried. And the people wept that night. All the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. And the whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in the land of Egypt? Or would that we had died in this wilderness? Why is the Lord bringing us into this land to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become plunder. Would it not be better for us to return to Egypt? So they said to one another, Let us appoint a leader and return to Egypt. Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces in the presence of all the assembly of the congregation. of the sons of Israel. So again, here's another incident where the people just grumble or complain. They complain directly to the Lord and to the leadership in this case. And note the irony of the situation. their reference to the fact that their little ones would be the ones who would be plundered and used. And at the end of the day, it's the parents whose bodies lie dead in the wilderness at the end. So because of their unbelief, as Hebrews tells us in the New Testament, and here in particular because of their complaint. They're whining. What what an irony and uh uh their disbelief and their lack of faith. It was uh a terrible thing. So we're called not to be like that, not to be a grumbling and a whiny people. Why? So we can stand out, so we can stand apart from the culture that we live in. Because we're to be different than those around us. It's a perverted and twisted and uh crooked society, Paul says in verse fifteen. That you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent, children of God or above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. A crooked and perverse generation. he says. Um we've seen that um in recent years. Abortion's been around a while, the killing of unborn children. We're now redefining marriage. Uh it's it's really You know, you've seen the signs of how our generation has been changing and redefining morality. I'll read, can't resist, Out of Freight magazine. I know it's Not a bastion of deep articles, a lot of puff pieces, right? But the uh Ask Marilyn section a few weeks ago, I I was so taken I just thought, wow. But here's the question. I'll only read the question because it's so revealing. Somebody wrote in, apparently a student, I suspect in college, because as you'll see the question relates. to test taking. Moralizing aside, can you give me any persuasive reason why my friends and I shouldn't cheat at school whenever we're sure we're not going to be caught? Moralizing aside. In other words, don't bother me with laws. Just give me a reason why I shouldn't you now mind you don't don't mind the the lack of logic or whatever. What whenever we're sure we're not going to get caught how can you Can you be sure you're never gonna get caught? Am I missing something here? How can you be sure you're never gonna get caught? Uh-huh. Anyway, anyway, so they're they're saying, Don't bother me with morals. I don't want to hear about that. You know, like don't kill or Don't commit adultery or stuff like that. This is the society that we're living in, ladies and gentlemen. It's just as Paul says, it's a crooked and perverted one So we're supposed to be different. We're supposed to stand out. And in this passage, Paul says one of the ways we can do that is by not complaining. And we do that s simply by um you know not being these positive attitude people or Dale Carnegie types uh committed to self-improvement. But we're to be realists, biblical realists, recognizing the sinfulness of Of men and women, but not being complainers. And again, I mentioned that this is something I struggle with in the workplace. Um if you've been in a place a long time, there are people that have been there longer than you, and there's not only complaining, but there's cynicism that can arise after a while, and it's easy to get caught up in that. And join in the complaining. Well, you know, management's doing this and management decided that. And wow, it's it's really Anyway, going on to verse 15, among whom you shine as lights in the world. What an image, what a metaphor. were to have a testimony of a blameless and innocent behavior to contrast with the culture we live in. To shine as lights in the world. It reminds us of what Jesus said in Matthew five sixteen Let your light shine before others, so that may they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is is in heaven. So there is the shining that we're to do. Now on to verse uh part two, that is point two, a preventative for complaining. This is a In verse 16, hold fast to the word of life, a preventative for complaining Go to the scriptures, be in the word regularly to help deal with the problems and frustrations that can tempt us to complain or to argue or to be. Fussy or whatever. Go to the Word of God that can give us wisdom to know how to deal with the frustrations that people and the world and circumstances throw at us throughout the course. Of a day or a week. In John 6. 63, Jesus said, The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. This the the scriptures God says this is spirit and life. This is our life. This is what gives us life, guidance, direction. Just a few verses later, Simon Peter answers him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life The scriptures contain the words of eternal life, and that's what's to help guide us. And it serves, I think, as a preventative uh for complaining, preventative for many other things. That's why we should be in it regularly. That's why we should be under its teaching. Uh that's why we should be in worship. And thirdly, a remedy to complaining. This is in verse 18. Likewise you also should be glad and rejoice with me. Here we have a contrast to complaining, a solution. The opposite, well, maybe not directly, exactly. English-wise, grammatically wise, but it seems to me gladness and rejoicing and joy are an opposite to complaining. A thankful and joyful attitude. is the opposite of a complaining spirit. And by nurturing joy we can insulate ourselves from the sickness of a complaining heart. Are you tempted to complain? I Reflect on God's goodness and mercy to you. Nurture a joyful spirit. Seek joy. Seek the Lord Seek his word. It's good to do it at Thanksgiving, but it's good to do the year round. I thought of a few applications. God calls us in this passage to be uh blameless and pure without fault and to shine as lights in the world. world. So how do we do that when everyone around us might be in a complaining spirit or a frustrating spirit? I mentioned that a lot of my struggles in addition to maybe around the house and uh are especially in the workplace. Um some things that are going on with uh management decisions. I'm not talking about the stuff that's in the news. Just kinda ignore that. It's other things at work. Uh you know, management decisions about this or that. And again, it's easier for me to join in with some of my colleagues and say, Yeah, that was an unwise decision. by management, why did they do that or why did they decide to do this? And so guilty as charged, you know, I've done that. But maybe your struggles are elsewhere with uh young children or having many children or finances or in your marriage. So how do you deal with that? Well, I think one thing that we can do is just think about what God has called us to and do our jobs, do our assigned duties. And when you do that, that takes up a lot of your time. If you're a student, you're in school, you're doing your studies, you're doing your homework, your chores, this will take up most of your time. So do that with diligence as unto the Lord, remembering that you work ultimately for him and will answer ultimately to him in that final day So that's one thing you can do, and that will help consume your time and keep you from complaining. Another thing you can do is study and assess what the irritation is. is in a way that avoids blaming an individual or person or persons and seek to make a positive suggestion to provide a solution. For example, think about telling a person who's in charge or an authority, have you thought about doing this instead of saying you got it all wrong? Or perhaps it might be worth considering this instead of saying, that's a stupid idea, and then irritating the situation. Another general principle, which goes without saying, but I'll say it anyway, is to seek to make sure we're solving problems biblically. And again, that's another reason to be in the Word regularly. Proverbs is a good place to go for a lot of good general biblical principle. Principles. Reading the Proverbs regularly helps us to do that, but reading the Bible at large also helps us to do that. And then, of course, praying is important. To pray for wisdom for yourself as you work through problems, to pray for the person who is maybe associated with the irritation or the leadership who's involved and to pray for their success and blessing. And then to pray if you come to that point where you need to to talk to the peer person To pray about the conversation you need to have or the conversations you need to have with one or more individuals. Another thing you can do is ask for godly counsel and prayer from other wise men and women. And this is something I've especially found helpful over the years. Uh going to people who've I I suspected and often Did realize that they had similar problems in their life or similar situations, and they were able to tell me very practical steps that I could take to deal with the problem. And that was a great resource of practical and spiritual help. I mentioned some biblical examples here. Just as we look at the Bible, there can be many others Joseph of the Old Testament, Daniel and Joseph of the New Testament. Joseph and Daniel, you know, worked for non-Christian employers um and desired and wanted their success. And they got it for the most part, most of their lives, for the betterment of their lives and the people around them and their community and and uh at the times for generations after them. They, by all means, uh that we can tell, uh probably dealt with frustration, setbacks, disappointments. And saw their way through a lot of these problems without complaining or arguing. Joseph, as you know, endured hardships, mistreatment, injustice. And eventually still rose to the top of uh the the food chain in Egypt. He was, you know, the CFO, not the chief financial officer, but the chief famine officer Offic officer in Egypt. You know, he made positive suggestions. We store up grain for seven years so we can uh handle uh and dispen disperse it carefully. You know, he didn't say, Okay, it's gonna be seven years of famine and God's gonna sock it to you. So tough, game over. See you later. I'm out of here. No, he made positive suggestions. He He uh got involved and God blessed him for it. And then Daniel, I'm not thinking of the Lion's Den incident, but earlier on when his friends were told about eating the uh the foods that they wanted to avoid, uh, they made positive alternative suggestions. Please let us try these foods at least for a period of time And God bless that. And they were received positively. And then if I could insert just a brief Christmas element here, I know it's the Advent season. But you know, before Joseph uh married Mary, and of course, you know, the angel visited Mary, angel visited Joseph. She's conceived, she's pregnant. And you know, there's a lot going on, and now the census comes up. And uh, I mean, obviously there's a lot of speculation here. We don't know we don't have a lot of details, but imagine you know, well the angel came and they said you know a lot of you know this is a king there's a king being born here somebody special Um there's a lot of magnetic why why is her pregnancy being interrupted where we have to go to Bethlehem on a dump I mean, this seems like a big interruption, a big problem. It seems to me like he'd be in a prime position to complain. Uh I don't know that maybe he did and struggle with it, maybe he didn't, but uh and then to get there and to have no place to g Lord, this is your anointed one and we We don't even have a place to go to give birth to your anointed child. This this doesn't seem to fit the picture I was expecting when we were both visited by angels. Again, it seems like a prime opportunity to complain. You know, it just, I don't know. But by all accounts, they submitted gracefully And uh I'll obviously you know the rest of the story, gave opportunity for the promise and Micah to be fulfilled that he would Be born in the city of David, Bethlehem. Shepherds, the lowliest of people, would be the first to hear the annunciation from angels in the sky. And And you know, you know the rest of the story. So what a wonderful unfolding, though at the time it sure did seem like a lot of things that people didn't expect and people could have complained about. So recapping, God's precepts tell us that we're to not to be a complaining and grumbling people. Children means no fussy, remember? Obey your parents, don't be fussy. And there is a preventative for complaining. It's being in the Word, seeking Him. That's another reason we should Be in the Word and be under God's preaching and teaching of the Word. And there's a remedy for complaining, nurturing a thankful and joyful heart. And God gives us many practical applications and practical examples. examples in his word of men and women. I know I didn't mention any women, but I'm sure there's some in there, who uh didn't complain even though they Might have been tempted to. So let's make our lives marked by no complaints in the sense that we are seeking to be biblical and Christ-like. By nurturing joy in our lives and not being complaining people and therefore standing out as salt and light in the world of people around us. Amen. Let's pray. Our Father, we do pray you would help us to be a people that do not complain and to be salt and light in the community around us to be more like Christ. And Lord, I do pray you would help me to continue to grow in this area as you know I need to grow. In Jesus' name. Amen.