You all know that water is necessary for life. According to thewaterpage. com, A person can only survive for three to five days without water. And I would suspect that many of you even know the chemical formula for water. H2O, showing us the ratio of hydrogen atoms to oxygen atom in this compound. But if you would change, if you would add an atom or detract an atom from water You would no longer have water, and in fact, you would make very dangerous substances to drink. You might think, oh, I'll just add an extra hydrogen or I'll add an extra oxygen or I'll take one away. And I'll be with that and try to live. In fact, you won't. One example is if you just add one oxygen atom to water, instead of having H2O, you have H2O2. Hydrogen peroxide. Now, some of you have put it on some cuts, and there are many different topical uses of it. And some of you may have even gargled with it or used it on an ulcer. But you used it in very, very diluted forms. But if you would drink hydrogen peroxide in an undiluted form, You would have gastronal and intestinal problems accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and a foaming at the mouth that might stop you to breathe eventually, and you would die. And drinking hydrogen peroxide in an undilated form and not treated quickly will cause you confusion, a coma, convulsions, cyanosis, and cardiorespiratory failure. That is your death. This morning, in God's Word, He pictures for us a metaphor that Jesus Having faith in him is the water we need for eternal life. And without his living water, by trusting in faith, You will die spiritually. And if you change that message at all You might think you're offering someone something that would be helpful for their spiritual thirst, but indeed you will kill them. And the church in the Apostle Paul's time, the Galatian church, was such a church. They were leaving the truth of the living water of trusting in Jesus. Listen to what Jesus says himself about this. Jesus speaking to the adulterous woman in John 4 says this everyone who drinks of this water, he was at the well, the water of the well, will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water I give him will never be thirsty again. That water that I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up into eternal life. In John 7, Jesus says, On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried, If anyone thirsts, Let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, says the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. And the very last thing that Jesus says at the end of the last book of the Bible in the book of Revelation, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify you about these things for the churches. Come, and let the one who hears come, and let the one who is thirsty come, and let the one who desires to take of the water of life without price. But if you check the message, the gospel message of desperately needing the Lord Jesus Christ, that he is the only thing. That can save our spiritually dying part souls because of sin, that's what you will give people is an elixir of death and not the truth and the life of the gospel. Normally, when you read an epistle, a letter to the churches, Paul starts as he did last week. He offers them grace and peace. Gives them a short gospel message. And then he begins to tell them and encourage them in their faith. He tells them what they've done right before he begins to correct them in either their doctrine, what they believe about Jesus, or in their duties, how they live for Jesus. But here the apostle skips that. Right after he greets them and he tells them of the gospel, he comes and now chastises them. This letter is radically different. Because he tells them what they need to hear. The Apostle Paul tells them and now warns them that they have begun drinking from a different distorted and contrary cisterns of the world's way of salvation, and that they're headed for eternal damnation. That's the same message that Christ's Church needs to hear today. Because we so easily and readily are willing to give up the gospel. To make people happy. And we end up killing them. So let us pray. Let us stand and we'll pray and then I'll read the scriptures for this morning. Our Father and God, your word gives us wondrous promises and the good news of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that is, we are saved by faith and his finished work. By your grace alone, not of ourselves, not of any works that we can bring unto you. We confess how easily that gospel is indeed distorted, made different and contrary. Not just by the world that has their own ways, but by the church who is trying to be loved by the world. rather than loving and serving you. So would you give us this day, open our eyes to the truth and give us a commitment To love and follow you, and that indeed when we bring the good news of the gospel, it would be indeed life-saving news because it is living water. Therefore, we pray all this in the name of our Savior Jesus. Amen. Follow along as I read from Galatians chapter 1. Starting in verse 6 and going through verse 9. The apostle speaking to the Galatian church by the Spirit, God speaking to you today, says, I am astonished. That you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ And are turning to a different gospel. Well, not that there is another gospel, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. As I have said before. So now I say again If anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. All men are like the grass and all their beauty like the flower of the field. The grass withers and the flower fades. But the word of our God will stand forever. Amen. Please be seated. The Apostle Paul here is not talking to the world. that didn't have the gospel. He's not talking to unbelievers. He's talking to his church. The church who had come to Christ by trusting in Jesus and not their own works. knowing that they were sinners and they could not be saved, but other teachers had come in with another message and they grabbed onto it. And he says, I'm astonished that you are so quickly deserting the grace of Christ. You remember in the first verse and the first part we read last week in chapter 1, verse 3, we heard the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ who gave himself for our sins. But now the Galatians were abandoning Jesus and the life-giving water of the gospel for the world's poisonous portions. Now, in Galatians 1 verse 6, it says, he says they're deserting the gospel and they're turning to a different gospel. Well he then says, well, it's not really a different gospel in the sense this, there's only one gospel, so you can't have another one, but they're all ones that are changed. So if it's different, It's one that's not the same. It's of another kind, one that has been altered or changed. And what had happened is that the Judaizers, the ones who said, Yes, you can have Jesus, but you must also have the law. So if you were a if you were a believer and had come to Christ by faith, they were saying if you were a male and you were especially a Gentile, you need to go get circumcised. you were male or female, you need to add all the religious laws of the Old Testament on here. Jesus is not enough. You must earn your own salvation. You must bring your own righteousness to the table, or you cannot be saved. And that is a different and a damning gospel. It had been just a few years earlier that the church, first church council, the first general assembly that there ever had been, had met in Jerusalem And the Gentile Christians had come and they'd heard that the message had come to those who were not Jewish, and they were the church was trying to add these very same things. for them to be saved? Well they need to be circumcised and they need to start following the laws of the of the Old Testament, the the the the the sacrifices and other things. And as they worked in the Church of Jerusalem, um it said this because of what was happening in Acts 15 But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. But thankfully, after much debate in efficient Acts 15, 11, it says, we believe that we will be saved through the grace. Of the Lord's Jesus Christ. Grace. God's riches at Christ's expense. Not God's riches because you are good. Not God's riches because you have earned salvation. Not God's riches because of anything you do. God's riches because Jesus has given himself for you. Warren Wisby says it this way: you cannot mix grace and works because the one excludes the other. Salvation is a gift of God's grace purchased for us by Jesus Christ on the cross. To turn from grace to law is to desert the God who saved us. Then he goes on to say, if you believe a distorted gospel, it will bring trouble to you and others. Look at Galatians 1. 7. Not that there's another gospel, but there are some who trouble you to distort the gospel of Christ. A distortion, a distorted gospel is one that is changed and contorted. deviated and disfigured, twisted and tortured from the truth. John MacArthur says it this way The gospel is God's free grace and sovereign act of love and mercy in granting salvation through the death and resurrection of Jesus. It is apart from anything men are and can do to save himself or add to his salvation. It's absurd to think and accept that a gracious salvation and then endeavor to maintain your own righteousness through human efforts Romans 11, 6 says, but if it salvation is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. And that that message has been brought to the church over and over again. My father, as far as I knew, never came to Christ. And one of the reasons was this: he believed this lie. He would tell us in our family, and we didn't go to church. He says, I'm not. going to church until I bec become good enough. Well, from a holy God, what is good enough? Holiness and perfection. Who can come? None. That's why we desperately need the message of the gospel and this living water for our spiritually parched souls. Believing a contrary gospel will damn you and those who follow it. Galatians 1, 8 and 9. It might be even hard to hear this and hear it again. You might think when you're reading this or hear it, the Apostle Paul must have gone crazy. Who would ever send a letter to a church like this? Who would ever speak like this? Who would ever make such hard words? Well, the Holy Spirit, who caused the Apostle Paul to write that letter to the church in his day and for us to read it today, God says hard things to us. to turn us around from the wrong direction. If your child is running out in the street, And he doesn't see a car coming. And the car is coming. You don't say this. Sweetie. Puddin by. Did you hear me? I I hope you come away from that street. Please, sweetie, come back Didn't you hear me? Sweetie. Little pumpkin. How do you react when your child's in danger and going in the street? Right? Get out of the street! Come here! Stop! Right? They're in danger and you love them. So the Apostle Paul is willing to speak to the church, and we need to hear the authority of this today in our own lives, as we are ones who are called. is a church, and the church is made up of the people, to give the life-giving message, the water of the gospel to a perishing world Galatians 1, 8, and 9, the Apostle says this. But even if we, even if I Change the message. Even an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you. Let him be accursed. That means damned. That means going to hell. That he's telling them, go to hell. You change the gospel of go to hell. That's what's going to happen to you. Because there is no other life-giving message. There is only one gospel. You can't change it an iota from the grace of God and add your own works to you, or it becomes a poisonous potion. Verse 9, as we've said before, and I say it again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you receive, let him be accursed. A contrary gospel is one that is opposite in nature, direction, or meaning, not in accordance with what should be, and it's adverse and antithetical to God's truth. Very last promise in the Bible in Revelation twenty-one. Warns of this very thing, if you change the message, if you add to what's written in the Bible, Is from the beginning to the end a message of the good news, of redemption, of the gospel, of God's riches, his grace to us through the coming Messiah and his expense. Revelation 21, 18 and 19 says, I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book. If anyone adds to them, God will add to him all the plagues described in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and the holy city which is described in this book. Therefore, it's the job of everyone who preaches the gospel, whether in public as the preacher or in private as an individual Christian. And the places God calls us to take his word, we must not dilute. We must not change. We must not have a gospel that's contrary. that ever adds our own works to it, that ever adds that we can bring anything to our own salvation. We must Tell people that we are bankrupt, sinful, unable to save ourselves, and only Christ can do it. And just getting there in our culture. And most people would say, oh, I'm not perfect. They don't understand what sinful means. Sinful means rebels against God and his authority You live a life where you're king and you're God in your own life. You don't serve and love the Lord Jesus Christ. You haven't trusted him for your salvation. Therefore, it's the job of everyone, every preacher of the Bible, to make sure they bring God's truth, the living water, as it is. The Apostle Paul, as he was getting ready to go be with the Lord, mentored and brought up Timothy, his protege, and he tells them this in 2 Timothy. Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony of the Lord, who saved us and called us to a holy calling. Not because of our works, but because of our own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. And which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel Follow the pattern of sound words that you've heard from me in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. Guard Guard the good deposit entrusted to you Some of us are just cowards. We don't want to offend anybody. We don't want anybody to look cross-eyed at us. We have a gospel, but it's a nice gospel. But not the gospel. With so many friends that were not in the church in New England, I can look back and how I got everything. I told them the truth, but I never got them to the place where I looked them straight in the eye and said. You. I'll do it through a relationship. I don't just come up on anybody in the street and grab them by the collar and say, you're going to hell. Of course not. You do it through a relationship. I have a loving man I know who's 93 years old. And I would visit him every week. And by the time I left, I asked him, I said, Do you know the difference between what you believe and what I believe? He says, Yes, I'm a Roman Catholic. I believe that there's Jesus, but I need to earn my way to heaven. And you believe that it's by grace trusting in Jesus to die for you. He could say it that clearly. And I knew that I'd been faithful to give him the gospel because he could repeat it. But you know where I stopped? And Lord willing, I'll do it on our vacation this summer, if the Lord allows me to see him again, which I have an appointment. I never said, do you understand? I'll call him Joe, in case he ever listens to this tape. For the world. I want to speak to him personally. Joe, do you understand that because of what you're believing, you are going to hell? You You will be lost. And you see, Joe, because I love him, I visited him for two years every week after his wife died. He knows I love him. You know, there's no problem with loving, right? But I have not loved him enough To take him from knowing both things, to have to say, there's no hope for you, Joe, unless you do this. Getting the gospel right is crucial. It's not a matter of spiritual life and death. If you miss this, it doesn't matter what you get because you'll miss God. You must not offer another drink for men's parched and dying souls than the message of salvation by grace through faith alone in Jesus Christ alone, plus nothing. Now, I want to help us think about what are the false gospels that are out there. What are the false gospels That the church has to deal with. And many of them, you know, they've been evident for years. There's a Roman Catholic Church. We're called Protestants because we left them. We protested them. Because they added works to salvation. That's why we're different. That's why we left them They don't longer have the gospel. They changed. They contorted. They made a different gospel. And then you've heard of the Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, who take the Lord Jesus Christ, and they might say he died for you, but they say he is a man. And if Jesus is not God, they say he's not deity, then there is no salvation because he can't be the perfect sacrifice for us. So you're familiar with Roman Catholicism, and you're familiar with Jehovah's Righteous Watch Jehovah's Witnesses and the Mormons. And you probably have heard about the prosperity gospel. Come to Jesus and everything will just be great. Kind of took Benjamin Franklin with him, you know. Come to Jesus and you'll be healthy, wealthy, and wise. And there's a word of faith movement, just say it and God will do it. Charismania, easy believinism. But Satan's attack on the church is rentless and never-ending. Jeff Maples brought up three, and I'll bring up another one. That I think the church doesn't think about. But it's it's not those obvious ones of the Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons and cults like that that often get us. It's the ones where the gospel is changed subtly. They didn't go from H. 202 to H. 27068 You know, they didn't go, right? It's very subtle, just changed easily. The first is the therapeutic gospel. You grew up with a rough life. You had a dysfunctional family. Come to Jesus and it'll be okay. Well, there's truth in that. But you come to Jesus and doesn't make all your relationships right, does it? In fact, it alienates you from some in your family who don't trust and know Jesus. Just that you've made that statement. And it alienates you from others. In the relationships, and because you come to Jesus and then make all your relationships right, because we struggle in the church loving one another at times. So this idea of a therapeutic gospel, you know, instead of going to psychiatrists, just come to Jesus and everything will be fine. Then today you get to the gospel of niceness. Don't tell somebody they're a sinner bound for hell. Don't ever go there. Just be nice to them. And because you are nice to them, they'll be nice to you. And God likes nice people. And somehow you'll get to heaven because you're nice. And how easily we are tempted to go there ourselves. We're nice. We're nice to our neighbors. We help our neighbors. They have a flat tire. We're the first one out to help them change their flat tire. But we won't have them in the dinner and talk about what they believe and where they're going and their eternal souls. Or the gospel of unity. How dare you say anything like this, Pastor or the Apostle Paul? Just think how this divided the church. Just think how many of those false teachers had to leave. What a horrible thing! The church had a hundred, and after Paul's letter got there, maybe it only had 50. Because he was so rough on them. But why was he rough on them and not willing to go to another church that wasn't pretty the church and say, oh, we're all the church and we'll be nice to each other? That's kind of the foolishness after I don't remember when which tragedy it was after a a national cathedral uh thing a couple years ago. I'm not sure if it was the challenger or what, but after some tragedy in the National Cathedral, everybody got together. There was a Protestant pastor and a Catholic priest and a and a Muslim imam and and you know and they're all saying, oh yes, all these people died. They're just, it's all great. They're all going to heaven. Isn't it nice? You know, it's kind of like, you know, Cassius Clay, Muhammad Ali. As great as he was in the sports world, and he did many benefits, he had it started a Parkinson's foundation for the disease that he had, put millions of dollars in there. But no one would say that he was a Muslim and believing in Allah, Allah says you have to be righteous on your own, and he could never be. And he was drinking from a polluted stream. We do that in our culture. We want this unity, or even a gospel of love. What? Pastor, isn't the gospel loving? Yes, it is. But the loving thing to do with someone who is perishing is to stop them. My first congregation was in a rural area, almost all of us heated with wood stoves The trouble with heating with a wood stove, well there are lots of troubles you can get into, but one of them is if your chimney's not clean, you can get a chimney fire. And if you get a chimney fire, the problem with a chimney fire is that it roars like a jet engine, and if there's any cracks either in your chimney or the liner, your house will catch on fire. And so you have to keep your chimney clean, and if you don't, you get a chimney fire. And I I'm not I l I love to be up in front preaching and I love to talk to people individually, but just meeting people out in the open is hard for me. I do it. You have to, but I I'm uncomfortable with that. But I went by a house one evening, and it was clear that this house had a chimney fire. And I didn't know who lived in that house. I'd never been there. I I I didn't have a clue of even where the driveway was. I had to look for that. But as soon as I saw the chimney fire, I went into the driveway and I ran up the stairs in the porch and I pounded on the porch. and the door until the person came and they finally, you know, kind of came lazily and said, I said, you've got a chimney fire. Because I knew the danger of it and they walked back and said, Oh, thanks. Well, I'm not sure what they did. Thankfully, the next time I drove by there, the house was still standing. But because we fall into the trap of the gospel of love, it is love because God gave his son Jesus Christ for us who are rebels. But the best thing that a loving doctor does for his patient with cancer is to give him an accurate diagnosis and then give him the cure. The best way to love a sinner is to let them know of the deadly drink that is in their spiritual well and offer them the living water of eternal life. And beloved, I think that myself, that I think the church, I think that you and I Wouldn't say that Jesus, like the Mormons or Jehovah's Witnesses, isn't God and can't save us. You wouldn't fall to that I don't think you would go to Roman Catholicism and add your works back onto you and do all the extra stuff that they do. I'm not worried about that at all. But the distortion and the contrary gospels that are out there of niceness. We must have unity and oh, and just loving them or allowing a lot of people to go to hell. Because you and I don't love them enough to finally get like I have to with my friend Joe. Say, Joe. Without Christ, there is no hope. Without Christ, you're bound for God's wrath and judgment and hell. Who do you need to love enough to do that? I've thought of many this week. To give them not the polluted contrary gospels. Revelation 21, 6, Jesus says this I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of water life without payment. That's the only gospel. When they have Jesus Christ, living water, without any payment on their own, but trusting in his final and finished work. Let me encourage you who are God's church to do what the Apostle Paul said in Colossians 1. 23 Continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel. You know, as a pastor, I can begin to change the gospel around. And I think that it's been years when I've done that in a way I've gone into a legalism. Where I wanted people to be changing and being like Christ. And so I would give them the law. You gotta do this. You must do this. If you're gonna follow Jesus, you'd have to do that. Then afterwards, I'd hold up Jesus and everybody was like, ooh. And they could hardly look up and see Jesus. But that's the gospel. That's where our hope is. We do our duties because of the love that we've been given in Christ Pastor Jeff Evans comments on how this truth of the perfect obedience of Christ to his account changed his Christian life. And this is what really understanding and believing the gospel, the gospel is by grace and not by anything that I can add did for my own life. He says this. Before I came to see this truth, I sought to obey the law, and I always relied upon my own moral law performance for a sense of acceptance with God Whether he was pleased with me or frowned down upon me. He said, By God's grace, I no longer rely on my moral law performance for my justification or acceptance with God. Relying instead, as I always should have, upon Christ's law of performance in my place. Trusting in God's promises, a secured acceptance for Christ's sake is revealed in the gospel. Now I rely wholly and solely upon the unchanging, justified legal status that is mine by the virtue of Christ's death My works are now grace-based from acceptance and not performance-based-based force acceptance You see the difference here? I want you to listen to that because he's done something with the words that are really helpful for us. And we need to tell the world this. Because the world thinks that they have to be good enough. My works are now grace-based from acceptance and not performance-based for acceptance. Beloved, drink from the living water. Know Christ Rejoice to you that he is offered freely. Remember what he says in Revelation. I am the Alpha and the Omega. The beginning and the end to the thirsty I will give from the spring of water of life without cost. Brothers and sisters, drink. And then take that drink of cold water, that drink of life-staining water, to the perishing world around you.