Well, we are at the beginning of a new series of sermons looking at the book of Galatians. And this book is important for our church in the midst of a transition because we need to unify around the gospel. If we're going to have a greater unity of purpose, we need to be renewed individually and collectively. If we're going to be the kind of people whose lives are marked by grace and therefore attractive to outsiders. Joyless, miserable, beaten-down, and burdened Christians don't usually feel like they have much to say about Jesus and the gospel to other people. And we need to be refreshed and re-energized by the gospel if we're going to be propelled out by it to the communities around us. I want to invite you to stand. We're going to read from the first chapter of the book of Galatians, verses uh 1 to 10 this morning. And let's pray. Lord Jesus, you often, as you spoke to the crowds. said, let him who has ears to hear, let him hear. And so we pray as we hear the authoritative words of the apostles words that he's received from you, be pleased to grant, Lord, that we could receive what he says, understand and discern their significance for us. Us and combine them with faith that we might live them out. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Paul an apostle Not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead, and all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. According to the will of our God and Father, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I am astonished. That you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, Let him be accursed. As we've said before, and now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. You may be seeking. Now, last time we saw that the one word that Paul uses to summarize the gospel is rescue. The gospel is a power that rescues. It's not primarily a matter of instruction. Jesus died to rescue us from our hopelessness, our helpless situation. It's a power. The gospel is a power that frees us. It gives us new life, new capacities, and ultimately a new future. And Paul affirms this in many places in his letter, in the opening of the letter to the Romans. He writes, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Or the opening of the letter to the Corinthians, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. And in this letter, the reason Paul writes this letter, and it has so much relevance to us. is the lack of power, the lack of power in the lives of the Galatians and in our lives The lack of power to love people who are different than us, who may irritate us. who values are different than our own, to love them without the expectation that they're going to return our love. The power to live in freedom from being controlled by things outside of us, or even our own desires. And so Paul in this letter shows us how it is that we lose the gospel. And this letter is written in a confrontational manner. manner. We would expect, as the letter opens, that there would be a word of thanks for the people in these churches. Such as there is in the letter of Philippians, I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer or in Thessalonians. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. But not here. In verse 6 he writes, I'm astonished that you were so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and turning to a different. Why does Paul do this? Why does Paul start off like this? Well, he's addressing a crisis situation. They are deserting Jesus and perverting the gospel. They're in the process of turning away from the person of Jesus. Not just an idea. But a person. Desertion is a word often used in military contexts. The choice of traitors and turncoats. It's abandoning your station. The Galatians are in the process of of betraying their allegiance to Jesus Christ. They haven't finished it, but they're in process. And Paul, just the way a parent of a small uh child will grab them if it looks like looks like they're about to run out into the road. Or if they're in a distance, use uh their strongest and harshest voice to warn uh their child. So Paul writes, I am astounded, I'm shocked, I'm amazed, because it wasn't that long ago that the very power of God had touched your lives. that you'd experienced his rescue. They felt him intrude into their lives. They felt a power from outside of themselves summoning them to turn to him. Have you experienced that power? Have you tasted of that power? Paul's trip to Galatia, which is recorded in the chapters 13 and 14, Of the book of Acts was uh among one of the most impactful in his missionary uh career. In Pascidian Antioch, Luke writes, many Jews and devout converts to Judaism followed Paul and Marnamas. When the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. If Iconium Paul and Barnabas spoke in such a way that great numbers of both Jews and Greeks believed, that's Acts 14. They were welcomed like gods at Lystra. People wanted to sacrifice to them the gospel count. came with such uh power to them and at Derby many became disciples and as soon as Paul left there were teachers who came to say Paul's gospel was deficient and we have some enhancements. You want the full gospel, of course, you want all that God has through you and so on tell you what it is. uh unique. These people were false teachers, but they they were people who professed that Jesus was the Messiah, the Savior, and their Lord. They did not wear t-shirts that said It wasn't like that. And Paul is reminded as he uh writes this letter. So quickly of the experience that the Israelites had in the wilderness after experiencing the mighty arm of God bringing them out of Egypt. Just a few weeks later, they're at Mount Sinai. And there, while Moses is up on the mountain, with the help of their spiritual leadership, they fashioned golden calves who were utterly powerless. worshipped uh them. And like Israel of old Paul comes like Moses to confront them about their golden uh calves that they had uh fashioned. They think they're improving the gospel, but what they're creating is something as revolting and useless as a golden calf. And Paul will press this point home here. And he says, if you add anything to the gospel, You are emptying it of its power. If you enhance the gospel, you lose it completely. Jesus plus anything else equals nothing. Jesus plus anything else equals nothing. And that's why Paul warns them. He accuses them not simply of adding to the gospel. but of turning to a different gospel altogether. In doing so, they have deserted grace, they are abandoning grace, and they are returning to a place of bondage. In chapter uh four, in verse nine, he writes, but now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles? of the word world, whose slaves you want to be once more. Or in the beginning of chapter 5, for freedom Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. This is what was happening in Galatia. And it has happened to many, many Christians. sense. Just how could this happen? Well, the danger came from inside. The greatest dangers to the gospel come from with inside. the church. We might think, well, it's because of all the other competing religions and spiritualities out there, and there are a vast number of Or we might think it's non-Christian thought. Or we might even think it is the lore and temptation of the world. But no, the greatest threat to the church comes from within the church itself. Many churches that claim to be evangelical, which is just an anglicized form of the Greek word that means gospel, that they are all about the gospel. They have, in fact, an alternative gospel. And so I want to take you through these and kind of lay And the first layer is probably at one level would seem the most common, certainly the easiest to spot. And it's this. One of them, one of these three really easy to see versions of the gospel is the gospel of material prosperity. That Jesus is the one And if you just believe, you'll receive these things. Then there's the gospel, the second one is the gospel of family values. That Jesus is the way to family fulfillment. Put your trust in Jesus, follow his precepts, and everything will be harmonious and smooth in your family life. You'll never be troubled by any of the other things. That other families struggle with. And the third, one of these common and obvious distortions, is the gospel of the self, which says Jesus will bring you personal fulfillment. You will realize your potential, your full potential if you follow him. The gospel unlocks that And what makes these gospels attractive is that they offer good things. These are good things, they're not bad things. But this is not the good news. At best, it's good advice, but it has no power to give what's promised. Jesus plus prosperity is nothing. Jesus plus family values is no gospel. Jesus plots self-realization, self-fulfillment has no power. Now, one of the more subtle things that happens in churches that say they love the gospel is that the central place that the gospel should have in the life of the church is actually displaced by a different something, usually it's a value, that becomes actually the central driving value in the life. Life of the church. One keen student, scholar, pastor of the of the church, put it this way, he tried to imagine what it would look like uh if the evangelical movement of churches, which is much broader than just our family of churches, churches, but our family of churches is a a part of that. The PCA was founded, in fact, uh with a great concern uh for the gospel and for evangelization. And he says, just what might happen if something else took center place? What would be true of our sermons? in our uh books and our Sunday school classes and our home Bible studies and of course this predated this, but our blog posts and our podcasts. Well, and above all our hearts. Here's some of the possibilities he wrote about. A passionate devotion to the pro-life cause. A confident manipulation of modern managerial techniques, a drive toward church growth, a deep concern for the institution of the family. A clever appeal to consumerism by offering a sort of cost-free Christian light. A determination to take America back to its Christian roots through political power, a warm affirmation of self-esteem. Now, not all of these things are necessarily bad things. But they undermine the gospel and the work that God intends for the gospel, the place God intends for the gospel to have in the church as its central and driving value with something else. And as a result, actually the gospel gets lost. Because the gospel only when it has promising of place does it have actually the place it needs to have in our shared life and in our individual lives. In our hearts. Martin Luther rightly warned that there's a clear and present danger that the devil may take away from us. The pure doctrine of faith and substitute for it the doctrines of works in human tradition. It's very necessary, therefore, that this doctrine of faith be continually read and heard in public. The good news of the cross in the resurrection must be preached, believed, and lived. Otherwise, it will be lost. So we've gone from the more obvious to something that's subtler. And now I want to take you to the subtlest. Of all. And there are three expressions of this Legalistic, authoritarian, and tradition-focused churches are the easiest to spot of the more subtle dynamics. Because they're intolerant of any deviation, any deviation from the rules or from what their leaders say. Or from their historic traditions. The legalistic ones have a clearly stated list, an articulated set of rules Some churches still have some of these uh rules smoking, drinking, uh, dancing. Uh those were very uh common uh rules. Uh two of our daughters uh attended a Christian school where uh men and women were forbidden to be in the same swimming pool at the same time. You'll search hard in your Bible. to find such an instruction, but that was in fact uh very firmly held to along with many, many other things that would probably strike you in the same way. that hard to spot, but that's, you know, there's something strange uh going in there. It may not be obvious though that what's really happened is that the gospel's been lost. In that highly authoritarian churches have leaders who say, I am uniquely called by God. I am his voice to you. Do exactly what I say. Christ plus the leader's voice must be obeyed. And highly traditional churches insist that people hold to the ancient way of ancient doing things. Any variation from it will cut you off from the church and Christ and salvation. Now these are again they seem kind of kind of Obvious. You know, Jesus plus the rules, Jesus plus the voice of the leader, Jesus plus the tradition. They're empty of the power to actually set someone free. From slavery, the slavery and bondage to idolatry and sin. In some Churches, often churches that we might think of as liberal, there's a different kind of distortion. It goes something like this. All you need to do is be a good person. It doesn't really matter what you believe. All religions lead to the same God. The same end, everyone who follows any religion uh will be saved. Just go and live a good life. It sounds very open-minded, very welcoming, but it is intolerant of Grace. And it is intolerant in two ways. One, it teaches that good works are enough to uh get to God. If you're uh These are good enough. You're a kind person. You're nice enough. Then Christ's death is not necessary The problem with this is that it means bad people like me have no hope. It contradicts the gospel's call to invite both the good and the bad to come to God. And it actually is a very exclusivity. uh exclusive kind of uh gospel, because it's a gospel only for moral, virtuous people. The second way that it's intolerant of grace is that it jettisons the prerequisite for grace to be meaningful. The gospel tells us that we are incurably evil, and that our hearts are the source of pollution that ruins everything in life. And the liberal gospel encourages people to think they're good if they're tolerant, so they don't need grace. But without a sense of your own evil, the grace and mercy revealed in the cross. Will have no power for you. There's a direct proportionality between your recognition of the evil that exists and resides in you and is expressed. through you with your ability to see the grace of the cross. Now, if you recognize this and don't get over here to see how big the cross is, you're just navel gazing. You're stuck. That's not the gospel. The gospel is you see this, you immediately come over here. One look here, ten looks here Until you see that the cross is greater than all your sin. And so in this liberal uh Distortion. The gospel becomes about your being tolerant and kind, which means your actions make you acceptable to God. The third, and and this is well, it's closer to home. It's that in some churches, implicitly or explicitly And this is where the subtlety really comes in. You are saved through your surrender to Christ, plus right beliefs and behavior. It's fairly common to hear people being challenged to give their life to Jesus or to ask him into your life, often based on that verse in the book of Revelation. Revelation. You know, if any man standing knocking on the door, if any man opens it to me, I will come into you. And that is a a gospel invitation. This all sounds very biblical, but it can, that's the operative word here, it can still reject the grace of God. See, people understand this teaching, and people who live under it think they're saved by a strong belief, trust, and love for God. Along with a life of commitment to him. You're saved by strong belief. Trust in and love for God along with a life committed to Him. And in many cases they feel like, they're made to feel like Or they come to think that they need to generate a high degree of emotional sorrow, hunger, or love to get into Christ's presence. And to maintain it if they're going to be saved. And let me just say, as an aside, that some of you may not understand this, but this was one of the great errors of our Puritan. Fathers, that they thought you couldn't come to Christ till you had mourned your sins long enough. It has a name, the historians call it preparation. It's very common and is written. It threads through much of their writings. And while there's much of value, I need to warn you, there's this undercurrent, and too much soaking in their writings will pull you this way, subtly, the way you might feel a an undercurrent at the beach. Maybe you aren't fully pulled under, but you don't feel the pull of of this idea See, you can formally hold the true gospel and be completely clear about justification and faith alone and yet functionally believe you're saved because of the level of your faith it's seen in your emotions or your spiritual drives. or your commitment or the seriousness in which you take your obedience. The gospel says we are saved. Through our faith alone, in grace alone, in Christ alone, without any additions, without anything flowing from us. Nothing that we do adds to what Christ has done. And you see, very subtly what happens is, and this happens so easily, Because, as Luther observed, we always want something to do. There's some part of us that wants something to do, just to receive. It's just so foreign to us uh to receive. Now some of you are probably more gracious givers, uh receivers of gifts than I am. I struggle when someone wants to give me something something. And deep and inwardly there is a struggle of the human heart. Long after you first see it's by grace. That subtly continues to work its way in us. It is not the level of your faith Or how intense your emotions toward God are, or the intensity of your commitment that saves you. It's faith. It's just faith. All three of these approaches have one thing in common. These last three approaches. I've given you six before these last three three. I realize there's nine altogether. They reverse the order of grace. And the order is critical. Grace results in a response of gratitude. Gospel obedience flows out of gratitude. Now, duty may have to be the way you start, but duty is a poor substitute for gratitude. You know what I'm talking about, don't you? What a poor substitute duty is for gratitude. You know? Let's say uh you labor uh to make a special meal. For someone, and they feel they have a duty to say that was a good meal. There's something about their tone of voice, their expression, that just conveys they're not really grateful. They don't Don't appreciate what's been offered to them, but it's expected to say that. There's something like that, and there's this reversal of the order Order that um utterly distorts the gospel. And the result is that it's Christ plus obedience and belief, or Christ plus performance. or Christ plus being virtuous and tolerant. And all of those are no gospel. They're an alternative to the gospel. Paul preaches a gospel that was Christ plus nothing. So you can formally hold this true, but functionally. And a heart, the heart level actually embrace another gospel. And this happens. In fact, the evidence of it happening is not hard To spot. It's powerlessness, joylessness, a beaten down, uh uh Christian, one who's still in bondage to their idols, uh to their sin. Martin Luther put it this way There's no middle ground between Christian righteousness and works righteousness. There's no alternative to Christian righteousness but works righteousness. You're either all in over here. Or actually you're over here. There's no middle ground. If you uh don't build your confidence exclusively on what Jesus has done. Then what you're really trying to do is be a good Christian or a good Christian spouse, a good Christian sibling, a good Christian parent, a good Christian in the workplace. And you can tell, here's another tale that it's so, and it's happens uh here, but it happens more interpersonally It's when you joyfully embrace confession and acknowledgement of your failures Instead of it being something negative. Something where you have to beat yourself up. Where it's simply a reminder to you, I don't measure up You see, if that's where you are, you're focused on yourself. You're really trying to protect your record of having done everything that's expected of you. But the gospel's this good news that Jesus has done everything that will ever be expected by God of you. That you are fully and totally have his perfect record, completely. It's yours. So of course everything's at stake on just how uh can we know whether we have the right gospel How can we know that the gospel we hold is actually true? And not merely one we feel is true, or perhaps we've been told is true. But how can we know we have the r the truth? Well, Paul deals with this in verses eight and nine. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, Let him be accursed. As we've said before, and so now I will say again, if anyone is preaching to you a God, Contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. Now you might think Paul's getting a little overheated here when he pens almost an identical statement. But he does so to tell you that this is his settled point of view. Just look at it closely. The standard is this. It is a gospel that he and the other capital A apostles received from Christ and taught, which is found in the Bible. Remarkably, Paul includes himself here. He says, even if we He's saying, as a human authority, if I ever change my mind about this, let me be cursed by God, cut off from grace. Now Tim Keller has uh helped me here with this next bit. You see, most modern people functionally think that the way they know things is through their feelings. If you talk to somebody and ask them, well, why is it wrong to torture babies or rape people, most non-Christians will say that's Silly. You just know. Which is a way of saying I don't need to know how I know, I just do. Which is what they're really saying is I know through my feelings. Uh my feelings are right and if you feel differently than me, they're you simply your feelings. Uh they're implying they're wrong, but they probably wouldn't say that because they're modern people. They don't really think in terms of right and wrong so much. Okay. And so you need to say at this point, just how do we know? Well, notice what Paul is doing in verses 8 and 9. He says, first of all, let's talk about an angel from heaven. Paul's saying, your experience, your feelings, your sense of what God is telling you means nothing. If an angel came down from heaven and said today, I hear you're looking for a pastor, I'm offering myself to be your pastor. Here's what Paul's saying. The first question you want to ask your would-be angelic pastor is this, which comes first. Grace or obedience? justification or sanctification. Receiving on Christ alone? Receiving and resting on Christ alone? Or receiving Christ And your obedience and right beliefs. See how subtle that is? It's subtle. Your experience means nothing. if it doesn't have the gospel. It doesn't matter that you've heard a voice, you have a vision, or you have your dreams. The gospel judges your experience. your spiritual experience. And when he adds, if we, this is really astounding, because really many independent churches And church leaders are the ones who say, don't question me. I'm God's man. I'm anointed. There are whole denominations who believe that church tradition is the final authority. And Paul has a very high office. There is no higher office in the church. But he says, if I reverse the order and I add to the gospel, if I change my mind about this, then throw me out. The gospel judges the church. The church doesn't judge the gospel. The Bible judges the leaders. Our experience, our feelings, it's the only thing you can be sure of. I'm not saying God can't lead you uh through your feelings, impressions, and your senses. I'm just saying it's not fine. How you know what's true. The only sure thing you can have is God speaking in the Bible. It's not what I'm saying. It's not what your heart is saying, but it's what the gospel is. This is revealed in Scripture. And so we have to look at ourselves and at our church and ask, not only is the true gospel taught and preached, but does it functionally have center place or have we enhanced it? Is it really Jesus Christ and something else that has center In our lives? You can tell. What are you passionate about? Is it Christ? Do you glory in Christ? In Him? Is that the thing that really motivates you? That grips you? Or have you said, that's good, but I'm I'm moving on to something that's really got me now. One of these many things I talked about. Today. Much of the evangelical church is really in a thrall, it's in the grips of, and it's passionate about something other than Jesus. the gospel. And our silence about the gospel, but it takes eighty or ninety Christians on average to share their faith to see one person, one adult come to Christ. A year says we're not as passionate about the gospel as we'd like to think. So are you willing to let the Bible of the gospel? Will be your judge. Or are you holding out? He said, Yes, Jesus, but there's something I value here, and I'm not going to let the gospel can't say judgment on that. You know, yes, yes, Jesus is center, but this value, this value, I'm gonna put this right here with Jesus. See, will you look with me in the week ahead and ask God to show you? If you're drifting. To show you if you're in the process of deserting him, if you've added something to the gospel, some good thing. And it's become an ultimate thing for you. It's non-negotiable for you. Will you ask, am I as joyful? Free and responsive to Christ as I was when I first met him. Or for you, covenant children, perhaps when he was the sweetest to you. Are you still in that place? If you have not experienced a power outside of yourself, If you've not experienced Christ's coming upon you, it may very well be that you've yet to come to Christ's and to have a genuine Genuine encounter with him. When he enters a life, he doesn't leave it the same. Now it doesn't always look dramatic, but there is always a power At work beyond yourself. And everyone who has that power at work in them in time comes to recognize that in fact It's there. Perhaps not all at once. But in time you come to see is not me. It's him. Christ alone can save. He alone is holy, spotless, and undefiled. He has uh through his uh faultless, uh undeniable uh righteousness secured.