This morning we will be going through the Gospel of Mark, chapter eleven, verses seven through ten. If you haven't already done so, would you please open your Bibles to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 11, 7 through 10. And please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word. The following is from the Gospel of Mark. And they And those who went before and those who are not a very good thing. Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would be with us now as we continue in our worship of you. And our Triune God, we pray that you would be the one that would help us to see the truth of Scripture and that you would pull away the scales. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that we're convicted Is necessary that you would convict us and that you would grant us the grace to repent and to follow and to be molded into the image of our Savior, the Lord Jesus. And it is in his name that we pray. Amen. This Sunday, of course, is Palm Sunday. It's called Palm Sunday. Because on the church calendar it's located one week before Easter Sunday. It was one week prior to the resurrection when the Lord came up out of Bethany writing on the earth. When on the way into Jerusalem the crowd began waving palm branches. The people laid palm branches in his Path. Now this tradition originates from ancient Near Eastern and Mediterranean cultures and practices. Where palms were associated with immortality and victory, triumph and peace. They were often used to welcome kings and con Conquerors, representing victory and triumph. The New Testament records the use of palm branches by the crowds to greet Jesus during his triumph. Triumphal entry into Jerusalem, marking the beginning of what is commonly called Holy Week. The event of Jesus riding a donkey into Jerusalem is described in the New Testament as a follow-a. Fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy by Zechariah, which is found in Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9. uh it's very significant when you consider it. It reads Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming. To you, righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foe. Of a donkey. Many Christian churches today practice and continue the tradition of distributing palm branches on Palm Sunday. And some even reenact Jesus' entry into Jerusalem with processions. I know that we have some historians among us. Of which I also have more than a passing interest in. And so I know that some of you may be wondering when did the church start the tradition of using palms as part of its worship service? The answer is we really don't know when it started with certainty, but what we do know is that the earliest recorded instance of this Was in the fourth century. A palm processional was recorded as early as the fourth century in Jerusalem. But the ceremony itself was not introduced into Western Christianity until About the ninth century. The Bible tells us that people cut branches from the palm trees, laid them across Jesus' path, and waved them in the air as he entered Jerusalem the week before. Before his death. From the best that we're able to discern from Scripture, these followers and supporters of Jesus greeted him not as a Spiritual messiah who would take away the sins of the world, but as a potential political leader who would overthrow The Romans. If you're wondering, where did I hear this statement before in the life of Jesus? It was first statement. By the herald, John the Baptizer. It's recorded for us in the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verse 29. The next day he saw Jesus coming toward Towards him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Now sometimes the word world means. The planet Earth. Sometimes it means all the nations as in political entities Of the world. Sometimes it means everybody, as in every person in the world. But when a Jew in the first century uses it, it can mean The Gentile peoples, or those that are outside God's covenant community. There's no doubt about the fact that the scripture Of the Old Testament looked forward to the day when peoples from all nations, the Gentiles, would come into the kingdom of God and consequently. Consequently, peoples from all nations would raise their voices together in worship of Jehovah God. But if you were a member of the Zealot Party, fiercely patriotic people and willing to To go beyond rhetoric to achieve their goals, or even perhaps a Pharisee, or sympathetic to their theological and political ideology You made up a segment of society that was tired of, felt shamed by. And unable to no longer tolerate the brutal occupation of your land by foreign legioner soldiers and bureaucrats who controlled and defiled your You see, if you heard these words from John the Baptist, you may have had selective hearing. You know what selective hearing is, right? It's when you only hear or focus upon what you want to hear and don't hear the rest. Another way of saying that is ignoring the rest. I remember once reading a cartoon where there were these two owls sitting on a branch in the middle of winter. And the caption read something like this You can hear a mouse moving under the snow, but you never seem to hear me when I suggest We visit my mother in Florida. Or another one that I read is where a married couple is sitting on a couch and the wife says, to the husband, you know, I'm beginning to think you only hear what you want to hear. The Baptist says, Behold, here is the Messiah. They processed the Lamb of God. It would have been for the purpose of cleansing the people of God in preparation. For Judgment Day. Their biblical paradigm had a place for things like salvation, judgment, and peace. However, it was salvation for the people of God, salvation as an independence from Rome, judgment upon all those who are not part of the Remnant of God. And judgment meant that long-awaited, hoped-for judgment day. And then finally, peace. Peace for them peace meant political freedom from Rome and peace with God. And peace with God meant that the exile Would have finally ended. God would finally be with them. Emmanuel. The arrival of the Messiah would bring about all of these things, and he would make manifest the kingdom of God in its fullness and the brightness of all of its Glory. They were firm believers in God. They were Were firm believers in no peace without bloodshed. Well, you see, they were right about that But not in the way that they had thought. But we'll get to that a little bit later on. Peter, the apostle Peter, was a person With selective hearing. He wouldn't have any of the go to Jerusalem business and be persecuted and tortured and killed and raised on the third day. No No, no, no. He wouldn't have any of that. When it comes to Jesus, the question I have for you today is, do you have selective hearing Do you have selective hearing? And so here is Jesus writing on Now a donkey was a symbol of a monarch, an emperor, a king coming in peace. It is peaceful because he is more powerful and victorious over his enemies. When a leader rides a horse, it's because his intention is Now imagine with me. He's not in the city yet, but you know he's riding up to Jerusalem. And at that time there there would have been many, many pilgrims. Coming up to Jerusalem to offer their annual taxes and sacrifices for their sins for Yom Kiffur, the Day of Atonement. And as it was getting closer, the people were shouting, Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the With people waving palm branches, given the prophetic implications, this certainly would have gotten the attention of So the last time that this happened by a Jew in Jerusalem was in the inter-testamental time period. This means from the last time that God sent a prophet from the Old Testament, which we believe to be Malachi, to the time that he sent the next prophet. Again, this would be John the Baptizer. So in the intertestamental time period, there were the Maccabees. They were a family of priests. Who led a successful uprising and revolt against the Silicud Empire. After the Maccabees defeated the Syrian king Antiochus the fourth and cleansed the temple, the people celebrated by waving palm branches. This act became A symbol of proclaiming Jewish resistance and independence for Jesus to enter into Jerusalem in this manner. I hope you can see now is a very provocative statement, especially for those who are in power. Jesus riding into town sparks a week of Jesus entangled in a battle with the leadership of Jerusalem, and ultimately this entangled The Roman overlords as well. Jesus also comes writing into our lives in somewhat similar ways. I think it's the same gospel message. Hold we are. And the issues and the problems that we face in life. But we all have the same dilemma. How are we to be reconciled to God Before we die, the gospel simply reveals Jesus. The intention of the gospel is to show us Christ And how he has bridged the gap between us and God. For it to be effective in anyone's life, there has to be another reason. In this case, whom I have in mind is ourselves. The gospel comes and shows Use the work of Christ on the cross. And if we are to understand it correctly, we have to ask, why did he have to do it in the first place? place. And it's when we ask that question, that's when the second reveal comes in. In order for this reveal to be effective, it really requires us to be honest. It requires us to be honest with ourselves Our lives, our hearts, our motives in life. So, what I mean about this self-reveal is that by seeing ourselves morally in relation to God. God and what really is required to be in a loving relationship with Him, we come to recognize that we simply don't stack Now for those of you who haven't heard this before, it could be a little bit shocking and for some it may be a bit off-putting. But I want you to stay with me for a little bit. When it comes to entering into heaven, I have heard, and maybe you have heard it said as well. Look, I'm not perfect. But I try my best. Thankfully, I'm not like and then they'll point to people and say society or in history to demonstrate their point. Well, there are a couple of things about the statement that I think are true. The first one is that indeed we are not. Perfect. No one is perfect, right? No one is sinless before God. The second one is that there probably are people that we can point to that were morally, how shall I say it, uh, less upright? A favorite most folks like to refer to is none other than Hitler. At least I'm not like Hitler. Now, when you think about this, we're really not saying good things about ourselves. I mean we're already admitting that we're sinners and now comparing ourselves to some pretty bad people. I mean if we have to reach as we would think to the bottom of the barrel, that doesn't say much about us. Now if you're thinking to yourself, this is bad news, I have to say that you're right. It is bad news The reason why is that God's requirement to get into heaven actually is perfection, to be sinless. All of your life, all of the time. It's not a two-month period. It's not a a two-hour period. It's not even a two-minute period. It's all of your life. You see, the problem is that we grade ourselves on a curve. And sometimes it's a pretty steep curve, isn't it? What this reveal calls us to do is to compare ourselves To God Himself. When you see how sinless He is, how holy He is, He puts things, and this puts things in proper perspective. It puts things in a true light. When Jesus comes riding into your life, how does Do you only think about or point to the good that you do? Which by the way doesn't take I mean it doesn't erase the bad stuff. This means that you can't work off your sins. The ones that are on your ledger. All you can do is add to it and expect God, who is just and holy, at one point, to punish you for your sins for an eternity. Now you see when we look at only at the good that we do and ignore our sins, well that's sort of spiritual Selective hearing. This is what Jesus experienced when he told the authorities in Jerusalem, he revealed their Errors. Deflection didn't work with him. He wouldn't accept any of their flattery. His disciples had a hard time with this Also excuse me, despite the fact that he told them that he had come to die and be Resurrected. Even they had spiritual selective hearing. They had specific expectations of the Messiah, what he would do for them. Dying and resurrection wasn't one of them. Do you have some unrealistic what you can insert in unrealistic is unbiblical. Do you have some Unbiblical expectations of Christ. The very same people that were waving palms were the very same people that were yelling only a couple of days later, crucify him. Crucify him. Jesus, you see, hadn't lived up to their expectations. They wanted Jesus to be and to do something that he was not coming to do at that time. He hadn't come to lead a revolution. As for the leadership at the temple with the Sanhedrin, now they were actually listening They were listening to every syllable that came out of his mouth, which by the way is good, but they were doing that for the very wrong reason. weren't they? They were trying to trap him with his own words when he what when he was teaching. For them, there was no selective hearing. Jesus had made against them. They were corrupt and they were people pleasers. Now if Jesus comes writing into your Life and you hear the truth about yourself. Will you repent, turn away from your sin, or hold on to the pretense that? You're good enough. Or will you even simply reject him? Or when Jesus comes riding into your life, will you respond perhaps like a Sinner described in the Bible. The Bible speaks of a tax collector who extorted money from people throughout His professional life. When Jesus came riding into his life, the reveal quickened him to the bone. He saw himself as he truly was. He didn't practice selective hearing. He didn't fight back against Jesus. He didn't reject Jesus. He embraced the safety and wisdom of Truth. Are you prepared to accept and embrace the safety and wisdom of truth? You see, he repented. He trusted in Jesus and followed him. That's an evidence of a changed heart. I'm of course making reference to none other than the chief tax collector in Jericho, Zacchaeus. Luke 19:9 records the Lord's words. He said, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek. And to save the lost. Jesus didn't say that salvation came to Zacchaeus because he cleaned himself up to be saved. It is because he saw that he Couldn't clean himself up. And instead of trusting in himself for salvation, he trusted in Jesus. Have you trusted in Jesus? So when Jesus said, Today, salvation has come to this house, it was because he saw the effects of salvation. Desire to make things right. That is an outflow from a heart that is filled with thanksgiving. When Jesus comes writing into your life. How will you respond? You have to understand something. The reveal is never good. It's only bad. It can only be bad because we are not perfect in God. Is perfect. So we have seen some of the responses. One, selective hearing. Now, selective hearing may get you a beer. Or if you're an owl, perhaps a meal, but it won't get you the truth. The second response is rejection. That's when you won't accept the biblical assessment of your You will not accept Jesus coming into your life and your home and turning over the couch and the sofas of your house. And your life, and the dining room table, and your computer, the very furniture of your life. You would prefer to have him arrested It you don't want to look at the reveal. This response reminds me of, you know, when you Get out of the shower, and you get on the scale, and then you get off the scale, and then you point to the scale, and you accuse it of lying. That's ridiculous rejection. Or finally, you can be someone like Zacchaeus. You see yourself. You see the consequences. You see that you've been medicating yourself, your conscience, with lies. I'm not that bad. I can work off those sins later in life. Or even judging yourself to be good enough to be in the presence of God. You know, when you do that, you commit self-idolatry. You're putting yourself in God's shoes Now you can add that to your account as well. Sorry. But it's the truth. And for everyone that will go to heaven, they will not have sinned. stopped at this place of lives. But they will have experienced what Zacchaeus experienced. What he experienced was a new Birth. His soul was spiritually dead. In order to see Christ and what Christ was offering, he needed to be made alive. To be made alive, the Bible calls, is being born again, or being born from above. It's really and truly, this is a work of the The Holy Spirit. Not only is it his work, but also it's God's gift to us. It's the part of the reveal that shows you Jesus. As he truly is, and how much he loves you, and what he did to prove it to you. And finally, his free offer of forgiveness from sin and the reconciliation that we have with God. Now that's a mouthful, right? And we have Talking about these components, if you will, of the gospel. Now let me just say that for the purposes of today, as we enter into what is commonly called Holy Week. Which continues until next Sunday. I will not get into this thing that he did to prove that he loved me. Don't know about you, but I'm into cliffhangers. And I've always been into cliffhangers. But I think that with technology being what it is and streaming services, it's taking the bite out of cliffhangers these days. But um not only am I into cli cliffhangers, but for those of you who have been volunteering over this last week about what What brother Tom said. I'm also into door hangers and obviously corny jokes. You know, sometimes we we we we we just don't believe That we're loved. Right? People say that to us and we just don't believe that. Even when people tell us we don't believe it. We think that, you know, to ourselves, you know, I've I've been down. that road before, right? But we believe it when someone puts their money where their mouths are, don't we? So if you want to find out if it's really true that Jesus showed his love, I think it's most appropriate that you come back on Friday evening, wherein which we will talk about how he proved his love for you. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives, and we thank you that indeed you are the one that has caused us to come out of death Spiritual death into life by the work of your Holy Spirit by making us born again to be born Birth from above, not from below, so that we may be able to understand and see the gospel even as Zacchaeus had seen it. And we have seen ourselves in relation to your son and to yourself. Recognize that there is nothing that we can do to earn our way into heaven. There is nothing that we can do to blot out our sins or to do good works. But we praise, we praise you, Lord. We praise you, Lord Jesus, that you have done that for us and in our stead. Let us not live now in lives of selective hearing. May we always accept your grace in our lives. May we always accept your discipline in our lives so that we may reflect you and you alone. And we ask this in Jesus' name