When something is out of the ordinary, it grabs your attention because it's not what you normally experience. You might even say, now that's not natural. That was my response to a commercial from McDonald's in 2009. There was a fellow who was walking into a garage, and as he went into the garage. There was another fellow sitting there. He was doing a project, but he was done with the project and he was eating a sandwich. And it happened to be a filet of fish sandwich. And as the other guy was coming in, he saw him eating it, and all of a sudden the camera pans to the wall where there's a fish, a trophy fish mounted to the wall. And the surprise is, the thing that's not natural is the fish, instead of being flat, turns out towards the camera and begins to sing. Give me back that filet of fish. Give me that fish. What if you were there hanging upon this wall? If you were a sandwich, you wouldn't be laughing at all. Give me back that filet of fish. Gimme that fish Now, commercials have to do those things to grab our attention. They do often. They play the music louder or the words louder, but they'll do things that are just not natural. Well, it surprises me sometimes, but the Bible does something very similar. God does it to get our attention. Because what he wants us to do is not what's natural for us, but what is supernatural. What we can only do with his help. And this evening, as we come to the Word of God, we're going to find the same thing in the book of Thessalonians. To the church of Phesonica that the Apostle Paul wrote, because he is going to call you to do what is not natural for you In situation and relationships of your lives. So let us stand together. We're going to look at this portion of God's Word, and I trust that He will not only surprise us. But help us to become more like our Savior as He opens the Word. So let me pray first, and then I'll read God's Word. Our Father and God, I thank you that when we read your word, that you won't allow us to just Read it again and again and go on and on with it. But if we're actually reading it and pay attention, your spirit Will shock us, will bring us to surprise because what we're expecting, you turn completely on its head. And I rejoice in that Because we need that, O God. We so often just go bond day after day as if you don't really make a difference. Yes, we're yours, but we don't see that difference or or feel the difference or know the difference. But I thank you that you won't allow us to stay there. Don't allow us to stay there tonight, especially in our relationships with each other. So, O God, we look to you. We ask for you to even surprise us and to encourage us, and especially to Conform us to your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ, in whom name we pray. Amen. Well, the verse that we're going to be looking at at the end of Thessalonians tonight is the chapter 5 and verse 15, but we want to just be looking at the context of where we have been reading for a while in the book of Thessalonians. So I'll be reading verses chapter 5 of 1 Thessalonians and verses 12 through 15 so that we see the context. But just remember as we look at it, it is that 15th verse is the one we're going to be considering on this evening. We ask you, brothers. To respect those who labor among you andor over you in the Lord, and admonish you to esteem them very highly in love because of their work Be at peace among yourselves, and we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with them all. And here's our verse for this evening. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil But always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. All men are like grass, and their beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Amen. Can be seated, please. It is not natural, but supernatural for you not to repay evil. When evil has been done to you. 1 Thessalonians 5:15, the very first part of this verse, look at it. Look what God is calling you who are his people to do. See that no one. See, it won't allow any of us to have an excuse here. It doesn't matter your situation. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil. It's hard to think of this scripture being any more clear to us. God's command for you and me is crystal clear as he tells you that you may never return evil for evil. In other words, you may not do what is natural to sinners, to seek your own revenge and retaliation for physical, emotional, or spiritual hurt done to you. And I would put forward tonight that I'm sure that all of you have had evil done to you. I'm sure that all of you have been hurt by others Not just the outside world, but within the church and even your own family. Remember as we sang even the the the the song this evening talking about a mother, even if a mother you would spec would never do anything wrong to her child, yet mothers do. Fathers do. Brothers to sisters, sisters To brothers. And yet it's saying that we never have the excuse of returning evil for evil. When evil is being done to you, you must not allow yourself to strike back or to get even. Now that's not natural. That is supernatural. Though I am talking about, and I wanted to make the one caveat, that if you needed to be in a situation of self-defense, because of evil is being done to you that they might take your life or hurt you, then you are allowed to respond back because you don't want that person to do murder. Right? You don't want them to murder you. So that that one case were given another portion of scripture would tell us we can respond back. So I'm not talking about that. But this truth that we may not respond evil when evil is done to you, isn't just this little portion in Thessalonica to the church there, but it's through the scriptures. Proverbs 20 and 22 says Do not say, I will repay evil. Wait for the Lord. He will deliver you. Romans 12, 17 to 19. Listen to what the apostle said to the church in Rome, who was struggling with many difficulties. Repay no one evil for evil. But give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, and I will repay, says the Lord. And it's not just concerned with her outward actions. You say, well, I didn't respond. But he also is concerned about our hearts. Because it's the hearts what motivates our outward actions. Proverbs 24:17 says: Do not rejoice when your enemy falls. Let not your heart be glad when he stumbles. What? Come on. Can't I at least get a little joy in that? Margaret and I once counseled an older woman who always was made up and put together. I never saw her without the right amount of makeup. Her hair done just right and clothes that were uh just impeccable. But she came to speak to us once because she was dealing with anger and wanted revenge for a past hurt. Now, when some people talk about revenge or they talk about something, you're never sure what they mean. You know, what what was what was going on? What what does she want? And so she said she wanted revenge, and I knew that she was very serious. So I at best I remember, this is what I described. I said, is this what you mean by revenge? And I said this. I said, do you mean that you'd like to smash them in the face? Would you like to break their arms and legs? Would you like to pull out their finger and toenails one by one? And then begin to torture them? So I laid out and drew a picture of about the hardest thing I could think of. And here this beautiful lady right before us said this. Her response was, Pastor, that would not even begin to come close to the brutal and bloody plans that I've laid out for them in my mind. She was being destroyed and was destroying everyone around her because of her desire for revenge. She was a living example of Jesus' words found in Mark 7, 21 to 23. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts. Sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness, all of these things come from within. And they defile a person. Well, beloved, let me ask you Let me ask you, because I know that you live in this sinful and broken world. I know that evil has been done to you. And I know that evil will be done to you at some point until you go home with the Lord. And you've heard the call tonight. See that no one repays anyone. Evil for evil. There's no caveats there. There's no way out for us, is there? And so we need to be even as we're hearing this tonight, think of our own thoughts. Think of our own relationships with others. Think of those who have indeed done us dirty over the years and say, what will we do with this? How will I respond? But notice how the verse goes on. He goes on to say, it's not natural but supernatural you for you, instead of not Doing evil for evil, but instead even more than that. You can't just stop with saying, okay, I won't do evil to that person who's done evil to me But do you see what it says now? What your God says to you? Always see that you always seek to do good to one another. Not only can we not do evil to someone else, even to that person who's done evil to us, we're to do good for them. Always. Not just if you feel like it or sometimes or if it's convenient or if it doesn't hurt too much or if you're healed now, always seek to do good to one another. Now he's speaking particularly to those in the church. This is not a new teaching. Once again, these scriptures that I'm reading in this just one verse here tonight in Thessalonians, we find each of the portions is talked about in the Old Testament. This is not new to what God's calling is for the People from the Old Testament, from the Old Testament Church Israel, the same kind of commands, Leviticus 19, 18. You shall not take vengeance Or bear a grudge against the sins, the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. You shall not take vengeance, not do evil, but not even, what's it say, with a brother or sister, bear a grudge. Oh my. Oh my. Husbands and wives, brothers and sisters Brothers and sisters in the church. God knows that this side of heaven In his church, there will be evil done against you, even by your fellow redeemed sinners, and in times even from those who love you the most. Pastor John MacArthur was willing to talk to his own congregation in that way and says, you know, we talk about evil against evil. We assume that it's just out there. But often we're not having problem with evil from the outside world, those we love the most that can hurt us the most And where we have this desire to fight back, and I'm going to get them, they're not going to get over on me again. And if we're not doing evil, at least we're bearing this grudge. John MacArthur says this, this I believe is the most difficult circumstance that we face as Christians. The severest abuse and the most painful treatment we often receive is not from the world, but from our brothers and sisters in Christ So Paul is saying, look, there are people in the church that are going to hurt you and they're going to do evil to you. What? Could that happen here? It has happened, I have no doubt. I don't have the history. But I know you're sinners. Redeemed, yes. But indeed, we hurt one another here at times. So Paul is saying, look, there are people in the church that are going to hurt you and they're going to do evil to you. They'll harm you directly with wicked words that attack you face to face. They'll harm you indirectly by gossip and slander and evil speaking to others about you. And sometimes they'll harm you by shutting you out of their fellowship, By eliminating you from a social circle, by keeping you out of ministry, because of jealousy or envy or hate or bitterness or anger. But note again that here we're not allowed just to put off not doing evil when evil is done against us But we're called in Christ to do so much more, but to put on, to purposely seek good to those who are even hurting us. 1 Peter 3. 9. Do not repay evil for evil. Does this sound like. It's familiar? Haven't we heard this? How many times have we heard it already throughout the Bible? Why do you think it's there? We need it. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless. For to this you were called that you might obtain a blessing. You are to do good to one another. With your lips. On the contrary, bless. They might be swearing at you, they might be saying untrue things about you, they might be saying hard things about you. But what are we supposed to do with our lips? We're not supposed to respond in the same way. But to bless. Often that's to pray for them Romans 12, 20 says, but lips aren't enough. It has to also be our life To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. For by doing so you'll heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with a swift hit in the face. We wish it said that. But overcome evil with good That's your weapon. Wow, Pastor, what kind of a weapon is that? You gotta be kidding me. Give me a good knife or a machete or at least a gun. A weapon that God calls us is to do good. Peacemaker ministry accurately describes the only weapon that God commands you to wield. In your battle against evil. Jesus calls us to lay down our ineffective worldly weapons like defensiveness, self-justification, and anger in order to take up the truly heavy artillery. Of love. Oh my. Really? No returning of evil for evil Not in the church. Let's look at First Thessalonians fifteen. 515 again. No evil for evil, not to one another in the church, but now look what God is calling you and me to do. Seek See that you always do good to now what's the last part say? Oh my Pastor, by God's grace, I just might be able to love those who are in my family and not do evil to them. Pastor, by God's amazing grace, I might be able to love my brothers and sisters in Christ and not respond with evil. But don't ask me to stretch any farther. But God is saying not just those who are inside the church To everyone, those who are outside the church. God's command for you to do always do good to everyone is universal in its application. Do you see it? Look at it again. It says, always see that you always seek to good to everyone What does that leave? What times does that leave out? What people does that leave out? Again, in the Old Testament, Exodus 24, verses 4 to 54. If you meet your enemy's ox in his or his donkey going to stray, then take it for your own, because it'll increase your herd. Didn't say that. If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall bring it back to him. And of course, Jesus' command is always bigger. Because what is natural for any family or any organization or even any criminal group, they would do and take care of their own. But Jesus says so much more. If you love those who love you, Luke 6, 32 to 36, if you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that for you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount. But love your enemies and do good and lend, expect nothing in return. And your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High. For he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. More than once, Jesus calls us not to do what's natural to us but supernatural. Jesus in Matthew and 5, verses 43 and 44, you've heard it said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Well, of course, that's our standard thing. Love your neighbor, hate your enemy. But Jesus says, don't do the natural. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. First Peter chapter two verses twenty-one to twenty-four says Jesus acted that way because it was the example that he was. Giving for us. For to this you've been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example so that you might follow his footsteps. Whose face came to your mind this evening? Who is it that has done, is doing evil to you? Could it be a husband? A wife? Could it be a brother or sister? Could it be your boss? Teacher? Neighbor? Friend? See, no one does evil to evil. Seek always to do good to one another and to everyone. Scottish reformer George Wissert was a contemporary and a friend of John Knox, and he was sentenced to die in March 1, 1546. When the executioner came to kill him, he was having trouble because he lived in the same town of Wissert and he knew. That he'd ministered to so many of the people and even his own friends and relatives when they were suffering for the outbreak of the plague. When Wissard saw the expression of remorse on the executioner's face, he went over and kissed him on the cheek, saying, Sir, may that be a token that I forgive you. Oh my god. For us to be different than this world, for us to be salt that helps our decaying world. Salt makes a difference. And it begins to stop the decay because it is involved in the world and acts differently than the world. And light and darkness. Is seen because it's light. We're called to be salt in our decaying world. We are called to be light in our darkening world But it's only if we are different. If we don't respond naturally, but respond supernaturally. Now, you might be saying tonight, I'm struggling with this. It wouldn't surprise me. It took me 35 years to stop hating my father, who regularly beat us. And not just finding rejoicing when he died. These things are hard. Luke 17, verses 3 to 5. Jesus was talking to his own disciples. He said, pay attention. If your brother. Sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. Okay, I I could do that Then Jesus says, if he sins against you seven times in a day and turns to you seven times saying, I repent, you must forgive him. You know what the response of the apostles was? Increase our faith. Once maybe twice, seven times? And then what did Jesus go on to say to show that it never ended? 70 times 7. Well, someone once said we all really desire to bury the hatchet. That isn't our enemy's back. To return, evil for good is natural. To return good for evil is supernatural. Alfred Plummer said it this way. To return evil for good is devilish. To return good for good is human, to return good for evil is divine. Brothers, what I am calling you to do what God is calling you to do in His Word this evening in the relationships, in the faces that He has brought to you from work. or school or home or neighbors, wherever they add, this is impossible. It is totally impossible in the natural realm. Without Christ, we can't even handle the little slights from those we know who love us during the day Much less the horrendous hurts that we experience living in a sinful world. But thankfully Jesus said this In John 15, 5. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears fruit. Much fruit, for apart from me, you can do nothing. Oh, this is when you have a chance to Hold on to Christ your Savior and be held on by Him because this is not natural. It is nothing but supernatural in your walk with him. Romans chapter 5 verses 6 to 8 says, For while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. It wasn't that we were pretty little people that Jesus died for. He goes on to say, because we were his enemies. But God shows his love for us, and while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There are many examples of situations that I could tell you of people who have gone back to where the natural response would be evil done for evil. Most of you have heard of Elizabeth Elliott and our husband, Jim Elliott, was martyred by the Akka Indians, along with those other saints, Nate Saint and others. And she went back with Nate Saint's wife, and they lived among the very Indians and shared the gospel with them, and they came to Christ That is not natural. That is supernatural. He's a PCA missionary who's now the executive director of the Luzon Committee for World Evangelism. We used to support him in our congregation, Michael O. His testimony is this, I'm not Japanese, I'm Korean. But my father was born Japanese, or at least He was forced to take the name of a Japanese name, Hido Matsuma, as a subject to the imperial government of Japan that controlled Korea. As a child, he would be beaten if he used his Korean name, Sung-O, or Speak Korean. And now I, his son, serve as a missionary among the people he was taught to hate. And there is perhaps good reason, humanly speaking, to hate the Japanese. We talk about the horrors of the Holocaust when Nazi Germany killed six million Jews and 20 million Russians. But according to the historian Thomas Chalmers, when Nazi Germany killed those The Japanese slaughtered as many as 30 million Koreans, Chinese, and other Asians. This was a Holocaust in Asia, but no one seems to have noticed. In Asia, Japanese scientists tested chemical and biological weapons such as bibionic plague and anthrax on human victims. Human vivisection was performed without anesthesia as body parts were cut off and blood was tested. Women were impregnated by soldiers and doctors Then their bellies were sliced open and their babies were removed and tested upon, leading to their death. Nazi scientists who visited Japan medical experiments vomited at the horror they saw. It goes on and on. It should not come to a surprise then that the question that people most often ask me about our missions work is why Japan? Of all the places in the world, why would a Korean person choose Japan? The answer that I give is quite simply, Jesus says, love your enemies. Well, I've talked about long ago George Wissert kissing his executioner. Talked about Elizabeth Elliott going back to the Aka Indians We talked about Michael O going to Japan. These are all these great things, aren't they? But God wants to do these great things in your marriage. With your children in this church, at your school, at your place of work. Thankfully, I saw this at my home. I didn't grow up as a Christian, and I'm a big sinner. I'm not just big, but I'm a big sinner. And we've been married 42 years now, but I you get in an argument with me, and I'm not only bigger, I can shout louder. And uh, especially in the first years, but regularly through the years, Marg and I, at least once a month, would have, we didn't actually knock down one another and drag one another out, but our fights went that way And they were loud, and if the neighbors listened, they could have heard. And the things that they would have heard would not have been pretty. And around year 31, when we lived in Texas. Marg and I were in one of those arguments. She's not bad herself. But in the midst of it, she just sat down on this little stool we said, we had, and she just started to pray. She stopped fighting and having to win, but blessed me That was around year thirty-one and now we're at year forty-two. But as far as I know, we've really never had another one of those kind of arguments. I'm not saying we don't ever disagree. We wouldn't be human this side of heaven. It was because my blessed wife chose not to return evil for evil, but instead seek my My good. Most of us aren't going to be Elizabeth Elliott's or Michael O's or George Wissard's. Are we? But God has placed you in your family. That you Only depending upon him and looking at the great mercy that he has shown you, that you are called not to return evil for evil Evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone For Christ's sake. I rejoice to hear the stories of how God will be working With you for your sake in Christ's glory. Amen. Our father, we know what is natural. We know it all too well. Many of us know it all too well, all too many times through the day. And the church often isn't different in this world. It's not because of our programs and great things we'll be doing in our great buildings, but it'll because we begin to be a people who are indeed salt and light. In our own family, in our own church, our own place of work, in our own school, in our own neighborhood. Would you, O God, be gracious to us and make us even like the one our Lord Savior Jesus who did not return evil for evil, but instead gave himself that we might become like him. For we pray in his name. Amen.