Well, let me go ahead and pray for us. Our Lord Jesus, we have just sung the words, Come, my beloved, haste. And that's our prayer now. You are our beloved one. Come. Haste, come to us. We pray that you would come and commune with us now as we think upon your word And we also pray that you would come back. Come, Lord Jesus, as we have reflected upon the glories of the world, that you will usher in on that Dread and wonderful day. Come, Lord Jesus, and teach us now to long for that day and to fix our hopes squarely upon it, and we ask this for your glory among us. Amen. Amen. So this morning, all about why it's hard to be heavenly minded. What are these factors? That push heaven out of mind. We want to push back. In our first session, we touched on two of them. In this session, the plan, you can see there on your handout, is to touch on two more of them. Let me say, by the way, as a kind of introduction, I was doing some reading this past week that impressed upon me again the fact that this is a good fight that has to be fought. This is an aspect of the Christian life, and this is true of every aspect of the Christian life. This is an aspect of the Christian life in which we have enemies. And by that I mean unseen enemies. Christian, you have a most dreadful unseen enemy. And it is somebody who really does not want you to set your sights on things that are above. And that's a dimension of this whole issue, this whole aspect of the Christian life. So listen to this piece of advice that's offered by Uncle Screwtape. To his nephew Wormwood. Of course, this comes from C. S. Lewis's screw tape letters. So here is C. S. Lewis imagining the kind of advice that a senior demon would give to a junior demon. About how to tempt a human being so as to ruin eternally that human being. And what Screwtape says to Wormwood in letter number one in the ScrewTape Letters is this: Wormwood, whatever you do, If you find that the human being that you've been assigned to tempt and ruin starts thinking, and in particular, if you find that he starts thinking about unseen realities. Wormwood, whatever you do, don't let him stay there. Don't let him keep thinking. Wormwood, you've got to nip that in the bud right quick. Because from our vantage point, dear Wormwood. Thinking about unseen realities usually doesn't end well. Wormwood, you're not even in the business of thinking and argumentation. So listen to what ScrewTape says to Wormwood, quote, The trouble about argument is that it moves the whole struggle onto the enemy's own ground. He can argue too. Whereas in really practical propaganda of the kind I am suggesting, he has been shown for centuries to be greatly the inferior of our father below. By the very act of arguing, you awake the patient's reason, and once it is awake, who can foresee the result? Even if the particular train of thought can be twisted So as to end in our favor, you will find that you have been strengthening in your patient the fatal habit of attending to universal issues And withdrawing his attention from the stream of immediate sense experiences. You see, from Screwtape's perspective, that's a fatal habit. Your business, he says, is to fix his attention on the stream of immediate sense experiences. Teach him to call it real life. And don't let him ask what he means by real. So that is Screwtape's demonic counsel to Wormwood. And that struck me as I was reading it because that gets at the heart of what we're all about this weekend. The good fight to be fought is the fight to withdraw our senses, or our attention, at least on occasion, from the stream of immediate sense experiences in order to to consider unseen issues. And then to go back to the stream not forgetting what we just saw. That's the key. That's the fight. And though ScrewTape says otherwise, to do that, to take the time to stop and think about heaven, that is real life. It's not the whole of real life, but it's a vital part of it. ScrewTape says, the world around you today says that's a colossal waste of time. To think about heaven. The world around you says that's not real life. But the Bible says otherwise. And so we have to say otherwise. We have to say That if you think that it's a colossal waste of time to stop and think about the world above and about the world to come, then it's not just that you don't know God, it's that you don't know what's real Because God's the ultimate reality. And the maker and the sustainer of all other things. What we're doing this weekend is real. We walk by faith and not by sight. Ultimate reality is grasped by faith and not by sight, not in the stream of immediate sense experiences all by itself. So take heart. Screw tape is all wrong. This weekend, this is time well spent. This is a vital part of real life. And don't let anyone tell you otherwise. So in this session. Let's consider a few more of these factors that tend to push heaven out of mind. We're going to touch on two of them. And the first of them is this under the heading Love Your Loved Ones. And here the idea is this: we neglect to set our minds in heaven because of a failure to take steps to prepare others for our departure. Because of a failure to come to grips with what my death is going to mean for my loved ones Like most of us, I've attended many funerals over the years. There's one funeral that stands out in my memory. It's not one that I went to, it's one that I watched on television. And it was November 6, 1995, and it was the funeral for Yitzhakh Rabin. Rabin was the Prime Minister of Israel. He was assassinated in early November 1995, and his so his funeral was packed with dignitaries and heads of state. The ceremony itself was packed with speeches made by those dignitaries, one after the other, and then his teenage granddaughter got up. And it was incredible. Basically, what she said was: look, you can talk all you want about his contributions in the realm of international relations, but that's not what I want to talk about. What I want to talk about is the fact that I'll never see my grandfather smile again. I'll never hear him laugh again. He's gone. That's what death has done. That's what his death has done to me. Here's a sample of what she said. She said, You will forgive me. For I do not want to talk about peace. I want to talk about my grandfather. One always wakes up from a nightmare, but since yesterday I have only awakened to a nightmare. The nightmare of life without you, and this I cannot bear. The television does not stop showing your picture. You are so alive and tangible that I can almost touch you, but it is only almost, because already I cannot. Grandfather, you were the pillar of fire before the camp, and now we are left as only the camp, alone, in the dark, and it is so cold and sad for us. I know we are talking in terms of a national tragedy, but how can you try to comfort an entire people or include it in your personal pain when grandmother does not stop crying? and we are mute, feeling the enormous void that is left only by your absence. People greater than I have already eulogized you, but none of them was fortunate like myself to feel the caress of your warm, soft hand. And the warm embrace that was just for us, or your half-smiles, which will always say so much, the same smile that is no more and froze with you. I have no feelings of revenge. Because my pain and loss are so big, too big The ground has slipped away from under our feet, and we are trying somehow to sit in this empty space that has been left behind in the meantime without any particular success. I am incapable of finishing. But appears that a strange hand, a miserable person, has already finished for me. We will love you, grandfather, always. And it was incredible. It was nineteen ninety-five. That was how many years ago? And I remember that. I remember that funeral. I remember that eulogy because it hit me so hard as I was listening to that eulogy. This is death. No pathetic attempts to say that death isn't so bad, that it's some kind of natural transition to the next phase, none of that. And obviously, no Christian gospel to blunt its force. In this girl's life. No masks, no hope, no real hope This is death. This is its power. Everything else stripped away. This is what death does. This is what death looks like. And my point in revisiting that. So that was years ago and miles away, in so many ways removed from our own experience. But the point is that death remains an enemy and a powerful one. And friends and family left behind feel its powerful blows. Now, of course, for us Christians, the gospel makes a huge difference. That's putting it mildly. For us the sting of death is gone. We need not grieve for fellow Christians, Paul says, as others do who have no hope. 1 Thessalonians 4. But we still grieve. Even for us Christians, death is still a powerful enemy. And it still hits us and hits us hard when we're the ones who are left behind. And here's the point. While we're still alive, we have a solemn duty to come to grips with the power of death, especially with our loved ones in view, being ready to die. Means, among other things, taking practical steps now to minimize the sorrow and the confusion that friends and family will feel when we are gone. Stop and think about what your own death is going to mean for others, and that's when it ought to hit you. There are things to do now while you're here. Now, what does this have to do with heavenly-mindedness? Well, here's the connection: Knowing that you have taken steps to prepare others for your death, that will strengthen your sense that you're ready to go. That's the connection. A big part of heavenly-mindedness is being able to say, yes, I'm ready to go. My affairs are in order, as it's sometimes put, and I'm ready to go. But conversely, if every time I think about heaven, my conscience testifies, oh, but Paul, you know there are these things. That you ought to have done for Christy and for the kids, and you know you haven't done them. Then every time I think about heaven, It's going to be a guilt experience. Every time I think about it, conscious is going to say, but you're not ready, you're not ready, you haven't loved your wife and children in the way that you should. And we get tired of guilt, don't we? And so after a while we give up thinking about the things that make us feel guilty. But the problem is in this case, that means giving up on heaven. Because in this case, it's thinking about heaven that's making me feel that way. We can't settle for this. You can't settle for this. If you find this gnawing sense of guilt within your own heart, the solution is repent. Go to Christ, confess your failures in this respect, seek His forgiveness, and then rise up determined to do by God's grace what you should have done all along. Don't live with this guilt that is so deadening. Deal with it. Take it to Christ. Be forgiven. And then rise up in the service of Christ by getting ready to die. Getting ready to die with your loved ones in view And the steps that we ought to take to prepare for death with our loved ones in mind, they run the gamut. Everything from the mundane to the spiritual. And you can see there on your handout, I want to say a little bit about both of those headings. First of all, let's start with the mundane. Now, obviously, the Bible doesn't spell these things out. I can just offer a few illustrations from my own experience. For Christy and me, this has meant making sure we've got adequate life insurance policies in place. We've made arrangements with another family in our congregation to take our children into their household in the event that Christy and I go together. We've had wills prepared. I've prepared a set of instructions for Christy, covering everything from planning my funeral to knowing where the to find the passwords that protect our financial accounts. As mundane as it sounds, I've even tried to keep our ever-mounting paperwork filed away in a system that she'll be able to understand. Because when I go, that's the last thing I want her to have to worry about I don't want her to have to crack the code that I left behind. I'll say that I do have a few files labeled stuff. But that's a way of just leaving her a little bit of excitement, certain certain discoveries. So there are mundane responsibilities, and we need to pay attention to them It is to serve Christ by paying attention to those most mundane tasks. That's part of serving your Savior. That's part of glorifying your God. That's part of getting ready to die. Mundane responsibilities. But now what about the weightier responsibilities, the spiritual ones? Well, let me mention three of them. The first one is this: you need to make it clear to those who love you that as a Christian believer, you are at peace with God and ready to go. And we cannot afford to be squeamish about these things. You need to get over the discomfort you may feel when it comes to talking about death and destiny. Obviously, these aren't easy things to talk about. Of themselves, they aren't comfortable. But you can't settle for being utterly unwilling to contemplate them and speak of them. It doesn't mean that you talk about these things constantly and with everyone. Most likely the guy next to you on the metro doesn't want to hear about it. But it does mean talk about them naturally and at least occasionally. It could be nothing more than a passing comment you make in conversation along the way. In my experience, it's been something I've tried to bring out in family worship. Time and time again. It could be a straightforward declaration on your part in the context of an emotional heart-to-heart discussion with a member of the family. It could be anything. However, it comes out, let it come out Let it be known that your faith is in Christ and not in your own good works, and so that you're ready to die and eager to be with Him. I mean, if you've made a profession of faith in Christ before the church, well then you've already gone on record as trusting in Him and being ready to die. But the point is. Don't let that profession that you once made before the church and, in a sense, before the watching world, don't let that be the last thing you ever had to say about it. But keep reinforcing that Keep reiterating that. Keep backing that up in the little things that you say and pray along the way. And don't wait. Don't wait. Don't think, oh well, I can talk about these things later when it's clear my time is coming. Because your time may come in such a way that that opportunity is lost, and these priceless words are never spoken. The observation has been made that one of the greatest gifts a parent can give his children is the well-founded confidence that he's bound for heaven when death comes. And I ask you, parents, have you given that gift? Especially as your kids get older and you get older. Think of all the gifts that you've given your kids, all the gifts you've wrapped and put under the tree. Have you given all of those gifts without giving this one? The certainty, the assurance, I'm at peace with the Lord, and I'm ready to go. And you should be able to say that to them when you are hail and hearty and healthy. So that's one spiritual responsibility to discharge. Here's a second one: Teach by your words and by your example just how great God's grace is. Because that way you encourage your loved ones that they'll be able to carry on without you. In short, you need to teach your loved ones: you don't need me. Now, of course, there's a sense in which we do need others. God designed us this way. He designed us in such a way that we flourish. in family and community relationships. And that means that we suffer somewhat whenever those bonds are broken. But even then his grace is sufficient to sustain. And you've got to show that truth in your own life, in the way that you deal with your own sorrows and losses. So that when the time comes when others have lost you Your legacy will be this. I could do all things through him who strengthened me, and you can too. Philippians 4. 13 You will have lived that way, and by living that way, you will have given that legacy over to them. You will have charged them that they can and must live in the same way. Relying upon the all-sufficient grace of God. And let me say, by the way, do you harbor some doubt that God can take care of your loved ones without you? Do you find yourself thinking, oh, but they do need me? They couldn't live without me. Well, stop and think about that. Because that is unbelieving arrogance. You are thinking lowly of God and too highly of yourself. You have effectively taken infinite love, unsearchable wisdom, almighty power. You've taken them away from God, and you've attributed them to yourself. Some parents treat their children this way. The parents inadvertently magnify their own importance instead of God's Lording it over their children's lives, managing all the details, making all the plans, solving all the problems, and they end up obscuring the glory of God from view. And the result is that the children never grow up into men and women who can live for God and trust in God on their own. They turn out as spiritually stunted Christians who are woefully ill-equipped to deal with the death of their parents, for that matter, to deal with life itself. Now obviously a close-knit family is a wonderful thing, but a family that's close in such a way that the members of the family never develop the personal strength to lean on Christ and persevere in the midst of sorrow, that family is close-knit in all the wrong ways. Listen to how Luther put it. And as you might imagine, he put it in a most inimitable fashion. Here's a letter that Luther wrote back to his wife not long before he died. He was away from home. And when he wrote this letter, he knew that she was concerned about him He wrote this to his wife Catherine, you prefer to worry about me instead of letting God worry. As if he were not Almighty and could not create ten Dr. Martins. Now that's saying a lot, because if ever there were anybody in the whole of human history who was one of a kind, surely it was Martin Luther. Luther says he could make ten of me like that. As if he were not Almighty and could not create ten Dr. Martins, should the old one drown, or burn, or perish in the bird trap. Free me from your worries I have a caretaker who is better than you and all the angels. He sits at the right hand of God, the Almighty Father. Therefore, be at peace. That's Luther saying, my dear Katie, you don't need me. And it wasn't long before he died. One last spiritual responsibility here. Let the consideration of your own death And the impact that it's going to have on your loved ones, let that be an incentive to holy living now in your life. Paul said this to Titus. Titus chapter 2 told him to set a godly example so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us. Having nothing evil to say about us, every Christian should have a similar regard for his own reputation, giving no solid ground by the way he lives. For others to speak ill of him, and that applies to the things that others might say about him after he dies Live now in such a way that there won't be damaging, disheartening revelations about your character and your conduct when you're gone. Because remember, it's your loved ones who will have to bear the brunt of those. And that includes dealing honorably now with the sins of your past. Is there someone to whom you owe restitution? Pay it. Is there someone from whom you need to ask forgiveness? Go and confess your sin and ask for it. Is there someone who once wronged you who has sought your forgiveness? Grant it. Do whatever needs to be done to make things right. Leave no outstanding spiritual debts on the books. And you remember why? What's the point in all of this? So that you can say, I'm ready to go. Because when you can say, I'm ready to go, then you're freed up to bask. In the truth of that realm where you will go. The best way to summarize these duties is this: whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them. Here, certainly. Is a place to apply the so-called golden rule. Put yourself in the place of the one who's grieving. We've all been there. Maybe that you're there today. So ask yourself, what do you wish the one who is gone had done while he was still alive? Maybe he did those things, so that you've been left grateful even in your tears. Maybe he didn't do those things. Leaving you sorrow upon sorrow. Take this to heart now. Heed this call now. Sow the seeds that will produce a harvest of gratitude when you're gone, because then your loved ones will be able to lift their eyes and bless your memory and bless the name of the God you loved. The God you loved in part by loving them. Imagine a funeral like that. Not a bad goal Love your loved ones. Now, what about this other one here this morning? As I say, this is just a kind of sampler. If it's Sunday, this must be heaven. Here's another factor that we need to consider when it comes to nurturing heavenly-mindedness. We neglect to set our minds on heaven. Because of a diminished appreciation of the significance of the church's meetings for worship on the Lord's Day. The um the the dedication line that I put in this book is this I dedicated this book to the saints of New Hope Presbyterian Church in Fairfax, Virginia, with whom I share the privilege of going to heaven every Sunday morning at 9. 30. And I suppose what I might have said is with whom I share the privilege of going to heaven every Sunday morning at 9 30, except for those Sundays when I go to heaven with the Saints of Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church. at ten o'clock. In fact, you know why we we meet at 9 30. It's to get there first to get the good seats. You get there at ten. We get there at 9 30. We go to heaven every Sunday. And you know what I mean? I mean that when we worship, we enjoy a foretaste. Of heavenly experience, I should say four tastes, because there are a lot of them in the service. Corporate worship is heavenly, and the point is, far too many Christians have little or no sense of that. And so this itself becomes, in its own way, a kind of obstacle to heavenly-mindedness. Really, it becomes a lost opportunity every week. To nurture heavenly-mindedness. And so we need to recover this sense. Every part of our worship is infused with light from above. And we need to open our eyes to see it. For example, when we meet for worship, the gathering itself is heavenly. Listen to Hebrews 12. Here the writer paints this picture of the world above. He says, You have come to Mount Zion into the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. And to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. That's Hebrews 12. He's saying, Christians, you have come not just to a place, not just to a people, but to an event, to an occasion, which is the gathering The gathering of those who have gathered above. So that whenever we gather on the Lord's Day, in a very real sense, we're joining that assembly. Whenever we gather on the Lord's Day, our assemblies are outposts. earthly outposts of the heavenly gathering. Second, the singing is heavenly The book of Revelation lets us listen in on songs that are being sung right now. Remember? Heart? They're being sung. We can't hear them, so revelation helps us. Revelation shows us The kinds of songs that they're singing tips us into the themes in their songs, and what do we find? Lo and behold, when we when we listen to their songs, but that we're singing about the same things. They're singing about Jesus. Worthy is the Lamb, we sing about him too. They're singing in the spirit of Moses, praising God as holy and fearful. We are too. And the same is true of our praying. So the gathering is heavenly, the singing is heavenly. Third, the preaching is heavenly, and by that I mean not that there will be preaching in heaven. What I mean is that faithful preaching resounds with heavenly realities. Christ is there in heaven, so in our preaching we proclaim him. The triune God is known intimately in heaven, and so in our sermons we exalt Him. Every faithful sermon is a kind of drawing back of the curtain. So that we who are here can get another glimpse of what's true there. Fourth, the feasting is heavenly. When Jesus instituted the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, he took a cup and he gave it to the disciples. And he said, I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day. When I drink at new with you in my Father's kingdom. In that moment, he was pointing them forward to the messianic banquet in the world to come. And every time we have the Lord's Supper, that's happening among us. And it's Christ who's doing it. When Skip administers the supper, it's finally not Skip who's pointing you forward. When I serve it, I'm not the one who's pointing you forward. It's your Savior who's addressing you, who's speaking to you, and who's pointing you forward to his banquet in the world to come. The feasting is heavenly. Fifth, the giving is heavenly when we give our offerings in worship. That's no mere financial transaction, that's an act of worship To honor the Lord and to provide for the work of the gospel. And that is to follow the lead of those who are in heaven. Because Revelation gives us a glimpse of this as well. It tells us that those who are there In worship are casting their crowns before the throne of God and giving Him praise. In other words, they're taking that which they were given, a blessing, an honor from the Lord, and they're giving it back. In worship. And that's what we're doing when we give. We're taking a portion of that which God has given us and we're giving it back. And so the giving is heavenly. We're casting our crowns. And then one more, the remembering is heavenly. When we come to worship God in this life, we come mindful of the goodness that He's shown us in the past and grateful for it. Especially we come mindful of what he did for us in Christ, way past life, death, resurrection, all of that. But we also come remembering. The past week leading up to the worship service. We come remembering the goodness that He showed us in those six days. So that every Sabbath there's the memory of what God has done for us and in us, while the eternal Sabbath will be no exception. We can't know precisely what we will remember in the world to come about life in this one. And again, we need to admit the limitations of our knowledge. We cannot know precisely how memory is going to function in the world to come. But we will remember somehow. Listen again to Revelation Listen to this remembrance song in Revelation. Revelation 5. Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain. And by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. That's Revelation 5. You see, in heaven there's memory. There's the memory of Christ's work for us and in us. He redeemed us from what we were, he changed us. So that we are not now what we used to be, what we otherwise would still be In heaven, there will be an eternal celebration of what God was up to all along in ordering history, including every human life, including yours. And since heavenly life won't end, the experience of God's goodness won't end. For ages and ages and unending ages to come, He will keep filling us. So that we'll have new blessings to remember, so that we'll have new stories to tell, so that we'll have new songs to sing. There will be memory. And the point is, in this life, every Sabbath, we practice that remembering. We remember what He did for us in Christ. He remembers what he's done in us by the Spirit. We remember what He did for us, the blessings given even over the past few days. So in all of these ways, the worship service on Sunday is positively shot through with heavenly light. Now, there are uh several implications of that. And I I know I'm going to uh start sounding like one of your parents because I'm going to start talking to you about getting out of bed and sitting up properly and eating at the right time and watching your language. First of all, time to wake up. Time to wake up 2 Corinthians 9, Paul says God loves a cheerful giver, and that's true not just of the giving aspect of worship, but of the whole thing, the whole service from start to finish. God loves a cheerful worshiper. So are you? Cheerful doesn't mean sunny and smiley. It's not a personality trait. It means gladly willing. as opposed to sullen and grudging, are you? When it comes to public worship Sometimes when we first wake up in the morning and our minds are still foggy Sometimes there's that split second when we're lying in bed and we're struggling to remember what day it is. And the older you get, the longer that split second becomes So you lie there and you think about it, and then eventually it hits you, oh that's right, it's Tuesday. And since it's Tuesday, that means I've got this meeting. Or that party, or this errand to run, or that medical appointment to keep. And depending upon what you realize in that first moment. Your heart either rises or sinks, and you may even find that your body rises or sinks. You either dart out of the bed, eager for the day, or you sink After hitting the snooze button, just another nine minutes, please. From one day to the next, our feelings. In those first dawning moments, may variably vary considerably, everything from Lemmy Adam to let me go back to sleep. Now here's the question: When that happens to you on Sunday, There's that split second in the morning, you're struggling to remember, and then it hits you, oh that's right, it's Sunday, it's worship day. Be honest. Does your heart rise or sink? Do you find yourself gladly willing or sullen and grudging? That is a most telling moment. It's the very first conscious moment of the week, and it is the most telling moment of the whole week. That moment in which your heart responds to this realization before you've had a chance to compose yourself. Does your heart rise or sink? If it sinks, And something's wrong. Because that means that there's a jarring discrepancy between what's true of worship, it is glorious, and what's true of you. You're not really into it. Do you think the angels and the redeemed humans above wish they could hit a snooze button and put off worship for just another nine minutes? Don't settle for this. Seek to recover a sense of the heavenly in public worship. And if you've never had that sense, then seek to get it for the very first time. And may this lesson today be a means to that end. Learn to say with the psalmist, I was glad. This is Psalm 122, I was glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord. Psalm 122. Second, how's your posture? What is your posture in public worship? Especially during the sermon. And before you all straighten up, let me put you at ease. I'm not talking about physical posture. There are all sorts of ways to sit in a worship service. And that's fine, especially if you've got small children who are competing for your one lap. I don't mean your physical posture, I mean your spiritual posture. How is your heart positioned during the sermon? Spiritually, you ought to be on the edge of your seat. Why? Because of what I said before, because of what's going on in the sermon. What's going on? The curtain is being drawn back so that you can get a glimpse of heaven. That's what's going on. So the question is, would you sit back in your chair spiritually, slouched, disinterested, stealing frequent glances at your wristwatch? While the curtain's being drawn back so that you can be at so that you can see heaven. And parents, take note, if you make that your spiritual posture during the sermon, your children will very likely learn to sit that way too And so your whole family will leave worship every Sunday, having shrugged your shoulders at heaven, and then you'll go into the six days that follow, living like it, and then you'll come back next Sunday and do it all over again. This is no way to listen to the sermon. However, you're positioned in the chair, spiritually, inwardly, listen up. It becomes a potent imperative. Listen up, edge of your seat So we've talked about getting you out of bed, sitting properly, now it's dinner time. Time to eat. Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church serves the Lord's Supper every Sunday. So does New Hope Presbyterian Church in Fairfax, Virginia. And I would say rightly so. And I would say heavenly-mindedness is one of the reasons that's right to do. There are a lot of reasons why. This is one of them. The supper provides so many benefits. One of those benefits is the reminder it provides every time it's administered of our heavenly future. Every time it's served, we're pointed forward. Remember again those words of our Saviour I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day, when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. That day is coming. Listen to the Apostle Paul. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. 1 Corinthians 11. That is, until he comes. He is coming. He will come back and create a new world, and we will feast with him in that world So here our king has given us a sacrament that has the effect of lifting our gaze to his kingdom. Why not take him up on it? Some people answer by saying, well, because if we serve the supper weekly, it will cease to be special. It'll become just another tired ceremony. People will go through the motions. But I hope we wouldn't apply that logic to singing. Or to preaching. And I would say that those aspects of the worship service are just as liable, if not more so, to tuning out. So should the church sing monthly or have the sermon quarterly to make sure people see them as special? No, we expect singing and sermons every Sunday because we know they are spiritually important. Far too important to be put off for an extra week or two or twelve. And the supper's no different. So let us not delay the feast. We need it too much for that. We need to have our eyes regularly raised. To the world above and to the world to come. We need to be regularly pointed forward to that feast that's coming when our Savior is coming, and the supper meets that need. Now, finally, watch your language. What's your language? Let me challenge you to stop and think about the language that you use to refer to the church's weekly meeting. And here's the question. Do you tend to use the language of going to church or going to worship? And I suppose more pointedly the question is, do you ever use the language of going to worship? And if not, Why not? Now, just to be clear, there's nothing wrong, strictly speaking, with the phrase going to church. Those words accurately describe what we do on Sunday. We gather with the church, and we've got to go somewhere to do that. So there is a certain accuracy about the phrase, nothing wrong with using it, but I think it's fair to say that that language doesn't pack much of a punch anymore. When you stop and think about our culture and the way that language is understood in our culture. In our culture, the language of going to church Brings to mind for many people little more than going to a particular building in the community in order to attend the sometimes inspirational meeting that takes place in that building The language of church going brings to mind for a lot of people something largely earthbound. A form of human behavior that can be quantified and dissected by pollsters and sociologists, and I say that with all due respect to pollsters and sociologists, though I respect harpists more. Church going, something belonging to the same category as consumer habits and political party ID. And we'll probably start seeing a lot of those graphs and charts in our newspapers leading up to the election. Voting habits. Measured by church going. No, the language doesn't have those connotations for everybody, but it does for a lot of people. But far more potent is the language of going to worship. And what makes it more potent Is the fact that it is more heavenly. It does a better job of capturing just what it is that we're doing on Sunday morning and evening. We're not just going somewhere. We're not just going to be with some people. We're going to kneel down before the Almighty. We're joining those who are there right now. We're anticipating the day when heaven and earth will be one. So, what I would say is not that you have to stop saying going to church, and I don't want you to feel self-conscious if later this weekend we're talking and you say something like going to church, I'm not going to slap your wrist. I'm not saying you have to abandon that phrase, but at least on occasion begin to season your speech with going to worship. And let me say that if you've never put it that way, and if it feels funny at first coming out of your lips, practice it. You don't have to stand in front of a mirror, but practice it. Today I'm going to worship. Today I'm going to worship. Oh yeah. Worship. Language matters. If it's Sunday, it must be heaven. Several years ago, a book was published entitled 90 Minutes in Heaven. A true story of death and life. And it's a book in which the author claimed to have died in a car accident and gone to heaven. And he claimed to have spent 90 minutes in heaven experiencing the glories of that realm before coming back here and writing the book. I won't comment now on the merits of the book. I did read it. If you'd like to chat about it, we can do so perhaps later. I wouldn't recommend it to say that. But the title makes me smile. And here's why. Every Sunday I leave for heaven at 9 30. Do you know how long our services go? We go to eleven o'clock. An hour and a half. Ninety minutes. So whenever I I hear about a book entitled 90 Minutes in Heaven, Honestly, I think to myself, big deal, I get that every Sunday. And I get 93 if the sermon goes long. Every Sunday. So Christian, do you find that your own sense of the reality of heaven has run low? Well, if so, then a good step in the direction of recovery is to t is to make the most of something you already do every week. Something so familiar that you may barely notice it anymore, which is going to worship. on Sunday. Open your eyes and learn to see heaven in that familiar Sunday service, and then you will notice that service like never before. And not only so, but you'll take heaven with you. Into Monday through Saturday more than you do now. And don't make excuses. Don't plead that the piano in your church is out of tune. Or that the choice of songs is not always to your liking, or that the room is full of sinners. Of course it is. The church's worship on earth is a foretaste, not the full taste. So don't go to worship harboring unfair and unrealistic expectations. Heaven is there. You just have to learn to see it and make the most of it. So the question for you is, will you open your eyes and learn to see it? Anyone can see the dross. Anyone can see blemishes. That doesn't take any spiritual skill, spiritual maturity. Blessed is the man who has learned to see the gold. Blessed is the man whose eyes have learned to behold heaven every Sunday. Remember Hebrews 12, you have come. You have come to a heavenly assembly. Do you have eyes to see it? And to worship like it, and to get out of bed like it. May it be so. Amen. Let me um wrap up with just a few words here as our um time draws to a close. One thing I want to say is this. We looked last night at the table of contents of the book, and I gave nine chapters. To different factors that tend to block heaven out of mind. One factor per chapter. This morning has been a kind of sampler. We've touched on four of them But obviously even nine is just a sampler. If if If all of the reasons that it's hard to be heavenly minded were written down, what does John say? The world wouldn't contain all the books. And so I want to encourage you to examine your own hearts and minds and lives, each of you personally. What are the factors in your life? That tend to push heaven out of mind. And what are you going to do about it? And let me say on a personal note, I'd be glad as this Day and tomorrow goes on, and in the days that follow to hear from you, to talk with you about that. Because I had a sense of that even in writing this book. How can you possibly Even broach this subject when there are so many reasons. So think about it. Examine yourself. Talk to somebody, pray with somebody about it, and this weekend is a good time for that. Another word of encouragement, a word of challenge. This is a, I think, an important retreat kind of challenge. The real test of whether or not you've imbibed a particular truth is not if you're still thinking about it the day after the retreat. It's how you're doing in say mid-February, months from now, next June, next September, a year from now, when this retreat will be a distant memory. Will you be thinking about heaven much then? Will you still be mindful of your resurrection hope a year from now? By God's grace, may it be so. May these truths take deep root And not just make a fleeting weekend impression. And then one last word. The last of the last words. I know that there's always the possibility of coming away from a study like this somewhat discouraged. I know that. I know that possibility in my own life: that you might come away from a weekend like this thinking, I don't live this way. I'm not heavenly minded this way. It's just too hard to reorient myself this way. Take heart. God is merciful. Let that be the last thing you hear. God is merciful. He forgives his children, and he's mighty. He is able, putting it mildly, in his might to reorient his children in ways that they can't accomplish on their own. Your Father in heaven is for you. And not against you. So don't give up. Don't give up on heaven. His grace is too great for any of us to give up now.