John chapter 20. I am going to be reading to us from verse 19 of John 20 through verse 23. This is God's holy, inerrant, and infallible word. Let's give our attention. To it. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them. and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of anyone, they are forgiven. If you withhold forgiveness from anyone, it is withheld. Let's pray together. Our Father and our God, this is your word. And you have used it, written it, spoken it to our hearts, your people, over the centuries, over the millennia. We pray that you would speak afresh and anew to us. Our Lord and our God, it is tempting for us to be distracted right now, to begin to think of what waits ahead for us this week. We ask that you would help all of us to be focused on your word. We ask that you would open our hearts, our minds, our ears so that we could hear from you this evening. Thank you for this word. Speak to us afresh from it. Speak to the preacher. Speak to those of us who are all gathered here worshiping together. Jesus, we ask that you would be honored and glorified in it, and we pray in your name. Amen. Amen. Eight years now we've been on the field. Uh dog years, that's fifty-six years. And sometimes it feels like we've been there for fifty-six years. Well, for eight years we've been there, and people ask us at various points, what do we like best about missions? In fact, I was engaged in a conversation with a pastor earlier today about this very topic. And the answer to what we like best about missions are the people. Now that seems self-evident to it, but it is the opportunity that we get to know both Ukrainians and Americans. I have never been in the military. I've never been in a foxhole, so I have to extrapolate a bit here, but it seems to me that we have the kind of relationship the kind of band of brothers type relationships that I read about, at least, in various books of that name and of others. We have a a great camaraderie. I was talking to a pastor about that today. I said it's one thing I feared if I ever came back to the States, would I have that kind of camaraderie uh as a pastor if I were to return that I have in the ministry in Ukraine. That's the greatest thing is seeing the people. Likewise, the question comes up, what is the hardest thing? And while that is somewhat difficult to uh pin down Uh one of, at least the hardest things, is the fact that we are continually saying goodbye to people that we love. Uh our life is like an airport scene from a million a million movies that we've seen. Uh and I go to the airport to either meet or say goodbye to people. More times than you could imagine. Uh I go to the airport to do that and saying goodbye to family. I remember still to this day, the first day getting on the plane when we were heading over eight years ago, uh the heart wrenching uh goodbyes at the airport and that panic feeling that is that I had as a dad, wondering what in the world am I doing uh to this family? Um and okay, it's not always that extreme, but I guarantee you in twelve days when we get on that plane I'll have that exact same sinking uh feeling. Uh and the Lord will bring peace. He'll bring peace. But it's the uh It's the love of serving with people that God has given, and it's the hard things when people say goodbye. On the evening of that first day, of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked, where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came. and stood among them. You know what that day is. That day is Sunday. That day is Easter. It's the Resurrection Day. The disciples were gathered together, and I wonder if we can imagine the sadness that they felt. The sadness that they felt at seeing their Lord, their Savior, their friend. Their teacher, the one in whom they had placed all of their hope, crucified and dead, the confusion that they felt they had heard stories from him that he would rise again. They had heard clear statements from them from him that he would rise again, but they didn't understand it. It's clear that they didn't understand it and we can't think that we would have been any better. And they were afraid. It doesn't take much of an imagination to think that, okay, if they killed Jesus They'll come looking for us next. And that's what we read in the text here, that they were upstairs, the doors being locked, because they were afraid of the Jews. It would be nice to sit here and think that they had no fear. That they were stalwarts, that they were meetings sitting out on the corner and saying, If I I'm ready to die for the Lord Come and get us, but that's not where we find the disciples in this particular passage. That's just not where they are. They're up in a room with the door locked. They're sad, they're confused, they're afraid, and one other adjective and clear description is they're guilty They're guilty. Every one of them betrayed him. Now we know Peter's story, and it's very easy for us to conjure up in our minds what we read in scripture about Peter's story of his denial. of Christ. But they all denied him. If you look it just just a little bit further back here in the Gospel of John at the Last Supper. Do you know what happens immediately after the Last Supper, besides the fact that we identify Judas as the one who will be betrayed? Do you know the immediate next thing that John records for us that happened after the Last Supper? The debate about who's going to be the greatest. You think this is one of the high points in spirituality. The Last Supper with the Lord. We we celebrate the Last Supper with the Lord when we gather together for the Lord's Day for worship. But they were right there. They were sitting together for the meal. The Lord basically says, I'm going to give up my life for you. And two seconds later, the next thing that John records is we're fighting about who's the greatest in the kingdom of God. We can't think we wouldn't have done it. We're no different than they would have been, but there it was. Right after the Lord's Supper. Read a little bit further. We get Peter's story. Read a little bit before that. We get the confusion of the disciples. Uh about should we take swords to this event? And Jesus says, No, it's enough. Not that one sword would be enough if you're tracking with me and remembering the gospel. It's enough that you continue to be confused. It's enough. And then one more story: all of the disciples fall asleep. None of them can stand with him. Betrayal. Peter seems the clearest to us. But betrayal. So they're afraid, they're sad, confused, and they're guilty when the Lord of glory comes into their midst. Now we don't know how he did it. We don't know. Obviously, the implication is by some way without unlocking the door, Jesus came and stood in their midst. He stands in their midst and he says to them, Peace be with you. That's a good reunion Skip and Bonnie and Lauren and I had uh uh lunch together a couple of weeks ago. We hadn't seen Bonnie in years, and Skip and I say hi at General Assembly, and that's uh uh a mass confusion zone. And we sat together and we ate together and it was wonderful to be together, to have that joy. A friend of mine flew in for twenty three hours this week just to say hi while we were here. A girl flew up this weekend just to say hi while we were here. It's good to be together, but how much better would it be to have Jesus Christ come with us and be there? He shows them his hands and his side. Why does he do that? Same reason he does for Thomas, just a couple of verses later. You know, we we can't think that Thomas was unique here in the doubting. Why does he show the hands inside? Because they can't believe it's true. They can't believe that the Lord is actually standing there amongst them. They show him his hands and his side and the next thing that we read. Is that sorrow, that guilt, that fear, that confusion, it dissipates, and they were glad. The disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. The joy of being reunited. the best airport scene ever. At least in the upper room there. You know, emails are good. Phone calls are good, videos are good. Chuck, I liked your description. This is the first time we've gotten a little bit closer. Uh phone calls, a name on a piece of paper, uh, and then actually being together, and that's quite biblical. You know, you can read Paul's letters. You know, I long to be with you face to face. It's nice to write you and I'm glad to do that, but I long to be with you face to face. There is something about being face to face that all the technology in the world can't change. There's something good about being together. And Jesus comes and is right there in their midst. I still remember la last summer we had to bring Danny back for a surgery um and she and the kids were here for five weeks while I was in Ukraine. And it was a lonely five weeks. Um and I still remember that joy of seeing them, of seeing them at the airport when they're still coming through customs. I can't get to 'em. Uh but the joy of seeing that I I hope. I hope it will always stick with me. And Jesus comes and is in their midst. Now, there's one very interesting note. It's not in this particular text, but if you cross-reference with the Luke version of this account, There's one great thing that Jesus says in our text, he says, Peace be with you. Shows them hands inside, they're full of joy, and the next thing Jesus says is, Peace be with you. In the Luke text, between those two statements, do you know what Jesus says to them? Have you got anything to eat? Have you got anything to eat? You think the Lord of glory has risen from the dead. He declares peace be with you to his disciples, and the next thing he says is, Do you have anything to eat? Now what is that? He had just eaten the last supper with him. He's about to eat with them here in this place. The next you go to John 21. I preached on that in Ukraine a couple of weeks ago and called it uh uh the last breakfast. Uh that's the uh that's when they're out fishing and he he calls them in again and he's got the fish prepared. There, why does Jesus like to eat with people so much? That can be a thing you can discuss as families tonight. I'm not going to go into it. Except to say this: that it is the joy of being together. It is the anticipation of the wedding feast of the Lamb that we will enjoy with him. He is with us, his spirit is with us. But we will see him like they did. We will sit at the round tables, whether like this or much more glorious tables, we will see him. We will eat with him. And Paul says, Boy, we'll be changed in a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, at that point, because we will have the joy of being reunited with our Lord. Peace be with you. Jesus greets them. In one sense, that's a very customary Hebrew greeting. Shalom. Peace be with you. Wholeness. But when it comes out of the mouth of the resurrected Lord and when he takes it as the first words that he's going to say to them, and when he repeats it to them twice, it's more than just a Casual greeting to them. It's more of a benediction to them. Peace be with you. What does it mean when Jesus says, Peace be with you? The resurrected Lord says that. It means the enemy, the uh enemy has been defeated. Satan, death, sin, it's now been defeated. Peace be with you. The warfare has ended. What warfare? The warfare between man and God. God's warfare against men. It has ended in me. I have paid that cost. The covenant blood has been shed. Peace be with you. And now it's his benediction to us for contentment, for joy, for rest that he gives to us. And our Lord communicates to them, our Lord communicates to us, and says, peace be with you. The disciples are full of joy. Now This uh sermon I've titled on Being Apostolic, and I have not yet used the word apostolic, so I need to do that just a bit here. The Apostolic Church, I believe, in the one holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. That's what the Nicene Creed says, right? the the Apostles Creed, I believe in the Holy Catholic Church, the Nicene adds one Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church. Now, to be the apostolic church is to embrace the faith, the teaching, the ministry, the authority of the apostles. That is to be the apostolic church. It is to embrace this faith that transforms guilt, that transforms doubts and confusions and fears, and it then transforms it into joy. It's to follow their example of how they led this, led us as the early church. But that's not all it means to be apostolic. Listen to what he says. He doesn't only say, peace be with you. That's not the only thing that he says. He says, peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. He gives us his peace, but then he gives us a mission with it. And John continually emphasizes Jesus saying that the Father has sent me. The Father has sent me is the Father has apostelloed me. Very easy, sound-alike word. Apostle comes from apostello. It means to descent, to send is what the verb form means. And so when Jesus says the Father has apostelloed me, now I I'm sending you. Now it'd be really great for a sermon if the same word was apostello there. In this particular passage, it's not, but all you got to do is turn back to John chapter 17, where he prays for this, and both verbs are the verbs apostello. As the Father has sent me, Apostelo, so I, Apostello, am sending you. To be apostolic is to be sent. So Jesus comes to us, to them, and he says, Peace be with you. The warfare's ended between you and God. The enmity has ended between you and God. Satan has been defeated. Sin, death has been defeated. Peace can now reign in your hearts. Peace be with you. Now listen carefully. Peace be with you as you go to war. Peace be with you as you go to war. What's he sending them into? What is he sending them into? Is he sending them into uh the perfect life of rest? Is he sending them to heaven? Where is he sending them? Well It's tempted tempting for us to think that peace means, okay, the cushy life is now ours. The easy life is now ours. It's tempting to think that peace means no more pain, that peace means no more sorrows, that peace means I've got the right job, uh the right spouse, the perfect kids. That peace means the uh hammock strung up in the backyard, that peace means the place where all the women are strong, the men are good looking, and the children are Above average. Thank you, Jack. The children are all above average. That's what's tempting for us. When we hear Jesus say, Peace be with you, we think, okay, well, peace be with you. That's all the good things, that's all the blessings. That's all the ease, but biblical peace cannot, and it does not equal the American pursuit of comfort and our culture of entertainment It just doesn't equal that. Chuck, you anticipated my sermon when you were praying tonight. You were praying just about that, about the whole comfort thing. I it was like we had talked about that. We hadn't talked about that. that but the Spirit indeed knew that the peace of Jesus didn't mean that disciples were going to be suddenly beamed out of the battle. Peace, no more battle. It didn't mean that. Jesus says to Peter, in the very next chapter, in the very next chapter, you're going to be taken to a place where you don't want to go. If we understand it correctly, and John interprets it correctly, there's no if about it, that refers to the means of death that Peter was to endure. Paul is going to suffer all kinds of persecution. Many of the disciples will be, the apostles will be martyred or will be killed. Jesus says two chapters before, in this world you will have tribulation. The battle is hard. When Jesus gave us peace, it was a peace That arms us for and leads us into war. We try to take the two things apart. There's either peace or there's war. But Jesus says, peace be with you. As the Father has sent me. And how did the Father send him? Did the Father send him to a world that was easy? A world that was comfortable? Did he send him to a ministry that would always be successful? Did he send him to have a great home here on earth No, he sent him on a mission. A mission of humility, a mission of suffering. A mission that would cost him his life. As the Father has sent me, so I am sending you, the Apostolic Church Is the sent church. And it is the sending church. It used to be that our fathers were comfortable with the idea of we being the church militant. That is very politically incorrect language, the church militant. And yet there it is That's where we're called to be. Now, I have a question for you. Where are we called to be the church militant? Where are we sent? Well, there are some of us. who are sent overseas out of our home culture. Now overseas is just a matter of where you stand, right? Okay, a Ukrainian is that's his home culture. Overseas just a matter of where you stand. Some of us are sent to other cultures to proclaim the gospel, to have that mission there, and the battle hurts and it's costly. And it has tears and it has goodbyes and all of those other things that I talked about. But the battle is not restricted to Ukraine And it is not restricted to some guys coming in wearing masks, carrying bombs or machine guns. You know, it's hard to fight terrorists because they don't always look like combatants. You can't always tell them. They're not always wearing the right uniform that says the the I'm a terrorist t shirt. The battle that we're engaged in is much more difficult Because our enemy is unseen. And the battle that we're engaged in is never any further from us than ourselves. Because the battle's right here and right here. It's in the decisions that I make in any present moment. That's right where the battle is. A couple of you guys in university, a couple of you guys might be in university already. The battle's right there. When we're at the workplace, the battle's there When the kids are screaming, or we're screaming at the kids, the battle is right there. You know, I've heard sometimes it said, and and whether this is true politically or not, uh I'm not smart enough to figure those things out. I trust those who are. Uh I'd rather fight them over there than fight them here. with reference to extremists and current wars that are going on. Well listen, you can't say that about the spiritual battle. Okay? You just can't say it. You can't say I'd rather fight them in Ukraine than fight them in Laurel. Or I'd rather fight them at work than fight them in my home. Because the battle is here. It's where we are. We can't hide from it. We can't decide that we want to fight it someplace else. We've been sent into it wherever you find yourself to be. One last thing from this text, and that is this: it is our triune God who is the great missionary. He, if you will, and if we can say it this way, he is the great apostle, and he is the most apostolic of all of us. The Father has sent the Son. The Father is the greatest mission-sending agency that there could be. He has taken his son, and the father has apostelloed. He has sent the son to us. The son is the great missionary. He's the sent one. He is the one who left his home, who left his culture, who left the glory, who left the perfect glory piece of heaven, and entered into a humble estate. He's the great missionary who came down and lived among us, and that culture shock would be greater than any of us would go through, whether we go to Peru Whether we go to Ukraine or whether we go someplace else. And the Spirit is sent by the Father and the Son. The Spirit is sent by the Father and the Son, and he comes up, and he takes residence in our hearts, and he screams out, peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, so I am sending you. Because what does the Spirit do, according to John, according to Christ in John? He takes the words that I have said to you and reminds them to us. So the Spirit takes up residence here and says, peace is yours. Now go off to war. And the war that you have to fight is the war of love. It's the war of care. It's the war of healing. It's the war of ministering to people in a broken world, in a hateful world. In a world where our neighbors may not be all we'd like them to be, where our work colleagues certainly aren't all that we'd like them to be. And where you know what, truth be told All the wives aren't strong, all the men aren't good looking, and all of the children are certainly not above average. But that's where it goes. That's where the spirit works in and cries out, okay, this is where you're going to need me. You're not only going to love the lovable or the lovely Because in a broken world, the battle that you have is to love when everything around us screams. Just complain. Just hate it. Just do your own thing. Shut off the outside world. Pretend tsunamis don't happen. Pretend there's no killing going on in the Middle East. Pretend innocent people relatively speaking not. non-combatants are not getting killed. Pretend that everybody works with integrity. The Spirit says, listen, you're going to need my peace if you're going to enter into that battle for integrity, for honesty. and for love in the midst of that world. Our triune God is apostolic. He is sent and he is sending, and we are the apostolic church armed with the gospel of peace. Peace, sent out on a mission to make that good news known, to let people know that there is a God who heals. And a God who forgives us. We are the woman at war with the dragon. in Revelation. Confident in the eternal rest that will come? I don't know whether there'll be hammocks in heaven. I do know there will be food. I do know there will be eating. I do know there will be singing and seeing of Jesus. And it will be all that we can imagine that peace and rest will be without this warfare. Close with a quote from Calvin. For this life is a post at which the Lord has placed us, and we must stay at it until the Lord calls us away. It's a post. We may not wear fatigues. Maybe easier for somebody in the military to realize that they're actually in battle sometimes than it is for us. But this life is a post, whether it's in Kiev, Ukraine, whether it's in Laurel, whether it's right in your home or in your office or in your university or at your school. It's the post where God has stationed you and called you to fight the good fight. Armed with the gospel of peace. Confident. And a God who loved us while we were yet sinners and enemies.