I was reminded this past week of a button that I had received at a conference in Baltimore over 45 years ago. That button had an acronym printed on it. You're pretty familiar with government acronyms, so you might be able to catch something, but Here it is P B P G Some of you may know. It is, please be patient. God is not finished with me yet. That's a good practice, a good phrase to practice in a relationship with one another. And if you want to understand and appreciate the believers, the saints, that you read in both the Old and New Testaments and not be Disappointed by their lives and say, Well, they love Jesus, they love God. How could they possibly struggle like that? Then you need to remember that phrase. This evening, as we will take a look at Jesus' disciples, please be patient with me, for God is not finished with me yet, is a good phrase. For you to know, to learn about their lives and as their lives picture our own. This evening we're going to be in Mark chapter 8. I'm going to be in the passage of verses fourteen to twenty one, but when we stand and pray, let's do that. You stand and I'll pray and then we'll just Actually, only read the first verse just to get us set up for this, and then we'll unpack it, Lord willing, as the evening goes on. Our Father and God, we thank you for the word that it lasts forever, and we know we will not until you bring us home to be with you. But your word is always true and right. It has been opened by the people of God and directed by it ever since you have had a people and a church But not always correctly, or not always heard, or understood, or moved by it. That's a work of your spirit. Only you can do that by the unction of your spirit, O God. And so we pray that you would give that for us. For the good of your church, but also for our good, that you indeed would continue this wondrous process of making us like our Savior, even Jesus Christ. Amen. I'm going to read from Mark chapter 8. And as we come to this, the disciples had just had interaction with the Pharisees, and they demanded a sign from Jesus, and they had crossed the sea of Galilee from the west to the east. And they hadn't eaten on the boat. I don't know whether it was a sailboat or a rowboat. We're not told. When they got the other side, they were hungry. And we can understand that. We do some work and we'd get ready to eat. And we're going to see their response. And then I pray, think about our own. So, Mark chapter 8 and verse 14. Now they, the disciples, had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat Thus, the reading of the word may be seated. Disciples got to the other side and they were hungry. Twelve disciples and Jesus, thirteen, one loaf. Just like you, they were concerned. Right? Get that loaf of bread, and you think we've just worked hard, we're tired, break it up into 13 pieces, that's not much. They were concerned. They only had one loaf. And the truth is, you and I get concerned when we see our own supplies of different things going down. I have a great wife who shops for us every week, but there are certain things I can tell her to remember to get, but there are certain things I just always make sure we have in the house. I'll stop to make sure we get them. I like my coffee in the morning, but I don't like it without half and half, so I am always make sure we have half and half. When I'm not drinking water, I like to drink Coke Zero. So there's always a couple extra cases of Coke Zero around. And if I want to have a snack, I like mild salsa. And before going to bed, if I'm able and I can grab it, I love to have a Rocky Road Klondike bar. I make sure I have those things. And when they're not around or I notice they're getting less, I start getting a little nervous. Now you might think, come on My wife says, Did you grow up in the depression? But I find myself when there are certain things not there, I'm starting to look around and say, uh-oh. Well, the disciples were like that too. Do you remember the prayer that the disciples were taught, and all Christians? In fact, we pray every week. What is the very first request in the prayer that the Lord teaches us? Give us our daily bread, right? And the disciples had already learned that. They'd asked Jesus Jesus, how do we pray? And he said, pray like this. And the first request was that he would give daily bread. But when they didn't see it, what was happening? They're starting to panic. They're counting. 13, one loaf, daily bread. Where is it? Right? I think we can relate to that. Here, bread stands for so much more in the Lord's Prayer. James Montgomery Boyce tells us this. The first request deals with our physical needs. For the phrase, our daily bread includes by implication all the needs of life. So it certainly would include half and half and coke zero But all the needs of life. It's a prayer for food, clothing, a home, a good job, and many other physical necessities. But nowhere are we told to ask for these things. Excuse me, nowhere are we told to ask for the extra things, but we're told to ask for these necessities. But God has promised to give them. And here we have the disciples who have been with Jesus now for quite a while, learning from him. They had learned about this prayer. They had seen his provision before, and now there's no bread and they are panicking. Well, let's look what happens as we go on. Because Jesus, as he often did, took these kind of examples in our life to teach us something. And so he's going from bread and he's going to teach them a lesson, it's like a parable, about leaven. What do you know about leaven? Leaven is yeast. Right? Leaven is in the whole loaf. Leaven affects the whole loaf. A little bit of leaven affects the whole loaf. Because when you have yeast, if you've ever made bread, right, your your bread loaf is this big, but where's that yeast packet? Yeah, what is it? Yeselmans or something like Edelman's, something like that. You know, you've seen that little pac how big is that package of yeast? Leaven. It's just a small little thing you got in your refrigerator, right? But it affects that whole loaf and makes it rise. So, along with the disciples, as we look at this passage, Jesus is using this as a message to give them a warning. Mark 8. 15. Let's look at it. And Jesus and he cautioned them, who, the disciples, saying, Watch out Be aware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. You see, Jesus is here to teach them something much more important than He's teaching them about a worldview because what the leaven of the Pharisees and the Herod was was what they taught. It was how they lived. And we know from the scriptures that the Pharisees were hypocrites. In Luke 12, verse 1, Jesus said, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. So he's trying to take their minds off of bread and lift them up and teach them theology. Right? And he says, be aware of the Pharisees, because they add extra laws to the Word of God. They say, listen to what I hear what I say, follow what I preach, but don't look at what I do So he was concerned about that and also Herod. Now Herod was really like the Sadducees. He was a He was a secularist. He really wasn't very religious, and neither were they. They didn't believe in Jesus' miracles. In Acts chapter 4. When Peter and John are there preaching in the temple, they come in and say, Don't believe this stuff. They say this in Acts 4, 1 and 2. The Sadducees came upon them, Peter and John. greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people in proclaiming the Jesus in Jesus proclaiming about Jesus' resurrection for the dead And they said, they were annoyed by that because these miracles don't happen. So Jesus is saying, watch out for that worldview and the culture all around you. I know you need bread, but think about leaven. Right? Because I want you to not just be worried about your physical needs, but it's all these ideas that are in the culture That are affecting you and your own heart and mind. Be aware of those things. And so we notice in the next verse their response. Verse 16. And they began discussing with one another all about the leaven Of the Pharisees and Herod. They were trying to figure out how that affected their lives. Is that what your verse says? It isn't, is it? Look at verse 16. You see, they didn't get it. It says they began discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread. They couldn't move up. They couldn't get out of there. They were still worried about bread. And notice what they've done before they had how much bread? A loaf! How much bread do they say they have now? No, I don't know if they ate it, but I think what happened, they were just saying, hey, if I get a thirteenth of this loaf, it might as well be no bread. And in fact, the word in the Greek tells us it has us an idea that they weren't just discussing it, but they were blaming each other, saying, Hey, why didn't you bring the bread? I thought you had the bread. Who was supposed to bring the bread? I don't know. I wasn't supposed to bring the bread. Right? Jesus is trying to tell about worldviews, about culture, about their hearts and minds. And what are they worried about? There's no bread. Man, those crazy disciples. I can't believe it. Oh, wait a minute. Yeah, stock market went down this week. Oh, it just tanked. I was hoping to retire and Does Trump really know what he's doing? Oh, those plans I had for uh no, none of us ever thought of anything when we saw those kind of reports, did we? What about our bread? Right? Or you don't, someone in your family job isn't secure and they may have lost it and they're concerned about who? The bread winner. Right? So this bread is talking about a whole lot more than Klondike bars, right? He's talking about their hearts. He's talking about a more basic problem with their hearts than even the culture affecting their hearts. Their hearts were full of unbelief. That's what happens when we start worrying about those kind of things that Jesus has already said, I'll provide. Just pray. I will give, you know, pray for your what? Your bread? How much bread? That bread so I can retire! Is that what you're supposed to pray for? What does he pray for? Daily bread. Yes, he provides that bread, the bread for the day. But we just have to have more. We want to be secure, not in our prayer, not in our Lord, but we want to be secure in our stock of bread. Jesus had already spoken to them in Matthew 6. He says to them, O you of little faith. Therefore, don't be anxious about saying what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear For the Gentiles, the unbelievers, you see, they had unbelief. The Gentiles seek after these things, and your heavenly Father knows you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. Let me ask you: What are the bread-like things that keep you awake? It causes you to worry or to be grumpy or snappy with your family because you don't know where they're going to come from. You don't have a stock for the next day. Or that stock isn't very big or it's going quickly. So you start to sweat or be nervous. Or think of schemes so you can get more. What are those things where you're just like a disciple of Jesus? Because we are, and we can be. And because God loves his children, he will reprove us. And Jesus reproves the disciples. And when you think about this You have to understand the context. We haven't read the whole context of this yet, but he had just talked to the the Pharisees before they go over in the boat. But Right before there, in this very same chapter of Mark 8, Jesus feeds 4,000 people. With a couple loaves of bread, four thousand, and there were baskets fulls left over. That had just happened Just happened. They had seen it. They were all stuffed and they had extra. Look at Mark 8, verses 17 to 21. And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive and understand? Are your hearts hardened? Having eyes, do you not see? Having ears, do you not hear? Do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves? And for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? And they said to him, Twelve. And let me tell you, beloved, when they talk about five thousand here, they were counting the men. So there could have been easily another 5,000 women and at least another 5,000 children. So when they say 5,000, it was probably at least 15,000. And when they say 4,000, it was probably at least 12,000. So Jesus says, Don't you remember the 5,000? And then he goes and says to them, look at the next verse, verse 20. And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up? And they said to him, seven. And he said to them, Do you not yet understand? What is it in your life that you say no bread? We're not gonna make it. There's no way out of this. I'm worried. Do you not have it today? Anyone miss a meal today? On purpose? I mean not on purpose. Anybody miss a meal? Anybody here? It looks like you all have clothes on Think you're all going home to homes, right? And we have provision after provision, like the 12,000, I mean excuse me, the 5,000 and the 4,000. We have it. And yet we sit around and go, Oh, we've got so bread Matthew Henry says it was therefore proper to remind them, the disciples, not only of the sufficiency, but also of the surplus of their former meals. Justly Jesus chided them for not understanding and remembering. John Calvin has a great quote. And you know, sometimes I think of these guys, these Went before us like John Calvin and said, oh John Calvin, that reformed guy, he'd never do any of this stuff. But what does he write his congregation? What did he preach to them? Listen to this. There is not a day on which a similar indifference does not steal upon us. That was his congregation. And who's the rest of us? It was John Calvin. He says there's not a day when we're not like the disciples. We have to battle this. There's not a day in which similar indifference does not steal upon us, and we ought to be more careful not to allow our minds to be drawn away from remembering God's divine benefits. The experiences of the past should lead us to expect for the future the same assistance which God has already on one or more occasions bestowed upon us. You see, when you are overwhelmed and you see whatever it is that is your bread, half and half Klondike bars and much more, right? Those are the those are the things we'd probably admit to each other, right? We often don't admit to those things that keep us awake at night. We forget that God has already not only called us to Himself and saved us, but ever since that provided for every one of our needs. Samuel did a great thing when the Israelites were overwhelmed By the Philistines, and they were going to be crushed. They say, Samuel, will you please make a sacrifice to God and pray for us? And he did. And God routed, not even the Israelites routed, God routed the Philistines, and then the Israelites cleaned up. And after that, Samuel took a stone and set it up between Mitzbah and Shen and called it Ebenezer. Remember? Ebenezer stones, right? Oh, what's it? I know it's in the Bible. They set up a stone. It said, this is our stone of help. So we go back and look on it and remember what God has done. So next time we go and open the cupboard and go, ah, a loaf of bread. We can look out the window to the stone and say, God has taken care of us before. What are the stones? Do you have set up stones in your life? I can think of many, but at least two were when Marg and I were first married worked for Young Life and we were to raise half our salary and Pittsburgh Young Life was to raise the other half. We raised ours that came in. We lived on it halfway through that first year. Pittsburgh Young Life said, We can't raise it. We have too many people on staff. We uh we're not sure what we're gonna do, so we gotta check it out. for 0. 00. Must have cost them $30 to get it printed, you know, at the headquarters and send it out for the people, you know And yet during that time, we had almost no money in the bank. I had a job but wasn't being paid. We bought our first house. God provided. And how good it is now to look back when I go and open whatever my heart has its stuff on, my bread, and I open the pantry. No, it's either one loaf. I usually get nervous when it's two or three, but Do you have those? We all do. And some of you are privileged to have been a part of knowing that our daughter and son-in-law weren't able to have any children. That was heartbreaking for us. We wanted to be grandparents. They Had an adoption for two children that was looking like it was going to happen and it turned out to be a disaster, broke everyone's heart, and we just thought the pantry is bad. Not only are they barren, but the pantry's bare. This isn't going to happen. It will never work. We are heartbroken. Finally got to the place of trusting God, and we came here one Thursday night before we were ever here, just visiting our family. We mentioned on a Thursday night uh for Thanksgiving everybody's giving praise that God had worked in our hearts about this whole thing of being grandparents. The next thing we get a call About little Abigail. And we live with her now. And she comes to the house and opens the door to our house every morning and says, Hi Grammy, hi Grampy. It's an Ebenezer. And beloved, what are your Ebenezers? I hope that you have them and you have them set. Because just like the disciples, there are those times of unbelief in our own hearts where we say, it's empty, it's running out quick. There is no hope. Raise up those Ebenezers of God's faithfulness in the past to help you for today. God has been faithful in the past, and He has promised not. To allow you to be lost in the future. I've read some stories of aid agencies that come in after wars and Work with orphans who often didn't have food. Their parents were killed. There was no family around to help them from World War II and Korea. From Vietnam and Bosnia and other places. And when the aid agencies came in and started taking care of these children They would now get three meals a day. And they could be there a couple months. They're getting three meals a day. All they could eat. They had enough. And yet when they would go to bed at night, they could not sleep. They were anxious, worried, fretful, because they'd been without food so often. That they were terrified about the next day. Where was that food going to come from? So what they started doing was giving the children a piece of bread when they went to bed at night, and they didn't eat it. They held it as a security blanket. Knowing that they had food the next day. Well, beloved, isn't it good? You and I don't have to have security blankets because we have bread the next day. Even our Lord and Savior who said If your request and you have a need, pray that first request, give us that daily bread. And Jesus himself said, truly, truly, I say to you, It was not Moses who gave you bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. gives life to the world. And they said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. Like the disciples, right? I want that in my pantry. And he said, You don't understand. He said, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me should never thirst. Beloved, you and I always have the pantry full. Because we have a God who is awesome. Jehovah Jirah, who has promised to provide for us, physically and spiritually. These crazy disciples, are they ever going to make it? These crazy believers, are we ever going to make it? Because we take our eyes off of our stones that God has set up because He's been so faithful, and we put them on the pantry and we open it up, and it's running down or bare. And we get terrified. Derek Thomas talks about this. He says it's a crucial lesson that underlies your growth and grace. That your growth as disciples is rarely linear. Now I thought that when I came to Jesus, I know Jesus now. I'm a new creation. I've been forgiven. I'm going to make it. Here I am in Christ. There's heaven. Bing. Right? My Christian life hasn't been like that. Not about yours. You know, mine is. Bss Right. It's it's not like that We have the same unbelief that affects us and captures us like the disciples. Your discipleship includes moments of catastrophic failure. for you to learn the lessons from the failure, not to look to the cupboard, but the one who fills the cupboard, even Christ. If you were on the weekend, I told you my little story that my father called me cemented. It was for a reason because I just didn't get it. Sometimes I wonder if God doesn't call me that. Because I am so much like these disciples and I don't get it. Jesus is trying to teach me about leaven and I'm saying, There's no bread even though I he's provided it over and over again. The Puritan Stephen Charnik says this, why is God so patient and persistent with the believer? When they so often suffer from indifference or spiritual lethargy and times of little faith And the reason we make it is because of Jesus' loving, persistence, and care for his disciples. John 17, where Jesus is giving his high priestly prayer, he says this about these disciples who said, There's no bread. He says, while I was with them, the disciples, I kept them in your name, which you have given me, Father. I have guarded them And not one of them has been lost except the son of perdition, Judas, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. Isn't it good to see? But we find out from scripture and tradition that all eleven of these knuckleheads These blind unbelief disciples made it Because of their Savior who loved them so much that he gave himself for them We find out of the eleven that ten of them, we believe, were martyred for their faith, and John was exiled and died on the island of Patmos. Isn't it good that Jesus did that with his disciples? And when I find my own self that way and I know my own failures and mistakes, I said, could he do that for me? Will I really, really make it? And I want you to turn as we end. I want you to get your Bible out and look at Romans 8. 30 because it's important. Because maybe you'll say, I'm I'm a lot like those disciples, and I hope I'll make it And in Romans 8. 30, you're familiar with Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good, for those who love God. It's not a new car, right? Because Romans 8. 29 says, so that you become like Jesus, that's what he's working for good But in Romans 8. 30, we have what's called the golden chain of salvation. This is for every believer, every one of God's children. Romans 8. 30. And those whom he, God, has predestined He also called, God also called, and those whom he's called, he's also justified, and those whom he justified, he also. Glorified. Are you going to make it? Because you always understand and you never go, there's no bread. No, we're not going to make it, are we, for that? But we're going to make it because of what Jesus has done and promised here for each of you who have trusted him. That if you are among his predestined and he's called you to himself, he will justify you and glorify you and make you like Jesus. Jesus. Praise be to God. This is an Ebenezer to mark when you're discouraged. That you might come back in the midst of your unbelief. And trust. The only one we can believe in, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Let's look to Him. Our Father and God, I confess that the reason I got to this passage is because I read it in my own devotions and I could see myself. Probably was even something that very day that I was worried about and was capturing me, and I was going down that path of living by fear instead of by faith. And I thank you that in working through it we see God's willingness to chide us and discipline us because he loves us. And bring us back to rest in our Savior, who has given us this golden chain. We will make it the way the disciples made it, not because they were great. But because you are good. We thank you for such a savior. Give your saints, give these believers here encouragement and strength to live for you this week. Because you're so good, for we pray that in Jesus' name. Amen.