The Westminster Divines were not infallible, but they were very wise, godly men who knew God and they knew his word very well, and at the very front end. Of this exposition of the second petition, they included the calling of the Jewish people. They believed, I think, not based exclusively, but largely on Romans chapter 11, that God had made promises that would yet be fulfilled in saving large numbers of the Jewish people. So we're privileged to have this morning is our guest preacher, Reverend Stephen Atkinson. Stephen is a native of Northern Ireland, which you'll soon figure out when he begins to talk. And uh he is uh the North American representative for Christian witness to Israel, uh a reformed outreach to the Jewish people, which it's been our privilege to support financially and in prayer for a number of years now. This is not by any means the first time Stephen has been with us, but it's always a pleasure to have him back to minister God's word. So dear brother, come and we look forward to your ministry. Just checking the technology is working. And as your pastor has rightly said and has kind of given the game away, my accent is not from these parts. I usually say that and then say that I'm really from Arkansas. And because because I really am. That's where I live. I live I've been living there just a little over three years. Um but prior to that, um most of my life, uh aside from five years in England most of my life in my place of my home and my birth, Northern Ireland. So the accent is changing a little bit, but if it still is a little quirky, if that helps you to listen, so be it, and helps us to uh engage. in the Word of God. I am here as on on two fronts really. One to thank you for your support, for your financial support, for your prayerful support, for your interest in what we do. in Christian Witness to Israel. And my annual visit gives me that opportunity to do that in person. I think it is it is absolutely vital that missionaries, um traveling missionaries and those that are either far off or near make the effort to come to churches and to visit with churches to to learn of church situations. One of the things that I I feel I'm privileged to do as I travel is just to learn and see even your own development. And Skip and I and and Bonnie we've had uh some conversations already in our visiting time because ultimately we are all engaged in kingdom work. We have a a very specific Ministry to the ancient people, you have a very specific localized ministry as the Lord has placed you here. And so we're in this together, whether it be the local church or um I don't even like using the term parachurch because in a sense we uh we are we're not outside of the church. We are a church-based mission. And indeed our beginnings were really a church-based mission in the 1840s with the Church of Scotland and some of its finest. who really stirred and started some new Jewish missions, ours in particular in London. in 1842 and Robert Murray McShane prayed the opening prayer at the first ever meeting of what is now Christian Witness to Israel uh in in London in 1842. And C. H. Spurgeon also had uh a hand in our work in that he preached our annual sermon on no less than four occasions. And so our mission is is flowing out of the church. And and one of the things that I seek to do even in my ministry is not only to challenge the church and and be among church folks and uh receive your support. I'm not simply here to to to receive your support prayer or or otherwise, but it is to stir you up to pray and do the work of Christian witness to Israel. Christian witness to Israel is not simply our mission. It is, as Skip has rightly pointed out from the larger catechism, it is the church's mission to bring the Christian witness to the people Israel. And so really we are in this together. I consider that a privilege. And if anything that I say and do today simply stimulates you to do that further. uh either to pray and support us or to even reach Jewish people in your own area. That's that's my mission. And one of the privileges I've had recently uh is to interact with a number of folks in church like who are calling me up or emailing or visiting with me when I'm in the area. Please help me. I I've got a Jewish dentist. I've got a Jewish doctor I've got a uh a friend that I've known for thirty years who's who's Jewish. Tell me how can I sensitively reach my Jewish friends? We all have an ultimate strategy, but we have, I suppose, some experience in the field. And we want to share that and help the church to be reaching its Jewish neighbor. A very quick advert for the after meeting, after we uh we have a little break. Then we will have a 30-minute presentation and I hope to present then something of the practicalities of how we reach Jewish people and what is the Jewish world into which we are bringing the gospel. So that's uh just a little uh taste of of what is to come after I preach. But this morning Our focus is to preach from the word and to stir us to Jewish mission even as we find it in God's Word. So first let us pray together and then we'll we'll stand as we read the scripture. Let's bow together in prayer. Our Father, we come to you seeking your help. We come to your word. It is your word, not the word of man. And we know that word is able to thoroughly equip, to rebuke, to challenge, to change. And to furnish. And we pray that by your Spirit you would speak to us, instruct us, challenge us where necessary, and assist us. We thank you for the privilege that is ours to be called into the kingdom ministry. That we are called not only to know the gospel, but to share the gospel. To live forth the gospel in life and by our lips. We pray that you would enable us even through the means of grace this morning, in word and sacrament, that the Saints of God might be built up in their most holy faith, and those who as yet know you not might be challenged in their way. And be drawn to seek after him who is the one thing needful in life. So, gracious God, come and visit us. And enable all that we do to be pleasing in your sight. For Christ's sake, we pray. Amen. Please turn with me to Isaiah and chapter sixty four Actually Isaiah 63 at the end of it rather than then through all of chapter 64. And we're going to read from verse 15. Isaiah chapter sixty-three and verse fifteen through All of Isaiah 64, and I believe we stand for the reading of God's word. Look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation. Where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me, for you are our father. Though Abraham does not know us and Israel does not acknowledge us, you, O Lord, are our Father. Our Redeemer from of old is your name. O Lord, why do you make us wonder from your ways and harden our heart so that we fear you not? Return For the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage. Your holy people held possession for a little while. Our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your name. Oh, that you would render the heavens and come down. That the mountains might quake at your presence, as when fire kindles brushwood, as the fire causes water to boil, to make your name known to your adversaries. And that the nations might tremble at your presence. When you did awesome things that we didn't look for, you came down. The mountains quaked at your presence. From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you who acts for those who wait for him. You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned, and in our sins we have been a long time And shall we be saved? We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you, for you have hidden your face from us and made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. But now, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay and you are the potter. We are all the work of your hand. Be not so terribly angry, O Lord. And remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look. We are all your people. Your holy cities have become a wilderness. Zion has become a wilderness. Jerusalem a desolation. Our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised you has been burned by fire, and all our pleasant places have become ruins. Will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly? Amen. May the Lord instruct us from his holy word. Please be seated. The story of Scripture Is a story of man's repeated failure and God's repeated faithfulness. It's a story of God's mercy in the face of our misery. The story of God's sovereignty in the face of sinners bringing salvation. There is no story like it. The divine drama of redemption is is his story. His story is his story. We know the main themes of the story concerning a single man and a woman and their failure. In the garden, their eviction. And God's promise and God's covering provision. The story continues from the single person, again, Abram, from whom will come a nation. Again, failure, misery, eviction. And God's mercy and faithfulness and salvation. Adam and the garden, Israel and the land. Jew and Gentile in a broken mess of a fallen world. This is the story of humanity This is the story of God's dealings with sinners. And each part has a part. In the divine drama. For example, we sinners do not take the part of Jesus. There are some religions that suggest we do. In fact, there are some forms of Christianity. and adverted comments that suggest that certain priests can take the role of Christ. Nor do we take the role of Israel, the people Israel. We Gentiles have not replaced But rather have been brought into a single olive tree by the work of Jesus Christ, Jew and Gentile, can come to know the one true and living God. So when we read the scriptures of the Old Testament, we can take them as our own. We can enjoy the blessings and the truths of the Old Testament as our own. But the one little thing that I want to, I suppose, bring before us and keep in mind before us is that sometimes, I trust not here, but sometimes we can be guilty of verse stealing. In other words, we can take the scriptures for ourselves and say they no longer apply to the Jewish people. Just be aware that sometimes when we read of things that are fulfilled, it doesn't mean that they are fully filled. So let's not steal verses that still have a relevance to Jewish people. I really want to set that out there. As we come to this passage in Isaiah 63 and 64, because we can look at that and we say, what a wonderful passage, what a stimulating and encouraging passage. This is a prayer for revival. Yes, it is, but it's actually a prayer for Jewish revival. And while it has relevance, And I'm not in any way discounting the relevance it has to cry, Lord, calm down. And we will make application there. But I want us to see it in its original context and rest there a while. and apply it at least initially to Jewish people today. Because this passage really is a prayer and plea From believing Israel in Isaiah's day concerning unbelieving Israel in Isaiah's day It is a prayer of the captives. It is a prayer and a cry from their impotence calling on God's omnipotence. And so it's a prayer of believing Jews for their unbelieving neighbors. And I want to think of that in the context of believing Jews here this morning praying. For unbelieving Jews in this vicinity, in this land, and all around the world, I've repeatedly said wherever I go that in this country 42% of Israel lives. Israel is not a peop not a land over there. It's a people who are here. And 42% of the world's Jewish population lives in the United States. So Jewish believers who are here with us today, and us Gentiles who can buy into this, let's chorus with the Jewish believers of Isaiah's day praying for their Jewish unbelievers. I have three points as you see from your outline in the bulletin. There is, first of all, a challenge to the power of God. Then there is a call for the presence of God. And then thirdly, there is a cry for the purposes of God. So let's make some progress. On these three headings. First of all, a challenge to the power of God. And just read those verses. Follow me through. Chapter 63, 15. Look! See, where are your zeal and your might? Verse 16. You are our father. Again, let's let's remember the context. Jewish believers. Calling on God. Verse 17, why do you make us wander and harden our heart? Verse 18, our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. Verse 19, we have become like unruled and uncalled. These are mighty strong arguments This is a call to God. This is this challenge to his being. This challenge to his power. This is some serious pleading here. In Isaiah's day, as we know, the history, the consequences of their sin was death and disaster and eviction. But the plea is made concerning God's covenantal love. You are our Father, you are our Redeemer. This is your sanctuary that we're talking about. It's been trampled. Look at this mess, Lord. It's as if we are not yours. It's as if we are not under your rule. But we know the story. We know the story of the book. We know the history of the ancient people. We know the history of God's chosen people. We know his faithfulness and his mercy and his chesed. And we know his faithfulness extending to us Gentiles who have come to know the Jewish Messiah. But again, let's continue to think and pause over the original context and see how bold is their challenge. You have made us wonder. You have hardened our heart. Not. This doesn't challenge the sovereignty of God in the sense of or the human responsibility. This doesn't challenge my five-point Calvinism. I I share this sometimes. I'm a card carrying Calvinist and I can show you because I've actually got a card in my wallet that says card carrying Calvinist. This doesn't challenge that. But look at this. They are saying you have hardened our heart. Not letting themselves off the hook. in terms of responsibility, but it's challenging God in the whole sovereign drama. God's permissive will has not ordained sin. But they have experienced hardening. It's in that mystery of God's mercy that we then read about in Romans 11, the partial hardening. Of Romans 11. And so here in this context in Isaiah, they say, God, this is not the end. This is not your ultimate design. You are our redeemer. Your sanctuary is a mess. Look at this, Lord. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob would hardly know us. And I'm tempted to say, if Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob looked at modern rabbinic Judaism. They would hardly know it. All that we'll come to in a moment. But as we well, let's make a point of application. Let's let's let us Pray this challenge to God. This ancient people, we can we can join the chorus. Abraham doesn't know us. Israel doesn't acknowledge us. Jewish believers today, you see, are cast out of the camp. It's like first century all over again. If you will visit with Jewish believers, even in the land of Israel, it's almost like first century, because they're being hounded by the Orthodox little groups of Jewish believers meeting in their congregations in Israel today. are hounded by the Orthodox. They're sitting outside the churches, which are Jewish churches. Let's get that into our heads in Israel. And the Orthodox are saying, don't go in there. Don't go in there. And so it's first century and 21st century all over again. They've been cast out of the camp, and the Judaizers are all around them. And the plea in Isaiah is the same plea today, and we can join in this prayerful chorus and challenge God. Lord, this is a mess. The modern Jewish people, small percentage of them know their Messiah. About 2% know their Messiah. And Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who saw his day in that sense and spoke of him, search the scriptures, they speak of me, said Jesus. But modern rabbinic Judaism, 98% of world Jewry, doesn't know this. And it's foreign to them. So let's pray with the ancient Jewish believers. Let's pray with the modern Jewish believers. And let's pray in the context of this challenge to God, a challenge to his power. They are enemies on a kind of the gospel, Romans 11, 28, but they are loved. For the sake of the patriarchs, Romans 11, 28. And so the plea is still valid. It's still valid for Jewish believers today. One of the Uh most moving times I've had in recent years is I was at an international staff conference in in London, one of our international conferences. We have it like about every maybe seven, eight years or so And all our missionaries had come together, and my colleague from Israel was there, and he concluded the meeting. And it was so moving because he was praying. For his own Jewish people. He's a Jewish believer, David Zadok. He was praying for his own Jewish friends and neighbors. Where he lives, just outside Tel Aviv. And praying that once again, as twelve Jews turned the world upside down, so once again Israel and the light to the Gentiles. Would turn a world upside down. What would that be like when Israel experiences this kind? So he was praying like Isaiah 63 and 4. We Gentiles who had bought into this were able to join the chorus. A challenge to the power of God. Secondly, a call for the presence of God. So having challenged God to look down at this dire situation, the plea continues to almost Drag God, that's not irreverent to say that, but almost to drag God down into the midst of the mass. And in a nutshell, it boils down to two cries. Come down, 64-1, and save us, 64-5. Come down. 64. 1. Rend the heavens. Make the mountains quake like fire kindling brushwood. Well we know. When we see the fires in California, we know what that's like. Fire kindling brushwood. Do those awesome things. You know, this is a new word for me. We don't use that word as regularly as you Americans, but this word awesome, everything's so awesome. So again, we're desensitized to what that word really means, verse 3, when you did some things that were aweful. When you did awesome things, you came down the mountains quaked, and no eye has seen a God beside you who acts. For those who wait for him. Basically, they are saying, God, be God. Come down, break into time and history in a mighty way. Make your name known. No one has seen a God like you. If Israel were to summarize the acts of God in their history, it could be summarized, God came down. God came down. Egypt. Exodus. God came down. Jordan. Jericho. God came down. The Acts of the Apostles really, I suppose, should be called the Acts of the Holy Spirit through the Jewish Apostles. The acts of God. And the story of the divine drama is simply that. It is not that God is absent, but into the misery and into the mess, God comes down. And very specifically in the incarnation. Their failure here in Isaiah's they wasn't final. Their captivity was a means of their cleansing. Their dispersion among the nations was even to be the very means. That God would use to make his name known among the nations. Turn over to Psalm 126 very briefly. Psalm 126. Context of the Psalm is returning from exile. Psalm 126. When the Lord restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dream. Our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy. Then they said, Among the nations, Gentiles, The Gentiles were saying something when the Lord brought them back. The Lord has done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us. They're saying we are glad. Come down, Lord, is this prayer of Jewish believers for their unbelieving neighbors? As fire upon brushwood consumes, as water causes, uh water is caused to boil, well those things are converting, aren't they? Come down, consume like fire, come down, convert. These are compelling arguments The challenge to the power of God has been mighty. But this call is a grasping God in all his immensity. Come down and save us. Sixty-four five. We've sinned. We've sinned a long time. Shall we be saved? The challenge to the power of God is this call now for the presence of God. But again, notice there's no presumption in this. We're sinners. We're done for. They knew the sin here, something they don't know today. And we'll come to that in our second part. They don't think of themselves as sinners today. Sinners in the hands of an angry God is not in the Jewish agenda today. But here it is. They're sinners. They knew their sin. It's like a menstrual cloth, is the original. A polluted garment. They knew they were unclean. The whole nation is leprous. It's stained. We are like a dry fall leaf. We're seeing leaves blooming all over the place. We are like a dry fall leaf. We fade like a leaf. Blowing in the wind. I want you to notice there's no presumption here. This is no entitlement culture here. There's no expectation here, the Jewish chosen, wonderful people, we expect to have our best life now. Now that comes from Christian inverted commas pastors. Yeah, I don't even even want to use even the name in that. That's another thing. They were sinners. God had withdrawn. God had given them up to the consequences of their own sin. They knew they were sinners in the hands of an angry God. What they're calling, calling for the presence of God. Application. Let us call for the presence of God. in this way. Let's elevate our desires. Let's enlarge our prayers. Come down, Lord I get the privilege of traveling to many, many churches. I'm currently on a like a twelve-day trip, and yes, I'm It sounds a bit crazy, but I'm gonna be in Pennsylvania next week. And then I'm gonna travel down through Tennessee and travel to South Texas by the following weekend. I'm preaching in Yokum in Texas next week. weekend. All by car. And I joke a little at sometimes Nick Shane said that uh the Lord had given him a body and a horse and he killed his horse. I haven't quite killed the car, but uh we do a lot of miles in this kingdom work and it's just a horse. Well, it's a a hundred But all my travels I see That say, hmm, the good, the bad, and the ugly of churches. I see the Lord's people in many, many different circumstances. But one of the things that I Again, please don't misunderstand, and I'm not just whining, but our prayer meetings. Our prayer meetings need to man up. I've been in prayer meetings where they simply resemble the wishful thinkings of a doctor's waiting room. I've been in prayer meetings where there are just endless lists of medical infirmities that we want God to sort out. No, don't misunderstand. He's not unmindful of our justice. diseases. He knows how we're formed. He remembers we are dust. But friends, we have been granted the the the uh privilege of of entering into the holy place. We have been granted access to the command and control center of the universe. We have been granted an audience with the general. And we're bringing him little prayers about our ingrown toenail or or whatever. Medical issues fill our prayers. And I I I fear we have succumbed to the Osteen mindset. There's more of that in our churches than we care to admit. There are bigger issues to be heard. There are bigger issues to bring before the King of Kings. Let's get to praying some large prayers. Come done, Lord! This is a mess. Look at this world on fire. Come done, Lord. Do awesome things Make your name known. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. We we've read 191. I I I say that we don't we don't call up 911. We call up 191. Larger Catechism 191. We pray that the kingdom of sin and Satan may be destroyed. That's not very PC. When we're butchering babies, and when there is an absolute mess of a world on fire and a world lost and leaders That are leaning to such leftist liberalism that is anti-God and his Christ. Why do the nations rage? Psalm 2. Why even in our own nation is there this raging? Pray for the dunfall of the kingdom of Satan. We're not praying it because we're t we have the eleventh commandment, thou shalt be nice. And we pray that the gospel may be prayed. Propagated. Only when this world knows it's in a mess. And we need to tell it it's in a mess because it thinks it's wonderful. Only when we the world knows it's in a mess. Will it look for a solution that we have? And so often we've been playing church The gospel is to be propagated. We pray this. The Jews are to be called. We pray this. We labor for this. This is part of our calling. And we get off and drift in so many different directions. Our forefathers knew this in the 1600s. Our forefathers knew this in the 1800s. And our particular mission arose out of that theological longing of 191, larger catechism. And unless you hadn't noticed, just like these verses, unbelieving Israel has been in her sins a long time. There's no real calling upon the Lord. I've been to synagogue and I've seen the liberal philosophical mass there. God has hidden his face from us, the believers are saying, verse 7. And even here, as I come to the United States and I see this is the most pro-Israel country on the planet, there's such desires to bless Israel, but so little knowledge as to how to do it. My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is what? Well, we need to buy them some matza because these poor Jewish people need matzah. We need to buy a tree for Israel. We need to stand with Israel because it's got so many enemies. We need to get them back to the land because that's all part of our mission. You see how pathetic that is God comes on and saved them. They've been in their sins a long time. Redeem them. Craft them in again according to your purposes in Romans 11. We need the dollar and the energy that is flowing in this very generous country. We need it to flow into Israel ministries that are worthy of the name. A challenge to the power of God, a call for the presence of God Thirdly, finally, a cry for the purposes of God. And this is an appeal as the people of God, the ancient people. And indeed you see also it's a call or an appeal concerning the place of God. There's land issues here. I don't want to go off on a ton of tangents. But it really is an appeal for Eden and Adam. Adam and the Adamar. God with his people. Israel promised land. The people of God in the eternal land of peace. It transcends land, of course. Because time is coming, as Jesus said, not on this mountain, on that, but by the indwelt Spirit of God, He comes down. He dwells in our hearts. But I want us to again just pause over the original context and think it through. Verse 8, they're saying, you're our father. Verse 9, you are our potter. Verse 8, you are our potter. Verse 9, you uh we are your people. And again, let's see this in the context of this being the original unbelieving or mixed Israel. Not just believers are saying this. The believers are saying, yes, but here's my brothers and sisters who are Jewish, but they don't believe, and they're really messed up. But we are your people, Lord. Crying through the purposes of God. And even for those pleasant places where our fathers praised you, they're desolate. They're burned. We all have pleasant places. A year ago I visited Northern Ireland again. I was back home and we visited our pleasant places. And I'm walking past places where I met my wife or when we got married or where we have walked in our childhood days or or where we've walked with our young family. I've got four kids. And we've seen these places, we've seen these places again. And it delights our hearts and places where we worship God, where I was converted, and where I sang the praises of God. And we rejoice in those places. Your holy cities have become a wilderness. Think today in the land of Israel, it's not really the most holy land. You can have the LB LGBT agenda in the Holy Land. Gay Pride marches, they'll be there. And rabbinic Judaism in all its modern Phariseeism is there. There is no real understanding. Of the saving and the substitutionary sacrifice of the Son of God in the land It's growing. There are more Jewish believers in the land than ever before. We rejoice in that. The number of Jewish believers is growing, but it's still small. And these places where the true believers Centuries ago, worship the living and true God, it's a mess. So we can pray for Israel, the people here And in the land. And it's all within the context of praying. Lord, you've got unfinished business. You have unfulfilled promises. You have irrevocable promises, according to Romans 11. And so let's by way of application join the chorus and cry through the purposes of God. Ancient Israel is saying, You're our father. We're your people. However, we understand the ancient people today, they are still beloved. They are still an ethnic people. kept preserved for a purpose. They are a people beloved according to Romans 11. And the wilderness is becoming fertile. And the land is growing in the knowledge of the Messiah Jesus. Jesus, 12 believers in 1948, 20,000 believers today, Jewish believers. It's first century all over again. It's Isaiah's day all over again. A small remnant within a large unbelieving community. But God is doing his work. In grace and mercy, he is softening his hearts, and so we may join the chorus and say, Lord! Will you restrain yourself? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly? No. He's going to pour out a spirit of supplication, isn't he? He will cleanse, he will give a new heart, he will move them to follow his laws, because the irrevocable promises of God concerning this ancient people are such as to save them and graft them in again. And we Gentiles are privileged to join the chorus. One illustration, and then I'm done. Remember Joseph and his brothers. Joseph raised to that high office in Egypt, and his brothers come along begging bread. They were hidden from him. He recognized them. They didn't know him. They came to him. They were faded like a fall leaf. They had been in their sins a long time. And Joseph interacts with them, you remember, is a very moving story that we have. in the book of Genesis. And and and then there comes the point as as they're pleading, he could hold himself back no longer. And with weeping he reveals himself it's me. I'm I'm Joseph. Your brother. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good, for the saving of many. Joseph is a type of Jesus. His Jewish brothers don't know him. And we are challenging heaven and we are calling for God's presence and we are crying for God's purposes. And when in divine providence Jesus Says to his Jewish brothers, It's me, it's Jesus, I'm your brother, with weeping. God meant it for evil. God meant it for good for the saving of many lives. Look, thine Lord. Come, thine Lord. Do not hold back any longer. Make your name known. For Jesus' sake, that the ends of the earth may sing forth your praise. Amen. Let us pray together. Our Father in heaven, we marvel at your sovereign purposes The mysteries in your mercies, and that we have been grafted in as unnatural branches. Into the olive tree. And we have been graced with the privilege of knowing the one true and living God. Oh, gracious God, enable us to rejoice. in that privilege, but also to claim the privileges of sonship that we may storm heaven And make Jerusalem a priest. Come dine, rend the heavens. Do the awesome things that the nations, that the godless wicked that we see parading their perversion around us. That they may be broken and see that they must have dealings with the one true and living God. Oh, bless us all in our ministries, in our kingdom labors. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth. As it is in heaven. So we pray together in the manner in which our Lord has taught us to pray. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be your name. My kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.