Uh it's a privilege to be with you this evening. Um We've been praying for your congregation for some time. Um it's been a joy to get to know some of your members and to know Skip and Bonnie better and uh share a heart with them and uh lift each other up in prayer and trusting that the Lord sustained. Uh I confess I I come exhausted uh and with a heavy heart. Um Wallace is going through a a a real trial right now. And so thank you on behalf of the congregation for praying. Certainly We're in need of your prayers and trust that the Lord hears them to sustain his people at all times and in all places. I'll invite you to stand As we pray and hear God's word. Heavenly Father, we are grateful that we can come before you as weary with heavy heart. Knowing that our standing before you is sure in your Son Jesus Christ, who has welcomed the weary. And the heavy laden, and who promises rest. Holy Spirit, I would ask that you would aid Attend our heart. Attend my mind and my meditation, Lord, minister to all of us as we turn to your word. The word of life, and our only hope. Your Son, our Lord, Jesus the Christ, the resurrection and the life Showcase him clearly that we might behold him and be refreshed, have our strength. Faith and st have our faith strengthened for a new day. We ask this in his name. Amen. The sermon text this evening is from Psalm 90. Psalm ninety. This is the word of the Lord. A prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you had formed the earth and the world. From everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You return man to the dust and say, return, O children of man. For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. In the evening it fades and withers. For we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty, yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? So teach us to number our days. That we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants. And your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. This is the word of the Lord. Please be seated. Do you know the feeling of helplessness? It's a very distinct feeling, isn't it? Feeling utterly incapable to affect your circumstances in any way, for good or for ill. I remember vividly one such experience where this sensation settled with a peculiar weight. It was the morning I brought my daughter home from the hospital. Parents, do you remember that morning? Man, that's a trip. That tiny life tucked in that car seat. I've never driven so carefully in my entire life. I requested a police escort, but they said they don't do that. And then I got home. Do you remember that first night? That little baby in that bassinet next to the bed, not too close lest you wake suddenly and topple it over. Every sigh, every cry, every noise brought you to full attention At some point I forfeited sleep altogether, and I just stood there for the remainder of the night with my hand just hovering over her mouth to make sure that the breath continued to flow in and out. and out. All of this restless, undergirding energy fueled by an intense sense of my helplessness. The reality that I had no power really to sustain that tiny fragile life. I was scrambling in the face of the lightness of her being, the unbearable lightness of her being. And this is the observation at the heart of Moses' prayer. And I'm making just two observations on it. First, human life is brief and futile. And this rightly unsettles us. And second, the eternal God is our God, and thus we are not without hope. First, our life is brief and futile, and this is unsettling. Verse 3 and 4: You return man to the dust. And say, return, O children of man, for a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. Moses is grappling with the absurdity of how swift human life really is, how frail it is, how ephemeral, how light. And feeling is something which impresses us all at some point or another. Likely you've said or you've heard it said or you've felt. How quickly the time passes. How quickly the time passes. We've said it of ourselves, we've said it of loved ones. It's an expression of bewilderment. Trying to get your mind around how something so significant like life can pass like light. Such is the lot of all the creatures of dust tethered to the course of this world. Moses isn't the only singer in Israel's history who brings us face to face with this particularly difficult aspect of our existence. Psalm 89, 47. And forty-eight. Remember how short my time is, for what vanity you have created all the children of man. What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Psalm 102, my days pass away like smoke. My days are like an evening shadow. I wither away like grass. Or Psalm 39, very strikingly, O Lord, make me know my end, and what is the measure of my days? Let me know how fleeting I am. Behold, you have made my days a few hand breaths, and my lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely all mankind stands as mere breath. Surely a man goes about as a shadow. Surely for nothing they are in turmoil Moses was well suited for this meditation. He and an entire generation of God's people passed without trace in the wilderness. in the face of their disobedience and sin. And that's an important observation because the absurdity and the futility of human life and the course of this world cannot be considered apart from the reality and the tragedy of human sin and God's righteous judgment. Verses 7 and 8 in our poem, For we are brought to an end by your anger, by your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. To consider the futility of human existence, the futility of the course of this earth, we must first consider the tragic reality of sin. Verse 3 invites the same consideration, doesn't it? You return man to the dust and say, return, O children of man. It's an allusion to the tragedy of the garden, isn't it? Genesis 1 and 2, God puts the full scope of his wisdom, goodness. power and beauty on display and as his crowning creative achievement he places human beings, gives them everything necessary for thriving in full communion with him. But our Father Adam, that man of the dust, preferred autonomy, preferred rebellion Preferred sin and thus was confirmed in death, plunging himself and his posterity into a state of sin and misery. Verse 3 in our Psalm alludes to Genesis 3. 19, the very last verse of God's curse upon this world, by the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Creation confirmed, in a state of sin, in a state of toil, in a state of turmoil, in a state of trouble, and ultimately futility and death. Such is the course of this world. This is at the heart of the human condition with which Moses grapples. And to facilitate getting our minds around this difficulty, this absurdity, he sets forth a number of images, metaphors, if you will. Life is blank. The first, life is dust. Return, O man, to the dust, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, goes the classic funeral dirge. We encounter dust as it thinly films our lives in rooms we neglect. This translucent layer of matter quickly swept up with cloth. Cloth. This is life. Job says, I am but dust and ashes. Ashes is the usual corollary to the image of dust. for human life. Ashes have such a distinct substantive feel, don't they? Have you ever plunged your hand into a a fireplace that had gone cool and all that remains is ash, grasping at at plumes of nothingness, faint traces of things that once were. I am but ashes and dust. says Job. Second, life is a dream. Verse 5a, you sweep them away as with a flood. They're like a dream. We all know the feeling of waking and having this faint sense that we had just been somewhere. And perhaps it's pleasant. Perhaps you plunge the hand of your mind to seek to recover it, to grasp at it. And what do you find? Just a faint trace of a feeling. Perhaps for a moment you can rearrange the circumstances that linger. Perhaps for a moment you can recapture the feeling that it yielded, but it's gone. And it was a figment of your imagination to begin with. It's remarkable how similar the reconstruction of a dream is to the reconstruction of memories. How much of your life is memory? All of it up until right now. Right now. Right now We're hopelessly tethered to this ever-fleeting present with most of our existence being relegated to that which we can faintly reconstruct. Faintly. Third, life is grass. Verse 5b to 6, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. In the evening it fades and withers. The images of the dew and the sun of a new day enlivening the grass, looking looking vibrant, looking full of potential A beacon of hope. And eight hours later, eight hours later, the night comes and it withers and it's dead and gone. This is your life. This is my life. This is the life of mankind. The fourth and last image, life is breath. Verse 9b, we bring our years to an end as a sigh. The word is translated moan in the NIV. Ezekiel uses the same word elsewhere. He translates it mourning. A mournful exhalation. Human existence. My life. Your life. It's an unsettling portrait of life, isn't it? The troubles. Why? Partly because it generates such a staggering incongruity. A staggering incongruity. I can't tell you how much joy and satisfaction I've experienced over the last year and a half watching my daughter grow up. It's profound. The joy that she experiences, the sorrow that she experiences. I feel as if my heart is in it with her. Grandparents, do you remember when your children had children? The birth of your first grandchild? When your children entered into parenthood and you watched them from afar thinking, well, soon they'll know. Parents as well, you remember likely bringing your children home in the hospital. You've shared, all of you in life's Joys, birthdays, graduations, weddings, various accomplishments along the way. We watch children take their first steps, say their first words, laugh their first laugh, cry their first cry quite early. Young men and women, some of you graduated very recently. Do you remember the satisfaction you took in that accomplishment? All the time you poured into it, all the tears, all the prayers, all the perseverance, all of it went into this celebratory moment, and it's already relegated to a memory. Sitting here now, we're filled with hopes, dreams, aspirations, desires, longing, aches. Think of the trillions. who now fill the womb of the earth as the dead. They had the same hopes They had the same dreams, the same aspirations, the same joys, the same sorrows, every one of them, and they're gone. And the course of this world has forgotten them. All of it. Ashes, dust, dream, vapor, grass, and the flowering of grass That feels off, doesn't it? It it feels almost unholy to say why Because in a very real sense, those things are everything. It's all our experience has known. They have not felt light as we crumble beneath the ache of grief, as we rise up with the swell of joy and celebration as we take satisfaction in the daily enjoyment with one another. These things don't feel like they feel like everything. That's the heart of the absurdity. That's the raging incongruity which unsettled. This is the unbearable lightness of being I want to make a quick observation. It's a dark portrait. It's an unsettling portrait. I'm trying to enter into what Moses is clearly feeling. He's clearly feeling it. And before one can feel the fullness of hope, one needs to grapple with the fullness of futility. But before we go on to the hope, I'll make one observation. My suspicion is that everyone to varying degrees feels this futility. Whether they're a believer or not. And I imagine that's difficult. There's a scene in Tolstoy's War and Peace Where the meaninglessness of knife of life presses in on one of the main characters, Pierre Pierre is rich like no one else in Russia. His wife is a veritable Helen of Troy. He occupies the very center of human power. And yet the nothingness presses in all around him. And in the moment of lucidity, he observes his fellow human beings. Quote, sometimes Pierre remembered what he had been told about soldiers in a shelter under fire with nothing to do, trying their best to keep busy and thus make the danger easier to bear. And Pierre pictured all people as soldiers like these, escaping from life through ambition, cards. lawmaking, lovemaking, little playthings, horses, politics, sport, wine, even government service. Everything matters. Nothing matters. It's all the same. If only I can escape one way or another, thought Pierre, and not see it. The terrible it. That portrait of human being, I think, helps to cultivate a compassion for the lost. A compassion for those who feel, whether they're aware of it or not, the futility of the course of this world and would scramble for any palliative, any numbing agent to keep at bay the terrible Paul himself says, if Jesus Christ has not been raised from the dead, then eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. According to the reasoning of the course of this cursed world, that type of life makes some sense. But Christ has been raised. And the course of this cursed world is not inevitable. And so we consider the corollary to our helpless estate. Namely, the eternal God, the eternal God, the eternal God is our God, and this brings hope. Where does Moses direct us for hope? As we stagger under the unbearable lightness of our being, the ache under the strain of our impermanence, a logical question arises, is there anything sure? Is there anything solid? Does anything endure? Is there anything permanent? The mountains The earth. What could be more sure? These titans of permanence I recall an evening in the mountains of West Virginia last year. I was feeling the full strain of my doctoral studies. their difficulty, and the increasing hopelessness that this was never going to come to an end. And I looked out and I saw the peaks of these mountains. and the sea of trees which covered them. Their foundations had no care for my small troubles. Their peak would go on and on and on, well beyond my PhD and a trillion PhD besides. They attested an ancient order which gave no mind to my paradigms. of meaning. And yet even these have a beginning. Even these mountains were laid down at one point. Even this earth was formed at what at one point. The highest heights of permanence in the course of this world attests to a permanence of a magnitude and order that is almost beyond comprehension. God had laid them. Before the mountains were born, before you birthed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. God has set them down. God is the one before whom they will melt like wax. But what good Does an eternal God do a transient human beset by our own impermanence, our own futility? It's only the first flickers of hope That there exists an eternality, that there exists an order, not subjected to the futility of impermanence, is good, but what good is it for me and you? And so it's not just God's eternal character that Moses brings to our attention, but also his covenant. in which his compassion for helpless sinners has been revealed. Notice how Moses refers to God in addition to his eternality. Verse 1, O Lord, you have been our dwelling place in each generation. Verse 17, let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us behind these profess behind these possessive pronouns is the heart of the promise that God made freely. I will be your God, you will be my people, and I will dwell among you. And so in the face of the absurdity of human existence, which continues to weigh in part even on the children of God, Moses makes recourse to the promises that God has made. And so he can appeal for the God of life to draw near. Verse 13, return, O Lord, how long? It is the presence of the Lord which brings fullness of joy. It is the presence of the Lord in which there is satisfaction forevermore. presence of law of the Lord, which is a stream of eternal giving life. And he can appeal to God to be compassionate. Verse 13. Have compassion upon your servants, O Lord. For as a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him For he knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. As for man, his days are like grass. He flourishes like a flower of the field, for the wind passes over it. And it is gone, and its place knows it no more. But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him. Psalm 103. And it's in this compassion and steadfast love that Jesus Christ came, revealing the face of the of God to sinners enmeshed in a helpless estate. And it's this Jesus who wept at the tomb of Lazarus as he saw the grief and the chaos that death had caused. And it's this Jesus who went to the tomb of Lazarus with a word of life evidencing his power over death. And it's this Jesus who Who went to the cross to bear in his body the curse of death that we need not never know its fullest sting. And it's this Jesus who said, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. The unbearable lightness of being sends us scrambling for some recourse, some place of permanence. Some source of hope. And before us, before us stands a man, Jesus Christ, the only one who has conquered death And he says, I am the resurrection and the life. Believe in me. And those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ can receive the word of comfort that God gives from 1 Peter chapter 1. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. to a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable. undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice. Though now, for a little while, you have been grieved, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in the praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I admit that this week I was struck again, suddenly and unexpectedly. By that feeling of helplessness in the face of that unbearable lightness of being And as I watched the beloved of the Lord stagger under this weight, a friend brought Paul's words to mind. Paul, who takes the meditation of Moses and amends it. For Moses, life is light and momentary, so very like dust, ash, dreams, breath, and grass. For Paul Affliction is light and momentary, and it is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory. Beyond all comparison as we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. And there I stood In the presence of the nearly unbearable lightness of affliction, pleading for the eyes of faith To look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. Because what I was seeing seemed neither light nor momentary. But then Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he dies, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Pray with me. Father, we give you praise for your wisdom that even in your word grants us the space to voice the ache of what is a difficult human existence. And Lord, we confess that it was the sin of our Father and the sin our hands confirmed by the rebellions of our own heart. Which preferred our own way to yours. We are grateful that you did not leave us in this helpless estate. We are grateful that you condescended. You, our eternal God, condescended. To draw us into relationship with yourself. We are grateful that you set forth your son, who conquered the power of sin and death, who has been raised from the dead and seated at your right hand. Who is our hope? And we would pray, Lord, for the eyes of faith to see him in whatever difficulty, whatever affliction, whatever trial your sovereign wisdom has ordained for us to undergo, Father, whatever you design for us, may it be, but sustain us through it, Lord. We ask this in the name of Christ. Amen.