It is good to be back with you again. It's always reassuring. When you know you're in the right place. First time I came to your building, and I was pretty sure I was in the right place, and then I I turned on to Brooklyn Bridge Road. And I thought, oh no, oh no, I made a really wrong turn at some point, and I'm now four hours away from where I'm supposed to be and I'm about to drive into Manhattan. But now When I come to you, I know better. I see Brooklyn Bridge Road and I do not flinch. I know, I know that I have drawn nigh. to your building. But more profoundly, I am in the right place, and you are too, because God has us here. And that's actually comfort we can draw. Even when we do make wrong turns. God is watching over us, has us right where he wants us. And intends to guard and guide us from where we have gone. So brothers and sisters, we are in the right place this morning. For we have gathered for his worship. He has brought us here. Well, we're turning in God's word to the book of Ephesians. You can see in your bulletin that we're going to be training our attention. On that portion of the first chapter beginning at verse 9, you'll find it there in your Pew Bible on page 976. But I am going to back up to the beginning of the chapter so we can get a running start, in part so we can see what leads Paul to what he has to say beginning at verse 9. Also, because this is one glorious long run-on sentence that Paul has written here. And so we'll we'll honor what he has written by reading it from the beginning. So Ephesians 1. Beginning at verse 1. Listen now to God's word. To the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight. Making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven, and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth The gospel of your salvation and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. Let's pray together. Our Father in heaven, we do thank you that you have brought us here. We are in the right place indeed. For you have brought us here for your worship. You have brought us here to hear your word. And that becomes our prayer now. That you would open our ears to hear your voice, we say, as Samuel once said, speak, Lord, for your servants are listening And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Whenever you start talking about the future Whenever you start talking about what's in store down the road, it's safe to say that people have a wide variety of of thoughts and emotions and a ra and reactions, especially when it comes to their own personal future their earthly future what's in store for them in this life people react in a lot of different ways emotionally to the thought of the future. Even that word can elicit a visceral reaction. Some people are excited about it. They're looking forward to what's in store, and maybe they've got good reason to. Maybe it looks like good things are ahead of their way. on the job or at school or in relationships, whatever it might be. Or maybe they just tend to be optimistic, whether they have good reason to be or not Other people are not quite so excited. They're slightly anxious about the future, or they are positively filled with dread about it. And again, it could be that they've got reason to feel that way. They blew that project at work, failed that exam at school. That bone's not going to heal, whatever it might be. Or maybe they just tend to be pessimistic, whether they've got reason or not. Some people are wired that way too. And then there are other people who just shrug their shoulders at the future and they try to be at peace with the fact that they can't really know what's in store. I always think of Dorsey singing K Sarah Sarah. Whatever will be, will be. The future is not ours to see. Kesarah, Sarah. And there's actually a little bit of biblical wisdom in there, believe it or not. So it's a wide spectrum of thoughts and emotions and reactions that people have whenever you start talking about the future. You probably have some sense of where you are. Personally on that spectrum. And maybe the people in your life, they know too. They have some sense of what your outlook is. Because you cannot mask it. Or maybe they don't. Could be that you're walking around these days with hopes and fears about the future that nobody else knows except for you and God. Not only that, but the way you think and feel about your earthly future, what's in store for you in this life, that can bleed over into the way that you think about your capital F. Future. What's in store for you beyond this life? Eternal life. The end of the age? The world to come. Here's the point. When it comes to the future, it's crucial that we let God's Word take the lead. Crucial that we tune into what the Bible has to say about what God has in store. God has spoken about these things. About the end of the age and about the world to come, we want to tune into that. We want to let that teaching take the lead in our own hearts and minds. We want that teaching, that truth about the very destiny of creation and our own part in it. We want that truth to color the way we think even about. Our uncertain personal futures in this life. That's a good goal for us, and that's our goal this morning. We want to tune in to what God Himself has had to say about what's in store. The end of the age and the world to come. Well, sure enough, the Apostle Paul touches on this glorious subject right here in Ephesians. And as I mentioned earlier, we're picking up at verse 9 and focusing on what he has to say there and in the verses that follow. And I want to highlight three points. That we can glean from this. What's in store? Here's the first. There is in store a uniting A uniting of all things. Look again at verses 9 and 10. God is making known to us the mystery of his will, Paul says, according to his purpose. which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him Things in heaven and things on earth. It's verses 9 and 10. So what we're learning right out of the gate here Point number one is that the future that God has appointed, it's comprehensive. This is mind stretching. It's cosmic. Nothing less than the uniting of all things in the end. And so you see what's in store is bigger than the blessings That are in store for each one of us personally and individually. It includes that, but it's not limited to that. It's bigger than that. To nothing less than the uniting of all things in the end. Ian Hamilton in his little commentary on this on Ephesians puts it this way. Quote, the Bible has a breathtaking panoramic understanding of redemption. Love that phrase. A breathtaking panoramic Understanding of redemption. God's redeeming work in Christ transcends rescuing sinners. It embraces the totality of the cosmos End quote. That's mind stretching. That's heart stretching, and it's true. Especially that adjective Panoramic. Think about it. Whenever you take a panoramic picture with your phone, well why do you swipe over to the panel option? Why do you take that kind of photo? You do so because what you're looking at is so magnificent, so sweeping, that you realize that you cannot possibly capture it all Within the confines of a limited view, a normal view, a natural view. You want to try to capture it in a way that's just as sweeping. And so you go with panno. A few days ago I was back in Pittsburgh, God's country, for the Thanksgiving holiday, and we went, we were staying downtown or downtown. If you know, you know. And we went for a walk, cold walk, down by the river by the baseball stadium, and wandered up onto the Roberto Clementi Bridge. It was cold. It was worth it. That view of the Pittsburgh skyline from the Roberto Clementi Bridge. It was Pano worthy. Took that picture quickly and got out of there because it was it was really cold. But you've done it too. You look at some vista, whether a city or a mountain range or whatever, and you think. I I need to stretch the view here to this end. And that's what Paul's doing here. That's what Paul's saying here. That God's purpose For the end of time is so magnificent, so sweeping, it's as if you've got to take a big, big step back. I've got to be careful or I'll fall off the pulpit if I do that. But a really big step back, you go with the panoramic option. Because what you're looking at is worthy of that. God's purpose for the end of time is nothing less than the uniting of all things in the end. And think about that in contrast with the way things are now. Even in our own lives. Right now the world feels scattered. Feels fractured, feels divided, feels broken up. And that's why this is so sweet. God's purpose for the end of the age is to bring everything together. It's to heal. Everything's going to be gathered, ordered, healed, and made one. At the end of the age, there's going to be a redeemed humanity that's at peace with God. And they're going to be at peace with one another as well. For that matter, heaven and earth are going to be reunited. They're not going to be separate realms, divided realms the way they are now. In the world to come, we're going to worship with angels. Think of that famous hymn, This is my father's world. When battle is not done, Jesus who died shall be satisfied, and earth and heaven be won. Earth and heaven are going to be one. They are not now. But they will be That's God's purpose for the end of the age, the uniting of all things, the summing up of all things, and Jesus Christ is the one who will have brought it about. Jesus Christ is the one who's going to preside. Over that reuniting. Jesus Christ is the one who will give it all meaning. In him we will live and move and have our being. And I love how Paul puts it here in verse 9. He says that this uniting of all things in Christ, that is an aspect of the mystery. The mystery of God's will. I love that word in the New Testament. That doesn't mean that the Bible's a whodunit. It's not that kind of mystery. Doesn't mean that it's meant to scare us like a horror film. Not that kind of mystery. This one's so much better. What Paul means here by mystery is some aspect of the gospel, some aspect of the good news of salvation that God's people would have known before Jesus came. But they would have known it in a way that was somewhat shadowy and uncertain, because that's all that was possible for them They would have known it in a way that was blurry and indistinct, but then when Jesus came, God switched on the light. When Jesus came, that aspect of the gospel that had always been there was now unveiled for all to see. So that we see it now not in a way that's shadowy, uncertain, blurry, and distinct. No, now we see it in a way that's clear and sharp. Now we can see it with fullness and precision. Experienced that over the Thanksgiving holiday too, as we watched football. And the YouTube TV stream kept going in and out of blurry and clear, blurry and clear. And then it would get clear again. And now we would see it as we had not been seeing it before. So here in Ephesians 1, before Jesus came, God's people would have had some sense. That God was eventually going to bring everything together. They'd have known that deep down. That somehow God was going to unite all things But they couldn't have known that clearly, and then when Jesus came, God switched on the lights. Now we can see it. That that The mystery of God's will, the uniting of all things in Christ. What God has in store is bigger than just what happens to us personally. It's nothing less than the uniting of all things in the end. So that's our first. Here's our second now. And here's where it gets a bit more personal. And the question is, what's in store? First answer was a uniting, a cosmic uniting. Here's the second. At the end of the age, there is in store an inheriting. We, brothers and sisters, we are going to inherit. Verse 11. See that? Verse 11. In him that is in Christ, we have obtained an inheritance And then look at verses thirteen and fourteen. You were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance, until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. There is in store an inheriting. And you know the basic idea of an inheritance. A child has promised to him the prospect that someday he's going to come into the possession of what is rightfully his. It's not time yet. It's not that day yet, but that time will come. The time will come when he will come into the possession of it. And so what Paul's saying here in Ephesians 1 is that Christians have an inheritance that's been promised to them Promised to us. Someday we're going to come into the possession of what's rightfully ours in Jesus Christ. And what is that inheritance? Here again, stretch your minds. Because it's massive, it's sweeping. That inheritance is just everything that's going to be ours in the world to come. In that world, in that new world, we're going to be living rich, full, fully human lives of worship and fellowship, work and play in the presence of God, in company with one another, clothed with resurrection bodies. Standing on the solid ground of the new earth forever. That's our inheritance. In other words, this inheritance isn't some extra thing. That we're going to receive in addition to everything else that we know about the world to come. No, this inheritance is the world to come. All of it, everything that's part of it, everything that's going to be true of us in it, that's our inheritance. And as Paul puts it over in Romans 8, we are actually fellow heirs with Christ, which is a staggering thing to contemplate That we should we should be fellow anything, co-anything with the incarnate Son of God that we are. He is the heir And because we are now found in him by the Spirit and by faith, therefore we are going to be heirs with him. And he will not be fully satisfied. We can even put it this way, Christ will not be fully happy as our Savior. Until we inherit it with him. Then will he, as Savior, experience What he came down and lived and died and rose to gain us. So a uniting is in store, that was first. An inheriting is in store, that was second. And now here's our third point: a guaranteeing. A guaranteeing in the present. There's this tie between the future and the present. Look again at verses 13 and 14. 13 and 14. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of salvation, and believed in him, you were sealed. With the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. Verses 13 and 14. So here's this connection again between future, what's in store, and present, our present experience as those who hope. The Christian is somebody right now who has the Holy Spirit in his life. It's the Spirit's ministry right now to change him, to reassure him. To lead the Christian to Christ again and again. The Christian has the Spirit. And what Paul's saying here is that the Spirit's presence has a sealing effect. We have been sealed. We have been marked as belonging to God. It has a guaranteeing effect. The Spirit Himself is a down payment that guarantees Sure enough, we are going to come into the possession of our inheritance, the fullness of our inheritance at the end of the age. The blessings that we experience now in the Spirit, they are actually the beginnings of eternal life. We're not just waiting for eternal life, though in a sense that's true, but we're also for tasting it. The blessings that are ours in the Spirit are the future invading our present ahead of time. They're the first payment. That the down payment, the Spirit himself, is the personal guarantee of that inheritance we were just talking about. It's a fairly common plot twist in a in a book or in a movie. There's a family in the story and There's a son in the family, and the son thinks that he's been promised a glorious inheritance from his father, and maybe he was early on in the story. Maybe the father really didn't promise him A glorious inheritance, vast wealth when the father died. And then what happens? The father dies, the family gathers, the family gathers for the reading of the will, and it is in the course of the reading, of the will, that that son comes to realize and you wash it, wash over his face, he's not getting anything. He'd been promised an inheritance, but he's not getting anything. Promised broken. But to put it mildly, that is not what's going to happen in this case. When it comes to the end of the age and the inheritance that we've been promised. Not just because our father isn't going to die, though of course that's true. But also because we're certainly going to come into the possession of the inheritance that He promised us. And we know that because we have the Spirit. Who seals, who seals us, who is the guarantee for us The Spirit feels us as belonging to God. The Spirit is the down payment that guarantees the rest. So, brothers and sisters, that's what we can learn here in Ephesians 1, these verses, about the future that's in store. God's going to unite all things in Christ. We're going to inherit all things in Christ. And right now, Already, the spirit in our lives is the seal and guarantee that it's going to happen. So, what do we make of all of this? How do we take all of this and apply it, bring it to bear upon our hearts and lives? Well, this ought to shape the way that we think about the future. This ought to shape the way that we think about ourselves in relationship to the future. There's great confidence and reassurance here because we don't always feel that when it comes to the future. We can. We're called to. By grace we will It's become fashionable these days in political debates and ethical debates It's become fashionable these days to say to somebody that you disagree with, somebody whose view you think is backward, to say to that person, you're on the wrong side of history. I imagine you've heard that phrase. Could be that somebody said that to you personally, face to face, or Facebook to Facebook, about one of your views. You're on the wrong side of history. That is, you're on the wrong side of history going forward. Really, it's a way of saying you're on the wrong side of the future. You're at odds with where things are going, with what's in store. That's the charge. The charge is your view's wrong, it's backward, it's stuck in the past. History's moving on. History's leaving you behind. The human race is leaving you behind. And someday, people who are doing history They're going to look back on this day, they will not judge you kindly. That's the allegation. You'll be exposed. You'll be reviled. So it's a fashionable thing to say. You're on the wrong side of history. And in a somewhat limited way, you might be able to get away with saying something like that. We do have some visional sense of where history is headed. We do have some sense of changes that are good changes. So I can say to you, if you're still listening to eight-track cassettes, you are on the wrong side of history. So in a somewhat limited way, okay, you might be able to get away with saying that. In other instances, it's such a goofy thing to say. I mean, to say that somebody's on the wrong side of history. First of all, history often takes a surprising turn and vindicates the lonely. See Luther, Martin. And second of all, not all change is good change. Sometimes the human race leaves us behind, and we ought to be perfectly happy to be left behind. But here's what we need to understand this morning. When it comes to the things that we're talking about here this morning, Christian, take heart. You are definitely on the right side of history. You're on the right side of where things are going, of what's in store that can be said about you. And that's because you have sided with the God of history You're on the right side of history because you've sided with the God who wrote it and who's now governing in such a way that it's being realized. Not because of you, but because of him. And all of the other concerns and reservations that we might have about different aspects of human experience. We don't have to be worried about those things here. You don't have to be concerned that history is going to take a surprising turn that thwarts the purposes of God. We know very well where history is headed. And we know it because he said so. He's told us the outcome is certain. And you don't have to be concerned that the purposes of God are going to turn out to be wrong instead of right. Like taking a wrong turn and ending up in Brooklyn when you're supposed to be in Laurel. And to top it all off, you can be sure. That there is going to be a day when everybody's going to look back on this day. And I don't just mean like day generally. I mean November 30th, 2025. And everybody's gonna know, Christian, that you were in the right. Again, not because of you. This is not something you take credit for, because of him. But they'll look back and say, those people were in the right. You can be sure of that. You're going to be vindicated. Now that does not mean That all of your views about everything, like technology and medicine and politics and ethics and everything else, are right. We all get plenty of things wrong. The most faithful believers. Get things wrong. But it does mean that when it comes to the most fundamental issues of human life and destiny and the very destiny of creation, you're on the right side. Again, because God has made his purposes known. The God of history. And the God of history is also the God of grace. And he's graciously turned your heart toward him so that you love those purposes now, so that you've embraced his purposes for history as your own. You're even personally swept up in those purposes as a sinner who's been redeemed So, Christian, whatever your personal outlook happens to be right now on your earthly future, everything from optimistic to pessimistic to K-surrah, Sarah. Whatever your personal outlook happens to be, let this truth about your capital F future let it prevail. Let it dominate. Let it lift you up. And we can say this too, mindful of the season that we're entering here on November the 30th. This is a time of year when our hearts and minds tend to look back. And I mean, look all the way back to Bethlehem. Love this time of year. Think about it this way: when you get back there, when your imagination takes you all the way back to Bethlehem. Imagine that what you find there when you get there is an arrow. And it's an arrow that points you all the way forward to the world to come. Whenever you go back with a faithful return to what God has done in the past, you're never meant to just stay back there. You always find an arrow. Pointing you forward, all the way forward to the world to come. There is that tie between past and future. When the sun was born, hope was born to Why do we have hope for a new world? We have that hope because the Son was born into this one. So let us rejoice. And amen. Let's pray together. Our Father in Heaven, we thank you that these things are true. That there is in store a uniting of all things in Jesus and our coming in to the possession of our promised inheritance, these things are in store And right now, already, ours is the Spirit, and He is the seal and guarantee that these things shall be so. Father, by your grace, we are on the right side of history. Because you redeemed us and picked us up and placed us there. We thank you for Christ. We boast in his cross. We pray in his name. Amen.