Would you all open your Bibles to the book of the book of Ruth? As we will momentarily read our passage this morning, I almost made the mistake of saying, wanting to say, the book of Naomi. So previously we found ourselves observing Naomi attempting to send her two widowed daughters-in-laws back to their homes with her intention to go back to her home to Bethlehem by herself. After the two daughter-in-laws protested, Naomi rallied, convincing Orpha, but Ruth was resolute. She expressed in covenantal language that she wanted to give up her old life to follow Yahweh She turned away from her Moabite religion and her people to be with the God of Israel and his people in the land of Judah. Basically, she said, Over my dead body will I leave your side. She counted the cost, and she was willing to follow the God of Israel. After she made it clear that she wasn't going to go back, Naomi gave up, and she stopped speaking to her about it. And thus the curtain closed with the two women, one determined to stay with her mother-in-law. And both filled with sorrow for the loss of their husbands and one, her two sons. This would be a long and painful trek across Moab to get into Judea. I kind of find it hard to believe that their travel was anything but. Walking silently. If you're on a long journey and now returning to your hometown, what would go through your mind? Will they remember me? Will I recognize them? Will my friends Have grandchildren? What will I tell them? Where is my husband? Where are the two boys? I will have to tell them that they died. And they had no children. Some are going to want to know what I did that caused God to treat me in such a way. Will they ostracize me? What am I going back to? A place filled with people. Where I find myself alone. Sometimes the loneliest place in the world can be a room filled with people, and people whom you care for. Naomi was facing the possibility of this reality. What would she experience? Let us turn our attention now to our passage this morning. If you haven't already done so, let us turn to Ruth chapter 1, where which we will be studying verses 19 through 22. But I'm going to, for context, begin on verse 12 and read through 22. Would you please rise now for the hearing of the Word of God? Turn back, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night and should bear sons, would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my daughters. For it is exceedingly bitter to me, for your sake, that the hands of the Lord has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her. And she said, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried May the Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything, but death parts me from you. And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said, No more. So they went until they came to Bethlehem. And when they had come to Bethlehem, all the city was stirred because of them. And the women said, Is this Naomi? The Almighty has dealt But she said to them, Do not call me Naomi, call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty. Why do you call me Naomi, since the Lord has testified against me and the Almighty has afflicted me? So Naomi returned, and with her Ruth, the Moabitus, her daughter-in-law, who returned from the land of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we look to the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds and our souls. Holy Spirit, we ask now that As we are at your feet, you would help us to be attentive to the Word of God. Help us to cherish its teachings. Help us to maintain our focus upon it Help us to understand it, apply it, and be changed by it. Help us to take comfort, Holy Spirit, by understanding. How you work in our lives individually and collectively to accomplish your decreetive will. We ask this in the name of our triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Amen. So our story picks up in verse 19 with the two widows arriving back at Naomi's old hometown, Bethlehem. We're told that when they arrived, this caused the town of Bethlehem to be stirred. Some translations have this as echoed with excitement. In fact, the word can be used to mean resounded with joyous shouting and happiness, animated conversations in response to a particular event. This is the kind of stirring. It's just sort of like being on the front page of the local newspaper. All the city was stirred because of them The text tells us. You would think that Naomi, if anything, didn't want attention drawn to herself. Now finds herself to be the topic of the town's conversation. If you've ever gone back to a reunion of some sort, like a perhaps a high school reunion or a college reunion or a family reunion, and there seems to be a stir. When you know perhaps the most likely to succeed enters, or the most famous, or perhaps even the most infamous, there's a stir that's happening. I guess what I'm saying is that there is good attention, and there's uh maybe not so good attention, perhaps undesired attention. I would think that she would want to come into town under the radar and just kind of mix in, blend in. Instead, the town is astir, and they're asking, well, literally, is this Naomi? But it's more like. Can this really be Naomi? Is this the Naomi that left with her husband and two boys, the Ephrathites? Where are they? She's by herself. Well, she has this young girl with her that we don't know, and of all things I think I heard that she's a Moabitus. Well, it seems like the day-to-day drudgery of Bethlehem was interrupted with a juicy piece of news. And curiosity, mixed with rumors and the temptation to gossip, demands some explanation before the narrative gets out of hand. Now, the way the grammar is set up in verses 20 and 21, it emphasizes God's direct responsibility for her circumstances. And even has a legal dimension to his action. I am bitter And God has made me so, Naomi proclaims. Just like Abraham, Abraham's name was changed Just like Jacob's name was changed, just like Saul's name was changed. Just like Sarah's name was changed by God, Naomi now takes the initiative to rename herself. Which means lovely to bitter. Because she would say, God has made me so. He has judged me so. My life is embittered. I am bitter This is not what I expected from life. This is not what I expected from a good God. But see is God and I am not, the sovereign God, the mighty God. And uh, by the way, that's the version of God's name that she uses, Shaddai. God has determined that this is the life I am to have. But I don't have to like it. I am bitter She clearly understands the doctrine of God. He is the sovereign. He is the God who has rule over the cosmos He created it and he has deemed that this is her lot. How do you respond when things don't go your way? When you pray for something that God just doesn't open the door for. Instead, it seems like he just closes the door over and over again. Now, I don't know about you, but a lot of things go through my mind and my heart. Sometimes I become a little bit more determined I pray harder. Whatever harder means. I pray more frequently. And after a while If it doesn't go the way I want, I can get confused. Why wouldn't God want that? And I know that I'm not alone in this thinking because I've heard other Christians say so. I have heard people wonder. Why God hasn't answered their prayers yet. They reason that if God would answer their prayers, it would only bring more glory to him. Why wouldn't he want that? I think the problem is that we forget that it is God who chooses how he will glorify himself. That is his prerogative. We don't get to decide that for God. After confusion sometimes comes anger. And this anger can display itself in different ways, can't it? Ever get angry at God for not getting your way? Or when He takes things away from you, I mean stuff you want to keep. What happens after anger? Sometimes I've seen it be outright disobedience. In the sense that, you know, God has not lived up to his end of the bargain, so I have a license to sin. Now sometimes the response can be self-blame. I deserve this. I must have done something wrong, and God is punishing me. Now, let me just say if you believe this, chances are that you think that that if you see calamity in another person's life It is because they themselves are living in some sort of sin or disobedient lifestyle. So how do you respond When God doesn't answer your prayers the way that you want Him to answer your prayers. Stop calling me Naomi. Instead, call me Mara. Call me bitter. And this is what it needs. Bitter. Why Because she tells us that God has dealt very bitterly with me. And she continues in verse 21. I went away full, meaning she had a husband and she had two sons. I was happy. I was satisfied with life and even having to leave because of a severe famine. Well, that would have not taken away a single bit of happiness from my life. And now I'm back. No longer full, no longer happy, no longer satisfied. I am instead, in her word, empty. And to underscore it, she says, the Lord has brought me back empty. Now she's coming awfully close to saying that God is acting wickedly against me. Now I'm not sure if that is what's happening here. But I bring this up only so that we can look into our own hearts to see if we're doing this in our own lives. Or perhaps looking at other people and wondering the very same thing. Why is God acting in such a bad way towards my friends, my loved ones in life? She is saying, Naomi is saying, that if I were to go to court, God would testify against me and I would be found guilty. But I don't know what I've done. Dr. Robert Hubbard, Jr. echoes the sentiment when and where he says in his commentary on Ruth the following. Quote, to testify has a longstanding implication in Hebrew history. She is portraying herself as a defendant in a legal case who has already been found guilty and punished. but does not know either the charges or the testimony against her. She doesn't know. What she has done, and God has brought this affliction upon her You know, there have been times when the people of God accuse God for their misfortune. We see this in several examples throughout the Old Testament. Let me give you three. The first time is when Moses says in Exodus 5. 22, then Moses returned to the Lord and said, Lord, why have you brought harm to this people? Why did you ever send me? Again, we see Moses in Numbers 11:11. He asked the Lord, Why have you brought this trouble on your servant? What have I done to displease you that you put the burden of all these people on me? First Kings 1720 And he called to the Lord and said, Lord my God, have you also brought catastrophe upon the widow with whom I am staying by causing her son to die? There's a long history of this. However, in each of these cases, we see that God uses difficult circumstances. To bring about a greater blessing in the life of God's people. And as we sympathize with Naomi Perhaps our author is preparing us for a greater blessing. We take you on a bit of an excursus. In ancient times in these cultures, people named their children, believing that they would take on the characteristics of the name that they would give. sort of like a a reflection on their internal estate. It's like naming a child Grace. We name our children peace, Irene, coming from the Greek Irene, and so forth. Ruth has renamed herself to reflect her internal estate. One she believes is what God wants out of her. Bitterness. For those of you who have not had their prayers or their desires answered in the way that you wish, or have desired for a perhaps a very long time. Those of you who have experienced personal calamity, catastrophe, difficulties in life If you had the ability, if you will, to rename yourself, what would it be? A name that would reflect your inner identity. Our responses to life don't happen in a vacuum. If you watch Sesame Street, what would you rename Oscar? You know, the one that lives in the garbage can. Would you name him happy? Optimistic? No. What about Eeyore in Winnie the Pooh? Gloomy Okay. He after all does live in a stick house called the gloomy place. What would you name yourself? Christian? What would people close to you name you? Don't call me by my name. Call me. You fill in the blank. Because God has testified against me and He has afflicted me. What if one day your friend who has a pin stuck in his tail Walks up to you and says, don't call me Eeyore anymore. Call me melancholy. For the Lord has testified against me and has afflicted me. As a Christian, how would you process that? What would you offer? Would you offer the same counsel that Job's friends offered him? You know, we we often talk about Job's friends not offering good counsel. Not all of it was bad. How would you interact with your friend? The way that you interact with your friend is usually indicative Of how you process and respond to your relationship to God How would Naomi's friends interact with Naomi? Oh, Naomi, uh Mara This is so bad. I can see why you have changed your name. Would that be a one response? You see, it was when Naomi heard that God had given food to Judah that moved her to return. But he has caused her to return, in her opinion. Empty-handed. This is a complete reversal of her situation from when she left. After she has described her situation, she ends with a question to those whom she's speaking to. Why then, after I've just explained myself to you, should you call me lovely or pleasant anymore? In verse 22, we have a summary of what we have to see: a return to Bethlehem. It seems in this verse, not only do we have a summary, but also an anticipation of what is to come in the remainder of the book. When it seems all things are dire and hopeless, the widows arrive at the barley harvest. If we were wondering, would the bad set of circumstances compound upon Naomi's head even more, would it get worse? We are relieved to know that it is harvest time for barley. And in a couple of weeks, it's going to be the wheat season. They will not starve. At least we know that Naomi will not have an empty stomach Our author does not tell us exactly how Naomi is received by her old friends and neighbors. We're not told where they lodge. Did they stay at Elimelech's old house? Was it even available? After all those years they were gone, was it even safe to live in? We don't know these things. Except we turn our back on the first chapter with immense suffering. And look forward to the future, with at least knowing that the city that is known for bread is finally producing bread for Naomi, Ruth, And its inhabitants. Harvest time is a time for offering to God. And celebrations and feasts. It portends a time of happiness and joy. Will Naomi's situation change? Will we perhaps see her family's legacy be saved from all believing? Knowing that you all have not read wink wink the rest of the book, you'll have to come back to see exactly what God does here. Now, one thing we have to point out is that this is the first time we have Ruth being identified By her ethnicity. She is a Moabitus. And our author is keen on pointing that out for us. It's unclear to us why he has done that, except maybe to point out the difficulties that she may face living in her new chosen home. Would she be received by the locals as one who shares the same faith? Will she face prejudice? How will this new convert, who is so culturally and ethnically different, be accepted by God's people? Do you ever feel like you've lost everything? How did that affect you? If you did, if you have, did you feel suddenly empty inside? I think that in some ways we all feel that way. And the temptation is always there to be bitter at life. We can become bitter at people. We can become bitter at ourselves. And we can become bitter at God. In the process of loss, we think that God has taken away the very best there is. Excuse me. Let me just say that we have to be very careful Not to assume that God takes from your hands what he takes from your hands is the very best. Don't assume that what God would tear out of your clenching hands is the best for you. Some in town may have thought that Naomi deserved she got what she deserved. Do we look at life that way? What did I do? What did I bring about so that this calamity is on myself and on my head? Or what does so-and-so do in order for them to be punished in such a way? When we see things like this in others and in our lives. We have to leave the judgment to God. We don't know what He is doing. Don't judge God's judgment. Because in fact, when we do that, you do realize that it's a form of idolatry. You know, if I was God, I I wouldn't have stopped at that. This person deserves more. If I was God, well, you fill in a blank. That's all idolatry, because we think we know better. Naomi determined what was full in her life. When she lost it, she demonstrated that she thought that she deserved better Thinking that we deserve better is going to cause us to be bitter Is God, Christian, is God not meeting your expectations in life today? This type of thinking is based upon a belief that we are good enough Righteous enough to deserve better. But that's not biblically based. Jesus said, In this life you will have troubles. In fact, if we stop and we consider the sins that we have committed in our lives. Both externally and internally. If we're going to be honest with ourselves, standing before a holy God who judges rightly. What we deserve is an eternity of punishment, is it not? But the good news is That God doesn't give us what we deserve, but instead He gives us grace. It is at the cross of Christ. It is at the crosswork of Christ. It was even when Christ was upon the cross that he was given something bitter to drink. It is there that God shows us how He can turn something bitter into something sweet. And indeed, he has done that in our lives. He has given us grace. He has given us salvation. He has given us himself. And all of this by faith. So I asked you a while back, what name would you give yourself? I know that when we are in pain, that seems to be the thing that sticks out in our minds that very moment. I think if we're going to be honest and take things into perspective, the answer to that question is at the very least, call me blessed. Call me loved. Because that's what we are. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we thank you that indeed we are your children, that you have called us, and you have given all the bitterness. To your son, and he has taken it on our behalf. That we We live in the sweetness of your very presence. We live in the sweetness of the forgiveness that we have, that you have accomplished for us through the work of your Son. Help us, we pray, Father, to have a proper biblical perspective and vision. Help us to trust you, no matter what the circumstances are. Because we know that you are working all things out in accordance with your perfect will for the good of your people And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.