Well always it's a great joy to be here and a great privilege. I do want to thank you all for your prayers. On January 12th of this year, I ruptured my left Achilles tendon. And uh as that was being mended, uh actually the pain was in my right foot. And as they did some diagnosis, it was a mess. And uh I was scheduled to have surgery on December tenth and I met with a surgeon and we had three choices and uh one of the choices was to leave it alone. And uh so I decided to do that. It's no pain, I can get around, and if I need surgery in the future, that's fine. But that enables me to preach here today. So otherwise I'd be laid up with off my feet. So I'm glad to be here. So thank you for your prayers. I'm doing well, rejoicing in Christ. Many years ago when I was a child, there was a television show called Mr. Ed. It was a silly show. There were some very humorous parts of it, but the theme song had this one phrase. People yakkity yak a streak and waste their time away. But Mr. Ed will never speak unless he has something to say. And it's a kind of a silly line, a funny line in some sense, but I thought, you know, isn't that the world? You turn on the radio, you turn on the television, yakity yakkity yak. Words that are not glorifying to our God, words that are vain, words that are sinful. And yet our God has been pleased to speak, and he has spoken to us in his word. in the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. And that's what we will give our attention to this morning. So with that, let me pray and then we'll stand for the reading of the word. Our heavenly Father, your Son said in his earthly ministry, where two or three are gathered in my name, I am there in the midst. Father, that's why we're here today. By your grace, we gather in the name of your Son. We ask that His presence would be effused throughout all of us today. We ask that you would send the Holy Spirit to enlighten us. to continue that lightning process of the remaining corruption of our souls and the glory to see the glory of your Son and what you've done for us in Christ We ask that you would guard us from the evil one, that we can pay attention. Father, we may come with some burdens today, life burdens, and we ask that for now that you would enable us to put them aside. That we might be able to hear your glorious word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would please stand. And I'm going to Read a short portion from chapter two of Genesis. I'm going to skip over the uh Creation of woman, uh not because it's not important, it's very important, is the greatest gift that man has uh in this life, uh uh he that God has given apart from our Savior. But and then I'll move on to chapter three and read through that. So with that, let us hear the word of God. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. And then down to chapter 3, verse 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees. in the garden. But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves loincloths. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I command you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to me, uh, gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you've done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock, and above all beasts of the field, on your belly you shall go. And dust you shall eat, all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till ye return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins, and clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, and knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man, And at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. This is the Word of God. Well, Pastor Burge uh had contacted me and asked me to uh to preach on the subject of peace in line with the Advent season. Uh peace is one of the general topics that are considered during the Advent season. And uh as you see your title there, it says Paradise and Peace Lost. Uh it's a play on uh John Milton's title, Paradise Lost, is an epic poem, and it was uh published, first published in 1667. And it's re it's reflecting the temptation, the fall of man, and things that happened during that time. And as I thought about it, uh as Pastor Burg had asked about this matter of peace, I think it's always helpful to think, why are we even talking about peace? Isn't peace kind of natural? Shouldn't it be natural? Shouldn't peace be natural? Shouldn't it be kind of our everyday experience? And uh as we consider that, we all the we we all sudden we realized, no, we rarely have peace, any deep peace. And so I think it's really important for us to go back to say, has it always been like that? Has it always been the case that peace was kind of elusive? And as we take the account of God's Word, which is true, we find out that no, that was not always the case. That in the Word of God we see that moment when peace was lost. Never to be restored by man himself, never able to restore that peace. When I was a little child, one of my furthest memories back was meeting my great-grandmother. And she was a very gentle person, she was a very kind person. She had raised nine children. And uh I can remember, it's a very vague memory, but sitting in her lap, and she was sitting in a wheelchair. And I remember thinking, you know, I just something didn't seem right. You know, children are so aware of patterns. They look at things, they see patterns, very simple. And the thing I noticed was that my grandmother had one leg. And it was just striking to me as a child because it kind of broke the pattern. And it was due that she had to have her leg amputated due to uh medical reasons earlier in her life. Had nothing to do, she was very kind, as I said, but but that was not the norm. She had two legs. And when God made man and all the created order, it was good. It was very good until the fall. And so we need to think about that. That's that's uh the one of the momentous times in human history. You know, Christ's incarnation, Christ's resurrection, Christ's ascension, Christ's returning, all these things are so important to us. But it's important for us to understand that we first lost it in the fall, to realize that it's not God's uh fault that we have lack of peace, but it is it's our own. It was mankind. It was the fall of man that that brought this to pass. And it's so important too because it was universal, that all mankind fell in Adam. You and I have never experienced life under an unfallen world. We don't even know how good it was before the fall. You know, as you read on in Genesis, I've always wondered why do we have these records of these people that lived to be 900 years? You know, it's not to have an answer to trivia, Bible trivia. But I think what it's demonstrating is the goodness of light that God had given, affected by the fall. even after 900 years resulted in death. There is two or three or four people that I have known for 50 years or more. And when the Lord takes one of us, I'm sure it will be very sad for the rest of us. But can you imagine going to a funeral and saying, how long have you known that person? Well, I've known for 850 years. You know, and that's uh and it would be absolutely true. But to think of all the things, even under a fallen world, all the relationships, all the the meaningful things, it's very sad to think about losing somebody after all that time. And I think that what we see in the early parts of Genesis is the goodness of life what was intended in some sense, and yet because of the fall, because of the entrance of sin into creation. was decimated. And that as good as it could have been, as long as people could have lived, it ended in death. And so the doctrine for this morning is simply the peace of mankind was ultimately lost at the fall. and is only ultimately restored even to eternal perfection through the person and work of Jesus Christ. The peace of mankind was ultimately lost at the fall. and is only ultimately restored even to eternal perfection through the person and work of Jesus Christ. And so as we look at this text today, we see certain things that happened, what led up to the fall, what happened at the fall, and the ramifications of the fall. Now I'm not going to give you Uh well I'll just go ahead and tell you my points right now. The first point is uh the precipitation of the fall. The precipitation of fall. Number two, the moment of the fall. Number three, the results of the fall. And then number four, the perfect harmony of peace within human relationships. Even marriage was lost. That because of the fall, all these things happened. So, first in verses one to five, we see that the precipitation of the fall was that mankind being created in God's image. That they were the height of God's creation. There was nothing higher than being created in God's image. They were God's image-bearers at creation As someone has said, they could be no more like God than how God had made them. There were limits, they were creatures, and yet at the same time they were made in his image. And yet the evil one comes and slowly through crafty deception starts to entice this prohibition, to violate the prohibition to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil And right off the bat, we have this wonderful lesson that will be with us until the Lord returns, is that the evil one is always destroying. There's a Christian song, Oh How He Loves You and Me. I haven't heard it in a long time, but the refrain has gone through my head. And when I think of the evil, and I think of Oh How He Hates You and Me. And particularly, oh, how he hates you and me because he hates Christ. He hates God. And all he ever works is destruction. All he ever speaks are lies. And even at this pinnacle place at the beginning of creation, there's only two voices, right? There's only two voices. There's the authoritative, good, wonderful voice of God. And then there's the lying voice of the evil one. And I think that's helpful for us to remember because even today, there's only one authoritative voice of God that we have in the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. But then there's multiple legions of voices in the world that we hear with varieties of lies that would entice us to lead us away from the true and living God and from Christ Himself. And I think it's helpful if we think about that, you know, when there was only two choices, now we have multiple choices, and yet God's word still is raised above all those words. They're the only words that are true. They're the only words that are kind. They're the only words that are life-promoting. And so we should think of God's word as separate, apart from all other words, and then all the other words of the world as fleeting in their nature. It doesn't mean we speak truths, we speak lies. We want to be truth speakers more and more as we have our minds filled with the Word of God, as the Word of God affects us, as we We take the God's viewpoint on things and not our own. As we are resistant to the lives of the evil one, we become more and more like Christ. We become wiser because his word is our meditation. And the more that we have the word of God in us, whether it's through memorization or meditation, the better. Because what that is, is the light dispelling the darkness. Now I know that process is that's part of the sanctification process where the light comes and we're resistant, we're stubborn, and then God subdues us wonderfully. Sometimes we have to learn the hard way. But it's always true, and it's always good, and it's always wise. And so Eve was deceived. She was tempted. And she was tempted to be like God in a way. That God never intended at that point. And that's really it's really helpful to remember the finitude of man Has been kind of a topic that's been brought to my mind over the last couple of years. In fact, somebody's written a book on that. That we are creatures. We are creatures created by God in his image. And that is a great gift. It's a great gift above all the other parts of the creation And so they were, she was tempted to be like God. And it was over a period of time. It was deception. And so we need to think about, you know, this is why God's Word is so important. If you do not pay attention to God's word. You will be deceived. The more we understand God's word, the wiser we'll be, the greater joy we'll have, the greater victory in Christ we'll have, the more we'll be like Christ. And so I hope for all of us that we would raise high the Word of God. And I I trust that that's the case here. I know that's true for this church. But even more that we even more so that we would consider the Word of God above all other words, that no matter what we're tempted to do, if we hear the Word God saying, don't do it, That we would acquiesce to God, His word. And so that doesn't constitute sin. So that was the precipitation. It was the crafty deception of the evil one. He didn't say, hey, just eat this or you need to die. But it was this slow, methodical, deceitful, wicked temptation And then finally, in verse six, we have the moment of the fall. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of his fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Taste, sight, and pride, as Tom has already alluded to, pride. Were what the evil one had used to entice the forbidding E. Those three things were the major things that he brought before her that would entice her to sin. But those are all irrelevant. They're all irrelevant because God said, Do not eat. Because in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. And God never lies. And so as she was deceived and she ate and gave it to Adam, we have the fall of mankind. It's also been this this fall has been called uh is referred to as a cosmic treason. Treason is a violation of allegiance to one's sovereign or to one's state. It was cosmic treason. You probably know what the chief end of man is. What is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And then the question is, what rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? The Word of God. It was true for Adam, it was true for the second last Adam. Except the first Adam failed and brought us into this state of sin and misery. It's interesting that the Apostle John in his first epistle seems to reflect these three things in 1 John 2. The Imbus kind of comments on what happened at the fall and warns his hearers of the same type of matter. Do not love the world or the things of the in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh And the desires of the eyes and the pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. And so at the fall, they violated that. And so they were not going to abide in God forever. At that point, they brought themselves into a state of misery and sin. So that's that was the moment of the fall. That's what we understand to be what the fall of man was. But the third point is the results of the fall. We see this in verses 7 and then verse. uh yeah seven and then uh ten to eleven that what happened after the fall is that they had a knowledge they they were not supposed to be yet privy to God may have been pleased to disclose it in time, but they only came by that knowledge by disobeying God. It was a forbidden knowledge to them under the authority of God. And so what did they do? They sinned, and all of a sudden that knowledge became known to them in some measure. And all of a sudden they realized they were naked. Up to that point they didn't know it. But because they had eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, which was forbidden to them, now they knew they were naked. And what did they react? They sow fig leaves together and made for themselves loincloths. They try to remedy the guilt of their sin, to cover up their nakedness. That God to that point has said there was nothing wrong with that. In verses ten and eleven, we see what happens when God's presence comes. And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? That all of a sudden their sin was discovered and uncovered. It was always there before God. They should not have known that they were naked. And yet they themselves try to cover their sin? It's reminiscent of David when he committed adultery with Bathsheba, and oh lo and behold, she's pregnant. I've got to cover it. I gotta eradicate Uriah, her husband. And he goes to great lengths to try to cover his sin. And in God's providence, he succeeds. Have Uriah killed. And yet it was all before the eyes of God. And it was displeasing to God. And the Nathan prophet would come to him and confront him with his sin. And David did an amazing thing, which many people don't often do, and it says, I sinned. He acknowledged it. No, no, no spin, no excusing like Adam and Eve. Simply, I sinned. Nathan says your sin is covered. But see, once sin goes, you don't know what's going to happen. It can escalate. You never know what the end result is going to be. A small sin may lead on to greater. Greater sin and greater guilt and greater death. And yet we see this that they they had a knowledge they shouldn't have had. Not only that, they also had self-guilt-ridden alienation from God. They were meant to walk with God in the garden. They were meant to have fellowship with God. That's what we've been created for. That's the great privilege that Adam and Eve had before the fall is to walk God. This has been driven home to me in a big way recently over realizing what is like the primary gift. Of Christ's finished work. Be with Him in glory forever and have fellowship with Him without any sin, without any temptation. That we will continue to serve Him in everlasting blessedness. But that as we come to Christ now, that begins. We start to enjoy that even now. That we can have fellowship with him. Walk with him all the time during the day. You know, when it says pray without ceasing, it's like in a conversation with the Lord all throughout the day, just like Jesus did. In his earthly ministry, he always had this constant contact with the Father until the cross. When there was a blackout. And so this is where the most significant loss of peace occurred. To not have peace with your maker. Is the worst thing that could ever happen. And what it does is brings alienation, which If God doesn't do something, it would be for all eternity. And in all eternity, without all the blessings of this world, that those who perish Will endure the wrath of God for all eternity, the alienation from the one who made them for his purpose. Without any hope of change, without any hope of redemption. You see, even in creation we were made for Christ. We were made by God through Christ. John 1. 3 says, as Tom read earlier, all things were made through him. And without him was not anything that was made. Nothing. That's a very humbling verse. It makes you realize, oh, I'm just I'm just a creature. I'm just a creature. You know, I'm not I'm not Steve Mr. Autonomy. I'm a creature made by God for God and to live life only in communion with Him. See, that's why the cultural mandate gets distorted at the fall. Because the cultural mandate was to be fulfilled in communion with God. Not without communion with God. It still goes on in some form, but it's distorted. It's not enjoyed. It's not as profitable as it could be. Colossians 1. 16 makes it even clearer. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth. visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. That's our orientation. We were created for Christ, even before the fall. So that in all mankind, there's only two categories. There are those who are still at odds with their Primary purpose in life, to glorify God and to enjoy Him. Or those who, by the grace of God, have now been reunited through Christ. The one through whom they were created now are redeemed through him also and reconciled with God for all eternity. And so when we look at the world and we see the problems of the world, it all goes back to that. It all goes back to the fall. That's why the study of the fall is so important. There's implications to still come out. We can read it, we can memorize it, but it'll take all of our lives and maybe all of eternity to understand the significance of it. The implications of it. There's no surprise when we turn on the radio and we hear all the horrible, horrible things that happen. Within the first generation of the fall, a brother kills a brother. What a sad situation. You know, one of the I know holiday times or Christmas times can be really hard. In some situations, they're better in others. There's family relationships that are estranged or there's stress. But hopefully not one of one of them killing the other. But right from the start, just entered the world. And became a part of nor normalcy, at least the the uh the brokenness of relationships And then the fourth point I have here is the perfect harmony of peace within human relationships, even marriage was lost. And I mean that by perfect harmony. Marriage is is is a great gift from God. You know, I'm coming up on my 44th anniversary. You know, I don't you some of you know this, but you know, Glenn and Betty Connect used to attend here. I think they were married for at least 70 years And if you know, uh one of their uh daughters was married to uh Tommy Myers, and his parents were married for 70 years. I don't know how many times you ever find anybody who's lit has been married for 70 years. But I will say this as I the longer my marriage goes on, I think, what a great gift. As God sanctifies it by his word and spirit. I think, I can't believe how kind God is. My wife is my best friend, and I have some really good friends, even in this room. My wife's number one. And just to think about that was God's idea. That was God's idea. And yet, because of the fall, it gets distorted, it gets mocked. And the good gift that God has given has been at times brought to nothing. And so this is very important. This is foundational for us understanding the world. That the fall is universal. The implications are still being experienced in the world and only turned around and only solved in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you woulds, you have a Trinity Hymnal in front of you. And I want to give you the cliff notes. of what happened at the fall and what God's plan is. If you could turn to page eight hundred and seventy in your Trinity hymnal. And if it's okay with the elders and If I could read the question and we'll read the the answer in unison, if that's okay. I'll read the question and we're going to start with question number 15 and we'll read the answer together in unison. So page 870, beginning with verse 15, is pretty much a summary as we go through of what I've just said. Question 15. What was the sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created The sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created was their eating the forbidden fruit. Question 16. Did all mankind fall in Adam's transgression? But the only team made with a hand, I will move on to that work in our spirit. All in mind, whatever you can And that question answers and demonstrates the universality of the fall. From the beginning of mankind and the fall until Christ returns. Question 17. Into what estate did the fall man bring mankind? But the all God is Question 18. Where consists the sinfulness of that estate whereinto man fell? The same for everything Question 19. What is the misery of that estate wherein to man fell? Oh may I hear all meeting our undersea If we stop right there, that's all a man can do. It's all over. There is no hope. Man has no way to redeem himself. His only hope is if God would do something on his behalf. So let's keep reading. Question number 20. Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery? Get it in here to grace to deliver them up to save territory and bring them to Question twenty-one. Who is the Redeemer of God's elect? Christ, who being eternal God, the Amen, and so we are That is what God has done. That is why the Advent and the Second Advent are so significant. That God did what we could not do. Uh Tom mentioned the Nicene Creed. We were we we recited it earlier. Just providentially, we my wife and I were in a study this past week and we went over some of the heresies that were a part of why the Nicene Creek came into being. And uh And we got to a certain place and the man who's leading the study is a very wise uh seminary professor. And he says at some point you can't go any further. It's a mystery. You know, God has shed light and we were to go as far as God's light goes, but at at some point you have to stop and just marvel. We can't even say all the things, all the the the depth of what Christ has done for us on behalf of us. The penalty he bore for us, the perfect life that he lived, that substitutionary atonement. You know, the the the matter of Jesus' cry of dereliction on the cross, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That's a hard thing for us to wrap our minds around. It's hard for us to do it emotionally. But what I've understood recently is that the father loved the son, and the son loved the father perfectly. And because of that eternal agreement that was made before the foundation of the world, the son had to endure something he had never done. He had never done it merely as the word. He always had perfect unity and fellowship with his father. And yet at the cross, in obedience to the Father for the sake of sinners, he would have a blackout as the God-man. He was no longer just the word. Now he was the God man, representing mankind as the second and last Adam. And as much as the horror of facing all eternity that was due to his people in dereliction because their main purpose could never be accomplished in hell. He bore that wrath on himself. And that's why he would sweat great drops of blood in the garden. He took it for his people. He took it for us as we are in Christ. But I think there's another side to that coin is that he loved the Father so much. And the Father loved him. And it was like, I don't want to be separated from you. I don't want to be separated from fellowship with you. You are my chief delight. You and the Holy Spirit are wonderful bond. You know, at some point the Lord will take myself or my wife. And that will be a sad day. It'll be temporary because we're in Christ. But it will be a sad day I enjoy any time I can get with my wife. I'm so grateful for our retirements. And we get to serve the Lord together. But to think of the there's there's there's frailty in our relationship. There's sin in our relationship. It's wonderful, but it's not what it ought to be. It won't be until glory. But not with the Father and the Son. Perfect unity, perfect love. And so, but for our sake, he took on human flesh, even death on the cross. In obedience to the Father. Because they'd already agreed. He didn't know what it would be like, but he anticipated it in the garden. He saw what it might be. And that is what he's done for us. John 3, 16 to 18, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. That light that was lost at the fall. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. The world was already under his condemnation. But in order that he might, the world might be saved through him, whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed. Just like Eve in the garden, has not believed in the name of the only Son of God, has not embraced Jesus as the only Savior of the world. That God is truthfully, honestly putting his son out there to the world. You may be saved in him. Believe in him, you shall be saved. And the letter to the Hebrews 13. 8 says that Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And that's not just to say that he's eternal, but it's to say the saving power that was in Jesus When he came into the world is still present today. He is still the savior, the only savior of the world. And so that's why we offer him. That's why we meet every Sunday. That's why we want to support missionaries, because there is no one under heaven to be saved except for Jesus. And so by God's grace, we, as we have come to have faith in Christ, that is, we've been reconciled. We're growing in our understanding of that. That wonderful, glorious thing that we have in Christ now. That we can have fellowship with God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit more and more. That our lives can be filled with the presence of Christ all the time. So that when somebody meets you, in a sense they're meeting Christ, and they're meeting the Father, and they're meeting the Holy Spirit. I think I was on vacation with one of my daughters and I was looking to get online and says my daughter my daughter Mary says Mary's hotspots. Where you can connect into somebody and you can have access. There's a sense in a real sense that where we go, as we are united to Christ, we are Christ's hotspots We're known. We have the aroma of Christ. People may hate us because some people hate Christ. Some people will be drawn to us and say, Why are you like that? Well, I I don't understand. You're different. There's something different about you. But that's your that's our glorious calling as we leave here today and we go out into the week until the Lord returns. And if there be any to hear my voice, this offer is still present until Christ returns. And then it's too late. The day of salvation is past. Now just a word of encouragement and commendation. I looked at your website last night. I was kind of curious what was on your website. And I saw this quote, we are committed foremost to a living person. Jesus Christ. The firstborn from the dead. What a great way to think about your church. That's what you're about. You're about Jesus Christ. Firstborn risen from the dead, the Savior of all the world. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, as we Consider what you have done for us in Christ. We are like Moses approaching the burning bush. It's hard to comprehend. He's seen bushes before. He's seen them burn before and they're consumed. But not this bush. And he's warned, take off your shoes. This is holy ground. And Father, every time we consider what you have done for us in Christ, it is holy ground. It is glorious ground. It is wonderful ground. We ask that by your Spirit, the substance of what He has done would continue to grow in us And we ask, Father, that we would not be ashamed of that name, the name of Jesus. But that in whatever circumstances you place us, that we might open our lips and speak of our wonderful Savior. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.