We are continuing our study of Ruth. And we are in our second sermon this morning. If you have not opened uh your Bibles, or perhaps if you're using the uh the journals. Would you please do so now as we will be going through Ruth chapter 1, verses 6 through 18 this morning. Would you please all rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Hear now the word of God. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab. for she had heard in the fields of Moab that the Lord had visited his people and given them food. So she set out from the place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. But Naomi said to her, Two daughters-in-law, Go, return, each of you, to her mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept And they said to her, No, we will return with you to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters. Why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb, that there may become your husbands? Turn back, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night, and should bear sons, would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my daughters, for it is exceedingly bitter to me, for your sake, that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpha kissed her mother-in-law. But Ruth clung to her. And she said, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said, Do not urge me to leave you, or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die. And there will I be buried. May the Lord do so to me, and more also if anything but death parts me from you. And when Naomi saw she was determined to go with her, she said, No more. This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would help us to understand and help us to apply the precious words from the Word of God. Help us to see Christ. Help us to emulate Christ. And we ask this all for the glory of God. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So this morning we return back to the story of the book of Ruth with all is now lost. Having been informed of the great loss that Naomi, as well as her daughters-in-law, experienced, our author informs us that there are now plans to return home. After more than a decade, Naomi has decided to return. Why now? Well, the text tells us that while she was in the fields, presumably working, She had heard that the harvest was plentiful in Judea. The text tells us that the Lord had visited his people and given them food. Doesn't mean that the Lord literally came down from heaven and miraculously fed his people. What this means is that God was gracious to his people and he gave them what they needed most, rain, the necessary amount for a bountiful harvest. So bountiful that word had gotten all the way to Moab that the Israelites are experiencing a great harvest. When you read through Ruth, one of the things that stands out in comparison to most other books within the Bible is that there are no prophets prophesying There are no visions and there are no dreams with wherein God speaks directly to his people. It does contain, though, several references to him. And we find in our text this morning one of those references made to God. And it is using a word, visit, that communicates God coming to bless his people. You see, the word to visit is used, for example, right in the next book in the canon in 1 Samuel, where we see God visiting Hannah and blessing her with Samuel. The crediting of this event, this covenant blessing of God, is part of a broader understanding of the doctrine of providence. Which means that, in shorthand form, all things that come to pass are part of God's divine decree, his will. All things that come to pass. Now, this does not take away our free will, nor our responsibility for our sins. But rather, God even uses our sins to accomplish his goal. In summary, Providence states that although we do what we wish, In some mysterious way in the power of God, it ends up being in accordance with God's decretive will. We ourselves need to be reminded that all things that come to pass in our lives is God's will. The thing that we personally experience, the events that go on in the world, not all things that occur in the world obviously affect us immediately or on the same level What I mean is that, for example, we hear of a tornado that touches down in Kansas. It doesn't really affect us immediately, and it doesn't affect us as as much as it does those living in that community. But we can say that it is the providence of God. Let's look at two passages very quickly that help really bring this up. The first one is from Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 11. Where we read, in him also have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined, according to the purpose of him who works All things in accordance with the plan of his will. Now, secondly, some of you may already be thinking, well, what about like tragedies and and difficult things that we see in life? For example, the tornado I just mentioned a moment ago. Isaiah 45, 5 through 7 addresses this as well. I'll read that for us. So that people may know from the rising to the setting of the sun that there is no one besides me. I am the Lord, and there is no one else, the one forming light and creating darkness. And here it is, causing well-being and creating disaster. I am the Lord who does all these things. Whether it is a blessing in as in a bumper crop in the passage, or it's tragedy as in her son's death. God has a purpose for all things, and all things occur in accordance with His perfect will Now here's the tricky part. We want to understand things and attribute purpose behind God's actions in and through our understanding of providence. Last week, we concluded that one of the purposes of famine in the life of Elimelech's family was to get them to Moab. Elimeleph moved because it was his choice. He made it based upon his reasoning. Now I said tricky just a moment ago, because we wanted what we want to do is to make sense of God's will in and through providence I think most often, so often, that we can figure out what we should do next in life That's what we're trying to figure out. Sort of understanding his trajectory and get out ahead of it. And I mean it for good purposes, right? One of the reasons I said tricky is that when we think we kind of got an idea and we figured it out and it doesn't happen the way we think. We can become sorrowful, we can become downcast, and sometimes we can feel guilty because we think that we failed God. Now listen, because this is very important. The doctrine of providence does not state that it comes with a decoder ring. And neither does it say that we are to use providence to discern God's will. In fact, the Bible says the things that are revealed by God in Scripture are for us and for our children. But the secret things of God belong to God. We can't apply reason. We shouldn't allow our emotions to conclude. Why God has done what He has done, unless we have a decodery. Would you please raise your hand if you have a decodering? Okay, I'm not seeing anybody raise their hands just yet. What was just about to. We put it back down. Let me tell you, I don't have a decodery. Let me give you an example how we do this. When I led a singles ministry back in South Florida, there were times when singles came to me and shared excitedly. That God brought a man or a woman into that person's life that week. And they were excited because they quote unquote hit it off. And they thought he or she was the one. Only to hear a couple of weeks later, and sometimes months later, that that was not the case. We just don't know why God does the things that we experience when we experience them. Now, we do have in Scripture where God, the Holy Spirit, tells us why God does things That is, he gives us reasons as to why. An example of that is from the Gospel of John, chapter 9, verses 1 through 3. I'll read it very quickly for us. As Jesus passed by, he saw a man who had been blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents, that he would be born blind. Jesus answered, It was neither that this man sinned, nor his parents But it was so that the works of God might be displayed in him. So here's an example really of us. Just like the disciples, right? Those that understood providence, we want to ascribe purpose to events. Jesus said it wasn't due to anyone's sin. He is able to say this because he is God. He can tell us the will of God. But if he hadn't revealed it, God's people would have and did ascribe sin and God's punishment upon them as the reason for his blindness. We must be careful not to do that. I mean to make a one-to-one correlation in the circumstances of life Whether good or evil. Sometimes God uses difficult circumstances in our lives to move us, to get us to where He wants us next. And without those difficult circumstances, we may have never moved. As we shall see much later in this book, he did exactly that in Elimelech's life. The famine was severe in the land, as we read This caused Elimelech to move to Moab to survive. Can you imagine that he would have done that if it wasn't for the famine? If if there was plenty in Bethlehem, do you think that this uh Jewish believer would have moved to Moab? No. And so the journey begins. They set out to the land of Judah. It's here in verse 9 that we actually hear Naomi's first words. And this launches a conversation between the three women. As they set out, Naomi instructs her daughters, daughters-in-law, to return to their homes. And Naomi invokes May the Lord deal with you kindly. Now many scholars describe this as a kind of a wish. Or a petition to God for those who are departing under adverse circumstances And secondly, it was also used as a technical way of putting an end to a relationship. And so that may be her way of saying in common language. I wish you well. It has been good to make your acquaintance. Naomi is setting them free, free from any social or familial responsibility to her. I do find it interesting that she wishes them well and invokes the name of the God of Israel. She doesn't say something like, May your Moabite god, Chemesh, care for you. She invokes the name of the monotheistic God of Israel. I think that we as Christians struggle when in broader society with that that the Bible describes All other gods, small g, other than the God of the Bible, as false gods. Our society seems to think, including liberal mainline denominations, That this is an offensive belief and it should be avoided or abandoned. I would think that to hold such a position for a Christian would require. Breaking a couple of commandments. I have in mind the first table, such as idolatry and blasphemy However, as it relates to the main theme of the book of, or one of the main themes of the book of Ruth, this is the first time we see it clearly. The blessings and sovereign guidance of God in the midst of turmoil and tragedy The blessings and sovereign guidance of God in the midst of turmoil and tragedy. God was known for his covenantal loyalty, compassion, reliability, and kindness Naomi invokes God's name and asks that he may do to them in the same measure that they did for her family. May he do to you as you have done to me and to the dead. Their acts of kindness to her really stands out. You see, by coming with her, they have risked forfeiting their own happiness to provide for Naomi and not abandoning her. This is the great self-sacrifice that is demonstrated by these women, is it not? Let me make an observation here. That they are treating her with such great love. And this must reflect something about Naomi's character and the way that she treated them over the years. A less loving, a less kind, stern, and toxic personality would not have stirred these women to return with her. to her own country. Naomi continues in her wish to the girls She wishes that they may find rest in the homes of their new husbands. This rest intimates a settled security. That they may settle down after a wandering or a movement. See, this same word rest is used for when the Ark was on its way to Jerusalem from Philistine captivity, it came to rest. It is also a synonym for the promised land. That is where we are to find rest. And in some usages, it means relief from one's enemy. She's praying, after years of bereavement, that God would guide these girls to new marriages and to have them move forward with their lives. As if to give it a signature of finality, she gives the girls a final kiss It is a tender separation, a difficult one, that represents yet even more loss for her. But this too is selflessness on Naomi's part. The years of being together and creating close bonds causes yet a groundswell of tears. This is a final goodbye. They will never see one another again. And they know this. Although this is painful, Naomi thinks this is best. She places them into the care of Yahweh as she makes her way back home But the young widows respond with protest, not wanting to leave her side. They proclaim that they will accompany her and go with her. Now in verses 11 and 13, Naomi makes another attempt. And as she does Well, I think that we can begin to detect some satire within her language. She tells them, turn back. Why would you? Why should you go back with me? I cannot give you husbands. In her response, I think. That it reveals how she feels about things. It's beginning to surface. Maybe you can detect an undertone of complaint. Her statements are evidence to her understanding of the doctrine of providence. God's involvement and accountability for her horrible situation. However, it gives us an insight into her own interpretation of God's working in her life. You know, that decodering. Am I able to have children? Am I able to start all over again? Am I not old and unmarryable? Am I not past my childbearing years? A reference to the womb is something like her for insides, her her guts So a way to interpret this is something like, does it look like I have more sons inside of me to provide for you? In some, her womb provided husbands for them. But this time there is no hope. And her wish is that they find husbands and settle down and live in peace and joy. What Naomi is saying is that to follow her would be foolishness on their part. Did they really expect her to remarry so that she would provide them husbands This in reality is giving us insight into the recognition of her despair. Isn't it? She's going to live out her last years without children, to care for, and she will be alone. Then she turns to a hypothetical question. If, there's the hypothetical She were to marry and have perhaps several sons, would they wait for the boys to become men so that they could have children? She is discouraging the girls to hitching their futures with hers. No, go back, my daughters. There is no hope for a future for me. And she would have added, I have no hope. So the sum of her argument is something like, why? Pass up the opportunity to marry now for a future possibility that, by the way, is impossible And now we clearly see in verse 13 the conclusion that she has drawn regarding the providence she has experienced in her life. This is the first time that she articulates in her own words her internal estate. Bitterness, sorrow, and lament It is bitter for me. Life is bitter for me. You ever feel like that She finishes expressing her pain. There is an indictment. There is an indictment of God Indeed, Yahweh's own hand has attacked me. The hand of the Lord is against me. In Naomi's eyes, from her perspective, she uses language as if Yahweh has attacked her as an enemy. I'm much too bitter for you is a real good translation as she says this. You see, she has a proper theology in that God is sovereign. Where it falls apart for her is that she perceives that God is attacking her. Disciplining her without cost. But you see, she doesn't have the full picture. How God has used her, how God is using her. What God is doing in her life to bring about salvation. She is in her pain. And being in her pain, that is all she sees I have heard it say, said, the afflictions we experience in life is nothing in comparison to what we deserve. And they are nothing compared to the good we have received in Christ and will receive. Naomi can't see this. She doesn't want to hear that. Doesn't this kind of describe us when we're experiencing pain in our lives? You know, I think that we are really good, really, really good. At asking, why? Why, Lord? But I think that this is a thinly veiled question, isn't it? It's really I don't think that I deserve this affliction in life. Why are you making this come about? Why are you unfairly afflicting me? When we are in pain, all we think about is ourselves. All she saw, all she was focused upon was famine, death of her husband and her children. And with that are gone her future and her joy All she could see was the pain, and it hath made her bitter. Her argument and her confession leads to crying yet again. And perhaps this is an indication that there is some agreement with her. And we see that this is the case. Orpha kisses her mother-in-law and heads home. Ruth, however, makes a stern statement. Don't try to pressure me to not follow you. And she uses the language Of a person who has trusted in the promises of God. This is a redeemed person. Ruth finishes with an oath that they will never be parted. I will be with you. I am not leaving you. This language is covenantal language that she uses, is it not? I will be your God and you shall be my people. This woman understands what it means to follow God She is forsaking her old ways. She is saying, I am following God and his ways. This is a profession of faith. Whatever may come in the future, whether I am accepted by your people or not, I am no longer of the world. I follow the one true God. I want to be with the people of God. In fact, verse 17, she invokes the covenant name of God. May the Lord do so to me and more if I don't keep my word. So let's stop all the talking and let's get walking. We don't really have a record of Naomi saying anything to this. But we are told that she said, No more. In effect, she said, Okay. Amen. So as we look back at this, we see Orpha was coming along, but she turned back. She returned to the world. She returned to the life that she knew. This was too much for her. This kind of reminds us, doesn't it, of the Lord's teaching of the parable of the soils? Orpha showed some evidence of salvation But ultimately, the hardships were too much. She counted the cost. Question. Hypothetical question. If I or someone else told you within the church to go back to the world, would you consider it Would that be an easy decision for you? Would you look at all the difficulties that you're experiencing even now and what may be ahead of you and say, yeah, this is just way too much. I didn't sign up for this. This is not for me. I'm going back. Would you be like Oprah, Orpha. See, I made the mistake. If this is you I encourage you to consider yet again the offer of Christ, the forgiveness of sins. Do not be short-sighted Don't be myupic on the pain that you are currently experiencing. You don't know what God will do with your afflictions. And the sorrow that it causes in your heart. We have to be careful not to make it about us. Instead, be like the apostles. Many were leaving Jesus and going back because they simply didn't like what he was teaching. John chapter 6. No, the disciples were not short sight. They knew what the long-term consequences were to turn away from the Messiah. When Jesus asked, So, are you going to leave me also? See what their response was. Where are we going to go? You have the words of life. Remember that Jesus has the words of life. Or are you like Ruth? Are you determined to follow God? We should be able to say like her, as she said to Naomi to one another, as the people of God. And we can add to that, living now post-the cross, and we are all raised in Christ. So we are to set our eyes on things above, where the Lord is seated at the right hand of God. Or are you like Naomi today? You know and believe that God is sovereign and that he brings about all things, and yet you are bitter. There's a difference between bitterness and experiencing sorrow. It's normal to experience sorrow at loss, at catastrophes. There's nothing wrong with that. But bitterness says, it's not fair. I don't deserve this. I've been picked on unfairly. And this has gone on way too long. You know, this is what I think this is what is a good summation of bitterness When one understands the doctrine of providence and his sovereignty Here it is. God has not been good to me. God has not been good to me. This is when you understand providence and you're bitter. This is what we say. Without saying it. Because we don't want to be heard saying it. Because when we look at the cross, We all know, we all know it's not true. This is because we think highly of ourselves And we want to make it about our story. And we have to be reminded that it's about God's story. This is not about Naomi's story. It's about God's story and how He is bringing about salvation, even using. difficult, sorrowful circumstances. God does work in mysterious ways. He really does. I'm sure that you've heard this. In fact, I want you all to turn to hymn 128 in your Trinity Hymnals. I want to refer To verses four, five, and six, which I'll read for us. See if you can catch on here. That's hymn number 128. God moves in a mysterious way is the title of the hymn. I'm beginning with verse 4. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence He hides a smiling face. His purpose will ripen fast, unfolding every hour, The bud may have a bitter taste. But sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err, and scan his work in vain God in his own interpreter, and he will make it plain. We must trust in God. There is mystery in God's work that we cannot understand. We must look unto God and follow him. We must not become bitter at him. Even in our belief, as Naomi was a believer, we can be fixated on the bitter bud. Instead of the sweetness that is the flower. Are you Christian? Fixated on the bud. Let's continue to trust in the Lord. And our Redeemer. Let us continue our push together towards Bethlehem. Where we will find our Redeemer, who is also waiting with open arms for us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And we thank you for your providence. Grant us grace to look beyond the bud and see the flower and how sweet your plan is for us. And we thank you that you have already shown us that wonderful flower. It is the salvation that we have through your Son. And we ask that if there are any here today that don't know your son, that have not seen the sweetness of your son, that today would be the day that you would open their eyes. And we ask this in Jesus' name Amen.