Catching up uh with each of you in the days ahead. So it's been many weeks now since uh we were in the book of Acts uh together. And this morning we're going to read a little bit of Acts chapter 2, which we read in totality sometime in the past. And I want to just set the stage before I invite you to stand to hear just a few portions from Acts chapter 2. Luke gives us a picture of the last moments of Jesus with his followers in those forty days after uh the resurrection. Uh Jesus told them to remain in Jerusalem until uh the promise of the Father was fulfilled in the coming of the Holy Spirit And then Jesus gave them this promise this way. He said, But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria to the ends of the earth. And so the church gathered for the uh ten days and prayed. earnestly in a a united way for God to fulfill this ancient uh promise and to send the Spirit. And of course that uh comes on the day of Pentecost. So if you please uh stand. We're going to read three short portions from chapter 2, beginning in verse 1. And when the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all gathered together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were See the sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues. as the Spirit gave them utterance. And then in verse 14, but Peter standing with the eleven lifted up his voice and addressed them. Men of Judah and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words, for these people are not drunk as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And in the last days it shall be, God declares that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams, and even all my male servants and female servants. In those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesy. Peter goes on to preach a message, and in verse 37. We see uh the response uh to it. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to their hearts and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized. And there were added that day about 3,000 souls. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. and the fellowship and the breaking of bread and the prayers, and all came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common, and they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts. Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number by day those who were being saved. O Lord Jesus, may you be pleased to add your blessing through your Holy Spirit to these the words of your Holy Scripture, for we pray in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Paradise What comes to your minds when you think of paradise? I have some friends in Atlanta who painted on uh the wall that they viewed uh in their uh bedroom every morning, their vision of paradise. It was a tropical uh beach that was painted on that. That's what they wanted to see first thing in the morning. I have other friends uh for whom uh being in Montana beholding snow-covered mountains before shimmering like mountains abundant with game. That's their vision of paradise. And I still know other people whose idea of paradise is the small town that they grew up in, where everyone knew your name. The Bible speaks of paradise as a garden in its very beginning, a place of beauty, abundant resources. filled with potential waiting to be developed and it ends in a city. The heavenly Jerusalem The city of the living God. This is John's vision in Revelation. The city's portrayed as the bride of the Lamb made beautiful as the garden with the tree of life. This is a garden-like city where people dwell together. Crowds of people dwell together. in peace and joy. But for many people, the city is not their idea of paradise Now to be sure cities have their draw. Everything from impressive architecture to cultural events to shopping and dining and most importantly work. Cities offer jobs. But for many people, these benefits are overshadowed by poverty, crime, pollution, congestion, and hopelessness. At their worst, cities are dirty, dangerous, drug-ridden, and desperate places. And so it's not really surprising that we've romanticized the solitary life in the wild, far from the city. You can see that in our movies, in our stories. That's paradise. But the Bible, on the other hand, finds in the city the portrait of God's home that awaits us, a place of perfect safety. of sharing of justice and joy. In the scriptures, the wilderness symbolizes danger, struggling, testing and hardship. It's a place where you are alone without the protection of kin or community. away from uh where God Himself uh dwells. In other words, it's a picture of hell And behind the symbolism of the city and the wilderness, we are to see God's purposes for humanity, that we were made to dwell together with each other and with God. And here's the thing that really I want you to see this morning is that God intends that every church Be a preview of paradise, a heavenly and holy community But some of you may be thinking, you've got to be kidding, Pastor. Surely, after serving in the church for more than four decades, you know what the church is like, don't you? It's a place where people rub each other the wrong way. People can't admit their failings. More than a few are proud and stubborn, and they will as easily fight with you as to shake your hand. An honest assessment of the church is, well, it's not much like paradise What could make a church into the preview of paradise a foretaste of it that's so compelling that people would want to pay any price? And would be willing to experience any inconvenience to be a part of it. Well, it's seen here in our text. It is the transforming presence of the Holy Spirit. that changes us into a new people who relate to each other in a beautiful way. The book of Acts gives us a realistic picture of the early church. A healthy and growing church that is, in fact, flawed. Hypocrisy threatens its purity, and interpersonal friction mars its harmony But Luke intends here for us not to look back and say, those were the good old days. It would be nice if somehow we could experience those. That's long gone though. Now he wants us to see that this is a pattern for the presence. This is what the church looks like. when the church takes seriously all that the apostles teach. It's a portrait of what can happen When people are bound together by a belief of the gospel, they understand its implications and are experiencing its blessing. This is the pattern of the prevailing church that depends on the presence and activity of God to exist. And it's a pattern that can be renewed, revived, and realized in any church Now Luke wants us to see uh the connection of the promise of the coming of the Spirit. that Jesus reiterates, the prayer of the disciples there in chapter 1 and verse 14, and the coming of the Spirit and the creation of a new community. It's really important that we pull together what Luke has pulled together for us and not see this piecemeal and fragment it. And what we see is this That the Holy Spirit creates an empowered community, and the Holy Spirit creates a joyful community. Now, the creation of empowered community is in fact what Jesus is promising when he says, when the Spirit comes, you will receive power. What kind of power? Well, it's primarily the power to testify to Jesus, to speak about Jesus and what he has done. And Luke, well He's painted a picture, it's a portrait for us. And there are just various elements that make this up. And just as an artist uh creates a portrait with elements. Jesus makes this promise that they would have the Spirit empower them to witness in Acts 1. 8 In chapter 2, verse 4, we read this. The disciples are filled with the Spirit and begin to speak. And then verse 11, they begin to declare the wonders and the mighty acts of God in creating the world and in executing the plan of redemption. And then in verse 14, Peter stands up and he testifies to Jesus. And in verse 37, we're told the message came with such power That those who heard it were convinced of its truthfulness and convicted of their sin. So that 3,000 people turned to God. This promise power is the power to speak. It's the power to testify in the power of the Spirit. that people might respond to the gospel. Now I know many people think that the power here is primarily the power of miracles. And we'll say a little bit more about that next week. But you will notice that Luke tells us it's the apostles and not everyone. who is engaged in doing uh miracles and that these uh miracles testify uh as they did in the life of Jesus to the claims of Jesus. There is credentials They validate the message the apostles are bringing. The great miracle on the day of Pentecost is that 3,000 people respond to the gospel with repentance and faith. Now, there's another element in this portrait. Luke wants us to notice that Joel's prophecies fulfilled Every member of the new community is a prophet. And so we see all 120 of the disciples have tongues of fire resting upon them. And all of them speak in the diverse languages of the nations. We see all of them have the power to witness to Christ. And this is normative. This is not something extraordinary. This is what is to be true in every church of every Christ's follower. Now we will not all do this in the same way. Not all of us are given the power to testify in large groups, nor are all of us given the ability to persuasively reason. Nor are all empowered to think on their feet and engage in a dialogue, whether it be street preaching or in some other setting with people about the gospel. But every member of the community that the Holy Spirit creates, every member can testify to Him And that's because every member of this community has experienced the great act of salvation and is filled with the Holy Spirit. If you're a Christ's follower, are you prepared to testify to Jesus? Can you give a short summary of the gospel in under five minutes? Can you tell your story of what Jesus has done for you? Now most people actually need to work at that to do it well, to be sure that they don't leave out something that's important. But there's another factor in being prepared today. People have very short attention spans. And so you need to be able to tell your story not in 15 minutes or more. but in five or less, because that's about as much time as you're going to get with many people to share what Christ has done for you. You really need to be able to have both a long and a short version that's crafted well. This power To speak makes us bold. Peter boldly points out the culpability and guilt of the crowd, their part in the death of Jesus. Peter does a, well, he doesn't round off the sharp corners of the truth. However, boldness is not arrogance. It is instead a deep confidence in the truth of Christianity. Boldness is completely compatible with compassion for the pain and brokenness of life in a fallen world. And so Peter pleads with them to leave the corruption of their generation. The misery that comes with sin. And it's compatible with humility about our limited knowledge. We don't understand all the mysteries of life in a fallen world, and we cannot explain to people why it is that they have the specific s events of suffering that they experience uh in life. And it's humility about our ongoing need of a Savior as well. We don't testify to Jesus as those who say that people, once I was messed up like you. But now I've got it all together. That is not how we talk to people about the gospel. We will never outgrow our need for the Lord Jesus. This boldness is a freedom from the fear of man. This boldness enables us to get over the fear barrier that we feel in sharing the gospel with people we know. who may not like that, who in fact may treat us differently after we share the gospel. Boldness is not anger, and it doesn't necessarily have to be confrontational. It can be winsome instead of harsh. It doesn't have to be condemning in its manner of speech, even as it deals with the reality of sin and human rebellion. Boldness is a courage to witness and to press even hard questions in relationships. To speak at times with tears to people because we know that their rejection of the gospel has eternal consequences. And boldness is not defensive. It's open to hard questions. And it's willing to say, well, I don't know. I'll have to get back to you about that. One of the most fruitful practices of churches where people are intentionally bringing their non-Christian friends. uh to see worship and to hear the message of the gospel uh proclaimed is that the opportunity is given every week for people to dialogue with the pastor or other leaders about what was said. It's a that environment's an environment where it's safe and it's okay for people. to raise their questions, to voice their objections, to even express their deep unbelief about what they've heard that day. Of course it requires great confidence. for a church and its leadership to be willing to have such a meeting, not to feel threatened by it. But where it is done And where the pastor goes through the challenging experience of having such conversations on their feet, in time it bears fruit, and people come to know Christ. We must not miss the connection Luke wants us to see. That the power of the new community to testify from the description of the new community that's given in verse 42. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to the fellowship and the breaking of the bread and the prayers. Now, literally tens of thousands of sermons have been preached on that verse. And very often it has been done disconnected, removed from the context and the story in which Luke records for us here. And when that takes place, often what happens is the church largely or even exclusively thinks of itself in terms of these activities. And that's a serious error. And what happens as a result frequently is that in practice the church becomes inwardly focused, because what we're really about is doing these things. And it gets off mission. The prevailing church is an evangelizing uh church that testifies to Jesus. Its members are not hiding from the world. They're not huddled in the sheltered community. The prevailing church sees God acting and bringing conviction of sin and drawing grace. that results in conversions. And Luke emphasizes this in verse 47. And he will do this repeatedly throughout the book as he recounts the response to the gospel. The response often even numbers how many people respond to the gospel. He's forging the link. Between this new community and the conversion of outsiders. This link is so important for us to see. God's the great evangelist. It's the Holy Spirit who does the heavy lifting and turning people to Christ. We're not responsible to bring about someone's conversion. It's not up to us. It's not uh because of the persuasiveness of our words. uh or the manner in which we speak or how comprehensive uh we are or that we've nailed every last thing just so. No, God's the great evangelist, but we can't use that as an excuse to be silent. Or for our unwillingness to both look for and expect God to give us opportunities to testify. The prevailing church hungers to see God's saving power, and so it prays. It offers sustained corporate and private prayer for specific people. Urgently asking God to work. Persevering in those prayers, which sometimes are not answered in some short period of time. The prevailing church is willing to examine itself. And if it sees no one coming to Christ to take responsibility and own its part, and to ask hard questions. Among them, whether we've adapted our approach and methods to the people that God's placed in our Jerusalem Or have we really prioritized this? Is it really important to us? Or is it just something we say is important? Those are hard questions to ask. And face. The prevailing church is not only empowered to testify, but it powerfully attracts And this is so because the Holy Spirit creates a joyful community. And the new community attracts because of its joy. Verse 46, and day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts. praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day. those who were being saved. See that's the picture of the church being attractive. The joyfulness of this community was attractive to people. They saw a a kind of shared life. that was not a part of their experience. And they hungered for it the way you might when you pass the bakery and smell bread baking or perhaps a donut shop. And you smell that uh wonderful uh uh fragrance of fresh uh donuts. And so they were drawn uh to it And it is a welcoming joy. Verse 47 can be translated this way, having good will toward people. That means they were generous, gracious toward everyone. They were joyful and gracious. Now you have a model of graciousness that's hard to surpass, and Dr. Glenn Connect. And those of you who know him have been with him know that he exudes graciousness and joy. to a level that very, very few other people, at least in my experience, ever do. He is exactly what Luke is talking about here You see, they didn't bristle when an outsider came in who was skeptical or who had different values or different points of view. Note, this gracious attitude was a significant factor in the turning of many more people to Jesus. Verse 41. And so those who received the word were baptized, and they were added that day about 3,000 souls. Luke is making clear something that's been lost, at least in America, that when people personally and individually respond to the gospel, they are not left as individuals. They become part of a community. And as a part of that community, they did certain things together. It's not these activities that made them a community. No, it's their community was created by being united to Christ through the ministry of the Spirit. The Holy Spirit created this community. And everyone in this community was filled with God's indwelling presence. And so they experienced awe. Awe is a vivid awareness of the presence of God here. We do, as Mark said, often experience awe in the midst of nature. It's one of the most common places. But the awe here is not a natural awe. This is a supernatural awe. It's more than knowing about the character of God or the great acts of God. This is a sensible manifestation of God. In the Old Testament, we see it when the glory cloud appears at the consecration of the temple and the tabernacle. In the New Testament church, there is not a visible cloud. But that joy is present in the church and is actually seen in the emotional spiritual as well as intellectual engagement of the church in the act of worshiping the living God. This experience of being captivated by God and transformed in his presence resulted in their being devoted to each other. Their love for one another testified to the truth that in fact Jesus was who he claimed to be and accomplished our redemption. This message of the gospel that brought them into a relationship with Jesus is so precious to them that of course they devoted themselves. to the teaching of the apostles, who explain further what it is that Jesus had done for them. And so they had a fellowship in the truth of the gospel, and they wanted to deepen in their understanding of its implications. This message of forgiveness and being at peace with God and the gift of righteousness and being adopted by God awakened within them joy. And it awakened within them more joy. It awakened within them exceeding joy as they became alive and alive and alive again and again and again. to the wonders of the grace of the gospel. And they're devoted to each other in the fellowship. They spend time with each other. They eat together. They're in each other's Homes. They're glad to meet each other's needs. You see, they're really open to each other. There was no posturing, posing, hiding. Nobody was massaging their image, working on creating an identity on social uh media No, they shared true intimacy. They were honest about where they were in their journey, their weaknesses and their struggles. And so they freely shared their wealth. When they saw need in the community, because their hearts were open to each other, they had no trouble opening their pocketbooks. It wasn't imposed on them. It wasn't the end of the private ownership of property. It wasn't a communalism or communism. No, it was simply their hearts were open. and and generous as they saw a need in their new family. And they had joy in the presence of God, and so they worshiped both in large groups initially in the temple until they're forced out of the temple, and informally in people's homes in small groups. They were celebrating who Jesus was and what he had done. And they were devoted to prayer, for they had experienced the joy of prayer. In their praying together, their hearts became softer. The natural frictions between people melted. The irritation and unpleasantness dissipated They were quick to forgive, to overlook, to find new words of encouragement and affirmation for each other. And they received fresh answers to their prayers, fresh infillings of the Holy Spirit, new people being added to the church This is Luke's portrait of the prevailing church. It's a joyful community that testifies to Jesus and is attractive to outsiders. Yes, it's a community of learning that feeds on the gospel and submissive to its command. It's a community of love where people deeply love each other from the heart and a community of prayer where they gather together for extended times of corporate prayer. Now, this picture can be rather threatening. The power and the joy that we see here. And we can just withdraw from it, or we can hear what Luke's saying to us and believe that the gospel is true and that we can ask God to revive us and renew us so that this pattern of a prevailing church is the pattern of our church This came as the disciples prayed and asked for what God had promised. It was persistent, prevailing prayer, corporate, united prayer Constant, frequent prayer, prayer made in faith, with honest confession and bold requests And this pattern of prayer of the Holy Spirit coming and renewing the church has been the experience of the Church of Jesus Christ in the centuries since the day of Pentecost. Now in the mid uh uh 1990s I was privileged to go back to school And one of the assignments we had was to read everything that Dr. J. Edward Orr had written on the history of revivals He's the great 20th century historian of revivals, and uh my heart burned, just burned as I read uh what uh had happened in the I want to relate briefly two of those moments, of many, many hundreds of moments that Dr. War uh has uh has chronicled. In eighteen fifty, in the United States, the nation was in a very weak state spiritually. People were preoccupied with material things. Their concern was to get ahead and to have more. In 1857, a very quiet 46-year-old businessman named Jeremiah Landford felt moved. to start a prayer meeting uh in New York City in which peop business people could come together and pray. He made an announcement, somebody said, you can come and pray for a couple minutes or you can s you can uh stay for an hour just as long as you can. For the first 30 minutes in that first meeting he prayed alone But by the end of the hour, six other men from four denominational backgrounds had joined him. Twenty came the next week. 40 the week after that, and soon they decided to meet daily, and the group swelled to over a hundred. Pastors started morning prayer meetings in their own churches, and soon there were meetings being held all over America. Within six months, there were more than 10,000 meetings in the city of New York alone. The Holy Spirit had orchestrated this. No human being had orchestrated what took place. This became what historians called the Second Great Awakening. And during those three years from 1857 to 1859 Some two million people, it's estimated, came to first-time faith in Jesus Christ out of a population of 30 million people. Two million out of the 30 million people in America. And of course, the churches came alive In 1949, in the village of Barbas in the Hebrides Islands, off of Scotland, the parish minister, along with his church leaders, began to pray for revival. unknown uh uh to them. There were two sisters in that same village who were in their 80s. Their health was so poor they could not come to church and they began to pray. They claimed this promise as they prayed from Isaiah. I will pour out water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. On the other side of Barbas, knowing nothing about the other things that were taking place, were seven young men who decided to meet together in the evening three times a week in a barn. to pray for revival. They committed themselves to prayer in keeping with the words of Isaiah 62. I have posted watchmen on your walls, O Jerusalem. There will never be silent day or night. You who call in the Lord, give yourselves no rest, and give him no rest till he establishes Jerusalem and makes her the praise of the earth. As a result of all this prayer, God was pleased to pour out revival over the entire island, in which thousands of people came to know Christ. And thousands were stirred up into a vital relationship with Jesus Christ as a result. This passage that we've looked at this morning announces to us that this is possible in any church. in any age. It is God Himself who must do these things. But whenever God gets ready to do something great He starts his people in prayer. And Orad himself in all his studies of revival said, there was never one that ever came without God's people gathering for special prayer. Our church is in a very special season, a season of transition and preparation. Your transition team is about to get back to work after a much deserved rest. And I want to urge you, I want to challenge you, I want to challenge the transition team this morning to have special prayer in these next weeks. So you need a fresh vision as a church. You should not be content. to be a middle class American church. You know what it is to be middle class in America? It is to have a comfortable life. And then to keep working so it becomes more comfortable. And then get it a more comfortable still And for many, many churches in America, they have no aspiration, no spiritual aspiration besides being comfortable of gathering with people that you know and love. Doing things that are familiar. This is not the pattern of the prevailing church, friends. May God grant to you To the transition team, to your leaders, and to you as a congregation, a vision for the prevailing church. A church that testifies with power. And attracts because of its great joy. Let's pray together. Most gracious Heavenly Father, We come to you and as we hear these stories of your past works, your great works of power, Lord, we long for that in our day. Grant, Lord, that our longing, to our longing, would be added faith and persevering prayer, that we might see you work afresh. In our day, this year, in this congregation, we pray that your Spirit would be speaking to us and especially the transition team, that they might put into words. what you have for this church in its near future. For we ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen.