Please turn with me in your Bibles to uh Luke chapter eleven. Um the Lord in his graciousness has not given us one gospel, um not only one historical record of the life and ministry of Christ but for. And uh we've got the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Synoptic just means uh seen with the same eye. And um Matthew, Mark, and Luke are called that because they share much of the same uh material. And yet even in that unity, there's uh a diversity of emphasis. And we see in the book of Matthew that Christ as prophet is emphasized. And so we get those great passages of Christ's teaching, the Sermon on the Mount, the Olivet Discourse. We see in Mark Christ emphasized as king, and we get great displays of Christ's power. In the book of Luke, Luke emphasizes the compassion of Christ as a high priest. And of course, uh John takes up that great theme of the deity of Christ. And as we look at the book of Luke, um There are many unique things about this book. We might remember several passages from the beginning about the early life of Christ, passages that we often read during uh Christmas time about the Magi and the birth of Christ and the birth of John the Baptist. We think of the parable of the prodigal son, which is unique to the book of Luke. And tonight we'll look at a passage, the parable of the friend at midnight, which is also unique. And um let's look at that now. Um Luke chapter eleven, verses five through eight And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend? And go to him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has come to me on his journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within and say, Do not trouble me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give to you. I say to you, though he will not rise and give to him because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence he will rise and give him as many as he needs. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I do pray that you would open our eyes, that we might see the wonderful things in your law. And Lord, just as you have inspired men by your Holy Spirit to record the Holy Scriptures. And Lord, just as you have preserved and protected the Word of God through the administration of your church. So now, Lord, we pray that you would illumine our hearts and our minds, that we might see your will for our lives, that we might take heed, and Lord, that we might Understand who you are and what you would have us to do. Lord, we do pray all these things in the strong name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Teach us to pray. This was the request that the disciples gave to Christ. And Luke tells us at the beginning of the chapter that it was just after Christ had finished praying. That his disciples came to him and said, Lord, teach us to pray. This was not an unusual request. When they asked, they said it just as John taught his disciples how to pray. However, it must have been unique to see Christ, the God man, Christ, the second person of the Trinity, praying and submitting himself to God the Father. We can only imagine what uh his prayer was and the experience of seeing him pray. Well, Luke does not record that for us. But Christ, in response to the request, goes on to give him that model prayer, the Lord's Prayer, in which we get those great petitions and the great form of prayer. But Christ does not stop there. The parable of the Friend of Midnight is found directly after the Lord's Prayer in Luke's Gospel. And he shows them not only what to pray, not only the content and form, but how to pray. We should pray persistently. And the focus of this parable is that we should always pray with perseverance, with persistence. Because of God who because of God who God is, and because of what of what He has done for us. As we look at the passage, um I It can be divided into three main main sections. The first is in verses five and six. It says the need of the host. And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend, and go to him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has come to me on it on his journey, and I have nothing to set before him. Uh this parable has also been called the parable of the embarrassed host, because the host is in a situation where he is supposed to provide bread for this traveler who's going to stay with him, and he has nothing to give him. I think it's important to do a little uh say a word of of background about the sense of being a host in the Eastern culture. And we must remember that uh the Bible is is written in the context of Eastern culture and not Western culture. Whereas we might uh uh not be too concerned that that a friend if he had the gall to come to us at midnight would not um be well fed. Yet In the Eastern cultural context, being a host was a very important thing. And it was a as a matter of personal and family honor To care for the needs of um of strangers and travelers, even above one's own needs and the the needs of one's own family. We see this um In the book of Judges, where uh uh Samson's parents, not knowing that the angel of the Lord was an actual angel, thinking he was a man, begged him to stay for a meal. We see it. Abraham does a similar thing as the angels come to go to Sodom and Gomorrah. And we see Lot even begging the men to stay with him and to come into his house and to receive his hospitality. And uh even though Lot uh takes us to a sinful extreme by when the the men of Sodom and Gomorrah surround his house and he offers his daughters. Even though that was sinful and wrong, we see the zeal that Lot had and his um and his zeal for being a host. And so as the the friend of midnight, as we see that he has a great responsibility as a host, we we see that he also has a great need because he is not prepared. He does not have bread to set before his guests. And this is a matter not only of the comfort of the friend who is visiting with him, but his honor and his requirement in the Eastern culture as a host. But uh this need is exasperated by the late hour that it's not during the day. Uh he's not able to go out and harvest grain, both because of of the darkness and because of the time that that the friend has arrived and and it would take hours to go and cut grain and and grind it and make bread. But also the marketplaces are closed. Back in these days they didn't have the conveniences that we do to have stores open twenty-four hours. And there's no not only does he have a great need because he does not have it with him at the moment. He is unable to provide that sustenance. And so he has need to ask to change the situation. And as we look at the first section of the need of the host, we see the meaning is quite clear that we are that embarrassed host. From the grammar we see in verse five, when Christ introduces this, it says, And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend and go to him at midnight? That he's speaking to his hearers and to us as readers. And as we come to this parable to learn more about prayer, we must see that as we come to God in prayer, that we have a great need. That the thing that stirs us to pray, that motivates us and calls us to pray should be our great need that we have. Now there are many needs that that we have that would uh spur us on to pray. There's no greater greater need that we have but that of a Savior to cover our sins. And I would address this first need, especially to you covenant children, who have been in the church, who have heard the word preached, have heard the word taught. And yet we must realize that it's not it just in coming to church that saves us. That it's not just hearing the word preached. It's not basically being a good person or trying as hard as we can. It's not the faith of our parents or even our baptism that saves us from the sin that we daily build up. Children, do you realize when you disobey your parents that you disobey God Himself? And the Bible says the penalty for sin is death. And it's not just talking about dying, but it's talking about eternal death in hell. And all of us, as we come before God, we must acknowledge that we have need of a Savior, that we have all sinned, and that we need uh that righteousness, but we don't have it, and we are not able to produce it. Because we have fallen in Adam, that we have a lack of original righteousness, as the catechism says, and each day as we sin we store up wrath for ourselves. If you have not closed with God, if you have not come to Him, And we're aware of your sin and aware of your helplessness before Him, then you have need to come and ask for salvation in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. who has provided that righteousness, who gives to all who ask. And secondly, if uh if you do know Christ, beloved in the Lord Jesus Christ We still find that we have needs. Just as Christ is uh uh we've been called to a new life in Christ and the hope of everlasting life to come, we recognize that we still live in a fallen world, that we still struggle with our own sinfulness. And that we have a need of personal holiness. And so, as we would seek to be holy, as we would seek to obey God's word and thanksgiving for the great salvation that He has provided in Christ. You recognize that we do not have that personal holiness that we should, that we cannot in and of ourselves walk worthy of the calling that we have in Christ Jesus. And we have a need to go to God in Christ and ask. Finally, the Lord in his providence often brings difficult situations. Both within ourselves and without ourselves, that oftentimes test the limits of our strength, of our intellect, and of our endurance. And in those times when we realize that we have a great need, that we cannot in and of ourselves Survive these times, we cannot figure them out, that we're not strong enough to affect the situation. We have a need to come to God To submit ourselves to Him and to ask Him for that which we cannot provide. The second part of the parable begins in verse 7. And he will answer, that is the friend, from within and say, Do not trouble me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give to you. This uh in looking at the second part, it's it's a bit of a shock. It's as strong as the the the host recognizes his need and as boldly as he comes before his friend to ask, um, yet his friend rebuffs him. He says, do not trouble me. Go away. And he begins to give reasons. The door is locked. I'm in bed. My children are in bed with me. I cannot give to you. This last part is literally, I am unable to give to you. And As we look at the meaning behind us and and what this means as far as prayer, we must understand that the Bible is literature. Now, it is true literature, but it often uses literary devices. And this is one that is being used here. That's a comparison of the greater and the lesser. And in uh giving a picture of God, uh The parable gives the picture of man's ordinary response, a a very human response. Proverbs tells us that if you go and greet your friend in the morning, he will take it as a curse. How much more a request in the middle of the night? And uh as we look at the response of the friend, we see that uh that he is none too pleased And it can be best characterized by resistance and refusal to meet the needs of the host. And uh again, uh looking at it in literary terms, the uh the friend of midnight Is is God Himself. And yet God does not act this way. Though He could, though He has reason to tell us to go away. Though he has reason to give arguments and causes why he should not answer our requests, though he could say, I will not do it. He could flatly refuse, yet he doesn't. He doesn't. He beckons us to prayer. He invites us to pray. He commands us to pray in his word. He commands us to come before him with all sorts of petitions and all sorts of requests on all sorts of occasions. To pray constantly. He welcomes us. Secondly Not only does he welcome us, he doesn't give counter-arguments as the friends did or excuses. The door's locked. I'm in bed. My children are in bed. Yet God does not do this, but he gives us great promises in his word. That if we pray, that he will hear us. And if he hears us, we know that we have what we have asked of him. I think Romans 8, which is a wonderful promise in prayer, that God works all things to the good of those who love Him and are called according to His purpose God not only beckons us to prayer and gives great promises, but He is able. He is sovereign. The God who is all-knowing and all-present is also all-powerful. And he is good. He promises that he will not uh allow the righteous man to go hungry. He promises that he will never leave us and forsake us. He promises that he who began a good work in us will be faithful to complete it in Christ Jesus. And only God is powerful enough to keep those promises and to keep his word. So we see uh the need of the host, the the response of his friend, and there's a bit of tension as we reach this uh part in the parable that uh As the host comes before him, he's very bold. He doesn't ask for three loaves in the form of a question. It's a state stated demand. Give me three loaves. He gives his arguments. He's very bold just to come and knock on the guy's door at midnight. And yet his friend is resistant, saying, go away. Your excuses why I can't and I'm unable. And uh again, as we reach this point of tension, it's it's I think it's worth recognizing that this is a point of tension that we we often face in our life of prayer. That though we know that God gives us promises in His Word, though we know that He is able to hear and answer our prayers, yet So often, as we pray, we're discouraged. We lose hope because our circumstances seem to say that God has said, go away. Because God has seemed to say that there are reasons why I shouldn't answer your prayer and I'm not going to. There are re it seems that oftentimes that that God is saying that I am unwilling to answer your prayer. And yet we must look at the triumph of persistence as the resolution to this parable In verse 8, Christ interrupts the narrative of this story and says, I say to you, though he will not rise and give to him, because he is his friend. Yet, because of his persistence, he will rise and give him as many as he needs. This word persistence is a powerful word in the original languages. And it has the idea of shamelessness. And we've kind of seen little hints of that, you know, that that he has a lot of nerve knocking on this guy's door at midnight. And uh that he's is very bold with his friend. And even after his friend has refused and resisted his request, he continues to ask again and again. Because he knows that his friend has, and he knows that his friend will give to him. And If a sinful man will have love enough through persistence to give to him food Will not a sinless God, a perfect God, not get to us when we are persistent, to ask If a finite man is able to be overcome, will not an infinite God Give to those who ask. When he has commanded them, when he has given them great promises, will he not answer the prayers of his people through the promises of his word? Luke also gives another parable about persistence in prayer. It's the parable of the widow and the unjust judge. And he introduces it this way in Luke 18, verse 1. Then he spoke a parable to them, that men always ought to pray and not lose heart And so often as we pray and as we look at our circumstances, we we tend to do that. We tend to lose heart. We tend to become sporadic in our prayers. We tend to become slothful in our prayers. And yet, Calvin called prayer the exercise of faith. And as we come before God, Uh just as Calvin said, there are two types of knowledge, knowledge of man and knowledge of God, and that they are intertwined. So we need to come knowing our need, knowing ourselves. Come knowing God, knowing who He is and what He has promised. And we need to come frequently, persistently, shamelessly. I really think this is a great picture of meekness. I know you've heard the phrase meekness is not weakness. But here you really see the strength and the tenacity of meekness. This man is finished with himself. He doesn't care what happens to himself. He is focused on his need. He is done with himself. He is constant. And oftentimes where we are inconstant, where we might have a great desire to to pray one day, and we might be very forgetful in prayer the next day. He is focused on the weight of the matter. He has seen the importance of the matter, and he has placed it subservient to social conventions and on to the needs and cares of his friend. He is bold, unusually bold for this type of situation. And lastly, he's believing. He knows he is very confident and he he repeats his action. Uh certainly if he thought that uh his friend did not have what he needed, he would not bother going, or he would not r bother repeating his requests. And yet he continually, persistently, asked his friend. Let me ask you tonight, what is your great need? What is that situation that God has put you in that you have need to ask Him about? Fathers, as you manage your household, as you seek to be good husbands. And be a good father to your children. You have need. If so, come Come to God, who gives generously. Verse 8 is important to remember, and especially the last part. Because uh yet because of his persistence, he will rise and give him as many as his needs. Not just three loaves or four loaves, but as many as he needs. And as we come to God in prayer, as we pray through his word, as we pray, remembering his great promises and his great power. We must recognize that if we are persisting, he will give us as much as we need. Wise as you seek to be uh good wise to your husbands, as you seek to care for your family. If you find yourself at at your wit's end, when you find yourself in situations where you don't know how you're gonna make it through the day or through the week, or through the situations that God's called you to. See that you have a need to ask outside of yourselves. Come to God, remembering that He has promised, that He will hear you, and that you will have the answer to your request according to His will. Do you have a great sin that you are wrestling with in your life? Do you have a spiritual trial that you are undergoing? Paul, in writing to the Corinthians, describes a situation where he had a thorn in the flesh, and that he prayed three times for God to remove it. And yet God saw his true need and let it remain so that Paul might learn that God's grace is sufficient for him. So as we come and look at the parable of the friend at midnight, and we see the great need of the host, as we see The wonderful character of God, contrasted with a human response, to what the Bible tells us the character of God is. And as we see, this command to be persistent. To be shameless, to be meek in prayer, to be constant in prayer. Let us come before God, asking as He has commanded. That he might give us as much as we need to his glory and to our good. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the gift of prayer. And Lord, I pray that you might grant us your grace as we come before you, even this evening, Lord, that you would hear our many prayers. And Lord, that you would answer and that you would be well pleased, Lord, to give us as much as we need. And Lord, we know that you know all things. And Lord, we thank you so much for your promises that you work all things for the good of those who love you and are called according to your purpose. And Lord, we do pray that you might glorify yourself. That you might work as you have promised through the prayers of your people, even tonight, to your glory. In Christ's name. Amen.