I think there's a saying, well, at least I've heard this uh most of my life, uh that I think uh Pretty much all of you should be familiar with. There are two things that are sure in life. Death and taxes. Absolutely. Yes, I'm sure you've heard that over and over again. And um ever since I uh became employed, I certainly learned of the first one. And um and at some point in life I'll uh perhaps experience the second one if Jesus doesn't come back. I think as uh as Christians We would have no problem with that. These are sort of self-evident truths that we've experienced over and over again and annually. And so we should expect that. But as Christians, we would probably add more things to that list, right? We would say the Word of God. There's surety in that. We would say that the promises of God, that there's surety in that. But I think that we we certainly wouldn't have a problem with what this statement is basically about. As we get into the passage this morning, I think that we're going to discover that Peter is going to be talking about one of these two items Now, if you have suddenly thought to yourself, oh great, I put in for an extension and it's supposed to go in August. I'm going to get a sermon on taxes. today. Let me just say that you will be sorely disappointed. Although I am thinking though that uh maybe I should prepare one for April or right before April, I think there'd be a great deal of interest in that. But no, that's not the case. What we will discover is that Peter is talking about his death. is impending death. And so I think one of the things that we want to, or a couple of the things that we want to look at as we look at this passage or study this passage is to think about How is this beloved brother approaching this uh this reality in in life, which is the end of it? How is it that and what is it that he is concerned about? And what is it that we should be listening to? and obeying as we hear Peter um share with us about his imminent death, if you will. So would you please rise now and turn your Bibles to, if you haven't already, for the hearing of God's Word, which comes from 2 Peter 1, verses 12 through 15. 2 Peter 1, verses 12 through 15. Hear now the word of God. Therefore, I intend always to remind you of these qualities. Though you know them and are established in the truth that you have. I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to stir you up by way of reminder Since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon, as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me. And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these things. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer Holy Spirit, be with us now as we study the Word of God. Bring us in, have us encounter the Son of God. Help us to see Him. Help us to put into practice. what he has called us to do. May we learn, may we grow, may we glorify you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think it's interesting to note that Peter uses the word established, as in being established in your faith. Being firm in the truth of your faith. The reality is that as Christians, we can have a tendency to go astray in a variety of different ways For example, it could be just outright disobedience. Or it ends up in sin by allowing our ears to be tickled by things like heresy or false teachings. or perhaps allowing boredom to overwhelm us and wanting the truth presented in a manner that is exciting but ends up leading us to entertainment and not solid growth in the faith Each of these can affect us in negative ways, and thus the, if you will, establishing us in our faith. Peter is concerned that we be established in our faith. Yes? Even after we know the basics, the fundamentals of our faith. And even after we've been Christians for a long period of time, and think that we, mind you, think that we are well established. As we reflect upon Peter's own walk with the Lord, we may get a glimpse into why this is so important to him. In Luke chapter 22, verses 31 to 35, we read the Lord Jesus saying, Simon, Simon. Behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Peter said to him. Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and death. Jesus said, I tell you, Peter The rooster will not crow this day until you deny me three times that you know me. Here Peter was so certain of his faith, so established in his commitment to Christ. What I want to point out is that we must make a distinction between commitment, passion, for Christ, and possessing the proper knowledge. of Christ, the Bible, and what God ultimately requires of us in our walks with Him I think it's fair to say that at this point in his relationship to Christ, Peter was committed to following him. I think that's he had a legitimate heart to follow Christ. This was not some phony, baloney in the moment statement to appease the Lord. This is happening right before Peter pulls out a pocket knife, or shall I say, a in this case, a tunic knife. And cuts off one of the soldiers' ears. He simply believed in Jesus, but he had his theology on wrong. He expected Jesus to bring about the last era of biblical history all at once and didn't understand. Or maybe rejected having been told no less than three times that Jesus had to go and suffer and die. No, Peter was having none of that. And that impacted his understanding of Jesus and his mission. We can see how a man who believed that he himself was so established in his faith for the Lord at that time. Ultimately found himself failing abysmally I think that we can all look back at our lives. And the older our lives are, the more one can look back at. And consider failures, moral lapses on our parts Failure is certain, for none of us are perfect. In fact, the only thing that is in question is the severity of our failures. But I think what matters more is what we do with our failures. I think with Peter, it's clear that he understands. How one so close to Christ can think that they are established but yet need to be reminded, re-established. sometimes over and over again. What I think Peter reveals by what is in his heart is the fact that not only is it possible to fall into sin, to fall away from growing in Christ, to believe false or incomplete things about Christ that can cause one to hurt oneself and others. But Peter is also a man that has recognized, he's recognized it in his life and wants others to learn from it. What is your experience with this? Have you failed? Have you failed the Lord in such a manner? Have you drifted off? Are you drifting off now, today? Have you made an excuse for yourself? What I mean is an excuse to sin. In our evening studies, when I first came here, I taught a class on communicating biblically. One of the topics that we covered was a blind spot. Everyone has a blind spot. And the moment that anyone says, oh, I don't think I have a blind spot, one can end up at that moment in a heap of trouble. When we talked about blind spots, we mentioned that people that are trusted confidants, family members, spouses. Children, those who are in authority over us, are all good sources for us to ask and discover if we have blind spots. Because by definition, we don't see them, right? One of the other ways that we can discover blind spots is by failure. What is the one thing that we typically say when we experience failure? Man, I didn't see that coming. That's blind spot discovery language. Peter was confident Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and if needed, I will die for you. Of all people, someone is going to die for Jesus. Needing to die for Jesus. What was Peter's blind spot at that time? His pride. His pride would not allow him to see how powerful the enemy was. He underestimated the enemy and overestimated his own ability. What a great lesson. What a great spiritual lesson for all of us to learn or perhaps be reminded of. So Jesus said that he prayed for him, that he would not be devoured by the devil. However, he did say more, didn't he, in this passage. He said, and when you have turned again, strengthen your brethren. Strengthen your brothers. I think in those words, strengthen your brothers, those words really struck Peter to the core. And here we are in this passage. Now, reading about a man born in what was considered the backwaters. out-of-the-way Roman province, a place that only caused headaches for the empire. A fisherman who probably received very little education. Other than of course learning his trade, is catapulted to the status of a foundation stone for the kingdom of God. whose name is known by many human beings on this planet today, both Christian and non-Christian Wherein which a famous religious building is named after him in Europe. And yet we have to admit He was a failure at some point in his life. What did this man focus upon as he is about to die? Strengthen your brothers. What is it that we should focus upon Spiritually, as we get closer to the end. What is Peter's message to us as he has come closer to the end of his life? So in case anyone is wondering, how do we know that Peter thinks this Well, it's in the text itself. We see that in verse 14, right? Since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon. As our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me. Here, Peter tells his readers and us that he will be putting off the body. He will experience physical death, and he surmises that it will be relatively soon. It is well known that Peter was in Rome at the end of his life. And as far as persecutions go, they were in waves. And perhaps he saw that he was going to be affected by that tide. Whether the Lord spoke to him by revelation, direct revelation, or Peter is making mention of times Even when he was with them is frankly unclear. For example, the Lord said to Peter in John chapter 21, verses 18 and 19. Truly, truly, I say to you, speaking to Peter, that you were young and you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands. And another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. And then John puts in uh parentheses, if you will, his editor's note to help us understand what's going on here. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to Peter, follow me. I think I'm okay with either of these explanations as to how Peter was aware of his imminent death. But the fact is that he knows it, and this is noteworthy, because there were many in the first century that believed that Jesus would return to them in their own generation. In fact, the Thessalonians were quite concerned about what would happen to them if they had died before Jesus came back. You can do a study of the Book of Thessalonians and you'll see that's a major concern of theirs. So Peter knew that he would not be part of the generation of folks that would not experience physical death. the last generation. So what is it that he wants his legacy or concern for Christ's people to be? Well, verse 12 begins with, therefore, referring back to what he has already taught us. In Peter's desire, it is Peter's desire, that for as long as he has breath, he wants to remind the church, that's you and I. of the balance. He wants to remind us of the balance that we must have in our walks with God There must be a balance between grace and responsibility. There must be a balance between faith and works. They have their proper places. It is that we are saved by faith, not by works. But the faith that saves also evidences itself by works. The genuineness of faith vindicates itself by a changed life that produces works. So he called us to the qualities that the new life in Christ comes with. And they are faith, virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness godliness, brotherly affection, and love for God and neighbor This balance is achieved in the life of the believer by putting into practice these qualities into your daily life. When you do so, your profession of faith will bloom. Your relationship with God will flourish. This is a balance that not only is Peter concerned with for the church, but you can see it also in the writings of James and the Apostle Paul, can't you? So Christian, let me ask you, do you have that balance in your life? Is Christianity for you a one-day out-of-the-week thing? Is it something that you do perhaps five minutes a day or maybe even ten minutes a day Praying and reading the Bible every so often? Or is it just on Easter or Christmas? Peter is about to die, and he wants to remind us, as he has said, to make every effort to do these things. Christianity is not just sitting around and having the Holy Spirit drag us along. Yes, we are dependent upon him. There is no doubt about that. But we should be involved with asking for more grace. And when given, putting that into practice in our lives. Christian life that looks like it's in balance is a life. That is informed by and lived by a biblical worldview. We should be thinking about the world and respond to it from biblical categories. It is us having none other than the mind of Christ. That's how we're to live our lives. The point is that we naturally would respond the way Christ interacted with people. It's very down to earth. So let me share a story, perhaps with great hesitancy, of the greatest compliment that I have ever received in my life. Now I don't know what y'all are thinking I'm going to say. No, it's not that was the greatest sermon I've ever heard in my life, Pastor. Or perhaps something along the way with my wife saying, you are the greatest husband in the world. And no, it's not that my children have said over and over again that I am the greatest dad in the world. No, that's not what I have in mind. You see, it was a couple of years after I had become a believer. Not too many, maybe two or maybe three years after I had gotten saved. At that time I was very, very excited about my faith. It all made sense. I finally understood. And the grace of God was just so vivid and vibrant and alive in my life. I was just so into everything that I could possibly find to learn about God and to follow Him. It was it was when I was working in healthcare at that time. There were several departments that I interacted with and and there was there was one there was this one time when when a lady who I hadn't really witnessed to or evangelized to came and asked me straight out, you're a Christian, aren't you? You see, that really was out of the blue for me. I don't really remember what I said to her. The only thing I remember from that conversation was I can see that in you. Now, I'm not patting myself on the back by telling you this story. In fact That's the only time a person has asked me or accused me of being a Christian without solicitation. Even back then, I didn't really think anything of it. But it wasn't until much later in life that I came to realize What a wonderful comment that lady had paid me. I look at that, I look at, I look back at that with great joy. But it's also something I look back upon that engenders confidence in me. Not confidence that I'm some super sanctified Christian or something, but because I had been putting those qualities into practice. Things that, you know, you and I already possessed. A person noticed Christ-likeness in me. My confidence was the fact by putting into balance my faith in Christ with the works that comes from that faith, I made sure of God's calling and election in my life. That's the confidence that I am making reference to. I look at that and I look back at that in my life and I think of James' words. He said, What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? So also by itself, if it does not have works, faith is dead. So is it just Peter is concerned that people don't fall into the trap of getting spiritually lazy? Or is it more? We shall see that as we continue in our study of 2 Peter, there are false teachers that he will be addressing. It is not only about remembering, being reminded, being cautious to not forget or practice, it's important to not have your ears tickled. getting into doctrines that can distract, lead away, cause you to be fruitless. In conclusion, wherever you are in life, and however long you can reasonably expect to live, What will you do with Peter's last words? Will you look to find that balance in life? What do you want people to be reminded of? I think if we have the ability to do so, In whatever we can, in whatever way we can. Let us do what Peter has done. Point people to Christ. And point people to live a life for Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, that is what we ask. We ask that indeed you would help us. Help us to point people to Christ by obeying your word. Help us. Grant us the grace that we need in order to Reflect your image and your character more and more as the redeemed people of Christ. Those whom you have called and have elected before the foundations of the earth, your people, help us to reflect who we are And we pray, Father, that you would do this, so that the Lord Jesus, his majesty, would be greatly glorified. That the train of his robe would be seen more and more throughout this earth, and that you would be glorified And many would continue to sing throughout all eternity how holy, holy, holy you truly are. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.