I have um I think I better make sure I'm turned on here. On. Yeah, okay. Um it's it's really been a great experience for me. to uh take on the task of being a seminary teacher. Um I was a pastor for twenty twenty-five years And I love to teach and uh love to train uh men for ministry. That's just a great joy to me. Um Skip Dusenberry prayed with me uh that the Lord would open up a door for me to be able to do that for a number of years. So I didn't think that door was ever going to open. And I'm dil I was delighted when it did. But one of the things that I've missed being a teacher is um preaching every week. I don't get to do it. And um I teach every week and I teach for hours and hours every week, but I don't have the the fellowship of the word uh that I administer. I have the benefit of receiving it of course but not preaching every week. So it's a it's always a joy to me to be able to be with the church. uh in order to bring the word of God um in the fellowship of the of the worshiping community. And I I'm just grateful to have that opportunity, grateful to you for um extending it to me. There are lots of connections uh between uh me and this church, some of which you know, some you won't know. Uh Stephen Coleman, I think I think will be here in a week or two to preach. He's my nephew. Um and Mike Coleman and Barbara Coleman and dear friends. Barbara is my wife Jackie's sister. And um Paul Wolfe, who also preached and will preach here again, is the associate pastor where Jackie and I and family worship. uh over at New Hope in Fairfax. So lots of connections and um really treasure those connections. It's a tremendous privilege to be part of the body of Christ as I know everyone uh here will will know and um just a a joy for me to be able to be with you. So let me pray for us and I'll read God's word. Our Heavenly Father, we ask your blessing on the Word. We thank you that you have caused your spirit to inspire, to breathe out these words through the Apostle Paul. We thank you that the words we find on the pages of Holy Scripture are you speaking to us. And we pray for your power that we might hear. And believe and act and make application to our lives. Thank you, Father, that you continue to speak through your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to read God's word from Paul's letter to the Colossians and chapter 1, beginning at verse 3 through verse 14. This is the word of God. We always thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of truth a gospel, which has come to you as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and growing, as it also does among you since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God and truth, just as you learned it from Epiphrus, our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf. And has made known to us your love in the Spirit. And so from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you. Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might. For all patience and endurance with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. The word of God. Amen. Well, we probably all of us have had someone in our lives we could not ever please. My seventh grade English teacher, Mrs. Butcher, was such a person, and I'm sure I was responsible for some of that. Um but I could never do anything ever I I always did something wrong and she was suspicious of me and I remember very well um coming back from uh a little recess and coming into the room and and she accused me of b of smoking in the bathroom. Now I was just a young boy. There were kids who smoked in the bathroom at Montgomery Hills Junior High School. But uh I wasn't one of them. But it didn't matter what I said. I couldn't defend myself because she had that critical attitude and that suspicion. And I'm sure I wasn't guiltless across the board, you know. I'm sure I provoked some of that. But when you have a situation like that, when you have a person like that that you have to deal with, It's discouraging. It's frustrating. Because you can never please them. You can never do enough or everything you do always has a flaw. And that can be so discouraging. And of course, you can look at it from the other side if you have that sort of disposition. If people see you as cranky, then it's hard for anybody to get close to you because they fear your disapproval. And that means anything they offer to you, they offer in fear. I'm an academic now. I teach systematic theology, and so I have to help students get a grasp of great big biblical doctrines and really important things, things that are essential to their qualification to minister. And they have to get their minds around these big things. So I try to obviously help them do that, instruct them. And when I grade papers or grade exams, I'll point out the things that students don't get right, the things they get confused or mistakes that they make. And it's important that I do that. But I I've come to realize that if that's all I ever do, if all I ever do is point out the mistakes that they've made, I'm not I'm only doing half of what I need to do as an instructor because I need to nurture them. I need to encourage them in what they are grasping of the truth. get behind and push and encourage more. Well, I wonder if we could ask this same question about God. Can we please God? in our lives. And that might sound like such an obvious thing, such a basic sort of question. Can we please God And the answer that Scripture gives us is yes. Yes. Believers in Christ Are fully pleasing to God, the holy God, the Almighty God, the God who knows all, the God who evaluates all within An inscrutable examination, an inscrutable judgment. His judgments are beyond tracing out. And yet, Scripture tells us in Christ, as believers, we can please him. Now my encouragement in speaking about such a basic thing here in this congregation, I know you're you're well-instructed people, and I don't mean to to ignore that. But my encouragement is that um John Owen, the the great Puritan theologian, said once that two of his greatest pastoral problems Difficulties were to convince the unbeliever that he's under the power of sin, and to convince the believer that he is not under the power of sin. Interesting. Two sides of that coin. So I don't think it's something that we would hold to as the people of God, as Presbyterians, as those who believe the scriptures. I don't think we would hold it as a doctrine. I can't please God. I think it's more of a feeling or maybe a nagging thought that some of us have to address in our own lives. So listen again to verses 9 and 10. the Apostle's prayer for the church at Colossae. From the day we heard, we've not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. He's praying. He prays for the Spirit to give them understanding of God's will so that their lives may be fruitful, very fruitful. Walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. That's a metaphor for living. So the daily movements and actions and choices and words that we speak And right there in verse 10, Paul says, he prays that the Christians might walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, as he puts it, fully pleasing to him. Now, is that an exaggeration or perhaps an overstatement, a matter of a rhetorical flourish? Well, I think we see that it's not. Paul's not involved in some kind of overstatement. Notice how he frequently describes the Christian life in just this way. I'm going to quote from a number of his letters. Look at these passages or think about them with me. Paul's own desire about himself as he writes 2 Corinthians 5. 9 We make it our aim, whether at home or away, to be well pleasing to Christ. So that's Paul's desire. But we could say, well, is it actualized? Is it real in the lives of Christians? Paul says, yes it is. Philippians 2. 13, God is at work in you both to will and to do according to his good pleasure. And Paul writes later in the letter to the Philippians about a financial gift, missionary support, something rather mundane in a way um that ha the Philippian church has sent down to Paul as he moved on to another place in Philippians four eighteen. He says, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent A fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. There's our phrase one more time. Thessalonica. He urges the Thessalonian church the same way that he's praying for the Colossian Church in 1 Thessalonians 4. 1. Finally, brothers. We ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and please God, just as you are doing, you do so more and more. So See this? It keeps coming up. It's in his thinking. It's in his exhortation that we walk in such a way as to please God if we're Christians. He motivates covenant children to obey their parents, children in the Colossian church to obedience, and says this in chapter 3, verse 20, our same epistle. Children, obey your parents and everything, for this pleases the Lord. He summons believers in Rome, formerly Gentiles, formerly living in disobedience and uncleanness, to present their bodies. As a living sacrifice, holy, well-pleasing to God, by the renewing of their minds there to prove what is good and well-pleasing and the perfect will of God. He writes to the former pagans in Ephesus, now believers, prove what is pleasing to the Lord. So they're to work in their lives and think it out and obey in such a way as to please the Lord. So all across the Mediterranean world, believers were pleasing God in Colossae, in Ephesus, in Philippi, in Thessalonica, in Rome. The gospel, as he says here in Colossians 1, it was bearing fruit and it was growing. But of course, this isn't limited just to Paul's churches. We find the same thing In um the writer to the Hebrews, he writes probably the Palestinian believers, believers around Jerusalem area, perhaps. Hebrews 13, 16. Don't neglect to do good and share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. And he gives this good word to them at the end of the letter. He says, May God equip you with every good thing, that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ. So we draw this conclusion, and it's absolutely sound according to the teaching of the New Testament that believers' obedience, your obedience as a believer in Jesus Christ, pleases God fully. Now we have to ask this question. How can this be? How can it be? It isn't because we are um in the stream of thought that says that human beings have a free will and can make choices without the sovereign grace of God intervening in their hearts. Make choices to please God. That's certainly not true. Don't we want to say that before we were in Christ, when we were non-Christians, When we were unbelievers, that we opposed God, and we were dead in trespasses and sins. And yes, of course we need to say that and not let go. We don't let go of that doctrine. If you're not a believer in Jesus Christ today, you're not pleasing to God. You're not honoring the Lord. You're not loving the Lord. Even if you're a covenant child whom the Lord loves and to whom the Lord has made promises. But if you don't trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, then you're not pleasing to God. And Scripture teaches this clearly about all who are outside of Christ. Romans 8, verses 7 and 8. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. So When he uses that phrase, in the flesh, Paul means being part of the world system that set itself against God. Every unbeliever in this idiom, as Paul would put it, is in the flesh. He has an inability, a total inability. He can't do anything to please God. And now, it's not that every unbeliever is just as sinful as he can be. Scripture is not saying that. But the unbeliever, apart from grace, does not love God, does not do with desire, do what he does with desire to honor God. And that's why the writer of the Hebrews tells us this something similar. He says, apart from faith, faith in the grace of God in Christ, it's impossible to please God. He must believe that God exists and rewards those who seek him. So no unbeliever trusts that God is gracious. He suppresses the truth about God that he knows so that it's no use to him. And it's not as though God doesn't care what people do. God does care And he will enter into judgment on all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, whoever they are. Now it's just here that we can get into trouble. The believer does have conviction of his sins. You have it. You know what it's like. If you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you do know what it's like to have conviction of sin. You see how little you love the Lord. You see that your motives are mixed. You see how little you do according to God's law, and God knows us, and you know that And God is still holy. So as believers, we may think that God is still displeased with us. And that may be our default reaction to God. Again, it's not so much an error that we have embraced as a practical attitude that many of us, I'm afraid, hold on to. And it might be that we learn that from our parents. It could be that we learned that from our parents. Now, all of our parents have done us so much good, but maybe one of them was super critical. And so we felt we could never please them, and we transfer that in our thinking to God. But what we need to see from the Word of God now is that God accepts our obedience in His grace. He does it today. He does it now. He accepts our obedience. He's our Father. And he accepts our obedience in Christ because of what He has done for us. He has intervened. to move us away from where we were as unbelievers. Look at verses 12 through 14. Paul puts it this way, he has qualified you, the Father. has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. So let's start with the end of that passage. First, God has forgiven our sins. Once we were enemies, doing evil deeds, but now in Him we have redemption. The forgiveness of sins. God is the one who sent his own beloved Son to redeem us. God has reconciled you as a believer to himself through the blood of Christ. And that means that God is not your enemy any longer. When you trust Christ, when we trust Christ, God counts Christ's righteousness as ours. It's counted hours. And we have complete forgiveness of sins for all the sins we ever commit. And he's freed us from that guilt. Through Christ's blood. That's why Paul says, redemption, the forgiveness of sins. We have it, he says, verse 14. It's a matter of present possession. But what about your sins as a believer? Surely not all we do is pleasing to God, and that is true. Our sins are real, and our sins remain. But the good news of the New Testament in this respect is that our sins are not counted against us anymore. As believers, as justified, our sins are not counted against us anymore. Paul actually puts it exactly this way in Romans chapter 4, verse 8. Blessed is the man. Against whom the Lord will not count his sin. So when we do sin against God, God does not count that sin against us at all. Remember what God has done. He's united you with his son, Jesus Christ. You used to be in rebellion against him. But God sent his son for you. God gave his son as a sacrifice for you. Then God raised him up and exalted him. And he poured out the Holy Spirit on the church on the day of Pentecost. And God has intervened in your life to bring you from rebellion against him into union with Jesus Christ. So what Christ has belongs to you. He dwells in you and you in him, according to Scripture. Christ, whom God raised from the dead, is the embodiment as the living Christ of the righteousness that is counted as ours. Again, Paul writes about this in Romans 8, 33 and 34. He says, Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Jesus Christ is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Now Satan does accuse us before God. And Satan can, as it were, deal with us in our own conscience But God's answer to the accusation of the sins that we commit is the resurrected Christ. That's glorious, isn't it? Isn't that marvelous? What is God's answer to the accusation, not just of your conscience, but of the one who accuses the saints day and night? More than that, the one who was raised and is at God's right hand interceding for us. Now we can go a step further. The imperfections of our deeds are not counted against them. So it's not just we who are accepted, we can say, it is also our service that's accepted. And here is the word of John Calvin the Reformer about this. He says, therefore, as we ourselves, when we have been engrafted into Christ, are righteous in God's sight. Because our iniquities are covered by Christ's sinlessness, so our works are righteous and are thus regarded. Because whatever fault is otherwise in them is buried in Christ's purity and is not charged to our account. By faith alone, not only we ourselves, but also our works as well, are justified. Our confession of faith puts it this way, not only our persons are accepted, but our service to God is also accepted because we're in Christ. We're united with Christ. God is reconciled to us. He has justified us. And so He's not wrathful. He's not vengeful. He's not opposite to us. He is what? Father. Father. And we do confess our sins, but we do so with confidence. We do so with faith that He forgives our sins. In the Lord's Prayer, Jesus teaches us how to pray, of course. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our debts. Do you notice how long it takes in that prayer to get to forgive us our debts? It takes a long time. We pray as children of God our Father We ask for the hallowing of his name. We ask for the blessing and the forward movement of his kingdom. We ask for all these things well before we pray for the forgiveness of sins. Surely it's important to confess our sins to God. Of course it is, but we confess to Father, Father. And when we confess our sins at the beginning of the service of worship, it's not to become a Christian again. No, I I think we know this, but we don't move out of the state of grace and then return to the state of grace. Rather, we confess sins with a repentant heart. We're confessing as those who are in Christ We're confessing as those who are repentant for sin. We receive the Father's smile again. Perhaps we can illustrate this with the forgiveness of family members. I'm sorry, we say, I was wrong to get angry and shout at you. Say that to one of our kids. Will you forgive me? Of course. Yes, Dad, of course. I'm sorry I did that. Would you forgive me, honey? Yes, of course. There's that readiness within the family to forgive. Surely God is ready to forgive and glad to forgive. Jesus always sought to please his father. Think about the Jordan River. When Jesus went to be baptized in the Jordan River, the Father sealed His own commitment to give himself for our sins. The Father sealed his obedience with a voice from heaven. You are my chosen, my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And beloved in Christ, God says the same thing to you in Jesus Christ. The apostle loved to refer in Ephesians and also in Colossians to Jesus as the beloved. And I think what Paul is doing is reflecting on the words that the Father spoke to Jesus, that Jesus owned baptism at the Jordan River. Paul writes to believers in chapter 3, verse 12, here in our epistle, the church, as God's elect, holy and beloved. See, beloved, you are beloved in the beloved Son, in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we said before that We're not motivated to please somebody who can't be pleased because it takes our heart away. But what about somebody who dearly loves you? What about someone who delights in your service to him? The Father loves you. Your Father loves you that way. He loves you. The Son and the Holy Spirit love you in this way. And God welcomes your service and delights in it. But then we also should see that God has done something else for us, wonderful, as this passage tells us, that he has transferred us into the kingdom of his son. He's describing the kingdom of God. What Jesus spoke of often as the kingdom of God, sometimes as the kingdom of heaven. And these phrases mean the same thing in Scripture. It's a matter from one dominion uh a matter of transfer from one dominion to another. One lordship that we used to be under as unbelievers, the lordship of Satan, the lordship of sin, the lordship of darkness. Paul calls that the flesh or rebellion against God. But the Father delivered us from that domination to a different dominion. The kingdom of Christ. And that means that in our hearts, in the deepest place, we love God. That's what it means to be a Christian. In our hearts, in the core of our being, we love God. Now, this is a place where as Reformed Christians we sometimes have trouble. I think trouble interpreting the Bible. One of our most cherished beliefs is that God is sovereign over all things. And we hold that with all our soul, and it gives us life in the midst of difficulty. So when we come to New Testament presentations of the kingdom of God, the preaching of Jesus, for example, we might find it difficult to distinguish the kingdom of God from God's absolute sovereignty. But the kingdom of God or the kingdom of Christ, these are two ways of describing the same thing, is a little bit different idea than God's absolute sovereignty. Gerhardus Voss defines the kingdom this way. He says the kingdom of God exists not merely where God is supreme, for that is true at all times and under all circumstances. but where God supernaturally carries through his supremacy against all opposing powers and brings man to the willing recognition of this. Well, not just where God is supreme, because God is always supreme. Everywhere God is supreme. But where God supernaturally carries through this supremacy against all opposing powers. And brings man to the willing recognition of this. God is Lord always. God is sovereign everywhere. But God does not always supernaturally bring his enemies under his feet and does not always bring men to the willing recognition of his supremacy. But where the gospel comes with the power of the Holy Spirit, God frees from the power of Satan. He renews our hearts. He raises us from the dead with Christ. And we begin to bear fruit for God instead of fruit for sin. And this is just what Paul is referring to in verses 13 and 14. Once you were under the dominion, under the active power of darkness. To use the words of Ephesians, you followed the course of the Prince of the Power of the Air as a son of disobedience. But God delivered you from that slavery. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Our Lord Jesus was crucified in weakness. But God raised him in power and gave him glory. And today he is the exalted Christ. And that exalted Christ reached down in the sovereignty of his spirit and called you, beloved, and called you and gave you faith. And gave you repentance for sins. And now you are no longer an enemy, but a beloved son in the kingdom of Christ. So you no longer live in Satan's kingdom. You live willingly under God's rule. And that means that in your life there's a new power. There's a new dynamic that was not there before. It's the power of the Spirit. who dwells in your heart as a believer. That's the power Paul praised will enable the church to walk worthily in Christ. Paul's busy praying for this, asking that the Lord would give the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. That is the understanding of God's will given by the Holy Spirit. the understanding of the word, moving our hearts to embrace that word, know it more and more, in order that more and more We might walk in a way that pleases the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work. So you're not what you once were. Now you're alive. You were dead, but you're alive. Paul can use this description of kingdom as he does here in Colossians, or he can use the description of new creation as he does in Ephesians chapter 2. How does Paul put it? By grace you're saved through faith that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast for what? We are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works that we should walk in them. Now in both those descriptions, the kingdom description and the new creation description, We've been freed from the power of sin to a new obedience. And that new obedience is pleasing to God Now you might say, as I often feel like saying, I don't feel like I please God. I feel his displeasure. But let me ask you, and let me ask you that perhaps you need to say this to yourself, not just me say this to you. Can you really trust your feelings about this? Can you really trust your feelings about this? Before you came to faith, you did not feel a fraction of the sins that God was holding against you. Suppose you trusted your feelings then. Well, you'd have been lost, and you'd have remained lost Your feelings were not trustworthy. And I want to urge you that in many respects our feelings again, sometimes now are not trustworthy. Let me work it out a little bit more. When do you feel that you've pleased God? When you've had your daily devotions possibly or Something like that? Let me ask you, do you think that you prayed with all your heart? Well, you say, not really, but do you think God accepted that? And see, the answer you need to be able to give is yes. Yes. But that yes only comes from faith. It doesn't come from how I feel about it today, legitimately. It comes from the teaching of Holy Scripture. Beloved, I so want you to be lifted up. I so want you to be encouraged. And and and And thrilled with this joy that comes from knowing that we're in the Father's favor. And yet, this pleasing obedience is also meant to grow. We have these riches in Christ. Christ. And they are ours in Christ as believers, but they can also be increased. That's the amazing thing about what Paul writes. We're filled, but that fullness can grow, and that's why Paul prayed. And it's why we should pray too. Now notice how many fullness words Paul uses in these verses. Verse 9, filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So as to walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all power, for all endurance and patience. With joy. See what's crucial to growing in the knowledge of God's will, in the knowledge of His goodness to us, in His grace, is the teaching of His Word. And the living out of that word in the place where God has put you. That's what Paul is saying. As you gather together in the church, I want you to grow. I want the word of Christ to dwell in you richly as you speak and admonish one another in songs and hymns and spiritual songs. The word of Christ. And that word of Christ builds us up. It enables us to obey. And as we obey, we grow in obedience And we find a faithfulness of the Lord that we perhaps didn't realize was really there. So go after it, my friends. Go for it. You children who love Christ, who know Christ, obey Christ. Grow up with all your heart obeying Christ. You know, you know, I don't get to preach to kids too much. So I'm sorry if I go on too long about it. But you have this wonderful thing to be in the body of Christ as a young person And to have the love of your parents and the prayers of your parents. I know they're not perfect. I know they're hard to live with sometimes. I have five children and they can tell you in detail how hard it is to live with Jackie and me. And that discourages me sometimes. But how does Paul put it to you? Obey your parents in all things, because this is well pleasing to the Lord You can please God in Christ as a believer. And all your efforts and all your service in Christ's name are a delight. To God, to his heart. When you seek the Lord in prayer, he rewards you. When you repent of sin, the angels rejoice. Why do they rejoice? Because God does. When you give a cup of cold water in Christ's name, then he lays up a reward. When you refuse to take vengeance or you exercise self-control. Or you ask him for grace to face temptation, what does he do? He rewards you. You cannot trust God too much You cannot give your heart to the Lord too much without the reward that He gives. Praise God. When you come to His Word, He speaks. Of course you have to grow, but we have every encouragement from the gospel, every encouragement from the grace of God. Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for the wondrous message of truth. Oh, how we thank you that you gave your Son for us. That we might have redemption and the forgiveness of sins. How we thank you that you transferred us from darkness to light. How we thank you for the presence of the Holy Spirit, for the Word of God, for the fellowship of the Church. How we thank you that in your grace you accept our offerings. We do offer ourselves to you, Lord. We do so with all our heart. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.