Thank you, brother. If you haven't uh turned your Bibles uh yet, would you please uh turn it to uh the book of James? where in which we'll be um studying from chapter three verses thirteen through eighteen The first part of chapter 3 was, if you recall, about the taming of the tongue. We said that the tongue is representative of what's really in the heart. So what comes out of the tongue is really reflective of what's in our souls. In our passage today, James is making a connection. between what comes out of the tongue, which is conditioned by what type of wisdom is resident in that heart. A healthy tongue, one that builds up is buttressed by godly wisdom, and a tongue that tears down is one that is demonic in its roots. Now the godly tongue, or the true believer, proves his profession of faith by living a righteous life empowered by God's grace. However, this is contrasted with the tongue that professes Christ as Savior, but lives out an ungodly life. James provides in this passage another one of his tests. This time, it's wisdom. Frankly, there is really only one type of true wisdom. It is one that is from heaven. This is contrasted by a false or a pseudo-worldly wisdom. By way of introduction and I think transition, James is finishing up his test on the bridling of the tongue test and is using it to transition to the third test he gave us at the end of chapter one. not being stained or contaminated by the world, its values, and its wisdom. Would you please rise for the reading and the hearing of God's Word? James chapter three, beginning with verse thirteen. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but it is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice. But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And as you do, let us prepare for prayer to the Holy Spirit for his illumination. Join me, please. Holy Spirit, we come before you as your people, people whom you have saved. whom you have applied sal salvation and that you are now sanctifying us and preserving us in faith. We pray that you would help us to understand the word this day. Help us to apply the word So that we may grow and reflect the Lord Jesus in our lives, so that we may bring glory to the Father. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. And I have heard it said, and maybe you've heard it said as well, the eyes are the windows to the soul. The meaning behind this is that our eyes immediately reflect things like our emotions and our fears and our insecurities. I'm sure that at some point in your life you have gauged others by this common proverb. Maybe you had said something like, Don't even deny it. I can see it in your eyes. James, I think, is saying something similar in this chapter. Instead of the eyes being the window, it is the tongue. As we dive into the notion of wisdom, there is a distinction that needs to be made at this point. There's a difference between knowledge and wisdom. It certainly is a wise thing for a person to study the Word of God. But it is not necessarily a sign of a person being wise. The wise man is the one who puts the wisdom of God into practice. The possession of knowledge does not make a man wise. Surely we all know people who are really good students and have a high aptitude for learning. you know, people that uh who would be good candidates for being uh a a contestant on Jeopardy. But when you look at these people's lives you may discover that it is in shambles Because they make what? Unwise and foolish decisions in their lives. In fact, it's important to note that there are people who clearly understand the gospel and they can proclaim it to others. But that doesn't necessarily mean that they themselves are saved. All you have to do is go to liberal uh seminaries, and you will find many people who understand the professors Who understand the gospel and they can proclaim it, but they don't believe it themselves. Knowledge by itself, nor knowledge of wisdom, does not necessarily make a man wise. So then what is it? We can, I think, contrast and figure out that wisdom is the application of what the Bible teaches. I think it's important to find terms and make distinctions when it comes to this word wisdom. Head knowledge is acquiring an education. or becoming informed about something. Now that's het knowledge. Now for the believer, applied wisdom is in the arena of sanctification. For the believer, applied wisdom is in the arena of sanctification. It is the putting into practice the things that pleases God. It is about us desiring to become more holy. Let me make a point from someone that we may all be very familiar with, well, from within Scripture, Solomon. Scripture says that up until his generation, Solomon was considered to be the wisest man alive. He gave wisdom to God. God gave him wisdom at Solomon's request. But as we look later into his life, Was he really acting like the wisest man alive? I would consider what he fell into, idolatry, as an unwise thing to do Let us not fall into the mistake of making a one-to-one correlation between possessing wisdom and exercising wisdom. When we recognize that the exercising of wisdom falls into the category of sanctification, there really are two traps that you can fall into. The first one is that when a person applies biblical wisdom in their life, it doesn't necessarily mean That they are saved. And on the other side is that if if a genuine believer commits sin, sometimes even gross sin, It doesn't mean that they are false believers. Now I've made reference in the past to King David as being an example of that. Now in our passage today, verses thirteen to eighteen, James contrasts the wisdom of the world with that of God. Ultimately, James is not concerned about wisdom just from an academic perspective, but he's wanting to see that each produce radically different fruit in a person's life. godly wisdom and earthly wisdom. And this should remind us of the proverb that Jesus himself quoted. You shall judge a tree by its fruits. In verse 13, James throws out a question. When I read the beginning of verse 13, I'm reminded of these, you know, these action movies when soldiers are lined up. Being debriefed by their superior, who ultimately tells them that this is an impossible mission, and they're looking for brave volunteers. And the one who wishes to do it should step forward. Well, you know what happens, right? The person who's not on the uptake is the one who still stands there and everybody else is taking a step back. I think James similarly is throwing uh the very same thing out here in the first verse today. Who among you is wise and understanding? Step forward James wants each person to ask himself if he considers himself knowledgeable in God's ways and in spiritual ways. If one answers in the affirmative Then let him step forward so that James may examine him. He follows this up with By his good conduct, let him show his works. In the humility of wisdom. James is not going to ask questions. Have you write an essay or answer multiple choice questions to test you. He has a different way of discerning. Show me your wisdom by your works. Now doesn't that sound familiar to James? Sure does. James's test immediately reveals that it is not on how well you know the Bible or how well you can parse a Greek verb But it's upon conduct, ethics, the fruit of what you have learned. A person should not be considered wise and godly just because he knows what is right. But because he also does the right thing. This is analogous, I think, to what James said previously about demons. Do you remember? They they believe in the existence of the triune God. But they are not saved. Their behavior does not believe, does not show what they believe. Therefore, We must recognize that even an unbeliever can possess godly wisdom, but just because he has knowledge doesn't mean that he will believe and act in it or upon it. But it's not just simply not simply show his works. He wants to see the ones that are done, James does, he wants to see the works that are done in the humility of wisdom. He says this because there are times either an unbeliever or a person claiming to be a Christian would conduct themselves in a godly manner Now you may ask yourself, what is the what does evil have to do with with good? Well there really are reasons why the unbeliever or a person who claims to be a Christian would want to do godly or practice godly wisdom. So let me offer a couple of reasons. Now I have to say that they are not exhaustive, but there are a couple of reasons. So the first I'm going to give you four. The first is that of pragmatism. Pragmatism. At times it just makes good sense to do things God's way. But it's not done, and this is really key, because they wish to please God. It's just practical. Number two is upbringing. Habits and training from childhood are very powerful influences upon our lives. I think that we can share lots of stories about things that we still do, even as grown-ups today, not because it's some sort of a God-honoring thing, but it's an ethic or a value that we can trace back to our childhood. And training in the home. Number three, we uh have to also consider the law of God, which is written on the heart of man lying, or cheating, or murder. Is something ingrained within the heart of man and that they don't want to do it. Number four, acceptance. Acceptance into a loving and nurturing community. We all want and need love, don't we? And whether it's a person or a group of people, they all have communal behavioral norms. The church is no different We accept everyone, but we also have such a thing called church discipline. This means that although everyone is welcome So people will live godly lives because they wish to be part of a nurturing and loving community. The unbeliever will sacrifice a lot in order to get this. So will sadly Christians also, for that matter. However, when the unbeliever finds something or someone else or another group that can fill those needs. they may leave. But while they are present within us, we may not be able to tell the difference. Now I think if there's some sort of a summary statement for what I just told you, Isaiah 29, 13 is an excellent summary for it. I'll read that for us. It's Isaiah twenty to nine thirteen. And the Lord said Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. And their fear of me is a commandment taught by them. Even from their childhood, they were taught to do these things. That's why they do it. their lips. They say things with their mouths and they draw near to me, but And they're not genuine. God is saying this of his bride, Israel The church. He's not talking about the unbeliever. He's talking about the people of God. No. Living a godly life was very important to the early church They experienced persecution, were accused of slander, committing illegal acts, and the equivalent of being, by modern manner of speaking, hatred Living a godly life is just as important in our society today as it continues to distance itself from its Judeo-Christian roots. 1 Peter 212 tells us, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Please note, Peter says, when they will do this, not if they will do this, if they speak against you as evildoers. So we see then there are a variety of motivations and reasons why the unbeliever can choose to lead a godly life. Now let's ask, what does godly behavior produce in the life of a genuine believer? Well, I've got five things I'd like to bring up today, and I'm sure there's a lot more that you guys can come up as well. The first one is a peaceful life. A peaceful life. Yes, there are exceptions when when this doesn't always occur, but in a general way, and that's what proverbs are, right? A life filled with less problems that avoids drama that sin conscious. There is a peace that comes from a conscience. That is not being pricked because you have sinned. You can sleep better at night. Number two, a peaceful life a peaceful life. One that experiences the presence and fellowship of God that produces a shalom. a satisfying wholeness. Now this type of peace and joy we can experience all the time. regardless of whatever testing or trials that we may be undergoing. Number three Glory for God. These are, and there are numerable ways that God can and does glorify Himself by your acts of righteousness, as well as abstaining from sin. Number four Somewhat related to this is it shuts the mouths of critics, as others would tell them, if they're criticizing you, to stop. because making claims against you that are simply not true. I know of a Cuban family that shared their family story of a grandfather back in Cuba who was a godly man and lived a righteous life in his community. When the Castro regime came to wipe out any opposition, and that included genuine Christian communities and those within those communities. They accused him of untrue things to get rid of him. The local community, both believers and unbelievers alike, up for him. And said that none of the things that he is being accused of are true. He was released. His pursuit of holiness shut the mouths of critics and in this particular case saved his life. And number five, and this is related to it, it would shut the mouths of would-be critics. People Attraction. If their false accusations of you would be conduct before God and men would cause even evil men to not risk their reputation because they would be seen as liars, untrustworthy and unstable men. James says, if one does consider himself to be wise and understanding, then one should show it by his conduct. Actions speak louder than words. But show me the ones that are forged in the humility that is present in meekness. It's qualified. Now this is to be contrasted with those Jesus has already identified for us during even the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 6, verses 1 through 5. They record these words. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people, in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. And he goes on Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have already received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, you must not pray like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the street corners Unlike the hypocrites described in this passage, Those who are truly wise must do it out of a humility that is present in true wisdom. And we've spoken about meekness in the past, so I'm not going to spend a ton of time on it. But meekness is not to be interpreted or understood as weakness. Meekness is in possession of power, but does not insist on exercising it. It considers using it for the benefit of others, not the self. Exercising wisdom sometimes means not exercising your power at all. Wisdom may dictate that you extend mercy to others because you have received much. Mercy yourself. I'm reminded of a friend and a friend's response when I had to make a decision. And this is several decades ago. It was about whether I should exercise authority that I had been given. And that if I had, then it would come at the expense of another person. Now, she was not a believer, and frankly, I don't think I was a believer at that time as well. Her counsel to me was, what good is power if you don't use it? And then it was couched with humility sometimes. That's worldly wisdom, isn't it? You earned it, you have it, and why should you give it up? for someone who doesn't. Why should you go without? All that seems kind of okay-ish on the surface. But for the Christian, it's really not a reflection of the very thing that Jesus himself described himself as. He said that he was low and meek. As Christians, we should we should pause before exercising authority and recoil against motivations of selfishness and self-gratification. Point here. Is that those that act godly, but not out of wisdom's humility, do so for what? Ungodly motivations And having asked this question, is now going to address a competing type of wisdom, worldly wisdom. And we see that as he does this and begins within verse 14 because he uses the word but. And that of course means to contrast. And he says, but if you have, presumably, in your heart, he begins with jealousy. If you have jealousy. And now this is not any sort of like run-of-the-mill jealousy. Right? This is this is jealousy that is bitter. It's bitter jealousy. Bitterness is a pain that has developed deep roots in your soul. Maybe you've been hurt in the past, and that issue has not been resolved. Bitterness affects us. in ways that we don't always immediately recognize. One of them, unfortunately, sometimes, comes out in our speech Our tongues. To envy is to desire something that someone else has that we don't have. Obviously this connects with the tenth commandment, doesn't it? Thou shalt not covet. The scripture teaches us that the reason that Jesus was turned in by the Sanhedrin was none other than envy. Mark 15, 10 tells us. For he perceived this is Jesus, for he perceived that it was out of envy that the tree chief priests had delivered him up. Envy can cause you to speak evil about someone. The chief priests did. Now, closely related to this selfish ambition, which is in this context says, I am going to take the position from someone else that I want. At the root of this word in the Greek is the notion of electioneering, selfish ambition, electioneering. It was used for the person who was candidating for a political position that another one had. The idea is that you use your speech to get others over to your side. This might mean that you may speak untruths about your opponent. in order to get their vote. It's using sin to accomplish what? Your selfish ambition. Envy and jealousy are clearly the opposites of humility. The wisdom from God possesses a gentleness. and meekness. But the wisdom of the world, in contrast, has envy and jealousy as its motivating force In effect, what James is saying is that if you have jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, but yet claim to be wise, godly wisdom, you are living a lie. Are you living a lie? James commands that these people not boast. about thinking that they are biblically wise, either to themselves or to others, and in the process end up lying to others as well as themselves. One of the worst things that you can do in life, brother and sister in Christ, is to go to a fool who thinks that he is wise in his own eyes for advice. Scripture has the following to say about this. Proverbs 12. 15. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice. Proverbs 26, 16. A sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can answer sensibly. When I was growing up These wise people in their own eyes. They were all on TV talk shows radio programs, offering all sorts of counsel, all sorts of wisdom to all sorts of problems that in the end sounded plausible. but was either an admixture of godly and worldly wisdom, or just plain unholy counsel. It seems nowadays that they well they seem to be in all the nooks and crannies of the internet being promoted by really powerful algorithms that try to identify a need that you may have and fill it with some sort of a website or a podcast that can give you problems give you wisdom to solve your problems. Proverbs twenty-six twelve Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than him. Don't seek out counsel from a fool who thinks that he is wise No, obviously this type of wisdom that boasts and is not humble is man-made, earthly, fleshly, not spiritual, and it is, as James says, demonic. Now the sources of for the two types of wisdom either come down from God or it's demonic. James is perfectly aware that at times even man's demonic wisdom may end up overlapping. with God's wisdom. But what he is questioning is its roots and ultimately its motivations. You don't want to have anything to do with worldly wisdom, brothers and sisters, because its goal is to do the following. It is to feed the desires and the appetites of men, to feed the passions of men. These are some of the things that you might hear. Do what makes you happy. That's the world's wisdom. If it feels right, well then, you gotta do it. What the Bible describes As a constant source of wickedness. The world tells us is the arbiter of what is right and wrong. The heart. Genesis six five says, The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And here it is. And that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually When someone says something like that to you, do what makes you happy. Follow your heart. How do you respond? How does that resonate with you? Do you engage with them in this thinking? Or do you just accept it? James calls it demonic. And the reason why this is demonic is that it's motivated by a desire to be an incite rebellion against God. That's what worldly wisdom does and will eventually get you to. Don't we see that from the get-go? The serpent comes into the garden, onto the scene, and he moves to have man be Rebellious to God's laws. That's what worldly wisdom ultimately comes down to. It's demonic because it wants you to rebel against God's laws. To prove his point, James shows us the consequences associated with this type of worldly wisdom. Jealousy and selfish ambition leads to a party. Spirit, us against them. And the cohesiveness of the Christian community begins to break down and apart. Once the love And order within the church community is broken down. Every kind of vile practice can follow. God is a god of decency and order, not of disorder excuse me, disorder Having said that, another contrast that is signaled yet again by another but in verse seventeen. Verse 17 contrasts godly wisdom from the wisdom that is worldly. But the wisdom from above Is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy, and good fruits, impartial and sincere Pure means that the wisdom is from above, is foremost innocent. Morally upright and committed to following God's directives. There are no unjust or devious motives for its behavior. It is pure. Peace loving is not one that is seeking an inner peace, but is one that seeks peace within a community. Gentle refers to a non-combative spirit. Referring to peace, excuse me, that's that's a non-combative spirit that seeks out the peace within the community. Open to reason refers to a teachable spirit. One that is submissive to authority. This is a person who will be glad to learn new things and be corrected. I think humility would dictate that we ask ourselves this question also. Not just of other people, we need to ask that of ourselves. Am I willing to be teachable? Do we have a teachable spirit? Are we submissive to the authorities that God has placed over us? Or do we want people to only listen and expect them to obey us? Will the condition, will your condition for obedience be only if they agree with you? Yeah, they'll be obedient. Being reasonable dictates that you're willing to see things in the light of another's opinion. Do you find yourself concluding sometimes when you reflect that you're stubborn and you're prideful? I mentioned them together because they normally travel together. Stubbornness and pridefulness. James says that the wisdom that comes from above is impartial. And we can tell that this is still fresh on James's mind. Right? Okay, so you know, we've been studying James now for over a month now, but James James has only been writing this only like five minutes ago. Right? When he says impartial, he referred to this already by giving an example of a rich man and a poor man coming into worship. And the impartiality was displayed towards the rich man by the church. The notion of being impartial and sincere together indicate that God's wisdom is. Single-minded. God's wisdom is single-minded, unwavering, and not hypocritical. It is not double-minded. Its allegiance is not divided. Sincere adds to the notion that it is not fake or phony. God's wisdom is genuine. The wisdom from above is full of mercy. It is very practical. It puts things into effect. It is, after all, as James said back in chapter 2 and verse 13, the very thing that triumphs over judgment or condemnation. Not only is God's wisdom full of mercy, but it's full of godliness. Good fruit. This type of wisdom not only knows what is wise, but also does what is right. And the life of the believer, wisdom must, must, it must translate into holiness. All of humanity can benefit. by seeking out godly wisdom and applying it to their lives, no doubt. But what benefit, here's the question for you, but what benefit is it to a man who possesses true wisdom, the wisdom that comes from above, and it is not manifested in their everyday life in the humility of meekness. What benefit is that? You see, that kind of wisdom would not justify that man on Judgment Day. That's right. It would not vindicate him to be a genuine believer Then he says in verse 18, A harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. James wraps it up for us in verse 18 with the use of the word righteousness. He has used it once before, if you recall, that was in chapter 1 and verse 20. And it meant doing what is pleasing to God. And this is what is the intent of the harvest here as well. Let me read it to you in that in mind. And a harvest of God. Pleasing acts of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. And When peace is sown, a harvest of good deeds is expected to be reaped. in the life of that who sows. These good deeds are in contrast to the evil practices that are listed in verse 16. This righteousness cannot be yielded in the life of the believer when it is in human anger. Verse 1, chapter 1, verse 20. But it can flourish when it is laid on a bedrock of peace, which comes from godly wisdom. The opening question here in James, as Dr. Adamson said in his commentary on the book of James Challenges the readers who profess wisdom. But their conduct shows that they have not grasped its true character. Are you challenged by James' question? Do you understand what he means by the practice of godly wisdom in your life with the spirit Of meekness that comes from wisdom in a state of humility. Not your other acts of wisdom, like Jesus spoke about In conclusion, James continues to be consistent with his understanding of what it means to have a relationship with God. Just like true faith, true wisdom is identified by the consistent quality of life that it produces. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that indeed that you would be the cause of all our desire. to do good, acts of righteousness, that we would be motivated by a heart that has been transformed By your Holy Spirit, one that has been regenerated because of the work of Christ upon the cross, and not because We want to look good. Not because we have something to gain, but rather because it is true religion within our hearts, as James teaches. It is because we want nothing in return. Because we have everything we could possibly want. And that is you. And we get to have you throughout all of eternity. And that we can trust you that your ways are right and they are good. So we pray that you would help us more and more each and every day to reflect Christ in our lives. Let us be kind. Let us be meek. Let us be pure in our intentions. Change us from within we pray. And we ask this.