Paul writes in Galatians 5 verses 6 and 7, For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith working itself through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? The Galatians had believed a false gospel. They had been inundated with false teaching, so that they thought that The gospel was of works, of their own merits, of their own efforts. And Paul Wanting to correct them, wanting to point them under the truth, wanting to shoe them as it were towards God, rights to them. And the Holy Spirit inspired his writing to reveal the truth of the gospel unto not only the Galatians. but unto his church. And so as we as worshippers of God seek to know God, to seek to come unto him, to seek to know what the truths of the gospel are. So we come unto the Word of God, which has been inspired by the Spirit, which has been preserved throughout the ages. And we come. Reading and hearing his word preached, that it might not return void, but that the Lord might use it through the Spirit working in our hearts to sanctify us by his truth. Let's turn in that word now to first John. We'll be reading and continuing our series in First John. We'll read 1 John 2, 29. Whoops. Excuse me. First John two, verse twenty-nine through chapter three to verse twelve. And let's stand as we read out of reverence for the Word of God. And before we read, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do pray that you would be with us now as we read your word, as we hear it preached. Lord, I do pray that you would be at work through your Holy Spirit, Lord. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes, that we might see the wonderful things written in your law. Lord, we pray that you might cause us to remember the things that we learned today, that we might hide them in our hearts, that we might not sin against you. And Lord, even as your Son Jesus Christ prayed in the garden for believers, Lord, that you would sanctify them by your truth. So, Lord, we come looking to you alone, trusting in you alone. To teach us how we might love you and serve you and come unto you, how we might be sanctified by the truth of your word. And though we do pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. 1 John 2, verse 29. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of him. See how great a love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God, and such we are. For this reason the world does not know us, because it did not know Him. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared what yet we shall be. We know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself, just as he is pure. Everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. And you know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him sins. No one who sins has seen him or knows him. Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appeared for this purpose, that he might destroy the works of the devil. No one who is born of God practices sin, because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God. nor the one who does not love his brother. For this is the message which we have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brothers were righteous. Thus ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated As we've been reading through our series, we see the situation in the book of 1 John is similar to that of Galatians. There were false teachers in the midst of the church who had sprung up in the apostles' absence. who were teaching a false gospel, which is really no gospel at all. And as John writes to these churches, most likely in Asia, as he um sets forth the person of Christ who was fully God and fully man, As he sets forth the mission of Christ, that believers might have fellowship with one another, and with the Father, and with the Son. As he sets forth the character of God, that God is light, and in him there is no darkness, none. Emphasizing God's purity. So he draws a line of causation with those who know God will walk in the light And those who say that they walk in the light yet walk uh know God and yet walk in darkness, they lie and do not live according to the truth. John is giving his uh his readers a picture of what A true believer looks like, someone who knows God. What what do they look like? And as he has told us that a true believer walks in the light as God is in the light. And then he narrows that to explain that that means obeying the commands of God. That means loving our brothers. That means fleeing worldly things, not being overly taken by the lust of the flesh and the pride of life. Last week, he again references the false teaching and warns them of Antichrist, those who are against Christ, who do not believe in Christ. who will seek to lead others astray. And he reminds them of the presence of the Holy Spirit in their life, that which helps them to walk in the light. That which enables them to know the truth and the truth of God's word and to obey the commands of God, Him who preserves them in the midst of false teaching and enables them to love one another. And as uh as John continues in verse 29 and makes a transition, he speaks of of uh he brings up this biblical image of children of God. Now this is a a new thing in the book of first John, but it's it's throughout the scriptures and we'll see that John writes to uh to these believers that believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are children of God. And again, as he seeks to make things abundantly clear in the midst of false teaching, he goes on to say that unbelievers Will show themselves and they're practicing lawlessness. Whereas believers will show themselves by practicing righteousness Well, first of all, John writes that believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are children of God. You see this in verse 29. If you know that he is righteous, and remember, John has laid this forth, that God is light. In him is no darkness, none, is the literal emphasis there. Emphasizing the purity of God, that there is no darkness, that there is no sin in him He says here, if you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of him. When uh John uses this image in his gospel, uh he uses it in the very first chapter as he's introducing the gospel and the the um the manifestation of of the word in the flesh. And he says, But as many as received him, meaning Christ, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man. But born of God. And so here we see that believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, those who would believe in his name, Are born of God. They're children of God. And this idea of rebirth in in the gospel is one uh in theological terms we call it regeneration. And we need to be careful to distinguish it from ideas that we see in the world of of just turning over a new leaf. or making a a fresh start, as you might hear some people say. It's not being born as the the same person and just starting things afresh It's not even being born as somebody else and uh becoming a different person uh and resolving to live your life differently. But it's being born, having a transformation and a new start. as a child of God. And as we look at the the imagery here, it's that of new life. New life both in this world and in the life to come. That uh even as Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 5, that if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things have passed away, and behold, new things have come. That God, in drawing us to Himself and showing us His great love for us, makes us new creatures in Christ, so that we were born not of the flesh and the sinfulness that we have naturally inherited. But we are born of God, of the Spirit. John, when he's recording the interaction between Jesus and Nicodemus, remember Nicodemus was one of the leaders in Israel, and he came to Jesus by night. to try and figure out who he was and what he was teaching. And Jesus cuts right to the chase and says, I tell you the truth, you must be born again. And Nicodemus, as he's grappling with what that means, Jesus follows it up by saying, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. And so as Jesus talks to Nicodemus about regeneration, about being reborn. It's a rebirth that's taken place through the Holy Spirit, where the Holy Spirit quickens us. Makes us alive in Christ, where before we were dead in our sins, unable to understand or make any decisions. The Holy Spirit makes us alive and enables us to know the truth. And enables us to grow in the truth and abide in the truth, even as we saw last week. And so as John writes to believers, to um He reveals this great truth that believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are children of God, children who are born of God and not of themselves or of the flesh But they are not just born of God, they're uh called children of God by by God Himself. You see in chapter three verse one See how great a love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called children of God. And such we are. And uh the Greek uh is important to bring out here just because uh the Greek uses grammar and structure to convey emphasis, and there's uh a lot of emphasis being conveyed here. First, as far as uh the word C, I think behold would probably be a better translation. It's a word used when um when uh great attention should be drawn to something. It's almost as if uh the word is meaning look over here, behold, see what this is. And um so John bringing this out is is emphasizing the love of God to us. And as he uh as he talks about what manner of love it is, uh the kind of phrasing of it is uh Kinda literally means what country? Which is an odd thing, but it's something for foreign. It's a word of astonishment because it is um something that you don't see every day. That's something that's seems uh uh foreign or or um or unusual. So John's drawing great attention to it by using uh The phrase uh behold or see. And then he's using a word that that is of astonishment. And the structure here emphasizes it's it's an emphasis of quantity. Look at the quantity of this. Look how much is there, but it's also one of quality. Look how fine a thing this is And so as John writes about us being called children of God, he draws great attention to it because it is such a wondrous thing. Another emphasis in the passage is both on the Father and the subject and the verb that the Father has given. And um so we see that this is uh a gift that is given, not from any works that we have, not from uh our part in it. Uh there's there's no emphasis on to us. But it all the emphasis is is on the Father and Him giving this to us. What a great thing that this is, that the Father has given this to us. That we should be called children of God. And why is that? Why is that a great thing? Because we are naturally sinners against God. Because even as John writes these things, these believers have been in turmoil, in ignorance, in doubt, not knowing what to do. Because by ourselves, we waste away in our sin. And we know that our sin deserves eternal death and damnation. It doesn't deserve reward. It doesn't Even uh deserved for us, we don't deserve to survive at all. And yet God comes back, and not only does he allow us to survive Not only does he reconcile himself to rebellious sinners in some sort of flag of truth, truce, but he draws us unto himself. He draws his people to himself. As beloved children. Not as foreigners, not as strangers, not just forgiving, but drawing us to Himself and loving us. For the sake of his son, Jesus Christ. So that we might be born of Him, that we might be called children of God by Him. The being called children of God is a passive phrase, and so we must ask, Well, who's doing the calling? Who's who's calling us children of God? And it's God Himself. God Himself is beckoning us to Himself, calling us His children, as He does in the Revelation 21, where he says, I will be a God to you, and you will be as myself. Son. God calls us to himself as beloved children. And we see that in God's wondrous plan, that he is predestined that we be with him, and that he is predestined that we be like him. As we see in verse 2, Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we shall be. We know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. John says, right now, here on this earth, we are children of God. And we know from the whole of Scripture that God adopts us as it were. into his family, that as children of God we have certain benefits that God gives unto us and lavishes unto us. Westminster Larger Catechism brings these out and lists them in a very thorough manner, reflecting the teaching of Scripture. And it says that in being adopted into the family of God, we have his name put upon us. That we have the Spirit of His Son given to us. That we are under his fatherly care and dispensations. That God not only calls us his children, he gives us his spirit To enable us to know the truth and to abide in it. That we are under his fatherly care, of his providence, that he give us gives us his dispensation of his word, the revealing of his character. We are admitted to all the liberties and privileges of the sons of God. We have benefits as believers that partake of the sacraments, to come to Him in prayer. To fellowship with other believers, that we have hope and new life in this world and the hope of everlasting life in the world to come. That we are made heirs of all the promises of Scripture. And we could stop at that point and talk about that the rest of the day and the rest of the week. The promises of Scripture. To know that all things work to the good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose. To know that though we do not see Christ, yet he is on high, interceding for us. To know that Christ has gone away to prepare a place for us. To know that Christ will return again and will gather us to himself. Not as Strangers, not as rebel rebels merely pardoned, but as children of God He will gather us to himself. And that we are fell fellow heirs with Christ in glory. That if we live with him, we shall also reign with him. And just as Revelation proclaims that the kingdom of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ. So as Christ reigns, Those who are children of God, those who have been called to Him in the name of Christ, shall also reign with Him in glory. So God has predestined that as children of God we will be with him. But not only that, he is also predestined that we will be like him. That we see in at the end of verse 2 says, We know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. Now this is a great mystery, but we have three things that will happen that when Christ appears, so Christ will appear on the last day, and when he does, we shall see him as he is. Not through a dark glass, through a glass darkly, not in part, but we shall see him fully as he is. We shall gaze upon Christ. And that shall cause a transformation of who we are. And it says, we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. We shall be renewed in the image of the whole man. That good work that has started in our sanctification will be completed in our glorification. That we shall be like God, that the image of God upon us, which has been marred by our sin, shall be restored, and we shall be like God. For we shall see him as he is. So as John communicates these great truths about believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, being children of God, being born of Him, being called children of God by the Father, being predestined. to be with him and like him. So he also continues to warn them about those who would claim to be children of God, but are not. And he does this by telling them how unbelievers look. That unbelievers of the world show themselves in practicing lawlessness. Now this is as we read both the section about the unbelievers and the believers, we see again the contrast that John states things positively and negatively so that he will not be misunderstood. And uh this is a great passage for our understanding about the nature of sin and about the origin of sin in the world. Verse 4 says, Everyone who practices sin also practices lawlessness. And sin is lawlessness. So as we ask ourselves, what is sin? You know, we talk about sin, and um, you know, we know the Bible says that sin is a bad thing, but what is it exactly? We know that the Westminster Shorter Catechism gives a great definition. And it goes along with verse 4, that sin is lawlessness. And the catechism unpacks that by saying it's any want or any lack of conformity unto the will of God. And it unpacks it into sins of commission, where we do something that we're not supposed to do, or sins of omission, where we do not do something that we're supposed to do. And children, do you realize that as your parents uh tell you to do things, um, there's different ways that you need to make sure that you're careful to obey your parents. You need to make sure that you do what they tell you to do. And you need to make sure that you do not do what they tell you not to do. And that's very important that as we seek to obey our parents, we remember those two aspects. And as we come to see the definition of sin, It's important that we remember those two aspects as well. That sin is lawlessness, doing what the law forbids, or not doing what the law commands. But more than that, what is the law of God? We know that the law of God is contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. But the law of God is the character of God revealed through the pages of Scripture. So as we talk about lawlessness, we talk about working, doing those things which are against the character of God. And as rebels, as those who have been in Adam, we are working against the will and character of God when we sin. That lawlessness is an affront to God because it is against his character. And so we see the folly of saying that we know and love God, and yet practicing Righteousness, uh practicing lawlessness, excuse me, unrighteousness, doing that which is against the very character of God, and yet saying that we love him and know him at the same time. Now, as we look at the scriptures and the state of man, there are four different states of man that have been identified by theologians. Before the fall m man, uh namely Adam, was able to sin. And he uh was not made a sinner, but he was able to sin. But after the fall, after Adam fell, and the covenant which God made with Adam, um Caused all mankind to fall in his transgression. Man was not able not to sin That we were unable not to sin. We are sinners by nature because Adam fell. And so we sin, and we're unable not to sin. And so that's the picture of sin we get here. That on the one hand, it's it's lawlessness, it's working against the character of God. And on the other hand We are unable not to sin, that we are condemned in our sinfulness John makes the contrast to this as he uh talks about um practicing sin. Uh I guess it's not a a contrast but a clarification. Um when he talks about practicing sin, and in the Greek this word is uh to make or to do, to to do And uh it's specifically the sin or the lawlessness, referring to specifically what God says is lawlessness, what God says is wrong. And um the uh the words here is is adurative that we do it on a regular basis. So practice is a good definition. And if we think of what practicing is, if you think about practicing a musical instrument or practicing a sport It's working with a goal in mind. And trying and again and again, and maybe perfecting and changing, but trying to get better at better at something. And so we see the picture here of the unbeliever, them who is showing, they who are showing themselves through practicing lawlessness, is someone who uh who is working more and more to please themselves, working against the character of God, working not to worship God, not to glorify God, not to love uh one another, but working to please themselves. And practicing that on a daily basis with the goal of glorifying themselves. We see the uh this is the nature of sin in our lives, that we're not able not to sin. And that by nature we work, we practice, we earn hell for ourselves because we sin and work at it regularly in our lives. John goes on uh at the end of the verses that we read in verses eight, nine, and twelve, to show the origin of this sin. Well, where did this sin come from? And as we said before, uh it's through the fall, but But uh John um paints it in a little different way. He portrays this sin as being through the devil, through the evil one, as he says in verse eight, the one who practices sin is of the devil. For the devil has sinned from the beginning. And so he goes all the way back again to creation, to the the fall of Satan and the temptation that um Satan presented to Adam and Eve in the garden. And he goes on to say in verse 9 that those who sin are not only of Satan, as he said in verse 8, but they're children of Satan. In verse 9, he says, No one who is born of God practices sin, because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin, because he is born of God. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God. For the one who does not love his brother, or the one, nor the one who does not love his brother. So he calls them children of Satan. So he's making a contrast here, almost, and the book of Genesis does this, making a contrast between the seed of the righteous, those who are called by God, and the seed of the wicked, those who are working. and striving against God. And we see of of those group being um uh Cain, who murdered his brother. As John references in verse twelve, as the Tower of Babel, as men get together and decide that they're going to work against God, that they're going to exalt themselves in building a great structure unto their glory. You see, the wickedness of Sodom and Gomorrah, disobeying the law of God, practicing unrighteousness and lawlessness. And against that we see the seed of the righteous. And as John writes, warning uh these believers about the nature of sin, that that in Adam we're unable to sin. He also points out the origin of sin, that sin is of the devil. Jesus said in John chapter 8, as he was talking to the Jews, about their sin. He said, anyone who sins is a slave to sin. And the Jews were very offended and they said, What we have never been in bondage to anybody. We are Abraham's children. And Christ said, If you were Abraham's children, you would do the things that Abraham did. But you are of your father the devil, for he is a la a liar and the father of lies. And so John is pointing out Jesus was pointing out there, and John is pointing out here that those who practice lawlessness, those who practice sin Are children of the devil by imitation. That as uh as those who practice lawlessness, we are imitating Satan. We are doing those things that Satan does. And just as Satan tempted Adam and Eve, and they fell, so those who practice lawlessness are children of the devil. But John in contrasting these things again brings us back to the theme of of us being children of God, of those Believers and what what the true believer looks like. And he tells us that children of God show themselves in practicing righteousness. And he uses very strong language here, so much so that we'll need to sort of unpack some of these statements to make sure we don't misunderstand the strength of them. He says in verse 29, if you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of him. And this is the picture of the believer, that we practice, that we struggle, that we strive for, practicing the will of God. If sin is lawlessness and sin is unrighteousness, then righteousness is lawfulness, working towards that which is according to God's character Seeking to delight ourselves in doing the things that God delights in. Trying to think God's thoughts after Him and do the things that He's commanded us. And we see the nature of righteousness is Not saying that, but it's uh uh actually the reverse that as we are born of him Uh, we are enabled to practice righteousness. Going back to the the different states of the soul of man, Adam was able to sin. After the fall, um man was not able not to sin. But in Christ, believers are able not to sin imperfectly, but God gives us the ability through his Holy Spirit. To be able not to sin. And one day, when we are with him in glory, we will not be able to sin. That we will be glorified, we will be made perfect, and we will not be able to To be uh to do anything against the law and character of God. So as uh John sets forth uh his teaching about practicing righteousness. He's not saying that as we practice righteousness, then we become reborn in and of ourselves, but he's saying that the two are so closely linked. That when we see those practicing righteousness, we know that they're reborn, because that is the only person who will practice righteousness. No one practices righteousness unless they have been born again, unless they are able not to sin. Because the unregenerate is not able not to sin and doesn't want to. So we see that believers practice working for God's character and his will for mankind and to do his will for mankind. We see the origin of righteousness is in God and of his spirit, that just as we are born of Him, so we are righteous just as He is righteous. That we have the characteristics as children of God of him who called us. And as he transforms us into a new creature in this life. As we look forward to being glorified when he appears, we see that that change is Is unto a new creature that is a child of God, that has the stamp of holiness because God is holy. And it's by the word of God that he accomplished this. And um and by the Holy Spirit, who who enables us to be born again, who enables us to know the truth. And as we know the truth, we are enabled to practice the truth. And again, going back to that illustration of of practicing something, whether it's a musical instrument and or uh a sport When you practice something, you're have a certain goal to to um to do executes uh either playing an instrument or doing certain moves perfectly. And yet as you work at it, you make mistakes. You have to stop and go back to the beginning. You do something incorrectly. And even a as we watch the the Olympics and see these athletes who have put aside um normal uh daily life and normal diets and gone on strict training regimes For uh years and years and years as they get up to do their performance, not practice even, but but their performance. Yet they do so imperfectly. They s they stumble, they trip, they make errors. And so that's the picture we're getting here as we it's not of perfection, but it's of practicing righteousness. Training, as Paul said, as as beating our bodies and and compete training as to compete for um for the race of the gospel. John uses strong language in portraying this. We read in verse 3: And everyone who has this hope fixed on himself purifies himself, just as he is pure. And in verse 5. And you know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. So again, we see that God is pure. And in him there is no sin. And John draws that line of correlation from the God who is pure to those who would believe in him. And verse 6 he says, No one who abides in him sins. No one who sins has seen him or knows him. And that's very strong language. And what John is not talking about perfectionism here. But we can go back to the first chapter and as we seek to apply the whole word of God to those difficult verses. Uh we don't even have to go as far as another book, but we can go back to the first chapter. And John saying, if anyone says that he has not sinned, he makes himself he lies and does not live by the truth. But if we confess our sin, God is faithful and just to forgive us. So here he's not saying that Christians um are to be perfect or can be perfect in this life. And that's a very dangerous teaching that some have fallen into. To say that we do not willfully sin or that we do not sin, because uh it's uh it denies the power of sinfulness in our life, and it's directly in opposition to the teaching of Scripture But John is using hyperbole here to portray the picture of the Christian who has repented from sin. who has turned from that life of unrighteousness and is practicing imperfectly, faltering Having to start again and try again, but practicing righteousness, practicing doing the law of God. And though we fail, though it is not perfectly uh performed or executed. Yet in Christ we have Christ's perfection and it because the love of God dwells in us, because the Spirit of God dwells in us, we are enabled then to work and to struggle. to will and to do according to God's good pleasure. The Holy Spirit enables us to grow in grace. And it changes us from practicing rebellion to practicing righteousness, to hungering and thirsting for righteousness when before we couldn't stomach it, when we couldn't understand Before, um, when we were in the flesh, we could not understand spiritual things, because they were foolishness to us. But with the mind of Christ, The Spirit of Christ enables us to understand spiritual things and it gives us a hunger for them. It teaches us to eat spiritual food. This means using the means of grace. We're taught by the Spirit. We're prompted by the Spirit to pray. The Holy Spirit, through the Scriptures, teaches us how to pray. Christ intercedes for us as we pray. God gives us his word that we might hear him speak to us as children. We can partake of his sacraments. those uh signs and seals of the covenant that he has given to us to teach us about himself and about the great salvation that he's given us. We might gather, as it were, in the very presence of God to worship him on his day. Beloved, as unbelievers, these things are not advantageous at all. They are not desirable at all. Because the unbeliever is not able not to sin and does not love God. Does not want to practice righteousness, but practices lawlessness and sin. The Spirit enables us to practice righteousness by working in us and through us. To will and do according to his good pleasure. That we are able to will to practice righteousness because God hath willed that we would That we are able to work and be about the work of doing those things which God has called us to do because the Spirit is at work within us. And uh even as John writes this to uh those believers who were um besieged by false teaching. By those who were confused by well, what does it mean to to love God, or what does it mean to how can we tell that someone loves God, and how can we tell that if someone does not love God? He writes these things. That they might be practicing righteousness, that they might know that God has loved them and has drawn them to Himself, even as beloved children. And that his will for them as a Father who has loved them, who has saved them from their sins, is for them to practice righteousness. Sometimes I think as we think about sins and about avoiding sin and fleeing from sin, we're all for it in principle, but when it gets down to the brass tacks uh we hesitate because uh we like to um have our own will and to do what we want to do But we don't realize that that sin is harmful to us. That God wants uh doesn't want us to sin, not because he doesn't want us to to do something that's good, but because he wants us to refrain from that which is evil. And if we were to say uh uh that we want if God were to say to us, I want you to abstain from pain, we would be all for that. If God were to say, He wants us to abstain from misery, that would be okay with us. And yet, what brings pain and misery into our lives, but our sin? And so as John writes to these believers, reminding them of who they are, that they are children of God Children who have been called by God. Children who, though they are imperfect now, yet one day We shall see God. We shall see Him as He is. And that sight will bring a transformation. That it will change our wills that we will not be able to sin anymore. In anticipation of that great day. He writes to them that they might practice righteousness, even as God is righteous. And do you see you see the picture here? That God is uh is commanding us these things that he's commanding us to practice righteousness that we might be like him, even as a child seeks to be like his father. Even as a child um looks like uh his parents and often imitates his parents, so God is calling us to be children of God, that we might think God's thoughts after him. What a wondrous thought that we can think any of the thoughts of the supreme God of the universe after him. But he's revealed them to us that we might do just that. That we might walk in his ways, that he has revealed to us how he would have us live our lives, what he would have us to do, that we might walk in the ways of God our Father. Well, and briefly applying these things, I would uh urge you to guard your heart. Not to to take thee the sonship of of um that we have in Christ lightly But to look forward to getting to know our Heavenly Father. And just as He calls us into fellowship with each other and with Himself. So we are to practice knowing God through praying to Him, through reading His Word. Again, I know we've said this before, but a relationship is a two-way street. And um if we just take in God's word, we're not being very communicative uh communicative, we're not being very open with God. And if we are always just praying to God and uh uh doing an emotional dump of our problems onto God, um, we're not allowing his word to dwell within us. But the picture as of a relationship. And just as you have relationships with uh with each other, it's important that that we pray to God, that we cast our anxieties on Him. That we present our requests before him, that we submit our wishes, our desires unto him. And that we hear what he has to say to us, that we seek his will, that we seek to practice righteousness by practicing what he has told us in his word. That we seek to love him by giving him honor, weight, glory in our lives, and by loving those Who are loved by him. You realize that if we are children of God, that the church of God, those who are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, are our brothers and our sisters. And as Skip often uses the term brother and sister, it's very appropriate because, beloved, if you are in the Lord Jesus Christ. Then you will love the church of God because they are your brothers and they are your sisters. And you will practice that you will work at. The fruits of the Spirit, and displaying them, and loving the brothers, and um and doing unto them as you would have them to do unto you. And you know the best thing that we can do for our brothers and sisters in Christ is to try and encourage them in their walk of faith, to pray for them, to talk about spiritual things with them, to keep them accountable. To spur them on to love and good deeds, to continue meeting together all the more as we see the day approaching. May God help us and give us grace to this end. In Christ's name. Amen. As we move uh towards our time of intercessory prayer I'm going to ask uh Elder Cliff Hall if he'll come up and lead us in prayer for the um the Sher Walters and Burkina Faso. The Sir Walters are with uh Wycliffe Bible translators and they've uh been to our church several years ago and uh we can be praying for them especially as there are difficult political movements afoot um in their area of of ministry. Let's pray. Stewart and Kathy. We thank you for their commitment to Bring the translated word of God to a faraway people. We do pray for your hand upon the west coast of Africa with uh the various instabilities that have uh been recognized for some years now and seem to be flaring up. We pray for their protection, them and their children as well as the other believers and that uh uh community of the Khan people. And we pray for the work of translating the scriptures, which can be uh long and difficult, uh wrestling over the various words that would be appropriate to use. uh in each uh passage and verse of scripture, give them wisdom as they seek to write down the language of the Khan people. Um to uh uh establish a vocabulary and to uh put into words uh and translate into the the words of those people the uh the scriptures that they might uh Assist them in bringing them to faith in God. We pray for their financial support, for your provision for their needs there. We pray concerning their children's education that you would provide uh for that as well. And we pray you bless their marriage and give them fruit for their labor, help them to um see uh many of the Khan people coming to faith in Christ and we pray for your hand upon them in Jesus' name. Amen. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for the wonderful salvation that you've given us. And we pray, Lord, that you would be with the show altars as they minister in Burkina Faso Africa. And Lord for all those missionaries, those families and individuals that you've called to leave their homes and to go to a foreign land, Lord, uh to proclaim the love of God to people there who do not know you. And Lord, we do pray that you might send your word abroad, that you might bring many unto yourself, Lord, that they might know you and that they might love you. And that they might walk in your ways. And though we do pray for our brothers and sisters in Christ throughout the world, we think especially of the persecuted church in those areas where the government or the surrounding um Principalities are in opposition to your gospel, Lord. We pray that you would preserve your people, that you would change those circumstances, Lord, that they might worship you openly and freely. And Lord, that you would be at work. even when against the will of man, Lord, that you would triumph over the nations by bringing change in that area, and that you would exalt yourselves. uh even in um those areas where the your church is persecuted. Well we do thank you so much for the um the promise that we are children of God. And the promise that we shall be transformed upon your appearing, Lord, that we shall see you as you are, and that we shall be like you. Lord, we do pray that you would be with us now and that you would uh grant us your grace in Christ's name. Amen