So we are now at the very end of the second epistle, the second letter of Peter. In fact, we are on the last two verses of 2 Peter. It seems to me as I reflect on this particular book of the Bible, and as well as 1 Peter, when you think about it, That I see the heart of Peter as a pastor. His concern is for the sheep. He wants to protect them from harm. from the false teachers, and he wants to feed them so that they may grow. It appears as if the conversation that the Apostle John recorded for us between the Lord and Peter after the resurrection Had a very profound impact on Peter. With the actions that Peter has taken in these two letters, they are a tangible demonstration to his Lord and his Savior. That indeed he does love him. Not only in word, but also in deed and in service. Would you open your Bibles now as we get to our text this morning? It is from 2 Peter chapter 3, verses 17 and 18. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Hear now the word of God. You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as you do, so that we can have the Holy Spirit illumine our minds. Holy Spirit, you tell us that the Word of God is a double-edged sword, a sword that is capable of separating marrow from bone. It reveals the truth to us. It convicts us. We pray that it would do so for us this day. Reveal the truth about ourselves and reveal the truth about our Lord and Savior, His Majesty Jesus. Convict us where we need convicting, and grant us the grace of repentance so that we may repent and rejoice over the finished work of Christ and live in the fellowship of our great God. Pray this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Just as a very quick review, now that we are at the very end, Peter's already told us that there are false teachers. They will be among us. He tells us that we must learn the faith that has been given to us. And then be prepared to give an apology, a defense for the faith that we have. And now in this passage this morning, We are told to be on guard. Another word that is used for this is to keep watch, to guard yourself, be prepared. This is a common warning in scripture. Perhaps as you've read through the scriptures, this passage for this morning has probably come up in your mind. For example, in Luke 12 and 15, we read the Lord saying, And he said to them, Take care. And be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. In 2 Timothy 4. 15, we read Paul telling him, Beware of him yourself, for he strongly opposes our message And yet another example of people within the church or outside the church that are giving hard time to the apostolic teaching. We must be beware. 1 John 5. 21. Little children, he says, keep yourselves, keep yourselves, guard yourselves from idols. Now, what is it that Peter has in mind that we're to keep guard against? What are we to be prepared for? Well, he tells us that we don't get carried away. It's not every day that we find ourselves getting carried away, is it? Whom are we, or what are we getting carried away by? by lawless men and their false teachings. This is what he has just been talking about up until this passage. It seems they are everywhere. He just got done saying that the Apostle Paul has had to deal with these false teachers also, who have to distort the apostolic teaching in order to get their way. We have previously covered that false teachers were around from the beginning, and they were around in Peter's time, and they will be around till the return of Christ. And we have also learned that they sometimes rise up from within the church. So this means that we must keep watch for our souls. Keep guard against bad doctrine, erroneous doctrine, heretical doctrine, that could lead us into the same place that the false teachers are already at. Living in sin. That's what lawlessness is. Living in sin. They are clever. They are charming. And they look like the real McCoy. And they will entice you by appealing to your senses. And their arguments will contain a kernel of truth, but it will be mixed with error that leads one to lawlessness. Sin So, Peter is warning us to be careful, to be on guard against being carried away. And Peter, with his pastoral concern, does not wish that any would fall away from the faith He tells us that we should be careful to keep watch so that all those that are in the church would cling to the gospel. whether they are part of the visible or the invisible church. It is within the church That you have the security of the doctrines of grace. The gospel proclaimed, the encouragement of the saints, the fellowship of Christ, and the privileges and the freedoms that we have in Him. It is truly the safest place for us. But the point being made by Peter is that these false teachers outside the church can charm you. And if you get carried away by them, your place of security is compromised. I've seen this to be the case over the years over and over again Sometimes people move. Sometimes people have new jobs. Kids go off to college. And in every one of these circumstances, if you don't find a good Bible-believing church, or perhaps if you don't even go to church, It's in these circumstances that you leave yourself vulnerable. There is the world that is prepared to tell you that there is no such thing as sin. Or that it's okay as long as it doesn't hurt anyone. These very people at times end up unsuspectingly in institutions that call themselves churches. That don't even believe in the Bible as being the center of what they believe, nor Christ as the center of whom they worship It is these places that are prepared to tell you what the world wants you to hear. This is when you become vulnerable. You could lose your place of security. And Peter is warning you against that. But instead, Peter says, what you should do is grow. How do we do this? Grow in the grace and knowledge of Christ the Lord. I think it starts when we don't settle in remaining to be baby Christians, that we are not satisfied with just milk. We must grow. If you recall, last Sunday I said Christianity is not only about being a Christian, it's becoming and growing as a Christian. Becoming a Christian is not a one-time event or even a season in life. What I mean by that is that we have several of those seasons in life where we grow in knowledge and even in experience, and then we're sort of let loose into the world, if you will. For example, we have learning. We have primary education. We have secondary education. When we graduate from high school, some go on to college. And when we graduate, we are done. We are done with a growing phase of gaining knowledge Now some of us I know go on to get PhDs, and we view that as the end of the journey as well as the pinnacle of education. And then we are done. That season of life is now over. Well, the truth is that when it comes to Christianity, it never ends. We never have a PhD in being a Christian. We are to continually grow. That is what Peter is telling us. And you must be careful to not fall into the trap of thinking, well, hey, you know, even the apostles were educated by the Lord for about three years and then it ended. It is true that they were educated by the Lord for three years in preparation to be the foundation stones for the church and to teach others and following generations. But I guarantee you that they were lifelong learners and growers in Christ. Jesus said to them when he was about to leave, if you recall, that he would send the Holy Spirit. Who would then teach them? He would continue the process of understanding the true and deeper meanings of what they were taught. Think about that for a second. We never arrive. We never arrive Well, we will one day, when we physically arrive in heaven. But what is the implication of this for you and I? It is that we need to continue to grow in Christ. Now, no one ever really accomplishes anything until they make a plan to do something. You have to make a conscious decision to do something, don't you, in life? To grow in grace is intentional. This happens when you walk daily in the presence of Christ, reading Scripture, learning the doctrines of the church. Spending time with His Majesty in prayer. Brothers and sisters, this does not happen by accident. We have to plan to get things done, don't we? In my conversations with people, I have never heard the following. Well, Pastor, I married my wife ten years ago, and it was purely by accident Honestly, Pastor, I don't know how I got wealthy. It was just by accident. Pastor, I got an A on my paper. I think it was by accident. The word accident comes to us from the Latin, which basically means something that falls toward or happens upon a person or situation unexpectedly. And here's the key. often without a clear cause or intention. Now you may say that you met your spouse in an accident, but you can't say that you woke up one day and found your spouse in bed next to you and you simply can't explain how that happened. In fact, marriages are one of the most planned events in human life, right? You don't ace an exam by accident. You study. You learn. And these things all require that you set your mind to accomplishing something. That's one. And number two is that you need a plan to do it. I cannot imagine anyone whom we can look up to. Who is filled with the grace of God and biblically knowledgeable. A person who is filled with the joy of the Lord and it's just sort of oozing out of him or her. That if we were to ask them, how did you get this way? That they would say, you know, I really don't know It was by accident, really. I woke up one day and, well, I don't know. It really is a simple thing. It's rudimentary, isn't it? It's elementary. We have to make a decision to grow. Brothers and sisters, you have to make a decision to grow I don't know. Sometimes we think that it just happens by itself. Or we think that you you just attend worship on Sundays, and that should do it. Well, it certainly is a part of the formula to grow, but it's not the entirety of it. A couple of hours on the first day of the week is not sufficient for continued and healthy spiritual growth. You must decide to grow. As you reflect on your Christian life, do you think that maybe you've been drifting Maybe drifting for a long time? And maybe so. And the word, this very day, is saying to you, That you are to grow. This is a conscious decision that you are called to make Now, whenever we do that, make a decision to do something, we have to devise a plan. Now I'll get to that plan in just a little bit. I know that you know that whenever you have done that in the past, it requires Sometimes a reordering of your life. Depending on what you wish to accomplish, it can be a small reordering or a large reordering. If you wish to grow, you may have to reorder your life in some ways. Now I'm not talking about the discovery of sin and how repentance from a specific sin is going to affect the way that you live your life. That in itself certainly is applicable. But what I have specifically in mind is, there it is again, getting up off the couch. On certain nights of the week, and coming into the church to grow. It may mean going to someone's home for a Bible study It may mean opening your own home to receive guests in order to host a study. It may mean giving up a Saturday morning to serve someone. That's what I mean by part of the process is to reorder your life. People just don't show up at your house with appetizers and their Bibles by accident for a Bible study. You have to make that decision purposefully. You have to be intentional. You must have a plan. This means that in order to grow, you have to seek out the means of grace. To grow in grace, The scripture teaches us that there are means three means of grace. They are word, prayer, and sacraments. On the Lord's Day, generally, here we have all three. But there are other times that you can be engaged in prayer. Study of the word by yourself or with others, which doing both are good things to do. This is part of the plan. Then there is the implementation of the plan. Now, there may be some of you who are thinking, Pastor, but I like my couch. I like my bed, Pastor. It's really comfortable It's got the massage thing. It's got the heater thing. It's got the cooler thing. It's got the thing where it goes up and you can retract and you can come down. Pastor, there's a reason why they call my furniture a lazy boy Look, you're not going to wake up one day knowledgeable about our Lord and living in the joy of the Lord. By accident and without bed source is just not gonna happen Your commitment to Christ was not a one-time commitment to Him. It's a lifelong commitment that calls you to grow. Growing in grace and growing in the knowledge of Christ really are two different things. But they are not mutually exclusive. And they are complementary. Our faith is not a faith in faith. It has substance. Our faith has content, and we must learn them and apply them to our lives. It is not sufficient to just learn the gospel. You must surrender to it. It is not sufficient to learn what the Bible's position is on premarital sex, or what it says about gender identity, or not bearing false witness. We must put those things into action. But you see, it's easy to learn something. I know that not all things are easy. Yes. Tom Clement, I struggled with calculus in school. And yes, Cliff Hull, I struggled with chemistry of all things in school. If learning something is hard, and some things are hard to learn, I think it's harder to put things into practice. It's hard to live in what you have learned. This I think is true of all types of knowledge. What I'm trying to say that it's harder to put into practice the things that we learn. This is where growing in grace comes hand in hand with knowledge about learning about Christ. Peter wants us to grow in the knowledge of God. the Father and Christ the Son and the Holy Spirit, as well as us growing in the grace of God, so that we are then empowered to live out a life that we have learned God has revealed to us in His Word. And so it is in this way that we are to grow. We are to grow by learning, by growing in the knowledge of the Lord, as revealed in the scriptures, and we are to pursue growing in the grace of God. By making that decision, we can glorify God with a bountiful boldness and a blissful beauty. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed for your grace, and we thank you for your word. We thank you that you warn us, you prepare us, and you call us to grow in grace. We pray that Heavenly Father that if there are things that are standing in the way of us making that conscious decision To grow in grace, to draw closer to you, but your Holy Spirit would just demolish it. Help us To turn to you, to desire what your son came to do. That is to be in fellowship with you. To love you back, to have communion with you. Help us, we pray To see your grace, to see your son, to experience your love, and to take comfort in your mercy. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.