Some of the most beautiful words in all of Scripture are found in the prophet Isaiah, and especially chapters 40 to 66. This uh these two verses I want to read before uh the reading of scripture are are from there Thus says the Lord, heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made. And so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I look. He who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. I just love that last line. What a beautiful and desirable thing it is that God would take pleasure to set his gaze upon us. And to be beautiful and desirable to God is to be humble and contrite and trembling at his word. These things, I think, get harder the longer it is that you know Christ. I think they get harder because, well, in part because you become more and more familiar with Scripture and its freshness. is harder to find. It's part of why we pray before we read. Only the Spirit ultimately can make it fresh to us. Some of it's because we simply remember things we've heard uh before. We're just so familiar with it. And sometimes the only way to get past that is to actually earnestly study the scriptures. It's actually often it's that study time as you go on that really makes the scriptures alive for you. But then also, as we understand more of the Bibles, we're more familiar with it, often our hearts deceive us because we think that because we know it, we're actually doing it. And only the Spirit can break through that self-deception. So let's pray and ask him to do just that. Father, we have gathered here because we love you, we love your word. We desire now to fully humble ourselves in heart and mind, and we ask for grace to do that. Make fresh and alive to us these familiar words from the letter your servant Paul wrote. Make them lively to our hearts and our minds, and enable us by faith not only to believe them. But in the deepest of assurance and the fullest manner to walk them out in life. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please, if you would, stand. We continue our study of the letter to the Philippians. And we are in chapter three, verse twelve this morning. Not that I've already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own. Because Christ, Jesus has made me his own Brothers, I do not consider that I've made it my own, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you. Only let us hold true to what we have attained. Brothers, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many of whom I have often told you and now tell you, even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will be, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Therefore, my brothers whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. You may be seated. Our nature is a hard thing to change. It takes time. Now, I've heard of people who have life-changing, miraculous turnarounds. People who are set free from addictions after a single prayer. relationships that were saved after a single uh conversation. But it wasn't like that for me. After all, I was, for the loss I was found. Actually, it would be true to say of me that I was very lost. And then I was found some. And then I was a little less lost. And then Jesus found a little bit more of me, and then a little less. And this is the spiritual life. This slow reworking, rebooting the computer, reading the fine print in the manual slowly. I've been rebuilt to a better version of me. It has taken years, and it's not over yet. Those are the words of Bono, the lead singer for U2. And I really identify with him. I really do. Progress is slow indeed. Changing me has been slow. It's hard to change our natures. And life, too, is hard. Discouragement comes from many directions Consider the man who's written these letters to us, the one we're reading this morning. In another place he recounts some measure of his sufferings. That he was given 39 lashes many, many times, beaten with rods. Stoned and left for dead. Numerous times he was adrift in the ocean. He'd experienced shipwrecks As he traveled, he experienced dangers from thieves. He'd known hunger. He'd known hostility from the Jews. uh from those who claimed to be Christ but were not. And daily he was concerned for the churches. for the influence of false teaching and for each Christian in it as he learned that someone had fallen into sin sin it created deep anxiety with him and even from this uh prison cell that he's now in he uh has already told us that there in Rome. While he's there for the sake of the gospel, there are people who say, I'm pro-Christ and I am anti-Paul. They want to make Paul's life miserable. Paul knows life is hard, and yet Paul can write in glowing terms about his singular pursuit of Christ Paul's passion for Christ is expressed in these words that are just before the text we read. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, that I may share his sufferings. becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. to know Christ, to be found in him, to be made like him. For Paul Christ was not one passion among many It was the defining passion of his life. But Paul says here could be paraphrased this way from verse 12. Not that I've already obtained all this or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own because Christ Jesus has made me his own. He says, I grasp and I press because I've been grasped. I've been pressed. Now, this is really relevant. It speaks to our day. A lot of people say, well, I'm a Christian I was raised in it. I've always believed it, and it's not really a big deal for me But you're not a Christian unless you know something of the aggressiveness that Paul talks about here. That Christ has grabbed a hold of you in an aggressive manner. And elicit some aggression within you. The kingdom of God suffers. from violence. And the violent bear it away. It's the violent who receive the kingdom. Well, someone else might say, well, I think of Christianity as a private thing. I really don't like those people who are always talking about religion, about Christ. I don't like to talk about it. I don't want to make a fuss about it. It's for my own private life. Do you realize what they're saying? This statement assumes that Christianity is just a part of your life. But Paul says no. To be a Christian means that your entire life is gathered up and pushed toward one thing. Press toward one single thing. And because it is pressed toward one thing, it comes in your life, there's great energy that flows toward that one thing. Paul puts it this way in the letter to Colossians. I struggle by the energy he so mightily inspires in me. Do you know anything of that? Or are you a passive person spiritually? Are you a casual person religiously? Christianity is utterly radical. It is either you are this or you aren't that. Either you are gripped with passion for Christ. Or you are not. You see, if you're a Christian Then Christ has laid a hold of you for the very purpose of you knowing Him Knowing him in a way that actually will produce in you The fullness of what it means to be human, which is exactly what it means to be made Christ-like. They're the same things. The only purpose big enough for your life. To live for romance, for success in school, or work, for family. for investments, for sports, for the next purchase or vacation. These will leave you empty. You were made for more Now, Paul in our passage shares his passion, and he does so in a very practical way. He shows us how it is that Passion for Christ can be rekindled and maintained in the ordinary life, where change is hard and life is difficult. He tells us we press on. And the first thing in your outline is this. We press on as we are realistic about where Look again at verses 12 through 15. Not that I've already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own. because Jesus Christ has made me his own. Brothers, I don't consider that I've made it my own, but one thing I do Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Paul, you see, wants more. And the word picture he uses is that of a race. Pressing on is an athletic metaphor. Now, I'm not an athlete. No one would mistake me for an athlete, but I do run. I run uh every week. I've been running for years. I've even done a few road races. A couple of times I've run the peach tree with 40,000 of my closest uh friends. And uh Even though if you haven't run since you had a PE class in school and you detest running, every question is called to this athleticism. Now, Paul, as he writes, I've not already obtained all this, or I'm not already Perfect, is probably addressing two things at the same time. On the one hand, he's being totally honest. He's being candid about where he stands spiritually. But on the other hand, he's addressing, it's very likely he's addressing a problem in the church, because it was very common uh in the churches And the churches had absorbed something of the spirit of the age, which uh there was a dualism in all, pretty much all religions, that separated the spiritual from the physical. In fact, these things still plague the church even to this day. But this was held these were held in such distance from each other. That it was commonly thought that, well, it really didn't matter what you did with your body. You could live an utterly immoral life. And it wouldn't impact at all your spiritual life. It's a little like our saying, what uh happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. The ancient world said what happens in the body stays in the body, leaving one spiritually unaffected and undamaged. Now I suppose if we're candid we can understand why, well People would want a shortcut. They'd want to find a way that didn't involve so much struggle. And we do struggle. And we do have failures. And we fall down. Paul says he not only isn't perfect, but he doesn't yet have the prize. He hasn't reached the finish line. Just what is that? Well, it includes conformity to Christ. Complete sanctification, the deepest fellowship, the fullest fellowship that a human can have with Christ. And the resurrection from the dead and eternal life in all its fullness. These we have only now partially. And Paul wants it all. Paul not only knows he doesn't have the prize, he hasn't crossed the finish line, but he's focused on it. Paul's I is on the finish line. And he uses a word play here that's really hard to replicate in the English. But he uses two forms of the Greek word lambano. He denies he has obtained, that's one use of the word lambano, the whole treasure of knowing Christ And then he says, using the same root word, to make it my own. He intensifies this word. He adds a preposition. to escalate it. It's not just simply to obtain, but to fully obtain. Paul wants the gold medal as he crosses the finish line. And he's confident that he will, because Christ has taken possession of him. Permanent possession of him. Notice, he says it with a little word of because in verse 12. Because Christ Jesus has made me his own. The reason Paul strives so strenuously that he's been seized and claimed by Christ. And this is grace. This is grace. It's grace that enables Paul to strive this way. And then he touches on grace again in verse 14 when he says the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. The divine call and summons that brought Paul to Christ on the Damascus Road secures for Paul. the full rescue from sin's guilt and penalty and dominion, and eventually sin's sting, which is death and even the presence of sin. Now here we have God's sovereign initiative in seizing and calling, which instead of making our efforts unnecessary or superfluous, actually makes our persevering, our efforts of pressing on, both necessary and possible And it's central here to Paul's teaching about this race, that it's rooted in grace. And he shows practically what this means as he writes in verse 13, brothers, I don't consider that I've made up my own, but one thing I do. forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead. Now, when you run a race If it's not with 40,000 people, you you know, when it's a when it's a small race. Then you're wanting to see where you are in position relative to others. So occasionally you take a look back, but you don't run the whole race. Looking back You not only wouldn't make progress, you'd likely fall down. And Paul says that he doesn't continually look back at his life. He forgets the past. Now, there's a number of things that can result in our living with a backward look. Life brings its losses, bereavements There are things that happen to us we are sinned against, and we can become bitter We can be stuck on our failures. Paul experienced all of those things. He had failures He didn't always make the right choice. He's tempted just as we are, and he falls into sin just as we do. But Paul is not going to let his past failures cripple him. He won't obsess over them. He won't rehearse them. Now many people get stuck right here. I've been stuck here before. And when Paul writes this, he doesn't mean he has amnesia. That he's lost the memory of these events. He's after all speaking of them here But what we need to do is we need to leave our failings at the foot of the cross and trust that as we've confessed them, that Christ is faithful to forgive us and cleanse us. And if you're confessing a sin that you committed a month ago or years ago that you have already confessed, you're simply not believing in the grace of forgiveness. Now, I don't mean that to sound really harsh, but that's really the truth. You're really saying that my sin is too great for Christ to forgive? And I have to wallow in it. You know, I have to be miserable in it until I think enough time has passed. You need to recognize unbelief for what it is and repent of your unbelief by stopping those daily confessions of sins long ago confessed. And you need to find a passage of Scripture that speaks to you about the greatness of God's forgiveness. Now the devil will not like this. He is the accuser of the brethren. That means he likes to rehearse. in uh ultra-high definition with Dolby Sound, the events that in your life where you've sinned and you've fallen down. And you have to put a stop to it. No one else can do that for you. Don't live in guilt. Don't let him do that to you. Paul also had to forget the spiritual successes, the high points, the times when he was most used of God. Well, I would imagine, being confined for many years as he was, that that was a real temptation for him. And we can easily look back at what we think are the best days. Perhaps the best days in our relationship with God, the best days when God used you in the life of other in some significant way. Or perhaps when you first discovered the joys of reading Scripture or worship or sharing your faith, Paul will not lose focus by looking back. Implied in what he writes is this pressing on takes place, and it's empowered by his union with Christ. He's pressing on because of the energy that flows from Christ into his life And so he longs to experience that union more deeply. That's what he's writing about in verses 10 and 11. And Paul thumbs the whole thing up this way, and it's a wordplay, it's a poem. The perfect know they're not perfect. Or if you prefer the mature, know that they're not mature. That's how you can tell you're making progress as you're aware that there's a lot of progress still to be made. And Paul goes on in verse 16, he writes this, only let us hold true what we have promised We press on as we live up to the level of maturity we've achieved. The word attained here is a very rare word in the Greek language. And it means to live in conformity with some. standard. It could be paraphrased this way. However, be clear on this point. If we wish to grow spiritually, we must conduct ourselves in a manner that is consistent. with the level of growth to which God has brought us. Now, the truth is we don't all start in the Christian life in the same place. Some of us have had the privilege of growing up in a Christian home with believing parents and We've been nurtured in the scriptures. We've had the influence of other Christians in our lives all along. And others of us bring very different experiences, family backgrounds. Some of us start life with our bags already heavily packed. And others of us, as we go through life, find that there's more and more things of great weight packed into them. But nonetheless, we're responsible for the truth we possess. and we're to keep up the level of obedience which we have. Why is it necessary even to say this? Well, it's because we grow complacent. And you can grow self-satisfied spiritually. You can drift. In fact, one entire letter in the New Testament is written to address this. It's the letter to the Hebrews. You see, it's so easy to fall into that, and it happens often so slowly you don't perceive it When I was in college, I became involved with a campus group, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, if that means anything to you. And they had a discipleship camp that took place in the summer. And uh while in that camp One of the speakers challenged said something very challenging about love. I don't remember, but I remember being convicted about how unloving I was and how I needed to ask God to make me a loving person. And so for about 10 years, every day I prayed that God would make me a more loving person. Now I'm not sure why I stopped, but I can look back a couple decades later and tell you that I'm still not the loving person I wished I was, that I'd hoped in praying for ten years I would have uh become. I'm not as empathetic as I should be. I'm not as selfless as I should be. I'm not, I don't love people the way Jesus loves people naturally, easily, if I ever do it at all. Paul goes on. His third point's this. We press on as we imitate those who live like Paul. Brothers, Join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. Paul often calls the churches to imitate himself. He's not seeking attention the way celebrities do in our day. No, he realizes That the Philippians and we need a humble, a radical dependence on Christ. And we need to see people who are actually modeling that for us. in real life with real responsibilities. We need examples to help us as we face disappointments, hardships. sufferings, as well as living with abundance or with scarcity, or learning how to live with great gifts of hand or intellect. in such a way that they don't become sources of destructive pride. And then Paul sounds the opposite note. And he warns that there are people who you will meet along the way as you head toward the finish line. Who you thought were running well, but they're not running at all. I remember vividly, just so vividly When when I won't use their names, this young couple, they were both uh the children of pastors And they sat in my office after I'd pursued and pursued and pursued and wondered what was going on And the husband looked at me and said, no, I will not leave my lover. I'm abandoning my marriage and my faith. And I was utterly shocked They seemed the model of what it looked like at their age to follow Christ. And when I shared this with the elders, they fell out of their seats. They simply couldn't believe it would be possible. Their minds are set on earthly things. They do that which is shameful. They live for sensual pleasure. In the end, theirs will not be the prize, but eternal destruction. We can't be fooled into thinking Because so-and-so claims to follow Christ, and they attend such and such a church, and they live like the devil, that they actually are Christ. Those who live lives that are not set on the same pursuit that Paul is speaking of, to possess Christ and claim the price, it is to be feared that they are in fact strangers. To God's grace I remember at that same intervarsity camp on our last uh our graduation. And they told us that they had followed the students who had come to that camp. The camp involved a month of time in the summer when many students needed to be employed. And the students I was with, almost all of them were leaders of their campus groups. And because it was in the Northeast, many of these students were from the finest universities. names you would readily recognize. And then they told us how many of us in that room would be following Christ a year later? Five years later, ten years later, measured by whatever things they ask. And they said only one out of ten of us in that room. Would be following Christ in ten years. These were campus leaders on secular campuses who had stood for the name of Christ. We ought to be sobered. Lastly, Paul says we look for and rely upon the grace in Christ. But our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown stand firm thus in the Lord my beloved. Notice what he says here. Our citizenship is in heaven. Do you remember the Philippi? was a city that was granted the full status of Rome, that its citizens were full Roman citizens and their children were full Roman citizens, had all the rights and privileges. They were very proud. Most of them, many of them, had military service and allegiance They were very proud to be Romans. And Paul says, your citizenship is not as a Roman citizen. It's not your first and your primary citizenship. It's not of first importance. We do not belong here. This world is not our home. Being citizens of this nation is not your primary citizenship. And if you're here and you are a citizen of another nation, that nation is not And you're a Christian. It's not your primary citizenship. It is not where your identity is rooted. And yet sadly, and I see this increasingly There is more passion for politics among Christians than there is for the pursuit of Christ. We're so enamored with the American way of life that so many have more passion about their career or their hobbies or some other personal goal than Christ. It's not Christ that they speak of. It's not Christ that they dream about. It's not Christ that they long for. It's something else. What concentrates Paul's mind? And need concentrate ours is the return of Christ. We await a Savior, and He will transform us. This is our anchoring hope that the goal will be reached. And all that comes with the resurrection of our bodies when Christ comes. Beholding God, the vision of God. To be whole, completely whole, to be free from sin. This is what comes with Christ. And our hearts must be concentrated on this. longing for this. This is our anchor. This is how we stay firm, dear friends. Let's pray Gracious Heavenly Father, may you be pleased to grant that even this morning you would kindle rekindle, awaken, stoke the fires of passion for Christ in us. that he would be the singular passion and pursuit of our lives, even in the midst of all the other responsibilities you've granted us. Lord, enable us not to look back either to those places where we have stumbled. Or to even those places where you've had your hand of blessing on us, or we have tasted something of the beauty and glories of what it means to be Christian. May it be that the very power of Christ's union in us would compel us with the greatest of energies to pursue Him. To know him, to be made like him, to fellowship even in his sufferings. that we might experience the fullness of the resurrection that awaits us. It's in his name we pray.