Thank you, brother. So I need to make a a correction here before we get started. Um it was brought to my attention on Sunday evening that uh uh I had in the bulletin that we were doing up until verse five when in fact I had never intended uh to do that. So that was my error, so at verses one through four. And if you look at your bulletin this morning, what you're going to see is that we're supposed to be covering all the way to verse 9. And that was actually intended. But as it turns out, as I was going through the passage, I just had so many things that I wanted to talk about, verses one through seven. So we will verses two seven. So we will not actually uh be going uh all the way to uh verse nine today. So if I um if I were to ask you a question, and that question was, what's the first thing that comes to your mind when I say investment? What would it be? Well, I think that most people when they think of investment, they think of financial investments, right? The type of investments we're talking about here in financial is like I guess buying stocks, buying bonds, mutual funds. uh IRAs and so forth and so forth. But you know, there really are different type of investments or different categories of investments that we don't normally think of. Uh as a matter of fact, um I went ahead and did a uh a Google search on what are different types of investments. And of course, all it came back with was financial investments. There's tons and tons of different financial investments that are out there. But the the the the different categories that I'm making mention to here are, you know, we can make investments If you have children in our kids, right? We can make a variety of different investments in their education, in their training, in their sports. These are different types of investments that we make into our children. Uh and of course there's a different uh type of investment that uh has to do with our health. Right? We can make investments in our health by by exercising and making sure that we take the right medicines when we're supposed to take them in the quantities that we're supposed to take them. And all of these things sort of like have one thing in common, right? And that is that we're hoping that we're going to get some sort of fruit, right? We're going to get some sort of return or investment somewhere down the road. But it is this requires some sort of um uh uh it's it's really not a passive thing, it's really an active thing that we're engaged in, right? This is something that we um uh put time into. We could put money into. We put a lot of different energy into, right? We put mental energy, we put spiritual energy, uh, physical energy into being able to accomplish these things. Now, I think what we're going to find out this morning is that we're going to see in the passage from 2 Peter is that he's saying something similar here. in these passages in verses 5 through 7 that we're going to be going through this morning. Up until now, Peter has sent his greetings to his recipients, verses 1 and 2, telling us in verse 3 that Through God's divine power, that we already have all the things that we need in order to live the Christian life Having defined what we are in Christ, Peter now turns his end our attention to what life looks like for being a Christian. How does one live a life of faith? Is it spent, as some would say, all day at home? Perhaps only eating birdseed all day and meditating on some special knowledge or putting into practice some special spiritual rituals. involving substances that seem to have their legal status change from time to time. Or is it something that's entirely different that Peter has in mind? Peter tells us what God has done in us, and he has given us very great promises Now and how through his power we already have everything that we need to live a victorious life. Because of these very great promises, the gifts given to us by God, we cannot sit back. Or kick up our feet and do nothing waiting for his return. Instead As a result of this wonderful outpouring of grace upon us, we need to get moving. But what are we to do? What does this movie look like? So let's turn our attention now to our passage this morning. It is from 2 Peter 1, verses 5 through 7. Would you please rise now for the reading and the hearing of God's holy word? It is from 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 5 through 7. For this very reason Make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue and virtue with knowledge and knowledge with self-control and self-control with steadfastness. And steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds to the word. Holy Spirit. Open our understanding to the Word of God. Help us to see the truth of the Word. And help us to conform to it so that we may reflect our Savior in His virtues. And reflect the character of our Heavenly Father to a lost and broken world that needs reconciliation with Him that can only come through the glorious gospel of Christ and the kingdom of God. And we pray this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So now we know that Peter's attention is now focused on from what we are in Christ to what we must now strive to become. More and more in our sanctification, because he begins verse 5 with the following For this very reason. Referring back to what he just said in verses 3 and 4. Before we begin to look at this list, let's take a moment to analyze Peter's word choice. Immediately prior to it. He says, make every effort to supplement, to supplement some ad The word to add or supplement is epicharego in the Greek, and it has at its roots a vivid metaphor. drawn from the Athenian drama festivals, in which rich and wealthy individuals call the Joregas paid the expenses of the chorus for that festival. He joined with the poet and the state in putting on these festivals Now this could be a pretty expensive enterprise, and yet these benefactors competed with one another in their generosity for providing resources. And training of the choruses, which were integral to the festivals. And my understanding is that at times a time they would participate in the choruses as well. Thus the word came to mean. Generous and costly cooperation. Cooperation at a great cost Whether we're generous in providing assistance to others, or even if we spend time and money in trying to improve our personal skills Such as taking public speaking classes, getting certifications in our professions, or taking classes to upgrade our knowledge. We usually spend money and certainly time, mental, and physical energy to achieve these goals, don't we? Now, I'm not saying that any of these efforts are or these classes are evil or they're wrong. In fact, they can be very helpful and depending upon your career field, they're needful But I want to point out that once we recognize, that we we recognize what a wonderful gift we've been given and a new identity in Christ, well this should lead us to want to grow or add. Or, if I may say, supplement our faith by pursuing, well, the list of stuff that Peter is about to provide for us But is that something that we Christians generally do? What I mean is Do we, do you, do I look for opportunities to grow in my faith, like I do with my certifications in my field of work? Like a master mechanic would, take a specialization course in engine in engines or engineering for that matter. Several weeks ago, I received in the mail Real mail, physical mail, a catalog from the county, from our county where we live, offering classes, courses, tutoring for life enrichment. Play better golf. Learn to change oil. Stretching for a healthier life. I was interested in some of them. And again, there's nothing wrong with that, but the passage, this passage, challenged me. Do I approach my life with the Lord in the same manner? Fervor, interest to grow in Christ. If I were to receive a similar catalog, which had in it classes like how to proclaim the gospel. How to love your neighbor well. How to develop self-discipline in your life. How to grow deeper in your love for God. How to develop Christian character church history, a study of end times, the Trinity itself, and so on What would I do? What would you do? Would I look and thumb through that catalog with the same level of excitement or interest as learning how to change my oil? I think that we as Christians could fall into Alulla at times, can't we? And neglect our personal sanctification. We have to invest in our sanctification. We pay money for these classes. Most of those classes had a cost in that catalog. Would you pay money for a class to learn something about how to become a more sanctified Christian? No, no, this is not something letting you think that we're going to start charging for classes. No, it's not. In the same way as the choregas. What Peter is alluding to in his word usage, he is calling the Christian to engage in this sort of cooperation with God. which may come at a cost in the production of a Christian life, which will ultimately be a benefit to him and a delight to God. Now, as we turn to his list, Peter's list in this passage, we should note that there are a total of eight of them. There's eight items there, and the first is faith. Faith has in mind, I think, a twofold meaning. First is that faith that we exercise in becoming Christian. The beginning point, really, when it comes to a relationship with God, saving faith. It's all about having a trusting faith in God that He will live up to His promises. This has to do with what preceded in verses 3 and 4. And the second item is that we need to continue to live in faith throughout this life as sojourners In a land that is not our own. He then moves on to virtue. So we must supplement, we must add to our faith virtue or virtuous living. Some Bible versions translate this as goodness. The notion is basically about the same The Greek Stoics would make a list of virtues and offer it as some sort of moral advice. Peter's not trying to Hellenize the church here But again, this is another example of how he is referring to and using words and categories for which the broader culture possesses a frame of reference. The Apostle Paul has this in other places. He has that in Romans 5. He has a list of these. He has it in Galatians 5 as well. Peter is also providing for us a list of virtues that the Christian is to pursue given God's enabling. But unlike the other lists in the scripture, he he offers this list like sort of like a chain, like links in a chain, one after another. One leading to another and all related to one another. So for example, what I mean is that he starts with faith, and without faith we don't have a relationship with God. And all other things have No eternal value in this link for the unbeliever. You have to be a believer for these things to have a benefit for you. So, to this virtue, we are to add knowledge. Here, knowledge should be understood beyond just cognitive data. It's the pursuit of wisdom and discernment that comes from learning about God, Christ, the Holy Spirit, and his ways. It is the knowledge that enables us to live informed, virtuous lives. Now this doesn't happen overnight. It takes time. You have to make it a lifelong habit to learn and grow in the Lord. You have to thumb through that catalog and find those classes to learn more about God and Christ and about the wonderful salvation that we have in him. When we think of self-control, which is the next item on our list here, what areas or arenas in life seem to pop up the most? When you think of self-control. Where do you normally want to be able to exercise more self-control in your life? Things that come up the most are drinking and eating. I can think of impulse buying And impulsive sexual behavior. Having self-control or personal restraint is something I think everyone wishes they had more of, don't we? It has relations with a lack of patience, self-control, or lack of it. And that has connections With trusting God, I think ultimately. Now, what this has to do with God is that when we are not able to put off or restrain ourselves. It is because we are looking to experience some sort of joy or satisfaction that we think we will gain by indulging or rewarding ourselves with. And we just don't want to wait. Now I think you can see where I'm going with this. Yes, it is because we are not finding our satisfaction with God. Our heads are being turned by those competing offers, are they not? In Greek philosophy and other ancient civilizations, self-control was highly prized. And we can see why. A person was to demonstrate control over his passions and not let his passions have control over him. We can have better self-control, self-discipline when we trust God. A practical way To do this is to cede control of our desires to the indwelling Spirit of God. Have him to grant us the grace Battle with us to overcome the impulses of the old man and his passions. Peter then moves from self-control to steadfastness. Another word that is used for steadfastness is perseverance. This is, as you could well imagine, aided by self-control. Steadfastness has been described as the ability to not become daunted or deterred In achieving one's goals by difficulty, by challenges, setbacks, and stressful conditions. The response to all of these things we are to have is, I am not going to be deterred. Because the goal. Because the goal is absolutely worth it. For the Christian, the goal is Christ. The goal is to please our Heavenly Father. It is embedded in the knowledge of what we were and what God did to save us Our desire to please God is rooted in thankfulness and a desire to return our love to Him. Because he loved us first. When we're trying to persevere in God and in his ways, our resolve is tested by a two-pronged attack. The first is from within, the lust of the flesh, and the second is from without the lures of the world. What can help us in these situations is to keep an eye on the prize. The book of Hebrews speaks of this. It likens our lives in Christ as a race, and we must keep our eyes on what is at the end the sweet victory and the crown that comes with it. And for us, that crown is Christ. This takes faith, does it not? And it has been said that there aren't any more effective tests for the presence of faith than this. Steadfastness. I think it's absolutely true. To this steadfastness, we are called to add godliness. Godliness has at its roots ethical behavior, and its meaning stems from reverence. It is a reverence to God, or as the Greeks saw it, small g gods. It required that man was to perform his duties to his deity. It was not satisfactory to teach that if you had special knowledge, or access to God, you can forego your ethical responsibilities to God. Peter is using a Greek word that attacks the false teachers, that all you need is a special knowledge. By passing any effort on our parts to change our ethical behaviors. This is what Peter is attacking. It's not enough to hold on in faith, perseverance, self-control, patience Peter, with godliness, makes it clear that with proper knowledge of God Our relationship to him, our love for him, and what he requires of his children will and should always lead to a heart that has been changed. which desires to obey and does so with personal ethics that reflects that change from within. I think that if you've been a Christian long enough, you should see this in your life I mean, at least in my case, I can look back at my life and see how my ethics, my desires have been changed. I no longer desire the things I used to desire. Obviously, I'm talking about sinful things. Things that used to be so hard to overcome no longer have power over me. Things I would have thought, godly things, as stupid and reflecting weakness in people. I no longer desire, but pursue. Things like being humble Or not stretching the truth to advance in life, which by the way is basically lying, right? These are examples of what I thought were silly and detrimental to advancing in life. I no longer think that way. I pray that God would make me more and more humble. I despise being prideful. I despise not being truthful. Being a Christian does mean that we become aware of our sinfulness, and it does mean that we turn to God to help us to have victory and change. Godliness means that there is an outward, visible, ethical change in our behaviors. There is no such thing from the scriptures that teaches or approves of what many would call carnal Christianity. Christians invest in their faith. This is what we do And then this leads Peter to the next lake, which is brotherly affection. Or also known as brotherly love. Now scripture teaches us in 1 John 4. 20 That there is no Christianity that has godliness divorced from brotherly love. I'll read that for us. If anyone says, I love God And hates his brother, he is a liar. Brotherly love and affection is a distinguishing feature of Christian discipleship. Sometimes the proper and genuine exercise of love can be misinterpreted, as of all things, as just the exact opposite. Unloving, restricting, limiting. I think this is because in some ways our broader culture has watered down or changed the meaning of love. Our society with its goals to give freedom to all sorts of behaviors, including sinful behavior and choices, Would say to tell someone that they are uh that if you tell someone that they're wrong in their choices, is unkind. It's not loving. And it seems today that there is no end to this. But the truth is, we are called to love one another. At times, when necessary, with humility. to confront our brethren with their sins because we care, because we love one another. We are to be like our Heavenly Father, who loves us, and He disciplines us because He loves us. Additionally, because we are united in Christ, indwelled by the Holy Spirit, we are a family that is called to love one another. I want you to know that I understand that this is tough for some of us who haven't grown in a setting or a family that has demonstrated this type of loving behavior. This is a challenge, and it takes time to process and experience. We must guard the unity and the familial ties we have with one another in our Heavenly Father. We accomplish this by not gossiping. We bear one another's burdens. We pray for one another. We don't allow personal preferences to rule within the community, but rather considers others' preferences as if more important than our own. We don't allow for narrowness and prejudice, but revel and marvel in how God prophesied long ago And has now brought together peoples from all nations to become a holy race, a royal priesthood who together gather to offer sacrifices to God. It's glorious. This genuine brotherly affection is one of the ways that we are to be so different from the world. Let's look at some of what the scripture has to say about this brotherly love. Romans 12, 10. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Hebrews 13, 1. Let brotherly love continue amongst yourselves. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 9. Now, concerning brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. And then finally in 1 John chapter 5 and 1. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. And everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him. This love for one another is what we should be looking to accomplish. And it's also something that should come naturally to us. Now this becomes more and more natural when we are practicing godliness in our personal lives. This is why brotherly love is married to and follows the practice of godliness. Do you guys see where Peter's going with this? And now we come to the last one. Love. If any of you are wondering, the Greek word here is agape. There are three words and thus types of love that come to us from the Greek language. The first is phileo, which Peter just used in referencing to brotherly love And the second is eros, which is physical or sexual love, as is properly expressed in marriages. And the third type is agape, which is what Peter ends his list with. Dr. Michael Green, in his commentary on 2 Peter, points out that the following. That Phileo type of love is friendship love that seeks to provide mutual solace. Eros type of love seeks to provide mutual satisfaction. In both of these cases, love is stirred because of what the loved one is. With agape love, it is the reverse. God's agape love is evoked not by what we are But by what he is. Agape love has at its origin in the agent, not in the object. It is not that we are lovable, but it is because God is love. That's the difference between those two, if you caught it, was mutual. But agape is not mutual. is because of the person who is loving. This agape love might be defined as a deliberate desire for the highest good of the one loved. Which shows itself in sacrificial action for that person's good. This is what God did for us. This is what He wants us to do for other people. The Spirit of God, who is love, has been given freely to us in order to reproduce in us that very same quality. To give love. Not expecting anything back in return. Not because of anything in that other person. It is just the love. That is what God did for us. There's nothing special about me. There's nothing special about any of God's elect. It's all about God's love and how he expressed it and showed it and gave it to us through the sacrificing of his own son for our benefit This is love. This is sacrificial love. This is agave love. Not wanting or expecting anything in return, but only wanting to benefit the person whom you are loving. That's what this last link on the chain is. And so we begin we began in faith And we end in love. Speeder stated, as partakers in the divine nature, Each step on this list leads to and produces the subsequent quality, both balancing and perfecting each other Which ultimately produces agape love. In conclusion, we must end where we started. As a result of God's work of salvation and the very great promises given to us, we must see as Peter states. Make every effort to add or supplement This means that it takes effort on our part. We must invest in our faith. We're called to We must look to grow in our knowledge of God. We must expand and expend energy and time to draw closer to God. Leading biblically virtuous lives, hating sin and embracing righteousness. Being steadfast in our resolve to follow God and not give into worldly thinking, worldly behaviors, excusing and approving. Let us love one another, and in a manner that reflects God loving us. Selfless love that looks for the benefit of one another, for their good, and not ours. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives. We thank you that you have demonstrated that love for us. You are not requiring of us something that you have not done yourself. And we praise you for that. And we thank you for that. Work in us a desire to invest in our faith more and more. May we Similarly, with great delight, look to learning about you Look to seeing how we can reflect the character of your son in our lives, knowing fully well and being reminded that we can't do it on ourselves. We need your help. And so we ask you, Holy Spirit, to change us from within. Help us to be more self-controlled, self-disciplined. Help us to be virtuous in our living. Help us to seek out more and more the knowledge of God. Help us to be steadfast in our faith. And help us to love one another Which will help us to ultimately return God's love and to love our neighbor. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.