Deuteronomy six and John five read Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, with all your might. These words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your sons, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontals on your forehead. You shall write them on the doorpost of your house and on your gates And then in John 5, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is these that testify about me. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? This is Christ talking to the Pharisees about the scriptures and about that all of the law points to Christ. And uh the Deuteronomy passage is just after the second giving of the law, of the Ten Commandments. And uh Moses, in giving the uh law to the people, commands them to teach those things to their children. Um now that uh some sects of Judaism believe that he was speaking literally when he said, Buy them to your hands and to your foreheads and on the lintels of your house. And they actually did. They have little boxes that contain um uh uh a uh uh miniature of the law that they uh put in those places. But what God is describing here is making that th foundational As to who you are, who your family is, how you live your life. And so as God calls us to make His law and His Word foundational in our lives. Let us come and study his word together as we find it in Psalm 16. Turn with me to Psalm 16 as we continue our series in the Psalms. And let's uh stand for prayer and then um remain standing for the reading of God's Word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for who you are, that you are the great and mighty God, that you are the Lord, our God. And that you have called us to be your people. And Lord, as we come before you this evening, in your house, amongst your people, on your day. Lord, I pray that you might be at work in our hearts and our minds, that you might be changing them, that you might be transforming them. Lord, we pray that you would take out our hearts of stone, and that you would give us hearts of flesh. Lord, we do pray that you would draw us to yourself that we might know you, and Lord, that we might see the wonderful things written in your law. We do pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm sixteen, a nictem of David. Preserve me, O God, for I take refuge in thee. I said to the Lord, Thou art my Lord, I have no good besides thee. For as the saints who are in the earth, they are the majestic ones, in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who have bartered for another God will be multiplied. I shall not pour out their libations of blood, nor shall I take their names upon my lips. The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and my cup. Thou dost support my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Indeed, my heritage is beautiful to me. I will bless the Lord who has counseled me. Indeed, my mind instructs me in the night. I have set the Lord continually before me. Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will dwell securely, for thou wilt not abandon my soul to Sheol. Neither wilt thou allow thy holy one to undergo decay. Thou wilt make known to me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. In thy right hand there are pleasures for everyone. Thus ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. In the Psalms that we've been reading The beginning of the Psalms can tell us a lot about the content therein. And just as uh in several of them we have uh they begin with a cry or with a shout. So we see uh this psalm is no different. And uh as uh David in Psalm um ten, I believe, cries, Why do do that uh Why dost thou stand afar off, O Lord? And then again in Psalm 12 begins with help Lord. And again in verse 13, we get the groan of, How long, O Lord? So, uh Psalm 16 begins with a similar plea, a cry, an exclamation. And this one is for preservation. Preserve me, O God, for I take refuge in thee. Again, uh David doesn't tell us in the introduction or we don't have the uh the clues in the psalm to know which part of David's life he is um writing this. But we know that David was, again, a man who faced many dangerous situations, who faced peril. And and yet even as he um cries out for preservation in Psalm, even as he turns to God, who is his refuge and has been time and time again. We see him also turning to God's glorious salvation and his attributes and rejoicing in who God is First of all, as we as the Psalm opens, we see David has great faith in God's power, as demonstrated in his call for preservation. Um oftentimes we learn a lot about people when they're under pressure, when they're under stress, when the chips are down. What what do people do? And this uh can tell us a lot about who they are and what they really believe and not just what they're um able to uh assent to in comfortable situations. Uh and here David when he is uh under the gun so to speak, when he his life is threatened, where he um faces possible death, and we say that because of verse ten where he talks about the grave. And he his cry is not for to be prospered, his cry is not to um to have extraordinary blessing on him, his cry is for preservation. And uh when the chips are down, he he calls to God and he reminds God that he has taken refuge in the Lord. And we see God is a faithful God. And he gives much reason for David to cry unto him. We see throughout the scriptures him protecting. And And preserving his covenant people. In the book of Genesis, after the fall, we see the two lines: that the seed of the serpent, and those who are wicked, and the seed of the righteous. And time and again, as as even Abraham uh does foolish things and and lies about Sarah being his wife, we see God protecting the seed of the woman and preserving Abraham and blessing him. We see in Exodus, as the people of Israel have been enslaved, we see God bringing them out, breaking their bonds, and though Pharaoh's army comes, and Pharaoh hardens his heart against them. Yet God preserves them. He protects them. And even in a desert land as they cross over and And move according to the will of God. He does not allow them to go hungry, but provides manna. He preserves them in the wilderness. And he establishes them in the land that he had promised to them. We see in the book of Judges the cycle of as the people begin to go astray, as they begin to, as was prophesied, take the gods of the land and make them their gods. God does not allow them to go apostate, but he restrains them. He he sends a foreign power to afflict them. And they cry unto God time and time again. And time and time again, He preserves them. He raises up a judge to deliver them and brings peace to the land. We see even in the exile. If the book of Judges is a is a an overview where we see several cycles of disobedience, in the exile we see it in slow motion. Are degraded in their following of the Lord and of his commands. And he brings the Babylonians and destroys Jerusalem. Yet even in the exile we get stories of God's preservation of his people. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, as they stand before King Nebuchadnezzar and say, We will not bow down and serve your God. And we know that God is able to save us, but even if he doesn't, we know that he is God. And God preserves them in the midst of the fire. You see, Daniel thrown into the lion's den, unjustly treated by a pagan king, and yet God shuts the mouths of the lions and preserves him. We see Esther and Mordecai being preserved by the hand of the Lord. We see his sovereign providence at work Not allowing them to be destroyed. Even though the kingdom of Israel has been destroyed, even though Jerusalem stands in ruins, he preserves his people in the foreign in a foreign land. And we see in Christ that God gives us a kingdom that has no end, a spiritual kingdom. One that cannot be shaken or destroyed. And beloved, if we are in Christ, if we are in the kingdom of God, we shall never be shaken. There's great power in God as a preserver. And we Philippians, uh the book of Philippians, is a great example. There's several verses throughout that That show us that it is God who works in us to will and to do according to his good pleasure. So that as we work out our salvation with fear and trembling, we know that God preserves us. And God furthers our sanctification. He says in Philippians 1 that he who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it. And we know that just as God calls us unto Himself, though we might encounter difficult trials, though we might encounter threats to our very existence. Yet we know that God will finish the good work that He has started it in us. And so David's great faith in God's power is not misplaced. And um and it speaks to David's faith in the Lord and in his providence, which i is uh represented again and again in scripture. What does Christ say about uh About how God takes care of his believers. That he knows the hairs of our head that are numbered. That he knows when a sparrow hits the ground and dies. And yet he says that we are worth more than sparrows. In him we live and move and have our being. And uh we know as believers that um but if we know god if we know the power of god if our faith and our trust is in him we might say I know whom I have believed And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I committed unto him against that day, that we might rest securely knowing the power of God to preserve us. Even as David looks to God, because he is our refuge, because he is our strength, because he is our God and we are his people. And so we might rest securely even in the midst of a difficult situation, even in the midst of something that threatens our life. But David does not stay and linger in his um in his call for preservation. He does not linger in despair in his psalm, but he quickly moves on. And focuses on God and on the life he's been called to in God. And we see secondly that David has a deep love for God reflected in his pledge to surface. We read this in verse 2. I said to the Lord, Thou art my Lord. I have no good besides thee. Here David places his highest good in the Lord. I have no good. besides thee, and echoes the psalm, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And besides thee I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but you are the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever. This is a pledge, pledging our heart to God and our lives to God, that we ought to consider, because it's a pledge that we've all made if we are in Christ Jesus. If we um have put our faith and our trust in him, then we have pledged ourselves to him. And we need to consider um how he would have us to work. We must remember that we were bought with a price. That we have been redeemed by the precious blood of Christ, and that we are not our own, but we belong to God, that He is our Lord. And that term uh also uh means master. And um uh we are under his authority, under his direction. And as Christians, we we need to consider this in our everyday lives, that He is our not only our Savior who has saved us from sins, but Jesus Christ is also our Lord and our Master. to whom we need to pledge our service, as David does. We should think of it the weight of it, that we are not our own, that we are owned by another. Um and just as um God is is so great that as we talked about this morning he uses light as a garment, that he sets up the heavens as a tent. So we ought to seek to to be his instrument, that he might use us, that we might put ourselves at his disposal, and not take pride in that. Pat ourselves on the back for that, but say we are but unworthy servants, realizing that that is the very nature of our relationship with Christ, that we have been bought with a price, that God has called us unto Himself as His people. We see not only does David have great faith in God's power, not only does he have a deep love for God, but this deep love for God causes David to have a love for God's people. as he recognizes their exalted status. This is another theme we see throughout the book of Philippians, that if you love God, you will love his people. And the Philippians were very gracious in giving to Paul and ministering to him. And as Paul encourages them, he encourages them towards greater unity. and a love for one another, and sharing of the comfort that they receive through the Spirit. And here David writes in verses three and four As for the saints who are in the earth, they are the majestic ones, in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who have bartered for another God will be multiplied. I shall not pour out their libations of blood, nor shall take their names upon my lips. Here God reveals to us that those who believe in Him have a great delight for His people. And uh this is the the theme of uh of the book of first I'm sorry. This is the theme of the book of Third John. That um as we look at the epistles of John and we're looking at the first epistle in the morning, but the the theme of the third epistle is that uh John is writing to saying that believers should uh be hospitable uh hospitable to and receive those who preach the word. Those who love God and are doing his work should be received by those people. And this is the idea we get in verse 3, as he says, as for the saints who are on the earth, they are the majestic ones. David is a king, and uh we're not sure again if he writes this as a king or a king elect, uh what part of it his life it it is, but Even at his high earthly stature, even at the promise that he has of greatness on this earth, yet he looks at God's people and says, they are the majestic ones. As we read in 1 Peter, it's a wonderful description. But you are a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of his darkness into his marvelous light. We should rejoice in that description of ourselves, but we should also recognize that description in all the people of God: that they are a chosen race, a royal priesthood. A holy nation. And they should be our delight. Now, um, looking at the Church of Christ, we see many problems, and it's easy to despair of the problems in the Church of Christ. We don't always delight in them naturally, and yet as those called in Christ. We are called to delight in his people, to encourage one another, not only in our our congregation, but in other congregations. to to have our delight be in them, to wish the best for them, to love them, not only in an abstract way, yes we love them, but also to love them uh with with tough and difficult love in time. to correct them when they need correcting, to engage them when they have gone astray. The Bible says, he who turns um a man away from his sin uh has uh turned him away from destruction. And that's the type of love that that talks about correcting and instructing, rebuking and training in righteousness, where we encourage one another in the faith. And here David's deep love for God shows itself in a deep love for his people. Next, we see David's thankfulness for God's grace as he ascribes great worth and beauty to his inheritance. See this in verses five and six as we read, The Lord is the portion of my inheritance in my cup. Thou dost support my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Indeed, my heritage is beautiful to me. This is a picture of land being divided up as an inheritance. Back in this time, whether it be the the Israelites sett settling in the promised land or the death of a testator uh of a per member of the family and that that land being divided up among other family, um, what w would happen is they'd divide the land in equal portions and then they'd cast lots to see who got which piece of land. And that was it. And oftentimes um the lot given um was less than pleasant. Uh you had to be worried about whether that land was usable. It could be rocky. It could not have water. It could be land where no vegetation would grow. It could be land that was hilly and difficult to work with. And um and yet in using this picture David says that uh the lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. That the lines are such that this is a beautiful piece of land, a piece of land that is of much value, a piece of land that he delights in. And it's a picture of um of our spiritual heritage that we have in Christ, the riches that we have in Him, the riches of His Word, the riches of prayer and relationship with God. the riches of worshiping him with his people, the wealth of fellowship among the household of believers, the new life that we have in this world, being changed through Jesus Christ, and the hope of everlasting life. In the world to come. As David faces um a threat to his life, yet he realizes what is really important. He doesn't fear the loss or the spoiling of his material possessions, yet he rejoices in his spiritual inheritance that is secure in God. And so we see that David has a thankfulness for God's grace in ascribing great worth and beauty to his inheritance. And those outside of Christ do not have this. We read in the the previous verses that um David will not participate in those pagan sacrifices. It's kind of a Um there's some odd language used um to our ears, but talking about those who are bartered for another god will be multiplied. The picture of buying something, as you would buy, most likely what he's referring to here is an idol. I shall not pour out their librations of blood, nor shall I take my names upon their lips. Part of pagan worship was offering blood sacrifices and pouring them out before these these statutes. That were life that will were lifeless or mainless repetition of chanting. And David says, I shall not pour out their libations of blood. I will not take their name upon my lips. And we see in 2 John, the theme of that book is that you should not receive those who are hostile to the gospel. For those who are against Christ should not be received. Um but if you are in Christ and if you have um put your faith and trust in him, if you have received him and if you rest upon him alone for salvation, you have a glorious inheritance. One that is marvelous in this world, but also in the world to come. David, in his thankfulness for his inheritance, also delights in the law of God as a counsel of strength. And this is a picture of of a pillar of strength. We said that, you know, you can tell a lot about a person about uh when they are under stress or under pressure and what they do, who they turn to. And um oftentimes in times of difficulty we turn to counselors, to those people who whom we respect and who might be able to help us by giving us advice, by giving us strength, by giving us support, or just listening. And we read in verses seven and eight. I will bless the Lord who has counseled me. Indeed, my mind instructs me in the night. I have set the Lord continually before me, because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. David has sought counsel from the Lord, and that counsel sicks with him throughout the day, even into the night It's a picture of meditating on God's word, on hiding it within your heart and rejoicing in it. There's a the best place in scripture that rings of what David is uh saying is Psalm 119, verses um nine and following. In Psalm 119, 9 and following we read, How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping it according to thy word. With all my heart I have sought thee. Do not let me wander from thy commandments. Thy word I have treasured in my heart, that I might not sin against you. Blessed art thou, O Lord. Teach me thy statutes. And then down to fourteen, verse fourteen: I rejoice in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches. I will meditate on thy precepts and regard thy ways. I shall delight in thy statutes. I shall not forget thy word. Children, do you realize that David here is is talking to you as uh the author of Psalm 119? It wasn't uh David, uh but the psalmist in Psalm 119 is talking to you when he says, How can a young man keep his way pure? This is a a rhetorical question, um, addressing not only young men, but young women, children. And what is the answer? By keeping it according to thy word. David goes on to talk about Memorizing scripture, about hiding God's word. He calls it hiding God's word in his heart. How do you hide God's word in your heart? How do you put it in that place that um That is the center of our emotions and um of our affections. It's by hiding it there, by memorizing scripture, by meditating upon it, so that we remember it. David says that the counsel of the Lord instructs me, indeed, my mind instructs me in the night. It's a picture of him recalling things that he has read, things that he has meditated upon, things that he has memorized. And that word in his heart instructs him and does him good. Lastly, in this uh section of one Psalm one nineteen, we see that uh I shall delight in thy statutes. I shall not forget thy word. You know that David says here that he delights in God's statutes more than money, more than riches. And um that they are more valuable than riches, which um which are just temporal, which come and which go. But In Christ, as we look to the Word of God, as we look to the counsel of the Lord, those things are more valuable. What does David say? I have set the Lord continually before me. Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. Setting the Lord continually before him is a picture of following the Lord, of having the Lord as a guide and as an example. Almost like a ship uses landmarks as it sails near the land or or uses the stars at sea um to um to chart its course, with the Lord continually before us. uh we might know which way he would have us to go. And the end result is that because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. That the Lord is our our leader, our example, our observer, and our strength. And David has a delight in the law of God as a counsel of strength. Finally, David has great joy in his salvation, keeping his eyes fixed on eternity. And uh in these verses, uh We find them also in the second chapter of Acts. These are the section that Peter quotes during his sermon on the day of Pentecost. We read in in Acts chapter 2, verse 25. For David says of him, talking about Christ, I was always beholding the Lord in my presence, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue exalted. Moreover, my flesh also will abide in hope, because thou wilt not abandon my soul to Hades, nor allow thy holy one to undergo decay. Thou hast made known to me the ways of life. Thou wilt make me full of gladness for thy presence. Brethren, I may confidently say to you, regarding the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. And so, because he was a prophet, he knew that God had sworn to him with an oath to seat one of his descendants upon his throne. He looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of Christ, that he was neither abandoned to Hades. nor did his flesh suffer decay. This Jesus, God raised up again, to which we are all witnesses. Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of the Father And having received from the Father the promises of the Holy Spirit, he has poured forth this which you both see and hear. For it is not David who ascended into heaven, but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make thine enemies a footstool for thy feet. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. Thus, Peter takes this passage in Psalm 16. This passage of David's looking forward to Christ, who would not be abandoned unto death. But would be raised up in glory, that would conquer death and hell, who would ascend up into heaven and have a position as both Savior and Lord And as we uh look at David's focus, um we must understand it in that uh that he is not talking about himself uh literally. But is prophesying to Christ and seeing himself in Christ, that that in Christ we too shall not be abandoned to the grave. That We too shall rise. Lastly, looking at verse eleven, Thou wilt make known to me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. In thy right hand there are pleasures evermore. And looking forward not only to uh um to the resurrection from the dead, but to the life that will be ours in heaven As we look in the book of Revelation, we get a wondrous picture of what life will be like in heaven. There will be uh uh a dwelling with God in in a very real and tangible way. John says of the city, the new Jerusalem that he sees in heaven. There was no temple there. There's no churches there. Why? Because God will dwell among us. He will wipe away every tear from our eyes. There will be no more death, no more sorrow, no more pain or crying. There will be no sun, as we saw this morning, that the glory of the Lord will be our light, and there will be no night there. That there will be a river of life from which we might drink freely, that there will be trees of life, which bear their fruits in season, each yielding in uh in their season each month, that we shall see his face. And that we will reign with him forever. And as we face difficulties, as David did As we come up against obstacles in this world, difficult times, times when even it seems that our life and our existence is threatened. Let us not look to the material consequences. Let us not lean upon material things. But let us look unto God. Let us fix our eyes upon that great place, that is heaven, where we might have fellowship with Him, where we might see His face. And where we will not know sorrow or pain or danger anymore, but where we might be with him perfectly in heaven. As we seek to apply Psalm sixteen, let me ask you, what do you do when you're in trouble? Who do you turn to when you face difficult circumstances? Now, obviously we like David would like to turn to the Lord. But is that what our first thought is in a crisis or trial? Or do we rather seek to take everything upon ourselves and just to have time so that we can work out that which we want to do, rather than looking to God it and acknowledging that we're not in control. That things are above and beyond us, that we are not as powerful as God, that we do not know all that God knows, that we need a Savior. To not only save us from our sins altogether, but save us from our sins of the moment as we encounter trials and difficulties. Do you submit yourself to him in prayer in different situations that come up? As um as we get ready for prayer, uh we see that uh Uh we're praying for different people, both here and and in different congregations and different countries. And uh and yet we might take time to pray for missionaries, but do we take time to pray for the difficulties in our own lives? Difficulties within our home, whether it be in our marriage or with our children or in our family as a as a larger part or friends. Do we take time to pray for these things and submit ourselves to God? Do we, like King David, take refuge in the Lord? Or do we put these things on our own strength, on our own power? And try to do the best we can or try to control as much as we can and um and uh take power for ourselves and trust in our own power. Secondly, do we love God in our service and our activities? Um as King David showed his love for God by pledging his service to um to God, do we do that? Do we manage our time by saying, not well I need to do this and here's what I need to get done and here's what um the needs my needs are or do we look at what is God calling me to do? How can I serve God in my life? What is God calling me to do? How does He want me to spend my time? As David pledged his service to God, we should consider that we've all pledged ourselves to God And the outworking of our service and our time is a part of that, whether we acknowledge it or not. Do we have a love for the people of God? Because we love God Himself. And even as David saw the people of God as the majestic ones. Do we do that? Do we see the people of God and honor them because they are a child of Christ? Do we give unto the people of God and the household of God that reverence and respect? Paul said that we should do good to all men, but especially to the household of believers. Are we about doing those good things to strengthen and encourage one another? To sharpen one another as iron sharpens iron? Are we looking compassionately upon our brothers and sisters? Weeping with those who weep, and rejoicing with those who rejoice. David had a thankfulness for God's grace and ascribed great worth and beauty. Not to necessarily his material situation, but to his spiritual inheritance. And uh God would call us to be thankful to those things that he's given us. Thankful for the means of grace. Those are wonderful things to rejoice about and be thankful for. Thankful that God has given us the fullness of His revelation and His Word. That he's given us the gift of prayer, that we might come to him at any time in the name of Christ, that we might come boldly and confidently, knowing the promises of his word, that he will hear us and that he will do his holy will about the matter. We should praise Him that we live in a land where we might gather as a people and where we might worship Him openly and freely, that we might fellowship together in His name without fear of persecution. And there's so many other spiritual benefits in Christ. You know that uh the scriptures tells tells us that we have received um every good thing in Christ that we need. That God has ingloried all that we need in the person of Christ. And as we look to God's word and we learn more about Him, and we learn the promises that we have. And the blessings that He's given us, that He's given us His Spirit, that He's purchased us and saved us from ourselves, from our sins. We should rejoice and be thankful, as David was thankful for His inheritance For the lines have fallen in pleasant places to us. We should delight in the law of God as a counsel of strength. And if you are facing a problem, if you do not know what to do, the Bible is the first place that you should look. That it should be a council of strength, not only in times of trouble, but it should be a daily um part of our lives, that we should be taking counsel from it, even when we're not in trouble, that we should be meditating upon it. And uh it should be a regular part of our spiritual diet. To read the Word of God, to take counsel of it, to meditate upon His word, to hide it in our hearts, so that when the time of trouble comes, when difficulty comes, when sin and temptation comes, what does the psalmist say? I have hidden thy word in my heart that I might not sin against you. That word is a counsel of strength in times of trouble. Let us be taking it in, let us be valuing it and uh and using it, leaning upon it, so that we might stand in a difficult time. And finally, David has great joy in his salvation, keeping his eyes fixed on eternity with God. Let us fix our eyes upon that great end to the race. Let us rejoice that there is more than we see in this world. Let us look as we look to Christ. To that great day when we should will be made perfect in him, to the full enjoyment of God unto all eternity. That great day when we shall see him face to face, when he shall dwell among us. And when he shall wipe every tear from our eye, where there shall be no more pain, no more sorrow, and no more crying May God help us to look unto Him and rest in Him until that day. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for the glory that is ours in Christ. Lord, we do pray that you would Help us now as we um as we end your Sabbath day and as we go to the worldly callings that you've given us. Lord, I pray that you would help us not to forget the things that we have heard this day, that we have learned. And Lord, I pray that you would Draw us ever closer to yourself, that we might rest upon you, that you might give us a deep love for yourself and for your people Lord, we pray that you would make us a thankful people, thankful for the spiritual inheritance that we have in Christ Jesus. Lord, that we might delight in the means of grace, and that we might delight in your law as a counsel of strength. And Lord, we do pray that you might fix our eyes upon that great day when we might be with you. And Lord, I pray that you would hasten it. In the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Amen.