We read in Psalm 130, verse 5, that the psalmist says, I wait for the Lord, my soul does wait, and in his word do I hope. As we, as believers, hope in God's word and as we wait upon God for his deliverance and trial. And his making of himself known unto us. Let us turn to his word. And let us continue our series in the Psalms. We'll be reading Psalm 22 this evening. Psalm 22. Let's uh stand as we read out of reverence for God's word, and before we read, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word. Lord, that you have revealed your character and the wonders of your riches through the pages of Scripture. And Lord, as we come before you now, we pray that you would grant us your grace that we might know you, that we might see your will for us, and Lord, that we might see your great salvation. And Lord, that as we wait upon you, as we hope in you, Lord, that we would hope in the promises of your word. Knowing, Lord, that you cannot lie, knowing that you are a God who delights to show mercy. Lord, I pray that you would help us now. That even as you have drawn us unto yourself with your Holy Spirit, that you would now illumine our hearts and our minds, that we might understand what we read, and that we might remember it, that we might hide it in our hearts. And Lord, that we might walk in your ways to your glory and to our good. In the name of Christ Jesus, our Lord and Savior. Amen. Psalm 22. For the choir director upon Ahegeleth, Hashashar, a Psalm of David. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Far from my deliverance are the words of my groaning. O my God, I cry by day, but thou dost not answer. And by night, but I have no rest. Yet thou art holy. O thou who art enthroned upon the praises of Israel. In thee our fathers trusted. They trusted, and thou didst deliver them. To thee they cried out and were delivered. In thee they trusted and were not disappointed. But I am a worm and not a man, a reproach of men, and despised by the people. All who see me sneer at me. They separate with the lip. They wag the head, saying, Commit yourself to the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, because he delights in him. Yet thou art he who didst bring me forth from the womb. Thou didst make me trust when upon my mother's breast. Upon thee I was cast from birth. Thou hast been my God from my mother's womb. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help. Many bulls have surrounded me, strong bulls of Bation have encircled me. They open wide their mouth at me, as a ravening and a roaring lion. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within me. My strength is dried up like a popsherd. And my tongue cleavest my jaws, and thou dost lay me in the dust of death. For dogs have surrounded me, a band of evildoers has encompassed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look, they stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But thou, O Lord, be not far off. O thou my help, hasten to my assistance. Deliver my soul from the sword. My only life from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild oxen. Thou dost answer me I will tell thy name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly, I will praise thee. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel, for he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. Neither has he hidden his face from him. But when he cried to him for help, he heard From thee comes my praise in the great assembly. I shall pay my vows before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him will praise the Lord. Let your heart live forever. All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will worship before thee. For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth will eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust will bow before him, even he who cannot keep his soul alive. Posterity will serve him. It will be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They will come and will declare his righteousness to a people who will be born, that he has performed it. As we uh look to God's word and as we uh see what it says about itself, as we place our hope in trust, um in the Bible as the infallible, inerrant word of God. One of the proofs that we see in it is that it's self-fulfilling That's uh it's consistent in all its parts, and the things that the Bible has said have come to pass We see this very poignantly in the coming of Christ and those prophecies of the Old Testament in the coming of Christ in the New Testament. And uh the uh there are several sections of the Old Testament quoted, um, but none more than the book of Psalms, which is interesting because Psalms is poetry. But just because uh the the Psalms are poetry, that doesn't mean that they're fiction. We tend to think about that maybe in our modern literary terms. But as we read the Psalms, we see True um true poetry. Not true the form of poetry, but poetry that is contains the truth of God. That contains truth about who God is, about who we are. And even truth in prophesying the coming of Christ. And in many ways, Psalm 22 is no different than many of the Psalms that we have read or will read in the book of Psalms. We see the three sections are that there is a cry of suffering and great reproach that opens the psalm. We see that there is a call for deliverance unto God. And we see at the end that God provides victory and salvation. Many of the the psalms that we've read, we can think of others where where David is open and groaning before God, calling because he's in a bad situation. And yet Psalm 22 is a messianic psalm, very directly. And at times, uh, I confess, uh, in trying to exposit the text, it's hard to uh uh it's harder to apply it to David than it is to apply it to Christ, because um some of the passages are so direct. about the ministry of Christ, about the death of Christ, about what Christ did for his people. But as we go through the Psalm, we see um First of all, that there is a cry of suffering and great reproach. And we see this in verses one through eleven, where the psalmist starts out Crying, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Again, looking to the life of David, we can think of many uh situations where he bore great reproach. Where he, as an anointed king, was exiled and hunted like a dog, where he, as uh as the leader of the nation of God, was beset by many enemies who threatened him. and encamped against him, where he, as a man after God's own heart, was pursued by his own son and had to flee for his life. And yet, as we look at this Psalm, we see the very words of Christ upon the cross And though we might look at David's sufferings and his those situations that he anguished in and anguished over. Yet we see suffering at its greatest height in the suffering of Christ. That spotless Lamb without sin. Who suffered on the cross, and who was forsaken by God for our sakes. And so as we read this cry We should think not only of the situation of David, the situation which we as believers often encounter, where we we feel like God has forsaken us, where we're in trouble, and God seems far away. And uh though uh that was the literal meaning, yet uh David is often prophetic in his Psalms. Um Peter Quoting Psalm 16 in the second chapter of Acts, uh in verse 30, he he points out that David was a prophet. Although we think of David in in his kingly office, he was also um used as a prophet in writing the Psalms. And here David prophesies those very words that Christ would use in his suffering on the cross. And the psalmist and the text here goes back and forth in in suffering between the state of the psalmist and the state of God. Uh in verses one to two we get a why statement. That that uh that cry of being forsaken, that cry of n ha not having um prayer heard, but that cry that That uh bemoans the fact that God seems so far away, that deliverance seems so far away. But then in verses 3 through 5 The attention is just back to God, in a very national sense, an appeal to the covenant. And we read in verses 3 through 5, yet thou art holy. O thou who art enthroned upon the praises of Israel, in thee our fathers trusted. They trusted, and thou didst deliver them. To thee they cried out, and were delivered. In thee they trusted, and were not disappointed. The psalmist and the text here is not without faith in God. It's not utterly despaired. And as we know that David was a man of great faith, a man, again, after God's own heart. We see even in the midst of his suffering, his faith coming through, the area of his trust clearly identified as God Himself. As he invokes the covenant that God has with Israel, as he invokes God's faithfulness in the past and delivering his chosen people from the situations that they found themselves in. And again, as we look to Christ, we see that Christ was not a sinful offering, but was a sinless offering And though he despaired on the cross in crying out because he was forsaken for our behalf, yet we see that Christ was the perfect offering. Where David uh was a sinner, where David uh could give himself over to sinful doubt, that Christ um was fully God and fully man. And as we read this morning in the verse Book of First John, was without sin, in being offered up, and in crying out to God, he uttered no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth But the the so the narrative goes from the wretched situation to the faithfulness of God to the nation of Israel. But it quickly shifts back again in verses six through eight. Where we read, But I am a worm and not a man, a reproach of men, and despised by the people. All who see me sneer at me, they separate with the lip. They wag the head saying, Commit yourself to the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, because he delights in him. These are almost the exact words that we find in Matthew twenty-seven, where the Romans uh crucified Christ and then they set watch over him. And as the the criminals who were uh crucified beside Christ um One as the one began to heap insults upon him, the the Pharisees and the chief priests began to mock him, saying, Let God you claim to be the Son of God. Let God deliver you if he delights in you. Prophetically, David paints that that picture exactly about the suffering, the reproach. The anguish of Jesus Christ upon the cross. And so as as we face reproach It's nothing like what we deserve. It's nothing like what Christ, the perfect, spotless Messiah, suffered on our behalf. And so but we see by this shifting back and forth between this situation of great suffering and faith. in God. That the struggle, that there is a real struggle here. That um the person is not being the psalmist and David is not being duplicitous. But it's struggling between faith and trust in God and the dire nature of his situation. And after bemoaning, again, the situation of being mocked, of being mistreated, of being assaulted. He again shifts his faith back to God in verses 9-11. Yet thou art he who didst bring me forth from the womb. Thou didst make me trust when upon my mother's breast. Upon thee I was cast from birth. Thou hast been my God from my mother's womb. It goes from a a national appeal to the nate from the nation of Israel and the the appeal to the covenant to a personal appeal that Uh from a child God has nurtured him and been his God. And yet um Yet we see the dire nature of his circumstances, that he's not just facing a difficult situation, but he is facing a harmful situation. uh as he says that he is a reproach of men despised by the people. But as David does so often, he moves from a description of his uh of his situation, of uh his description of being um reproached, of suffering and um and being in trial to a prayer to God To setting his situation before God most high. And that's exactly what happens in Psalm 22. That uh we see after he prevent presents his situation uh a call for deliverance. And um this call for deliverance is is preceded by um by A re repetition of the situation of suffering, which we see in verses 12 through 18. He says, Many bulls have surrounded me, strong bulls of Bacian have encircled me. Bulls were symbols of power. And so David's description here is of strong enemies who surrounded him. Militarily, this would be the time for surrender. This would be the time where the battle has been completed and that there is no military hope. They opened wide their mouth at me as a ravening and roaring lion. This is a picture of uh of um an animal that has been hunted being um being caught by the lion. Being ready to uh to be devoured by, again, a picture of strength, a roaring lion. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within me. Being poured out like water, it might be. uh a reference to one of the uh the drink offerings where uh uh as uh wine or water was offered, uh it was poured out before the altar. And uh And so here again a picture the picture is of one of being exhausted and destroy uh one of destruction where something is entirely consumed. David continues, my strength is dried up like a pot sherd. A pot shirt is a fragment of a broken pot that's um Oftentimes they made they made their plot pots out of clay and it would dry up and that would be the reason for it raking and crumbling. And as it got drier and drier, it would crumble more and more and more until it was back uh as dust. And my jaw cleaves to my my tongue cleaves to my jaws, and thou dost lay me in the dust of death. Here the picture again is of death. That's uh even the picture of the the tongue sticking to the roof of the mouth is is almost as if rigom mortis is setting in, where the body is becoming dehydrated. And he says in verse 16 through 18, For the dogs have surrounded me, a band of evildoers encompassed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look, they stare at me, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So David uh gives these details, that he's surrounded by enemies, that there's imminent destruction, that his body is boat broken, and the imagery he uses here is of being torn by wild animals. That death is setting in, and his garments are being divided. And that last image especially of his garments being divided and being taken away because he will not need them anymore, because he will die. And uh once again, as we look at the situation and uh we see that uh David In times of suffering and reproach, has cried out to God that when David has has been surrounded and close to death, he has put his faith and trust in God. And giveth him arguments and reasons why God should deliver him. And God has been faithful to do that. So we see in these uh this situation of suffering and despair. Prophetic hints at the passion of Christ, where those who were enemies of Christ surrounded him and gazed upon him. Where those uh broke his body, where he could count his bones that they were not uh broken bones, but his body was beaten. Uh the psalmist talks about his bones being out of joint. And uh we see in um verse sixteen, they pierced my hands and my feet They look, they stare at me, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. This is the verse that John quotes. as he records the Romans casting lots for the close of Christ, that this prophecy might be fulfilled. And as Christ uh even on the cross. It's interesting. I commend uh as a study to you the sayings of Christ on the cross, what he said while During this time where he was giving himself up. But uh as he prays unto God, as he utters unto God in faith, um We see that he is not ultimately delivered, um, I mean uh initially delivered, and he's given over to death for us. That he is uh As David uh is cried out and uh is is forgiven and delivered again and again and again. Yet Christ is not delivered uh from the death of the cross, but he has given it over to it. And we see Christ's humiliation that in his suffering and in his reproach and his being encircled by his enemies, that he is not delivered. But he is gives himself over to death for our sake. That those who are in Christ, that those who know Christ, that even as David looks forward to the coming Messiah, with all his hope in him, with all his trust in him. As David looks forward for the forgiveness of sins to the one who would come David is enabled by God to be rescued. David is saved by God, if you were, and Christ is given David's just desserts. That, whereas David again and again deserves death, because David is a sinner. Yet God gives him grace, God gives him life, God gives him mercy and exalts him for the sake of his son, Jesus Christ. And how much more uh do we deserve death than David, who was a man after God's own heart? How much more do we in our sinfulness and our wicked thoughts And our last laxadaisical approach to God and to his worship deserve death. And when we get into a a difficult situation, even when we're threatened, How much more do we deserve to be given over to that situation? To be destroyed because of our sins. That's what the Bible tells us the the the reward or the the wages of sin is. That it's death. That we deserve to die. And yet, and yet God gives us mercy because Christ Jesus died for us. Christ Jesus gave his life so that we might be delivered from the power of sin and death. The psalmist in his cry for deliverance says, But thou, O God, be not far off. O thou my help, hasten to my assistance. Deliver my soul from the sword, my only life from the power of the dog. And truly, in the death of Christ, God did deliver our soul from death and our only life from everlasting torment and hell. But we, so this psalm shows us the cry and suffering and reproach, both of the psalmist and of Christ the Messiah. Whereas we see David calling for deliverance, wherein he is usually delivered, and God is well pleased was well pleased to prolong David's life. And grant him victory and success. Yet we see Jesus, the Messiah, undergoing death for the sake of his elect. But the Psalm does not end there. It goes on to give thanksgiving to God for the salvation that He provides. Now, in David's sense, this might be a literal salvation, a victory in battle, escape from his enemies, prosperity as a king. And yet, as we see it through the eyes of Scripture and look towards our Savior, Jesus Christ, we see that this is a salvation that is everlasting. And that has implications far beyond David, and far beyond his kingship, and far beyond Israel. As we read, he gives thanks to God individually in verses 22 through 25. I will tell of thy name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly, I will praise thee. You who fear the Lord, praise him, all you descendants of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel For he is not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. Neither has he hidden his face from him. But when he cried to him for help, he heard So David is is telling his brethren and is telling all Israel that God hears the pla the prayers of the afflicted and delivers them. And yet this is the verse, verse 22, I will tell of thy name to my brethren in the midst of the assembly, I will praise thee. This is the verse that Hebrews 2 quotes, telling of quoting how Christ will tell his brethren Children of God, his elect, of the great salvation that God has wrought. In the midst of the assembly, I will praise it. How Christ makes known the great salvation that has been wrought by God, through him, and gives us the victory, not over uh just our temporal difficulties. But over our eternal struggle with sin and with death. The psalmist shifts from an individual praise and thanks to God for salvation. from just uh what would be uh been the kingship um of David, the king praising God and uh leading the nation in praising God, the nation of Israel To a worldwide praise and thanks to God for his salvation. Verse 25 and following, From thee comes my praise in the great assembly. I shall pay my vows before those who fear him And then in twenty-seven, all the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will worship before thee. For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he rules over the nations. And all the prosperous of the earth will eat and worship. All those who will go down to the dust will bow before him. Even he who cannot keep his soul alive. Smack of Philippians 2, where Paul tells the Philippians that every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess. In the heavens and on the earth and under the earth, that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And just as Christ was humiliated for our sakes, just as he came in the flesh to be born under the law, to live with all the uh the fallness of of this world, and to suffer the wrath of God for our sakes. So God executes his victory through his son Jesus Christ and exalts him. He lifts him up And he rules over all those kingdoms of the world, men from every tribe and nation and tongue. And we see this resurrection, this exaltation in the resurrection of Christ. No, he uh was crucified, though he died. and remained under the power of death for a time. Yet God did not um leave him there. But he wro uh but Christ rose from the dead on the third day. He ascended up into heaven. And he sits at the right hand of God until uh he shall come again. And as we read the the last part It really speaks to the church today. The going forth of the gospel, not only to all the nations, but throughout time, how those generations who are to come will come unto God because of the sacrifice of his suffering servant. Verse 30 says, Posterity will serve him. It will be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They will come to declare his righteousness to a people who will be born that he has performed it. As Christ was on the cross, he cried out, It is finished. And this phrase in the Greek often was used in shipping invoices. That uh when the bill uh uh for uh an order had been delivered, it would be stamped with those very words as if to say paid in full. It is finished, it has been delivered. And Christ, as he echoed those, as he said those words on the the cross, which echoes this verse, that he has performed it. Christ secured the victory for his people, for his elect. He has paid the penalty of God's wrath in full. He has given himself over to death where we deserve to die, that we might be delivered. That in our suffering, that in our sin That we might be delivered unto God. Well, let us seek to apply these things just briefly before we close. Beloved, uh, in our own lives there there are times when it seems like God is far off, where we uh we are in trouble, and and it seems as though our prayers are not being heard and our prayers are not being answered. And we are tempted uh to doubt God that that he is near, that he is, that he loves us. If God loves us, why is this happening to me? Why is this going on? Why doesn't he hear my prayer? But this psalm should be a reminder to us that God has heard our prayers. That God has answered our greatest and deepest need through His Son Jesus Christ. That in providing a Savior for us, And providing that Lamb who would uh would take away our sins, he has met our deepest needs And just as uh Matthew says that uh blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. That when we're meek, when we're not centered on um our problems, when we're centered on Then it doesn't matter uh what uh what is going on um uh on this day or on the next day, because we know for all eternity God has saved us and that we shall be with him uh after this life. Let us also draw the application that in those times of suffering, when we're in trouble, it's very appropriate to pray. We see David doing this again and again. We see Christ doing this as we uh see. him in the psalm and uh as we see him on the cross, that he uh commits himself to God. and that he uh utters prayers to God when um he's in times of trouble. Before uh Christ's trial, before he was betrayed, we find him in the garden praying vehemently with his disciples. And that should be our pattern too, that as we face monumental tasks, as we face trials, as we face sufferings, It should be our pattern to walk in the steps of David and in the steps of Christ by submitting ourselves to God in prayer. And lastly, as God provides redemption for us, as God provides salvation both in situations and as a whole in our life, as we are See ourselves as ransom sinners, as those who have been forgiven, as those who have been delivered from the consequences of our sin. Let us give praise and thanks to God. Let us sing unto Him. Let us tell our brethren. Let us tell those we come in contact with. Praise him and send his word forth to all the earth, that all might know that God is a Savior. I think especially those last verses about the generation who is to come and um is is a good uh uh motivation for parents to be about teaching our children the gospel of Christ. And children, do you know that uh that you are uh uh being talked about in those last verses that Even as the psalmist says, posterity will serve. It will be told of the Lord to the coming generation. That though you are children, you are the coming generation. And that though Though you might uh think that you have a small role, yet is appropriate that when we have been shown such a great love by God, when we have been shown That's uh this everlasting love, which saves us, which gives us new life in this world and the hope of everlasting life in the world to come, to thank God, to praise God. To do this through thanksgiving, being a thankful people, avoiding complaining, through songs, to sing unto God in the congregation and in our families. In our words, just as in our conversation with people, to praise God and to give God glory for the things that He has done in our life, to testify of His greatness. But also that we should live our lives as a sacrifice unto God, that we should live unto His Word and not unto our own desires. That we should seek to obey his commands and his will for our lives and not our ideas about what we should be doing. That our life would be one of love for God and for one another, because we have been loves. with such a great love. Let us love one another and love God because He has loved us so much that he has given his son. And as the scriptures tell us, that no greater love hath anyone than he laid down his life for his friends. So we have that love from God through our Lord Jesus Christ, who loved us and who gave Himself for us. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you, and we do praise you, Lord, that you have given your Son Jesus Christ. That through his humiliation we might be forgiven. And Lord, through his exaltation, we might be raised with him That we might be reunited with you as children of God. And Lord, that we might be drawn to you, that we might be transformed. And Lord, we do pray that you would grant us your grace to look unto you and to you alone. And Lord, as we see your eternal love for us and your Son Jesus Christ. So, Lord, I pray that our lives, our thoughts, our words, and our deeds would overflow with love for you and for our brethren. And Lord, we do pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.