Prescribe and teach these things. Let no one look down on your youthfulness, but rather in speech, in conduct, in love, faith, and purity, show yourself an example to those who believe. Until I come, give attention to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation and teaching. Do not neglect the spiritual gift within you, which was bestowed on you through prophetic utterance with the laying on of hands. By the Presbytery. Take pains with these things. Be absorbed in them so that your progress will be evident to all. Pay close attention to yourself and to your teaching. Preserve in these things. Persevere in these things. For as you do this, you will ensure salvation both for yourself and those who hear you. Paul's words to Timothy as he encourages him in the reading and the preaching of God's Word. Let us turn now in that word to Psalm 13. I'll be continuing the the series that Skip started on the Psalms, and as he covered Psalms Psalm 12 yet last week, we'll be continuing with Psalm 13. This weekend. And let us stand for prayer and for the reading of God's holy and errant and inerrant word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word. And Lord, just as you have revealed yourself to men, and just as you have inspired holy men to record your words. And you have completed your revelation in these last days through your Son Jesus Christ and preserved it throughout the ages. So now, Lord, as we As we turn to your word, I pray that you would illuminate our minds by your Holy Spirit, that you would open our eyes, that we might see the wonderful things written in your law, and that we might thank you for them. And that we might praise you, Lord. I pray that we might see the reflection of your character and the truth of Scripture. Lord, we do pray that you would help us as we come. That you would be at work, that your word might not return void, but that, as you have said, Lord, it might accomplish your good and perfect purposes in our lives. And Lord, we do pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm thirteen How long, O Lord, wilt thou forget me forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart all the day? How long will my enemy be exalted over me? Consider and answer me, O Lord my God. Enlighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest my enemies say, I have overcome him, lest my adversaries rejoice when I am shaken. But I have trusted in thy loving kindness. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Throughout the book of Psalms, uh we get a general pattern. There's many different psalms and many different occasions. The book is as a whole has been called the anatomy of the soul because it shows us the different parts of emotions. um that the Christian has and and how the godly man interacts with God and deals with these different emotions. Psalm thirteen uh shows us a good part of the of the pattern often shown us. uh through the book as a whole, that um often we find the psalmist in the midst of trouble, even as we saw in the opening of Psalm twelve last week. Help, Lord. That cry for help. He's in trouble. He's in distress. So here we see that the psalmist at the beginning of Psalm 13 is in distress. And yet, we also see a hint of deliverance here. One of the great themes of the Psalms is God's deliverance of his people. We often read the psalmist hearkening back to the Exodus from Egypt. Because it was a great instance in which God delivered his people. And finally, the theme of praise is great in the book of the Psalms. That we as believers should sing unto God. We should praise him for who he is as God Almighty and for what he has done for his people. As I said, we get all these wrapped into one psalm in Psalm 13. Being part of the first book of the Psalms, 1 through 41, most of those were written by David. And uh as we look at the life of David, we see that David was a man of suffering. Now the introduction doesn't give us any um Circumstance of this Psalm. It doesn't attach it to any circumstance in David's life. And yet, when we think of David and uh his different circumstances, we see many uh instances where this psalm could have been written. David, who was considered the least of his brethren, so that when the prophet Samuel came to anoint a king in Jesse's household, he wasn't even called. David, who when he was serving King Saul, often had to face the point of a spear as he was playing music. David, who though he was anointed king, fled from Saul in the desert. David, who when he was king, had to flee for his life because his son was trying to kill him and usurp power. So we see that David was a man of suffering, and yet God used these things in his life. And we see that God often calls believers to wait upon him in trial. That they may submit, that we might submit ourselves to Him in prayer, and that we might have our perspective centered on who we are in Christ Jesus. David's called the man after God's own heart. And yet that just didn't happen. But God used these trials, these times of suffering to shape David's heart and David's mind, to shape his thinking. And to draw him to himself. As we look at Psalm 13, see that, first of all, God oftentimes calls his people to wait upon him in painful trials and sufferings of various kinds. And we see this in the language that David uses, the question that he echoes four different times, how long, O Lord? You see, at first, he is in utter despair. That he in verse 1 he says, How long, O Lord, wilt thou forget me forever? And that's how painful trials often seem when we are in the midst of them. Spurgeon said, a month at liberty is shorter than a year in prison. Uh because no that's sorry. Um Spurgeon said that uh a week in prison is longer than a month at liberty because when we are in the midst of trial Um our the time seems to go slower, and our afflictions seem greater because we are in the midst of them. Matthew Henry said that often our patience is worn thin. Patience is tired. And then it fails. So that oftentimes, in the midst of our trials, that patience that we that God has given us is often pushed to the point where we lose hope. Where we are tempted to give up. And here we see the uh the tension of the spirit and the flesh, where by the spirit We know that patience is a fruit of that spirit. And yet the circumstances of the flesh are pushing our faith Now as we uh in our our lives um encounter trials, uh there are different reactions, but one that's very common is I don't deserve this. I don't deserve this trial. And we tend to react with this a sinful attitude. And yet, if we consider from a spiritual perspective, if we take a step back and look at trials through the eyes of faith and what we deserve. We see that we deserve a thousand times more in pain and suffering than we ever receive in this world. That if we look to who we are before God, we see that we are sinners. That we have sinned against God in thought, word, and deed, daily. And that God is a just God who must punish sin. And that if we are are uh realistic about what we actually deserve, we not only deserve trials for this life, but we deserve pain and suffering unto all eternity in hell because of our sin. And yet, God did not leave us in our sin. But he sent his son, Jesus Christ, and he underwent the miseries of this life. He endured the painful and accursed death on the cross, suffering the pains of hell for us. He experienced death and remained under death for a time. But he was raised. The resurrection, that instance of Christ's triumph over death and hell. And beloved, if you are in Christ Jesus tonight, in him, you have the hope of everlasting life in the world to come and new life in this world. And so as trials come, let's have that perspective, not I don't deserve this. Not that that fleshly tension that tends to pop up. But let's have a spiritual perspective. perspective to see that we not only deserve what we're getting in this life, but we deserve a thousand times more. But thanks be to God for Christ that He has saved us from God's wrath. So in the first sentence, the psalmist seems to be in utter despair. But in the second uh Second, uh, how long, if you will, uh, he tempers it and says, How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? And here is an acknowledgement of God's sovereignty and of the temporal nature of his suffering. His thoughts are directed to God. And the picture that he uses of his pain and suffering is not centered on himself, but is centered on God. And he uses the phrase, uh, how long will you hide your face from me? Acknowledging that every good and perfect thing is from God. And here he describes his suffering as the hiding of God's face. And um he asked, How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? Verse 2 starts, How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart all the day long? This third repetition of the phrase tells us what's going on in the life of the psalmist. It says, how long shall I take counsel, my soul? And counsel is a good thing. Counsel is basically when you are unsure, when you're uncertain, going to someone, usually a wiser um person, some usually someone in authority above you and asking of them questions. Asking him what, how, why. In the picture here, David's not taking counsel of his advisors. He's not taking counsel of other people, but he's taking counsel in his soul. He's asking himself, why? He's asking himself, what do I do? It's a picture both of loneliness and of inner turmoil. We see that this trial, whatever it is, not only severe, that David keeps asking, how long? How long? But that he's wrestling in his soul. Secondly, um, he says he's having sorrow in his heart all the day Now the scriptures say that each heart has its own sorrow, and none can share in its joy. And here again we see The trial afflicting the psalmist inwardly. It's not just a mere annoyance. But it seems to eclipse his very being that in his soul he's wrestling, and in his heart this much sorrow From the last repetition, we see that the trial is not only inward, but outward as well. How long will my enemy be exalted over me? This enemy, this exaltation, the enemy, and this degradation of the psalmist is aggravating. to trial and aggravating the situation such that it's a humiliation, that it's a source of pain, that it's a source of suffering. And as we look to the utter despair of the psalmist, is cry to God, how long? His loneliness taking counsel in his own soul, and his embarrassment of his enemies triumphing over him We must look to our own situations and ask, in our trials, do we cry out to God? One of the things I think this Psalm illustrates that it's important for us to remember is that it's not a sin to cry out to God when we are suffering. In fact, He calls us to do it. He commands us to cry out to him in prayer. And just as David was a man of great suffering, just as David was a man of great trial, so David was a great man of prayer. And we see in the very next verse that that is precisely what he does. He cries out. And the book of James echoes this in the New Testament. James asks in James chapter 5, Is anyone suffering? Let him pray. And so we see that God calls his people to prayer, especially in times of suffering. Verse 3 reads, Consider and answer me, O Lord my God, enlighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. This consider and answer me is a call for audience, that the psalmist's prayers be heard by God, that God consider the psalmist's situation. And uh looking at the original languages, there's um some implied language so that uh it would The consider me is almost consider me for good. That's the implication of of what he's asking. And the answer is answer me quickly. So we see that in the psalmist pain, as he cries out to God for audience, he also cries out for deliverance. Next we see that uh he cries out for faith as well. That phrase, Enlightening my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, is the picture of Um someone who's who can't see exactly. You might think of being in a dark room in the morning or going from a bright room to a to a dark room where you can't see what's going on. Hebrews 13 has a wonderful or I think it's 11 has a wonderful uh picture of faith and a definition of faith that faith is being sure of what we hope for. And certain of that which we do not see. And here, David is not seeing that which he hopes for. And he's praying, Enlighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. He's praying for faith that he might see in the midst of uh worldly circumstances that that appear that everything's against him That appeared that they are not working for his good, that he might see that all things work for the good of those who love God and according to his purposes. Next, we see that not only prays for audience, not only does he pray for faith, but he prays for specific things, for s specific deliverance. In this section, he prays and uses arguments with God. And this is something I think that we as Christians have really lost the art of nowadays: wrestling with God in prayer. There's so many great instances of it in Scripture, where we get the um Syrophoenician woman who pursues Christ, and though he doesn't answer her, and though he puts her off at first, yet she continues to ask. On behalf of her daughter. And when he says, basically calls her a dog. When uh he says, I've not come to anyone but the children of Israel. And uh is not right to feed the bread of the children to the dogs. She doesn't say, wait a minute, I'm not a dog. No, she pursues. She's fervent in her prayer. And she says, even the dogs. Get the crumbs from the table. And in wrestling, in pursuing, Jesus says, for that answer, go, your daughter is healed. You also get the picture of Jacob when he's returning for to uh to meet his brother Esau wrestling with the angel by the the brook Jabok. And Uh later we find out that that angel was the angel of the Lord. And he despairs because he he says, I have seen God. And yet the picture is that Jacob did not want to go. And yet the Lord had commanded him to go and told him to go. And so they wrestled all night. A physical struggle. And yet, as we come before God in prayer, we often are not that bold. We're often not that intense in our prayers. That our prayers could figuratively be called, an intense struggle, our wrestling all night, as it was with Jacob. But here, David uses arguments. And what does he say? Lest I sleep the sleep of death, I'm dying. Now we don't know some uh commentators say that he might have been sick, that he might have actually been dying. And we know that there were many circumstances that David faced where he was in imminent danger of losing his life. He says, lest my enemies say I have overcome him, lest my adversaries rejoice when I am shaken. And these arguments are ones that Moses used in the wilderness when God was angry with the people. He argued not for his own safety. Not for his own deliverance, but for the honor of the name of the Lord. Here uh David writes, and we know that um from the time Samuel anointed him, that he was the Lord's anointed. And so when he uh uses as an argument, lest my enemies triumph over him, he's not just arguing for his own sake, but for the sake of the Lord's name, because David was the Lord's anointed. The Lord has said of his covenant people and his word, whoever touches you, touches the apple of my eye. And here David is praying for deliverance. That he might not be overcome by the enemies of God. And so as we look and see David praying in the midst of his trial, We too should pray often. That we should wrestle in prayer, even as David did, using arguments, probably both from our own circumstances. As uh the psalmist did in Psalm 12, help Lord. But also for the glory of God's name, that he might magnify himself in our lives and in the lives of those that we know. We should pray fervently. And we should pray expecting great things from God. James says, there's a lot of great tidbits about prayer in the book of James. James says, he who doubts should not exp uh not expect that he will get anything from prayer. For the double, he is double-minded. Yet at the end of the chapter he says, consider Elijah. He was a man just like us. And he prayed. And it didn't rain for three years. And he prayed again, and it rained. So we should pray, expecting great things from God. And here in Psalm 13, we see great things. That the psalmist who was at first at utter despair, the psalmist who was crying out, How long, how long, how long, how long? Now, in the last verses, we see the psalmist rejoicing. And so we see that God uses trials to show us that our salvation is our highest good and the source of our deepest joy. Verses 5 and 6 read, But I have trusted in thy loving kindness. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because He has dealt bountifully with me. He says, but I have trusted in thy loving kindness. He has prayed for faith, and here is the answer. He has come and strengthened in his faith. Uh it said that there are three parts to faith. One, just a knowledge of the thing, a familiarity with what it is. Secondly, assent, an agreement with the thing. But the third is trust. And that's taking that which we believe and putting it into practice Again, experimental faith, where our lives are changed, where not only our thoughts or what we would assent to would change. But where our very beings, our hearts, our emotions, our wills are changed By that faith. And here David, who cried out, how long, reminds himself, this is the turning point of the psalm. But I have trusted in thy loving kindness. And it's important that that word loving kindness. Um some English versions um render it mercy. But uh what he's talking about is the great salvation that he has that that is our sufficiency that that is Is the thing that we should fix our eyes and our hope upon, not on earthly circumstances, not even on our own life, but in the salvation of God. He goes on to say, My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I will sing to the Lord. Here he um his out the outlet of his faith is song, which is appropriate. And we do that here on Sunday mornings and Sunday evenings. And I would encourage you to do that um both as families and individually. Now um it's important uh to look at what song is. What is it exactly? Um well it's Matt will tell you that it's um sustained talking, but it's an elevated com form of communication. It's higher than speaking. And what we're doing is we're giving praise to God. We're communicating with Him. So in a way, it's a type of elevated prayer to God. And as we see God's mercies in our life, as we want seek to give Him praise, not only as a congregation and not only as a family, but as individuals. We should be engaged in singing to the Lord, in praising him through song, and giving to him that which is due to him because of who he is and because of what he has done for us. And notice that he ends the psalm with a spiritual perspective. He opens um at the point of despair, seeing only his worldly circumstances. But he ends, and this is his conclusion of of the matter. I will sing to the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me. How has God dealt bountifully with him? There's no evidence. He doesn't talk about his temporal deliverance, his material deliverance, of how his enemies were destroyed and how it was turned around. And yet David rejoices. At the end of this Psalm. David acknowledges that God has been bountiful to him because he has spiritual perspective. Because he sees his his earthly sufferings, not in the light of his time on earth being all that there is, but he sees correctly that his time on earth is but a drop in the bucket. Compared to eternity and the time that will be his with the Lord. Paul says that his present sufferings are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is in Christ Jesus. And so, just as the psalmist looks from his earthly circumstances to the heavenly realities, so in our times of trial. We too should should not look and be uh blinded to the heavenly realities. We should not be obsessed with the worldly circumstances and our own um our own thoughts, our own circumstances. But we should look to God. We should pray to Him, submit ourselves to Him, knowing that in Christ we have new life in this world, and we have the hope of everlasting life in the world to come. Now, there are many different types of trials and many different types of sufferings. Some are physical. We pray for sickness and injury in our prayer time. Some are of impending danger. We know that brothers and sisters throughout the world, um, like David, had their lives threatened or were in a situation where they could face impending death Other trials are or sources of uh of pain is need or want, not having that which is needed to um to live. But there are also spiritual trials. Times of testing of faith, where we face doubt, where we face depression, where Our patience is worn thin as David's was. The Proverbs says, a hope deferred makes the heart bitter. And how true is it that as we look to that which we we have set our heart on, which we look to the things in this world, that we are again and again disappointed because we live in a fallen world. Because worldly things are not meant to satisfy us. We um we have emotional and intellectual trials Where we are taken up in sorrow and sometimes taken up in anger sinfully. And yet, in these circumstances, God calls us to Himself He in his word commands us to pray. And he even allows us to go into trial so that we might be motivated to pray. And there's nothing like uh uh worldly um suffering to fix to get us motivated to alleviate it. And oftentimes the way that God would have us alleviate it is by prayer and by fixing our eyes upon Christ and upon looking to Him and Him alone. And however long the time of suffering. It will not last forever. That if you are in Christ, that your suffering will come to an end. Because believers are at their death. Transported into the presence of God and made perfect in holiness and into the full enjoyment of God unto all eternity. Now, those of you who are not in Christ should take heed as we consider sufferings and the perspective that David have of a small time here and a large time in eternity That though you may reign, though you may not have suffering in this life, yet if you do not have Christ unto all eternity, your suffering will never end. But beloved in Jesus Christ, if you know him, if you uh have been drawn to him and and called uh Call him your Lord and Savior. You might know from the promises of Scripture that your trial and suffering will come to an end. Never to be renewed. The picture that Revelation uses is that he will wipe every tear from our eyes and make us perfect to worship him. Revelation is a wonderful book. Though it has many complexities, we get wonderful glimpses of the worship of God unto all eternity, where the saints are surrounding the throne And they're singing songs of praise to God, and they're falling down and worshiping Him again and again and again. And that is the glory that will be ours in Christ. And as we encounter trials, as we encounter disappointments in this world, as we are frustrated with our circumstances. As we are ashamed and ostracized and humiliated in this life, let us fix our eyes on that glory. Let us consider Christ. Who was humiliated for our sakes? Let us consider Christ, who groaned under the pain of a penalty that was not his. Let us consider Christ. It was risen as he rose up on the third day Victorious over sin and death. Let us consider Christ as he ascended up into heaven and was seated at the right hand of God the Father. And let us consider Christ, that one day he shall come again with his saints and the holy angels to take his people home. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I do thank you so much for your Son Jesus Christ, in whom, Lord, you have called the people to yourself, that you have called us out of our misery. from sin. And Lord, that you have have lifted our head, that we might look upward, that we might submit ourselves to you in prayer. Lord, that we might be reconciled to you, and that you might Draw us to yourself, that we might know the sufficiency of the great salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. And Lord, that we might have new life in this world, that we might not focus on the worldly perspectives, but Lord, that we might see the spiritual realities that Christ has won on our behalf. And Lord, we do pray that you would help us. As we face trials, I pray that you would grant us faith, that you would strengthen um our faith, and that you would grant us discipline to submit ourselves to you in prayer in the midst of physical pain and And injury in the midst of emotional turmoil, in the midst of spiritual wrestling. And Lord, I pray that you would give us boldness and courage. That we would pray fervently, that we would pray often. And Lord, that we would pray expecting great things. We do pray that you would bless our time of prayer this evening. And Lord, we pray that you would bless our worship. As we give you glory and honor for all that you are and all that you have done. In Christ's name, Amen