We read uh continuing the story of Joseph. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife, but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Because of the word of the Lord that was given to Joseph, he acted accordingly, and he took Mary as his wife. And imagine the impact that had upon her. She who culturally deserved to be uh to put be put away. She who deserved to be isolated and ridiculed. Yet because it was the plan of God, yet because it was the Holy Spirit that had come upon her. And because of the word of the Lord to Joseph, he took her unto himself as his wife. So as we come unto God, let us look to the Word of God to guide and direct us. Let us look to his word as we hear the preaching of his word. And we'll be continuing our series in the Psalms. We'll be looking at Psalm twenty-six this evening. And uh as we turn there, let us uh stand as in reverence for the Word of God. And before we s uh read Let us pray. First of all, let's stand. And before we read, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word, for the great salvation that you have revealed through the pages of Scripture, the giving of your Son Jesus Christ, to be born as a man, to live perfectly as a man. And to die as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. Lord, we do thank you and praise you for what you have done, what you have accomplished, in drawing a people to yourself, and saving them from their sins And Lord, setting your name upon them for your glory and for their good. And Lord, as we come before you, as your people, as we come to worship and praise you, we pray, Lord, that you'd be with us now, that you would send your word forth. And that it might not return void, but that it might be at work in our hearts, in our minds, that it might be changing us. And Lord, as we see your great love for us in Jesus Christ, We pray that you would direct our eyes toward you, our steps toward your paths, and our hearts toward the love of you. Lord, we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 26, a Psalm of David. Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity. I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Examine me, O Lord, and try me. Test my mind and my heart, for thy loving kindness is before my eyes, and I have walked in thy truth. I do not sit with deceitful men, nor will I go with pretenders. I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked. I shall wash my hands in innocence, and I will go about thine altar, O Lord, that I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving, and declare all thy wonders. O Lord, I love the habitation of thy house, and the place where thy glory dwells. Do not take my soul away along with sinners nor my life with men of bloodshed, and whose hands is a wicked scheme, and whose right hand is full of bribes. But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity. Redeem me, and be gracious to me. My foot stands on a level place. In the congregations I shall bless the Lord. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. A cry for vindication. And the word here has also been translated, judgment. Judge me, O God. And it's a strange cry in in in some ways, uh, because as we come before the presence of a holy God, as we as ransomed sinners come before God, the last thing That's uh we often cry out to God or we want to cry out to God is is for us to be judged because we know that as sinners, as those who have forsaken God and broken his law. We deserve our judgment. What is fair, what we have earned for ourselves, is hell. And yet, this is the opening phrase that David says, judge me, O God, vindicate me. And as we read on, the language grows even stranger, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Now, this might sound like a plea that David is making on behalf of his own works, a plea for David's own righteousness. But far from being that, as we look to the text, we see that David is pleaing upon the merit of Christ. David's not pleading of his own works or his own perfection, but upon that perfection which he has been granted through the covenant that God has made with him. What does he say in verse 1? But, and I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Now, as we look at what it means to trust in the Lord, what does it mean to receive Christ and to trust in Him? And we said uh as we took a look at faith that there there are different aspects of faith. There's first of all a knowledge, having a knowledge of a thing, um also then there's having a sense to a thing. Those are two parts of faith that you must have a knowledge of things to put your faith in it. You must assent to it, agree with it in order to put your faith in it. But the final aspect is trust. And here David not only he doesn't claim to have a great knowledge of God, he doesn't uh agree just to agree with the law of God. But he says that he has trusted in the Lord. And it's a picture of putting his whole weight, his whole person, his whole being in the hand of God. If any of you have ever been on a ropes course or done uh activities at camp, you might have done a truss fall. And what that is is um from some heights a person will uh make their body stiff as a wort and fall backwards to be caught by a group of people. And the sensation of falling is is quite stark. And so um It's called a trust fall because you have to trust that that when you fall back those people will catch you. And you put your whole weight, all of your body, to a backwards fall. That could injure you severely. If there's nobody there to catch you. And that's the picture we get here of David, that as he pleads for judgment, as he pleads for vindication, He trusts in the Lord his God. And even as he cries to be examined, to be tested, to be tried. We see in verse 3 that he pleads the loving kindness of God. Verse 3 reads: For thy loving kindness is before my eyes. I have walked in thy truth. And as we look at the truth of God's word, we see the great salvation that He has given us. That the truth is that men are sinners. But as David well knows, as he who has been drawn unto God, as he who God has made a covenant with The truth is that God has drawn a people to himself, not based on their merit, but based on the work and the love of God alone. And it's this merit that David pleads. It's this covenant that David pleads with as he calls unto Jehovah. The word Lord here with the capital L-O-R-D is in the original translated as Jehovah. That's often the name of the covenant God, he who covenanted with Israel, he who appeared to David and made a covenant with him. And so we see the language of grace in David trusting the Lord. Also in verse 2, as even as he's called to be examined, he says, try, test my mind and my heart. even doesn't plead his outward actions, doesn't plead what he has done, uh his showy works and as someone who was trying to be justified by uh by themselves before God. But what does he say? Test my mind and my heart. David asked for God to seek his heart to show that he has nothing to hide. That he is open before God, knowing that he has been falsely accused in whatever uh situation he is in. And that's the picture uh that we get uh the bits of hints of David opening him up uh himself up before God. It's not one uh that he's pleading his integrity and perfection. He's not pleading uh his unwavering nature of obeying the law perfectly. But it seems that in this situation, David has been falsely accused, and he's pleading his his innocence in this matter. Some commentators think that this psalm was written shortly after the death of Saul, when Isbosheth, who was a son of Saul, was murdered by his two servants. And uh his servants, uh hearing that Saul was dead and knowing that David would become king, decided that they would ingratiate themselves uh with David, and they conspired against their master and killed him. And then they presented themselves before David saying, We just killed Saul's son Ishboshat because we knew he was your enemy. And David said, You've just heard the judgment from your own mouth. You've admitted it, and he had them executed immediately. And the Bible says that he had Ish buried and that he he wrote a lament for them. before the whole nation to show that he was innocent uh of any uh political guile, of any deceit, of any part of this uh cruel murder And uh whether this psalm is directly linked to that, it's uh it's a seems to be a similar sort of situation where David is falsely accused. before men. Where David, before the eyes of men, is being condemned as someone who has uh gone away from the Lord, as someone who hates the Lord. And yet he cries out to the Lord, reminding the Lord that he has trusted in him, opening his heart and his mind before God, which that's a stark thing to do. As we know ourselves to be sinners, as we test and try our own hearts and minds, we find impurities that we have strayed from God and from his commandments. And yet, in this matter In this thing in which David is accused, he he uh he pleads that the Lord would uh would test his heart and his mind To show that he is innocent in what he has been wrongly accused of doing. So we see that David has trusted in the Lord, that he opens up his heart and his mind to God. And in verse 3, we see that, for thy loving kindness is before my eyes, and I have walked in thy truth. And that's where David hangs his integrity. That's where David hangs his trust and his uh hope for deliverance in this situation on the loving kindness. of God and on his truth. You know, uh oftentimes in life, and we've seen it again and again in the Psalms of David, David's in a tough spot. It doesn't look good for David. He's in a place where he's in danger of dying. And everything uh in uh in circumstances and even in his emotions calls for despair. And yet And yet David looks to God. And yet David submits himself to God. He looks to God's loving kindness. For he knows that God is a God who delights to show loving kindness to his people. He looks to God's truth, the truth of his word, those promises that God has given to those who know him, who believe in him. God submits himself to God. David submits himself to God in prayer and looking to his loving kindness and his truth. And God delivers him from uh his trial, from his difficult situation, from that situation that looked hopeless. God gives him victory because he is a God who again shows loving kindness without end to his people. We see also in this first section that David links faith and holiness together. Just as he pleads his trusting, just as he pleads to be tested in his heart and his mind, he pleads these as evidences that he has walked with God and not against the Lord. He again, just as John in in in the epistle uh uh the first epistle that we've been studying makes a correlation between a believer's knowledge of God and love for God and his walk, how he lives his life. So here David does the same thing. that he uh makes a correlation between his outward actions, what he has trusted in, what he has done, what his heart and mind have been thinking, what their objectives are. And his knowledge of God, his relationship with God. David pleads these things to show that uh that he is incumbent, God, to remind God of his promises to David. and being in covenant with him. But we not only see that guy that David cries out for for vindication, for judgment, We also see that he gives evidence of his loyalty and affection. And just as the cry is for judgment, and he uses words like test and try and examine. Again, we get a courtroom scene here where David as a subject comes before God, who is judge of all the earth. And cries out for judgment, cries out for a ruling from God. And so he gives evidence, proofs of his loyalty and his affection for God. We see in verse 4 and 5, one of the proofs that he gives is God is David's company that he keeps. He says in verse 4 and 5, I do not sit with deceitful men, nor will I go with pretenders. I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked. David does not keep company with wicked men. David does not esteem those characteristics of the world that wicked men exalt. He does not keep company with those who deceive. No matter how advantageous, no matter how um enticing it might be to have friends who are deceivers, who are liars. Yet David does not esteem that. Nor will I go with pretenders. I hate the assembly of evildoers David hates those things that God hates, for God has said in his word that he hates liars, that he hates the assembly of the wicked. And so David aligns his affections. with the the um with the word of God and with the revelation of God's truth We see this reminds us a little bit of Psalm 1, where Psalm 1 reads, Blessed is he who does not Stand in the way, who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the path of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. Psalm one contrast the the righteous and the wicked and their desires and what they do and how they live their lives and how God deals with them. And as David says that he does not keep company with pretenders or evildoers, and that he hates the assembly of the wicked. So we see he is echoing the very thoughts of God himself as they are revealed in his word. That that man is blessed. who avoids the company of evildoers. What does Paul say in 1 Corinthians? But brethren, do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. And so David gives proof of his affection towards God and showing that he hates the wicked and he does not keep company with them. And he follows that up in verses six through eight, in a contrast by saying that he loves the house of God, that he loves to go unto the house of God and to worship God. In verse 6 he says, I shall wash my hands in innocence, and I will go about thine altar, O Lord. Now this is not a washing of the hands despite the outward action. We see that with Pilate. Though Pilate knew that Christ did not deserve to be crucified, though he knew what was happening was wrong, and he tried to urge the Jews against it. Yet when they would not be persuaded, Pilate washed his hands of the situation and walked away, as if to excuse himself from responsibility from a situation that he knew was wrong. That's not the picture of a wash cleansing his hands that we get here. But it's a picture of worship in the Old Testament. And as worshippers came before God, as they came to the tabernacle, they had need to cleanse themselves before they could go and worship God. And so we see David cleansing himself and going about the altar of the Lord as offering sacrifices. And we don't have an altar, but we do confess our sins. And acknowledge that Christ on the cross was our propitiation. He was our sacrificial lamb that took our sins upon himself and gave us his spotless perfection. Imputed it to us that we might have fellowship with God. And here in the Old Testament, David is giving us that picture of cleansing his hands. Of preparing to go into the house of the Lord, of offering those sacrifices required for sins. And what does he say in verse 7? That I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving, and declare all thy wonders. David cleanses his hands, offers sacrifices, goes into the assembly, and proclaims the wonders of the Lord with great thanksgiving. He says in verse 8, O Lord, I love the habitation of thy house and the place where thy glory dwells. It's a wonderful sentiment that David gives of his affection for the house of the Lord, his affection for that place where God dwells. As we look at this contrast between David shunning the company of the wicked and embracing the house of the Lord. Uh we should be on guard against those who claim uh a knowledge of God, a strong relationship with God, and yet hate going to church, and yet don't like to To hang out with believers and those who claim to know God and love the wicked, delight in the things of the world. That's not a consistent picture according to Scripture. But David, showing that his heart is with God, showing that his mind is fixed on the salvation that he has in the coming Messiah, says unto God, I hate the company of the assembly, of the wicked. But I love your house. I love to come and to give praise and thanksgiving unto you, for my heart is with you. David gives evidence of his loyalty and affection. Now, why does David have this love for the house of God? Well, he tells us that it's because it's the place where thy glory dwelt. It's the place where God has sent his name upon it, and his glory dwells there. If you remember in scripture, uh in the time of David, he captured Jerusalem and the ark was brought into the city, and uh David had decided that he was going to build the temple of the Lord, and so he gathered materials and he um uh was purposed in his heart to do so, and yet the Lord sent a prophet to him to restrain him from doing this and said, It shall not be for you to do, but it shall be for your son to do. And David was not able to build the house of the Lord, but what did he do? He stored up materials. He gathered wood and precious gems. and gold, so that when the time came for his son to build the house of the Lord, the materials would be ready. He did as much as he could to promote the house of the Lord. And um here as he talks about the habitation of the Lord, he's most likely talking about the tabernacle, that tent that um was movable that the Israelites had in the wilderness. And where the Ark of the Covenant was kept, there. And until the time of the temple, it was the tabernacle that uh that would have been used in Jerusalem before the temple was built. And so we see that David has a great love for that place where God has set his name. How can we show our love for God? How can we show our love for his house? But one of the ways, as David has said here, is by going to the house of the Lord, is being in his congregation. And hearing his word preached on his day, submitting ourselves to God in respecting the day that he has set apart, the Lord's day, Sunday. And coming to worship him in the morning. And coming to worship him in the evening. Another way is to wash our hands as we come. To confess our sins, to make sure that our not just our outward actions are presentable, not just that our bodies are clean and we have clean clothing, but that our hearts are clean, that our minds are clean before God. That we have acknowledged our sins, that we have confessed them, that we are resting and trusting in Jesus Christ, that great sacrifice. Who upon the altar of the cross was offered up for us. We can show our love for God and for his house. By being students of his word, by studying the scriptures, by walking in the truth of God. And again, just as uh David here relates faith in God with holiness, personal holiness. We can show our love for God by um by being about obeying his word, by loving one another as we talked about uh about this morning. Just as God is a loving a God of loving kindness, who dis delights to show that loving kindness to those who are his people. So we should be a people who delight to show loving kindness to one another. So David, coming before God, cries out for judgment, cries out for vindication as he is falsely accused. And he gives proofs and evidence, as it were in a courtroom, of his loyalty to God, his affection for the things of God, and his hatred for those things of wickedness. And we see in the final verses that David gives a plea for preservation and for deliverance. In verse 9 he says, Do not take my soul away along with sinners, nor my life with men of bloodshed. And it's a stark picture that David gives. Do not take my soul away. He's not just talking about his earthly situation, but he's talking about his very soul. As we read in Revelation 21 of the new heavens and the new earth, and those being gathered to be brought into the new heavens. Uh John the writer says that uh those uh those wicked, those who have committed sins, and he lists them, you know, idolatry, murderers, liars. Um idolaters have no place in the city. But they are sent to the lake of fire, of everlasting fire, to be there to all eternity. And David realizes that sin deserves everlasting punishment and torment in hell. And he pleads with God not to take his soul away, not to um to judge according to what seems like uh David's crimes. But But he pleads for pre preservation by saying, Do not take my soul away, nor my life with men of bloodshed, and whose hands is a wicked scheme, and whose right hand is full of bribes. The picture that we get here of the sins of the wicked are murder, bribery. and of scheming. And uh David separates himself and pleads that uh in his situation. Again, the the situation of Ishra Seth certainly fits um to have the murder of Saul's son, to have the scheming that it might appear that David had planned that as an assassination. And to have uh the bribery where he might have paid off uh Ishboshath's own servants, those of his own household, to murder him And yet David pleads that God would judge, would vindicate, would separate himself, who has walked in his integrity, from the wicked, who have sought out many schemes. And we read in verse 11, but as for me, I shall walk in my integrity. Redeem me, and be gracious to me. David is asking to be saved from the situation, to be redeemed, for God to intervene and to act in such a way as rescues David from the harm that is threatening him. And to establish him. A place where he might uh be established against these false accusations. And though in many psalms, as we saw last week with Psalm 25, um the Psalm ends without David seeing the deliverance, or the Psalm is seeing the deliverance of God that he's pleading for. Yet in this psalm we read in the last verse, My foot stands on a level place. In the congregations I shall bless the Lord. Now this first part, My Foot Stands on a Level Place. In the original, it's phrased negatively. And the phrase kind of reads something like, I shall not slip. David here acknowledges that he shall remain firm, that he shall not slip under these trials, that he shall not be sold away with the wicked, but he acknowledges the faithfulness of God. And as a man who is faithful and loyal to God, he proclaims that he shall, what does he say, in the congregations I shall bless the Lord? Again, showing his love for the household of God. Showing his love for the people of God. David with confidence sets forth his preservation, knowing that God will answer his prayer, knowing God that will not break his covenant that he has made with him. And knowing God that will that he will establish his feet, wanting to give praise to God in his house, among his assembly, in the midst of his people. Just to draw a quick application, as we face difficult situations, as we come before God and um in situations where uh people are sometimes uh falsely accusing us of things. where we face difficulties because of the way things appear and not the way things really are. We can come before God with confidence because we know that God knows all things. He knows our hearts. He knows the hearts of those who would be our accusers. And God is not deceived by um apparent differences in situations, but God knows all things. And we know just as David pictures God as a judge, that God is a righteous judge, and he judges righteously. He judges according to his goodness and according to truth. And again, even as David pleased, he is a God that delights to show loving kindness to his people. And so we might come before God and present our requests, both for situations we're in trouble and Also, when times are good, we can come unto him as David did in thankfulness, blessing the Lord in the congregation. And uh it's very fitting that as we offer up prayers to God, as we plead with God, and as we see those prayers answered, that as we come together in his congregation, that we publicly give thanks to him. That we publicly praise His name for His goodness to us. And as we see prayers again and again be answered. Um we should again and again come before God and testify before his congregation in his house of his goodness. To us as his people, his loving kindness that he has lavished out upon us. And we should be a people who delight to come before God. In his house on his day, and to be a part of a congregation of believers, to bless the name of the Lord together. He shall deliver us. He shall set our foot. on a solid place. It shall not slip. We know that God works all things for the good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose. Though it does not always seem that way, though sometimes we despair of God's presence or God's intervention in our lives. Yet we know that our foot shall not slip, that God shall not give us over to the schemes of wicked men. God shall not even give us over to our own sinfulness. But he shall establish us that we might trust in him without wavering, that we might See his loving kindness before our very eyes, that we might walk in his truth, for his glory, and for our good. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your loving kindness to your people. And Lord, we thank you that you are a judge, a great judge, who judges justly and rightly. And Lord, we pray that as uh there are many uh distractions in our life, as there are many details it seems in our day-to-day living, Lord, I pray that we might not be distracted. from your loveliness and your your greatness and drawing us to yourself and establishing us as your people and uh rescuing us from the everlasting damnation that we deserve. And you're preserving of us, Lord, through the sacrifice of your Son, Jesus Christ. We do pray that you would make us a thankful people who delight to come to your house. Who delight to offer up thanksgiving for your work in our lives, who delight to love one another even as we have been loved And Lord, we thank you that you preserve us, that even as we're uh worn out from day-to-day living, even as we despair in times of difficulty. Even as we look at situations and think, there's no way that this can work out. Well, we thank you that you establish our our ways, that our foot shall not slip. And Lord, that we might come. We thank you that we might come before you and we might bless you for your loving kindness to us and your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray all these things. Amen.