Therefore, putting aside all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander, like newborn babes Long for the pure milk of the word, so that by it you may grow in respect to salvation, if you have tasted the kindness of the Lord. Here we get Peter's recitation of that great principle in Scripture where we put off the works of the flesh, the sinful works. Put off, he says, all malice and deceit, hypocrisy, envy and slander. And we put on the new life that we have in Christ. the righteousness that God has called us to, that we may grow in respect to salvation. And notice how he says that we do this. That we long for the pure milk of the Word. And even as Peter encourages here to long for that word, let us hearken our ears now as we study God's Word. Our sermon from tonight is from uh Psalm 14. And we'll be reading um the whole psalm. Uh let's stand out of reverence for the Word of God. And before we read Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do pray that you would be with us now as we look to your word. And Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes that we might see the wonderful things written in your law. And Lord, just as you have called us to be your possession, to be your chosen people, so Lord, I pray that you would sanctify us by your truth, even as your Son Jesus Christ prayed. And Lord, that you who began a good work in us would be faithful to complete it. Lord, I pray that you would uh use the study of your word and the proclamation of your gospel now to that end. In Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 14. For the choir director, a psalm of David. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They have committed abominable deeds. There is no one who does good. The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men. To see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one Do all the workers of wickedness not know? Who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon the name of the Lord? There they are in great dread, for God is with the righteous generation. He would put to shame the counsel of the afflicted, but the Lord is his refuge Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion when the Lord restores his captive people. Jacob will rejoice, and Israel will be glad. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. The fool is mentioned several times throughout Scripture. And certainly as we uh look to this Psalm, we see it as a classic passage quoted in the New Testament. And Psalm 14 is not alone in the Psalms in pointing out the direction of the fool and the thoughts of the fool. But as we come to study the fool of the fool futility of foolishness and what it is that makes a fool. It's important that we define what it is. In our day I I think we tend to uh define foolishness as ignorance. Well it was foolish to do this because you didn't know about these other situations. Um but it's more than foolishness. Sometimes children, you might define foolishness as being silly, as uh Being funny or crazy. But that's not the context of this word either. The word here is a harsh word, and it means evil. And uh scripture itself gives us a great definition of the word fool. The word in the Hebrew here is Nabal. And we see from the life of David an illustration of what it means to be a fool. In 1 Samuel 25, David is on the run. He's out in the wilderness hiding from Saul, and he's got his mighty men with him. And he hears that this man Nabal is shearing his sheep. Now uh Nabal was a very wealthy man and he had several shepherds and flocks out in the desert, and at that time it was very common for um flocks to be um vulnerable to attack from raiding bands. Especially because of the the area where they were in the desert. And there were several nations and often several bands. And yet Nabal's people had had contact with David and his men. During that time, they were not upset. David did not seek to take anything from them, but they were protected. They were seen after. They were cared for. And uh as Nabal was uh shearing his flock, uh the shearing was a time where it um kind of like harvest, that that he was able to reap the reward for keeping his sheep. And it was more than that, it was a more of a festival. Um and uh there would be shears that would travel around and shear different flocks, and so there would be more food on hand, both for celebratory purposes, but also just practically, there would be um a lot of food to celebrate and to s um supply um for the shears. And so David sends his men to ask Nabal for um for supplies, for anything that he can spare in the way of food, and reminds him of his protection of his men and his kindness. to his shepherds. If you remember the story, Nabal speaks roughly with them. He calls David a rebel and an outlaw, and he sends them away empty-handed. And such is the picture of a fool in his heart towards God. That when his creator comes to him That he sends him away and speaks roughly. That though God has given him life, given him health oftentimes, and given him uh material things, he does not honor God. But in his heart he says that there is no God. Now we see in the life of David that David's response was immediate. When he hears what Nabal had done, he tells all his men to strap their swords on, and that they are going to Nabal's house to destroy him. Now he's prevented from doing so by Nabal's wife Abigail, who is a righteous woman. But we also read that ten days later the Lord struck Nabal and he was killed. So this is the picture of foolishness, not just ignorance, not just a silliness, but it is a harsh, evil, wickedness, and bitterness towards God It is the opposite of faith. Last Lord's Day we talked about the three elements of faith. Knowledge or familiarity with the thing Assent, agreement with that thing, and trust, living according to that which we believe. And we see that foolishness negates these three areas. In Romans 1, we know that all men have a knowledge of truth, because God has made himself known to all men. And yet, what does it say of the wicked man? That he suppresses the truth through unrighteousness. And so does the fool. We see that though God has called men to believe his word, though men ha God has called men to to live according to his commandments, to assent to that which God has said is true. Yet we see that men frequently pay lip service to God and yet deny him in their hearts It's important to note that the first verse says, the fool has said, in his heart, there is no God. Doesn't say he says it on his lips. And we often find in the Old Testament, especially when God talks to his people Israel, who have strayed and who have sought after God's, he says, They honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. So, even though men might ascent outwards, yet because of their foolishness, because of their wickedness, their hearts deny that there is a God. And finally, whereas the faithful man, the righteous man, puts his trust in the Lord and lives his life according to the law of God, so the fool trusts in himself. Some phrases that are used in the Psalms and the Proverbs about the foolish man is, God does not see, God does not know. There is no God. It's a violation of the first commandment at its deepest levels, not worshiping and glorifying God as God, but giving that worship to Himself, which is due to God alone. So we see that the fool denies God, that the fool is brazen in his wickedness. And just as uh this psalm is quoted in Romans 3, so we see um parallels between the first three chapters of Romans and uh and this psalm. That they're both centering in on the depravity of man. that um as Paul says that um men have suppressed the knowledge of God. So we see the fool denying the existence of God. And even as Paul in Romans 2 uh centers in on those who are religious. Those who um who are of the Jewish faith that have um that have the law of God and that have uh ordinances that seem to be spiritual, yet they are not saved. So we find that the fool doesn't necessarily confess with his lips, but in his heart is wicked toward God. And in Romans 3, as Paul tackles the universality of sin, that we all have gone astray, that we have all fallen, so he quotes this psalm, the first three verses, to show that there is none righteous, not even one. So we see from the Psalm that foolishness is the natural inclination of men's hearts. That just as we are all sinful, just as we have all sinned against God in many ways. So we are foolish in our hearts. But not only that, foolishness shows itself in thoughts, in words, and actions. As soon as it describes what is going on in the fool's heart, it goes on to talk about his actions. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, and they have committed abominable deeds. And then in verse 3, They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There was no one who does good, not even one. It goes from the heart of the fool to the actions of the fool. And as we think of corruption, again, uh we want to see this word in in a true and proper light. It's one of of of decay, of rotting, of being putrid. It's a harsh word that's used for the wickedness of the fool present in actions. And corruption is linked with foolishness. Christ said that out of the abundance of the heart a man speaks. And just as the foolish man here goes on to do abominable things. To practice unrighteousness. So when there is foolishness in the hearts of men, it manifests itself in his thoughts, and his words, and its deeds, and his deeds. So that as we practice foolishness in our hearts, we begin to practice foolishness in our thoughts and in our actions. Proverbs is a wonderful chapter to see this illustrated. Proverbs has also often been called faith in its working clothes, because it shows faith in action. And it shows faith uh played out in the actions of men. And uh there's many literary techniques used in the Proverbs, but one is the contrast, contrasting the the actions of the wise man who knows God and who fears God. With that of the fool who hates God. And what does the proverb say about the wise man? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. And yet we see contrasted time and time again the brazen wickedness of the fool who has no fear of God, and the separation from God of him who has no understanding. The sinful nature is growing corrupt according to the deceitful lust, Paul says in Ephesians. And as he's writing them, he warns them against the deceitful lust of their hearts. Why? Because that lust That foolishness in their heart manifests itself in their actions. We see um that Sin is dynamic in its nature. And it's not content to occupy a small space. But as soon as it enters, it begins to expand and grow and corrupt the heart and the actions. We see this in the life of David and his sin with Bathsheba. The scriptures say that in the time of year when uh kings go off to war, that David stayed in Jerusalem. So we see that beginning here with David's idleness and not going out um to battle when it was the time for him to do so, but the sin does not stay there. As he's idle, we see that he uh gets up and he has leisure time, time that would be taken up in kingly responsibilities, that is now not, and that it leads to adultery So idleness leads to adultery, and then it leads to lying, because he must cover up that adultery. And eventually it leads to murder when he kills Uriah the Hittite. It's interesting to see as Nathan the prophet rebukes David from the Lord, what he identifies as the causes of David's sin and the root of it. If you look in 2 Samuel 12, verses 9 through 11, we read that as Nathan's talking to David, he says, Why have you despised the word of the Lord by doing evil in his sight? That's the root of his sin. Not idleness, but despising the word of the Lord in his heart to do evil in his sight. And as the Lord pronounces judgment, he says to David in verse 12: Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against you from your own household. I will take your wives from before your eyes. And um he goes on to say all these things because and it's actually in verse 10, therefore the sword shall never depart from your house because you have despised me. And I've taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. What's the root of David's sin? Because he despised the Lord in his heart. And it showed itself in his actions. And it came, and even that righteous man, David, a man after God's own heart, yet when there was foolishness in his heart, when there was unbelief, when there was hatred in his heart. It manifested itself in its actions, and it led to a great sin. So we see that foolishness is the natural inclination of men's hearts, and that foolishness shows itself. in thoughts, words, and actions, but also that foolishness separates us from God. We uh turn back to Psalm 15. We read in verse 4, as it says, Do all the workers of in of wickedness not know who eat my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon the Lord? Now these are three things that he's asking in a rhetorical question. Do all the workers of a wickedness not know? Are they ignorant of God? The answer is yes, they are, because they are separated from God. They do not know God, they do not care to know God, because they are estranged from Him because of their unbelief and foolishness. Second phrase, who eat up my people as they eat bread. And this is a picture of something that is precious, that is owned by God, that is sacred to God. That is taken by men and made common and consumed and destroyed by men, taking the people of God, that chosen nation, that royal priesthood chosen by God. and consuming them like bread. It's the picture of the the conscience of the foolish man being seared as with a hot iron, so that they don't even realize they're doing anything wrong, while they destroy that which God has set apart for Himself. Do all the workers of wickedness not know who eat it my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon the Lord. Here we see in this last phrase the sin of prayerlessness. Calvin called prayer the exercise of faith. And so as we have faith, we should be praying to God. Beloved, a good temperature of our spiritual lives is our prayer life. As we uh um are looking to God in faith, as we are Um knowing Him more and more, as we are trusting Him in our lives for everything, we should be submitting ourselves to Him in prayer. And yet, when there is foolishness in our hearts. And we begin to honor ourselves above God, and we begin to deny the role of God in our lives, we do not submit ourselves to Him. We grow cold in our communication and in our prayer life. So let us take heed that we do not allow foolishness to separate us from God. by not calling upon his name. In the book of Genesis, and Genesis 4, 26, as it's giving uh it's after the fall and it's giving some genealogies leading up to the story of Moses, it says, Then men began to call upon the name of the Lord. And the rest of the book of Genesis goes on to show those two great lines, the the seed of the wicked and the seed of the righteous. Again, contrasting the seed of wickedness, of foolishness, of those who have denied God and are striving against him. And the seat of the righteous, those called of God, those who know God, who fear Him. And they're characterized by calling on the name of the Lord. Psalm 145, verse 18, says, God is near to all those who call on him, and near in a good way, in a helpful way, as their God and as their father. For in verse 5 we read that the wicked are in great dread, that those who have despised God, when they are confronted with him, they are confronted with their own sin. That as they come into the presence of God, they realize that they have fallen short of his standard. That they realize that the wages of sin is death. And they realize that they are sinners in the hands of an angry and just God. So foolishness separates us from God. And foolishness causes the fools to rage against those who would please God. Next couple verses in this Psalm show us this, that not only does it separate us from God and separates men from God, But it causes men to despise and to rage against those who would please God, against those who are near to God, against those who would serve God. Says in verse 4, as we spoke about, that they eat my people as they would eat bread. Now again, this is a a picture of the wicked attacking the righteous. But notice they aren't just attacking other men. They aren't attacking themselves. But their rage is specifically focused on the people of God. And uh just as Pharaoh raged against God through his punishment and his enslavement of the Israelites. And just as Goliath defied the armies of the Lord because he was defying God, so foolishness rages against those who would please God. We also read in verse 6, You would put to shame the counsel of the afflicted, but the Lord is his refuge. That the fool would seek to put put to shame the counsel of the afflicted. Now, counsel here, usually we think of counsel as asking somebody for advice. But here it's Um linked to that, we asked them advice advice about what we would do, about our plans, about um our uh the direction that we would live our lives. And that's the meeting um of the shade of nuance here, who would put to shame the direction of the afflicted, the direction of the righteous, the direction of serving God, of listening to him. Of heeding him in our hearts. You see that the fools rage against those who would please God. And lastly, God and his elect will triumph over foolishness and fools. Just as the psalmist laments the fact that there is none righteous, no, not one. He laments the fact that the wicked are without knowledge of God, without conscience, without God Himself. And as they rage against the righteous. Yet, what does it say in verses 5 through 7? For God is with the righteous generation. You would put to shame the counsel of the afflicted. But the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion when the Lord restores his captive people Jacob will rejoice, and Israel will be glad. Three of these phrases stand out. God is with the righteous generation. I think we get uh in that picture a picture of God with us, Emmanuel, that he is with us as a father, as a savior, with us as Um as our Lord and King. And just as we saw this morning from Psalm 45, that great picture of a king drawing a bride to himself. So we see that office of Christ in our life. That Christ Our great King subdues us to himself, and that he rules us and defends us, so that though a world of fools may rage against us, Though we we fight and struggle against the foolishness of our own hearts, yet he is with a righteous generation. Righteous not of our own doing, not of our own works. But righteous because of the work of Christ on our behalf