As we uh as God calls us to hear His word, we read in the book of Isaiah, in the chapter 55, verses 10 and 11: For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and do not return there without watering the earth, and making it bare and sprout, and furnishing seed to the sower, and bread to the eater. So will my word which be which goes forth from my mouth. It will not return to me empty without accomplishing what I desire, and without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it Thus says the Lord about his word, that just as the rain comes down and waters the earth and makes the plants grow, so he hath ordained his word as a means of grace. by which we might grow in our knowledge of him, by which we might grow in our love for him and grow in personal holiness that he The per the personal holiness that he's called us to. Let us turn in God's word uh to Psalm twenty-four as we continue our series in the Psalms. Psalm 24, we'll be reading, and let's uh stand as we read in reverence to God's Word. And before we read, let us again go before the throne of grace. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word that you have given us this nourishment, this picture of your character. You have outlined your will for our lives, this rule to direct us how we might glorify and enjoy you. And Lord, just as you have inspired men through your Holy Spirit. And just as you have preserved your word throughout the ages and have given it to us freely and openly in our land today, so Lord, I pray that you would now teach us By your Holy Spirit, Lord, that you would illumine our hearts and our minds, that we might know you, that we might walk in your ways, and that we might glorify and enjoy you. In Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 24. The earth is the Lord's, and all it contains, the world and those who dwell in it. For he has established it upon the seas, and established it upon the rivers. who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, and who may stand in his holy place, he who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully. He shall receive a blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of those who seek him, who seek thy face, even Jacob. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. It picks up one of the two great themes of the psalmist, that the psalmist uh likes to turn to. One was of God as creator. And we see, as we saw in our call to worship, that the psalmist often looks to God as he who has created us, who has created all things. And we also see that other great theme, a second theme that is prevalent in the book of Psalms, God as our Redeemer. The psalmist often uses the Exodus from Egypt to praise God for his redemption of his people. And as we come to Psalm 24, we see contained in this picture of a king coming out into returning from battle, victorious. unto his city. We see that in this picture we have both elements. God as our creator and God as our redeemer. We see, first of all, that God, the Creator, is owner of all things, that God owns everything. Now, as uh as we look and think about well what what this means, uh we see that he owns both big things, he owns all of the earth and all everything in it. And we know from Scripture that He created the sun and the moon and the stars, that there's nothing that is that He did not create We also see that he created small things, even little specks of dust, atoms, quarks, cells. Children, do you realize that when you go out and as you uh play and you come in and you have little specks of dirt on your clothing as you come in, that God created even those little specks of dirt. They're teeny tiny. Sometimes we don't even see them. And yet God knows of them. And he created them. They belong to him. And do you also know that as big as this world is, or if you've ever seen the ocean and as wide as it is, or as far away and and mysterious as the sun and the stars seen, God created them and he owns them. He is our creator and our God, that the earth is his possession. And otherwise in scripture we find Similar language where God expresses ownership over the earth and all things that are in it. He expresses ownership over the nations. In Psalms 60 and Psalm 108, he says, Moab is my washbow. Over Edom I shall throw my shoe. And just as um we have possessions in our house, a washbowl A place where we put our shoes that are ours, so God owns the nations, just as we might own an object He says in the book of Job, when speaking to him, as he's uh questioning Job, he mentions uh uh the creation and how he created uh things to go thus far and no further. He set the lines of of the water and the sea. And we see in verse 1, or in verse 2, the psalmist says, For he has founded it upon the seas, the earth, that he created the land, and he founded it upon the seas. and established it upon the rivers, that God created land and caused it to rise above the waters. And he sustains it there. It's a picture of the fleetingness of the earth. We take for granted that there is land, uh, and sometimes we look at water as the anomaly, but in the scripture It says that God founded the land upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. That God created the earth. He created it how it is. Uh just looking at uh the other planets in our our solar system, if the Earth were closer to the sun, it might be more like Venus, which is a very hot planet, where all the atmosphere and all water is immediately evaporated because it's so hot. Yet, if we look further away from the earth, we see Mars is frozen over. It has polar ice caps because the temperature is so cold. And yet God created the earth. And put it in such a place that it might be nourished. He rose the land out of the seas. And put animals and man upon it. God is our creator, and He owns all things that are in the earth. Now, why does he own all things? Because he created them. And part of knowledge as we uh study about the world and who we are and and what different things are in God's earth. One of the things that's important to understand is the origin of things. And we see clearly in this Psalm that our origin and the origin of all things are in God. That as one writer put it, that he who sees God in all things Uh recognizes that all things are in God. That in order to understand the earth, in order to understand the different creatures, the different elements, We must understand that they were created by God, and it's only in Him that we might understand the elements of the earth Now, uh, as we look at the different things, we must look to ourselves and realize that we were created by God. And uh this is the focus of the psalmist. Uh That uh as he looks to all the elements, he also looks to the people of the earth and what our purpose was. Why were we were we created And in looking that, we see he implies with verse 3, who may ascend into the hill of the Lord and who may stand in his holy place. These questions imply that we were created to have fellowship with God. That we were created to come unto God and to be before Him. And uh as we look at um at God as our creator and the owner of all things, we must see that um that we were created. For the purpose of having fellowship with God. But we not only see that God, our Creator, owns all things, but we see God, our Redeemer, calls us to be holy. And just as we looked at the fall this morning and uh the broken relationship that Adam uh had after the fall with God, that where he he was created to walk with God and to have fellowship with God. Yet after the fall, that relationship was broken. And in the question of who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, it implies that not everybody can ascend into the hill of the Lord. That that is a desirable thing, that is a good thing, that is the thing for which we were created. And yet, because of our fallen nature, we see that there are um uh standards for who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, that the Lord is holy, that he is set apart. That he is different from us. And not everyone may ascend to the hill of the Lord. These series of verses are very similar to Psalm fifteen, which we studied um several weeks ago, and actually I think it's been months now. Who asked the same question, who may ascend into the hill of the Lord? And uh then we saw that uh that that psalm taught that um the Lord calls us to be holy because he is holy. And these verses are a little bit different, but the same idea asking who may come before the Lord. Because the Lord is different, because he is so mighty, because he's so powerful, because he is so exalted. Who might come before him? Throughout the Old Testament, we see God calling a people to himself. And yet, even as he calls the nation of Israel unto himself and ordains how they mu uh they uh they should worship him. We see in that worship a system of barriers. That in the tabernacle there were many walls and there were different parts and sections, so that people didn't go directly unto God. But they went to the outer section of the tabernacle and to the priest. And even the priest didn't all get to go into the presence of God. But the Holy of Holies, which was in the innermost part of the tabernacle, could only be entered once a year, and then only by the high priest. And then not without blood, that blood had to be shed to atone for the sins of the high priest and of the people. And only then, once a year, only by the high priest, might he enter into the presence of a holy God. And then only to do the sped specific duties prescribed. And yet, as we see the holiness of God, as we see the barriers before a sinful people and before a holy God We see God continuing to draw our people to himself in Christ Jesus. That in Christ, as he died to pay the penalty for our sins, We know that when he uttered out, it is finished, that the veil of the temple was torn in two, symbolizing the breakdown of those barriers and the access That people in Christ now have to God directly. That in Christ that Baal was torn, that everyone, not just the priest, not just the high priest, can draw near to God. And every day, all the time, God now beckons us to pray without ceasing. Not just once a year, not just once a week, but we have access to God everywhere, all the time. With Christ as our blood sacrifice, we can come unto God, having restored fellowship with Him because of Christ's death for us. When we come to the question, who may ascend into the hill of the Lord and who may stand in his holy place, the answer to those rhetorical questions are no one. That no one may ascend to the hill of the Lord, because all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Who may stand in his holy place? No man may stand before him. And yet, in Christ Jesus, our Lord, our Savior, sacrifice, our sacrifice for sins. We might ascend into the hill of the Lord. We might stand in his holy place in Christ Now the psalmist continues in verse 5 to say, He who has a clean hand and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully. And even as we read those um those uh clarifications or those um uh requirements Well we might be tempted to, as a young r rich young ruler, to to just check 'em off. Yeah, I I haven't done anything horrible. Clean hands, uh pure heart, I've had a good day today. to be tempted to try and fulfill those. But we see that um that that's a summary of of someone who is blameless and spotless before the law of God. And we must confess that in our deeds our hands are not clean. And in our hearts, our heart is not pure, and that we have um fallen short in many ways But in Christ, as those who have been redeemed, as those whose nature has been changed from sinners to redeemed sinners, to new creatures in Christ. God calls us then, not that to the ways of our sinfulness, not to the ways of the flesh, but he calls us unto righteousness. He calls us to walk in his ways, to think his thoughts after him, and to walk in the steps of righteousness, to have clean hands, to live with a pure heart. To live as one who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood. And that's a strange phrase. And lifting up your soul to falsehood suggests idolatry. That we give our soul to something that is not God, to something that is not exalted, to something that is false and not real. And yet the believer, trusting in Christ, has his soul in God and not in falsehood. And uh the psalmist says, and has not sworn deceitfully. And what is swearing deceitfully except um deceiving ourselves, saying that which is not true, that which is not right. And yet God calls the believer to confess Jesus Christ, who is the way, the truth, and the light. And the Psalm uh contains not only a question of ascending into the presence of God, not only how characteristics of how God would have us to live, but he um he also uh records uh the blessing that God gives in salvation and drawing a people and saving a people unto himself. And we see this in verse 5. It says, he shall receive a blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. And here he hits the nail on the head. He's pointing ahead to that Messiah who would come. That from God we should receive a blessing. That from God we should receive the righteousness of Christ. From the God of our salvation. Not that we might in and of ourselves have pure hands, pure hearts and clean hands, but that from God we might receive righteousness. that he might draw us unto himself, into his presence, through the great salvation of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. So we see, God calls us to be holy. And in verse 6, it says, This is the generation of those who seek him, who seek thy face, even Jacob. This is the generation of who uh of those who seek him. Now in uh this language the generation is not just that um literal time or or uh group of people who lived at the time of the psalm, but it is talking about a group of people. It's talking about the group of people who are the children of God. And uh as it says, this is the generation of those who seek him. The psalmist is saying that uh the only person who would want to ascend into the hill of the Lord, the only person who wants to have fellowship with God. Are the people that God has redeemed. Because in our sinfulness, we don't desire God. In our sinfulness, we don't desire to ascend to his hill or to come anywhere near him. We don't desire to enthrone him on his hill as our Lord and Redeemer. But in Christ. In Christ Jesus, we are made alive through his Holy Spirit. We are our minds are illumined to the truth in Christ. And it's only in Christ that we are part of the group that seeks God. And even as the psalmist says, who seek thy face, even Jacob. He speaks here of the communion of the saints, those who are among the family of Jacob, the godly seed, who seek the face of God. And that's another characteristic of those who know God, those who would seek Him and would seek out fellowship with other believers. That we might gather into the presence of God, that we might ascend into his holy hill. So the psalmist extols the Lord as our creator who owns all things, our Redeemer who is holy and calls us to be holy. And finally, he extols the Lord as God, our King, who leads us in the triumph of salvation to an everlasting rest. And this is really the picture of the psalm as a whole. It's of a king who has great possession and who is marching with his host unto this city. And we see in verse 7 the cry comes up, Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Back in those times, cities were walled, and you had to enter into a city through one of a series of gates. And there were watchmen at those gates. And they didn't just let anybody in. But when the gates were closed, um you had to communicate to the watch of who you were, what your business was, and why you should be let into the city. And the picture here is of the king and his progress uh procession crying out, demanding entrance into the city. And not just that, the language is strange where it says, lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors. that the King of Glory may come in. And many commentators think that this this language is of uh the frames of the gate not being big enough, and having to lift up, to to expand them, to lift up the lintels of the gates. And to expand the doors, that this king, who is so glorious and so mighty, might enter into this city and reign. But the call comes back, who is the King of Glory? And the psalmist writes, The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Some commentators think that this psalm was the occasion for the return of the Ark of the Covenant unto Jerusalem after battle. The scriptures tell us that the armies of Israel often carried the ark out to battle, so that the Lord would fight with them and for them. And afterwards they would carry it back unto Mount Zion, where it was kept in the tabernacle first, and then later the temple. But as the cry comes back from the gates, from within, questioning the uh the worthiness of the Lord, to enter in. It gives the psalmist opportunity to describe the character, the might, the glory of the Lord. The Lord strong and mighty. God is omnipotent. And not just in the abstract, but mighty in battle. And again, the demand comes from the Psalm. A repetition of this poetry. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. And the phrase ancient doors, again, there's some dispute about what this means. Some thought it was the very gates of Jerusalem, which were um were old. Remember, David took Jerusalem as a city from the Jebusites. And um it had an older history even before Israel conquered it. Others think that this is referring to um the gates of heaven or the gates of eternity. Um but uh regardless as we look him up we see that the picture is of again a king coming to reign of a great uh in a great and ancient city. And um as his Procession comes to the gate. As these great doors are asked to be opened, the cry again comes back. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. This name, the Lord of hosts, is used in several areas. It's used in the book of Joshua And Joshua goes out and sees the angel of the Lord standing there with a great sword, and he says, Who are you? Are you for us or for our enemies? And the angel says, Neither, but I am the captain of the Lord of hosts. We see this name for God in Isaiah 6, that when he sees this revelation in the cherubim and the seraphim before God, crying out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord of hosts. And uh Lord of hosts, hosts are groups of people. We see that um in the symmetry of the Psalm, just as God is the creator of all things. Just as he owns all the earth and all that is in it, so he is the Lord of earth and of heaven, of all the angel hosts. The Lord God, the Lord of hosts, He is King over all creation. And as the psalmist has uh this opportunity in this picture of a king in his progression, being questioned. He has the opportunity to tell us and to extol the person and the work of our God and King. That He is the King of glory, that He is mighty in battle, that He is the Lord of hosts. And that he is the king of glory. The word glory in the scripture, when we talk a lot about we want to glorify God, and we want God has much glory The meaning uh literally is weight. Um and if you contrast it with someone who is light or unimportant Glory by contrast is someone who is weighty, who is solid, and God of all the people who are have power on the earth. Of all the people who have weight, substance, and meaning, God is the King of glory. Just as he has won the great salvation for us through his son Jesus Christ, so this psalm pictures God leading his host. Men on earth, angels in heaven, unto the place where he will reign, coming unto a city, and giving his people, dwelling there, and giving his people rest, eternal rest. And so, uh, as we see this psalm, we see that God is our creator, who created and owns all things. That God is our Redeemer, who is holy and calls us to be holy. And that God is our King, who has won the victory of salvation and leads us in triumph to an everlasting rest. And as we seek to apply these things, let us think about our worldview, how we view the world. Now, if if the world uh world view is new to you, it's basically viewing all things in the world through the eyes of Scripture. And this psalm is a is an excellent one to talk about doing that because it's so comprehensive in its scope. And that it talks about God as our creator, he who made us, gives us the origin of ourselves and all things. It talks about God as our Redeemer, who made us for a purpose, and who draws us unto Himself in salvation, the meaning of life. The purpose for our life is that we might have fellowship with God, that we might be restored in our relationship with the Holy God through the atonement of His Son Jesus Christ. And it shows us our destiny, our end. And our end, if you are in Christ, your end is to fellowship with God, to be led in triumph to that great city. where each gate is made of one single pearl, where the streets are made of gold, and where the river of life flows down the middle of them. Where there is no sun, because the sun does not need to shine, because the glory of the Lord is the glory of that city, where every tear should be wiped from our eyes Where the gates never close and they are always open. And where the saints gathered together shall reign with Christ. We see that God, our great God, hat created us for Himself, hath drawn us to Himself. And shall glorify us with himself unto all eternity. What a beautiful view of the world. We have summarized here in Psalm 24. We can also see as we seek to apply these different sections that because all things are God's, that we should give unto him that which is his. Children, do you know that even your toys that you have belong to God? And that the food on our tables, even though we uh we work for it, we might purchase it or even when we grow it, That it is a gift from God, that it belongs to God, and that he gives it to us. And that is why we thank him for our food, because it is his and he has given it to us. We should see our role as stewards of everything that we own, even our own life, even our own health, is a gift from God And we must realize that even as Job said, the Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all that He has given us, we must realize that we are but stewards of the possessions that He has showered upon us. Parents, you realize that your children are Um so uh they are his, they belong to him And all our possessions, everything that that He has enabled us um to to acquire is His. uh we see um this application from the role of God as creator. And as we look to unto God as a holy God, as we seek to apply this picture of God as our Redeemer, He who draws us to Himself. We see that we should be a thankful people for the great salvation that we have. We should be a humble people, knowing that we can't in and of ourselves ascend the mountain of the Lord That we haven't had clean hands or a pure heart. But we should be thankful and forgiving other people, understanding our own sin and who we are. That we are rebels against Christ and God, who have been redeemed, who have been forgiven. And just as we said this morning that he who has been loved much loves So we who have been forgiven much should also forgive our brothers and sisters. That we should we see for this section that we should seek the assembly of the righteous. We should seek those others, other people who are seeking the face of God, who seek to draw near to Him. And we should strengthen and encourage one another in our pursuit of God. And finally, as we see our victorious King. As we look unto that picture of being led in triumph, unto a great city where we will dwell and reign with Him, we should be joyful people. We should be uh living our lives expectantly, not expectant of great things in this world, not uh looking to worldly things for our our satisfaction uh to our pleasure. But looking to God and looking to the great salvation that He's given us, the new life in this world, and the hope of everlasting life in the world to come. That should be our great satisfaction. That should be our great goal and our aim. We should be spiritually minded people and disciplined and dutifully serving our King. Children, if you've ever read a story about a king, a king has people who serve him. Some are called courtiers, others are warriors and knights. And as you read stories about them, we see that those uh those individuals are very disciplined in their work. That as knights, they work out and they practice fighting so that when the king calls them to fight, That they might go and they might fight the battle for the king. And in the same way, because God is our King, because He's called us unto Himself, into His service. We should live our lives disciplined, training for the work of our King, that when He calls us, we might do His bidding. We might uh practice the the things that he's um laid before us and that we might serve him so that we might reign with him. Because he's called us, because we are his because he made us. Because he has redeemed us. Let us also walk in his triumph, in his procession. Let us walk in his ways. Let us think his thoughts after him. Let us be obedient to his laws, that we might serve our great God and King. That we might reign with him, both in this life, the new life that he's given us, and in the world to come, to his glory and to our good.