Hebrews four, twelve and thirteen read For the Word of God is living and active, and sharper than any two edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and married. And able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And there is no creature hidden from his sight. But all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. God sees all things, knows all things, and what as he has given us his word, it is truth indeed, sharper, living, and active to discern truth beyond our capability to understand it. And God has given his word to us. And uh it's this point at this point in our service that we turn to the preaching of God's word. And we'll be continuing our series in the Psalms, um, reading Psalm twenty this evening. Psalm 20. And let's stand for the reading of God's Word. And before we read, let us pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your Word. And Lord, just as you have inspired holy men through your Holy Spirit, Lord, and just as you have preserved your word and given it to us, Lord, so we pray that you might now open our eyes, that you might illuminar and our minds, that we might pay attention to what you say, that we might understand the things that we read. And Lord, that we might hide your word in our hearts, that we might meditate upon it, that it might be a work changing us. More and more from our sinful selves to new creatures in Christ. Lord, we do pray all these things. In Christ's name. Amen. Psalm twenty. For the choir director, a psalm. of David. May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob set you securely on high. May He send you help from the sanctuary and support you from Zion. May He remember all your your meal offerings and find your burnt offering acceptable. May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill counsel. We will sing for joy over your victory, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners. Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed. He will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand. Some boast in chariots, and some in horses, but we will boast. in the name of the Lord our God. They have bowed down and fallen, but we have risen and stood upright. Save, O Lord, may the King answer us in the day we call. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. This psalm of David for the choir director is a prayer for the king of Israel. And this is an interesting perspective because David It is the king of Israel. And yet he pens this song for the choir director um that is a prayer for himself. And uh looking at the uh the background information on the on the custom in Israel during the time of David's reign, that it was a custom for the king, uh, when there was a day of trouble, when there was a time of battle, for the king to come and to offer sacrifices before going out to battle, before um seeking to attack uh whatever problem was facing him. And this is the context of Psalm 20. That as we read the Psalm we see different sections. And the first section we see are the people's petition for the success of the king. And it's helpful to realize that as Israel has had different stages as a people, here they are in the monarchy and that God has given them a king to reign over them. And though God is their Lord, God is their sovereign in one respect. At this point in their history, under David especially, they have been unified as a nation. And God has given them a king. a man to stand as it were in the place of God and ruling them and defending them and subduing them to himself. And uh and so the people come and as they pray for themselves, as they They pray for their nation in a day of trouble and a day of distress. They pray for their king, that he might lead them in the way that they should go. So as we look at these first five verses, we'll sing them in the context. of the people's petitions for the success of the king. And we see in verse 1 that they pray, May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob set you securely on high. You here, uh, that the pronoun that is used is singular. And that's one of the indications that they're praying for their king, um, and not just a general petition. But uh as they pray for the king, they They they pray that the Lord may answer the king. And uh it's interesting to uh to look in scripture at different places uh where God promises to hear his people and to answer his people. But there are also places For God says that He will not hear prayers, where He will not answer in the day of trouble and calamity. Just as we know that you've heard the saying there there are no atheists and foxholes. We know that uh when people are in trouble They might pray to God regardless of their belief in Him, regardless of their of their past relationship with Him, regardless of whether they had a relationship with God at all. And in some places, in the book of Jeremiah, God says to Jeremiah, Do not pray for them, because I'm I will not answer them. And in Isaiah, in the fifty ninth chapter, the Lord says, But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God or I guess this is Isaiah talking to the the Israelites have made a separation between you and your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear you. But the people pray for their king, that God might hear him in the day of trouble. In that day where he uh Needs the help of the Lord Almighty. That he might not be separated from God because of his sin, but that he might have audience before the Most High. And uh we also see in this first set of petitions. May the name of the God of Jacob set you securely on high. Here the uh the name of the Lord is used as the God of Jacob. Now God has many titles throughout the Old Testament, but uh this is especially a striking one, and I think especially a military one. You think of the the past uh or how God has worked as the God of Jacob. Jacob was uh that son who begat the the twelve tribes of Israel And um we think of the story of Joseph. That Joseph was sold into slavery by his brothers. And in his day of trouble, the Lord heard him and exalted him in the land of Egypt. And not only did that to rescue Joseph from the Lord. Who had been faithful to the Lord, but also to rescue Israel, Jacob, and his sons and daughters and grandchildren out from the land of famine to a land of wealth and a land of plenty. And as we see Uh roughly four hundred years passing, and the children of Israel becoming enslaved in Egypt. What does the scripture tell us? But that they cried out to God, and God heard their prayers, and as he called Moses, he said, says that he has heard the outcry of the Israelites, and that he is purposing to bring them out of Egypt with a mighty hand. And after plagues and wonders, he brings them out through the Red Sea. Thwarting the Egyptian army and utterly destroying it. We see the God of Jacob leading Israel now, and now a nation, throughout the wilderness, and in a place where there's nothing to eat. He gives them manhood. Bread from heaven, created as it were from the dew. And in a place where there is nothing to drink, he creates springs from the rock. And he gives to his people to drink. And he leads them into a land, a land flowing with milk and honey, that they might possess it. And he scatters and utterly destroys the Canaanites from before them. He crumbles the walls of Jericho as if they were stale bread. And he establishes his people in the land. This is the mighty God of Jacob. This is the God that is being invoked as for the on behalf of the king, as he faces this military or otherwise day of trouble. The people of God are praying to their covenant God, their God who has shown himself in the past with might and power, that he might again come, that he might again show himself strong on behalf of his people. And so they pray, May the name of the God of Jacob set you securely on high. We see also that they pray, May he send you help from the sanctuary and support you from Zion. Now in reading these things uh might consider uh that they might be praying for material things. Uh on in one sense as we look at it as a a psalm of preparation for battle, um sending you support uh sounds almost like a a military order where we're sending in the auxiliary troops that would come and strengthen and support the army as they fight the foe, but also spiritual support. They're praying that God would send support from where? But from his sanctuary. From Mount Zion, the very place where the presence of God was. You remember during this time, uh as the nation of Israel was established, that um that the nation of Israel made Jerusalem its capital after David Became king and he uh fought the the countries around him. He captured Jerusalem and he made it his capital, and he brought the Ark of the Covenant to it. And Mount Zion was that place where the tabernacle was, where the temple was to be, where the presence of God was. And so they're praying that God might send strength from Jerusalem, from Mount Zion, from the sanctuary where the presence of God was, that God might send help in that this day of the day. of trouble. Makes me think of Psalm 73, when Asaph was struggling with the uh success of the wicked, struggling with the values of life and the the value of righteousness. When was the turning point in his thoughts? He was struggling spiritually. He says, When I entered the sanctuary, then I understood their end. And the Lord gives us help as we come before him in his sanctuary. They Continue their prayer. In verse three, may he remember all your meal offerings and find your burnt offering acceptable. As part of this ritual. ritual before a battle or this ritual in times of trouble, sacrifices would be offered by the king. And um the it this part of uh of the Psalm brings that out especially um that the offerings of the king might be accepted before the Lord. Both accepted in terms of the present sacrifice, that uh God would remember the sacrifice in um in blessing it at the moment, but also um remembering it in terms of Of past faithfulness to God. That God would remember the consistent life of love and sacrifice for God. And this is a cry that's used other places in the Old Testament. Hannah. When she went before the Lord, and she prayed and cried out for the gift of a child. One of her things that she prayed was, Remember me, O Lord. Samson, as he was chained and his eyes had been gouged out, And he realized his sin before the Lord, and he was chained in uh this pagan temple and being made sport of. He prayed to God, Remember me, that I might by uh by this feat of strength, by By destroying this temple, may I glorify you again. Nehemiah is a great example. Nehemiah the reformer who went back to uh the land of Israel and to Jerusalem after the time of exile. He was governed therefore. Roughly twenty years, and he was a great reformer in that time, reminding the people of their God, helping them to build the walls, sending off those who had threatened the people of Israel. And uh time and time again, uh chastising the people for their disobedience to the law and instructing them that they might obey it. And oftentimes as you read through the book of of Nehemiah and uh he pauses as if to um to pray to God and says, Remember me, O Lord, according to And so as the people pray for the sacrifices of the king to be accepted, they're praying, one that the this literal present time sacrifice before the battle might be accepted, but also that the Lord might remember. Ember the King, his covenant faithfulness, and his faithfulness to his people at this time. In verse 4, they continue their prayers. May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all. your counsel. Now uh counsel um in this case and in a military case would be their strategy. Uh what the leaders of Israel have purpose to do as far as facing this military threat or this threat of trouble. And here that they're praying that um that the decisions that the king makes, that this leadership, would be successful. That uh the desire or decision of the heart of the king Would be successful. In a more general way, uh we think of Psalm 37, where the psalmist uh exclaims, Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. If the king's desire is to serve the Lord. If the king's desire is, as it should be, to protect the covenant people of God, then what better prayer could we pray than that God might be glorified and keep and giving the king the desire of his heart, and accomplishing that which giv uh which lends to the glory of God and the good of his people. And that's exactly what they do pray. In verse five, we see a final petition We will sing for joy over your victory, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. And this this is a picture um that we see in Numbers two as the tribes of Israel came together to um to move out, and they came together tribe by tribe, family by family, and they hoisted their banners as tribes, and they moved as God had purposed them and told them. And here as they uh petition, may the Lord ful fulfill all your petitions. So uh we we see that it's in the again in the context of God's will for his covenant people. Uh It's in the context of God establishing and directing his chosen people, his chosen nation, and giving favor to the king who rules the people. But we not only see the petition. Of the people for the for their king in the Psalm. But we also see a confession of faith in God and his saving power. And we see this in verses six to eight as uh as we read um the uh the voice of it could be the Levites, uh one commentator has suggested that, but it seems that like a shift in voice, but this new voice is a confession of faith and and um showing faith in the God that that they are petitioning. Verse six says, Now I know that the Lord says his anointed. He will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand. And the tense here sounds like, well I guess the battle's over. But in the Hebrew it's a special tense called the prophetic future. Basically what it is, it's a future tense, but it speaks as if the event has already been accomplished. And uh the tense itself is one of faith, talking about the future. Talking about that which is being prayed for and hoped for, as if it is already a reality. And that is the tense that is used here, as the psalmist confesses the fa his faith in the God of the world. Jacob. Some boast in chariots and some in horses, but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. Again, you think to Israel's past. The chariots of Egypt that pursued them as they headed out towards the Red Sea. And what does the scripture tell us? But that the Lord thwarted those charioteers so that their wheels swerved back and forth. And they were afraid to ride because they realized that they were being affected by a supernatural. power. In second Kings six and seven uh chapter six we see um Elijah and uh him being surrounded. Thank you, Rick. By a vast army, and his servant despairing. And what does Elisha say? Open his eyes that he might see. And the servant begins to see the spiritual host, the chariots of fire, and the real Real power was on the Lord's side. The Lord acts sometimes in natural ways and sometimes supernatural ways to preserve, to protect, and defend his people. And as they come to To petition this for their king, to petition the Lord to protect them in this day of trouble. They also come confessing their faith, knowing that he is more than able to do all that they ask or even imagine. Finally, not only do they confess their faith uh above chariots and horses, but in verse eight, they confess their faith in the outcome. Verse eight reads They have bowed down and fallen, but we have risen and stood upright. Having their foes bowed down brings to mind some of the ceremonies that were used for captive, where oftentimes Sometimes the victors would put their feet on the necks of their um of their enemies once they had conquered them as a symbol of of their victory. And that's the image we get as far as them bowing down. And certainly as we think of in military languages about being fallen. It connotes fallen cities, fallen unto death, fallen empires which have been defeated. And the foes of the Lord will be defeated. As they confess the Lord's power, they confess his ultimate victory, that the Lord's purposes will not be thwarted, but his foes will be bowed down and will be fallen. And in the Lord. Um, just as we note from the New Testament and look to Romans eight, that great passage where it says that all things work to the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose. So The Psalmist says here, But we have risen and stood upright. God established his people in the time of David and granted them victory over their enemies. It's interesting to look at the region during the time of David and during his kingdom. The Middle East was and still is somewhat of a meaning of continents and powers, where Egypt was always a very strong power, and then there were northern kingdoms that um came to prominence. And the um Arabian kingdoms on the other side. And yet during the time of David, strangely enough, they were uh things that kept those nations very weak, that kept them from being threats. And though David had many battles with the nations around him, Yet historians agree that this was a time where there was somewhat of a vacuum of power, except in Israel, where God granted power and strength to David and to the kingdom of Israel. Proverbs twenty four sixteen, which Pastor Connect used at the uh retreat, is a a wonderful verse. For a righteous man falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked stumble in the time of calamity. And as The people come before God to petition him, to look to him in this day of trouble. They confess their faith in him, knowing, being sure, as in a as as it has already been confused. completed, as if it had already been completed. Stating that which they hope for as certain, putting their faith and their trust in the God of Jacob. So we see not only the position of the people, And not only a confession of faith in God and of his saving power, but we also see a concluding cry of dependence for salvation. Having somewhat received what they have hoped for, the people do not end there. But the last verse, verse 9, reads, Save, O Lord, may the King answer us in the day we call. It's a cry of continued dependence on the Lord our God for help, for strength. for salvation. And one commentator said that this last verse is almost as if they are crying, God save the king a prayer for the salvation of God's people. through their representative head, their king, as he seeks to serve them. And the last part of the verse, may the king answer us in the day we call. That's it almost uh An Amen, a resounding Amen. The word Amen, uh the gist of it is, Let it be so. And as verse nine ends, it says, May the king answer us in the day we call. May he always be there in the day we call to them. May He be available and freed up and powerful to be there in the day of trouble, that we might call to Him, that God might use Him to accomplish His good and perfect purposes and delivering his people. Well as we read the psalm and as we see these prayers and petitions, this confession of faith and uh the continued cry of continued dependence, um It's important that we uh that we apply it to ourselves and not just uh uh gain knowledge about the customs of the kingdom of Israel, but um see how this applies to us as believers in Jesus Christ. For as the people prayed for God to bless their king that they might be delivered. So in Christ, our King, as as we discussed this morning, the offices of Christ, and realized. That all these uh shadows and types of the Old Testament are fulfilled in Christ. We see that God has saved us through Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, our great prophet, our great priest, and our King. In him we have been delivered from the wrath of God and the just penalty for our sin. Because he has gone out to fight the battle on our behalf. He has paid the penalty for our sin on the cross. And He has given us His righteousness that we could never have in and of ourselves. And in Christ we have freedom and access to the throne of God, that we might come before God and Petition him on all sorts of occasions and all sorts of requests. And whereas the wicked um God says to the wicked God says, I will not hear, I will not listen in your day of calamity. Yet in Christ Christ. We have been reconciled to God. And He hears us. He takes heed. He has heard our petitions. And He will save those whom He calls to Himself. And so in applying It to ourselves in Christ. Let me ask you, in the day of trouble, what is your first reaction? When you have a day of trouble or distress? What do you do? What is your custom? What is your ritual? Do you react with anger at the situation? Do you can't believe this is happening? Do you react with fear? Are you paralyzed with fear when you come to a day of the day? You react with self confidence, thinking that you can handle it, that you have the strength and the skill to do whatever is called and it whatever is necessary. As we come to this we must recognize that anger in the day of trouble is enmity with God. When we're angry, even if we project it on different people or different circumstances, we must acknowledge that it's God's providence that has brought us to a time of trouble. And anger is enity, is hatred towards God, hating him for his providence. That fear in a in a time of trouble, in a time of trial, is nothing more than doubt. doubting God, whether He's there, whether He's powerful enough to preserve us as He's promised. And self confidence in the in the day of trouble, in the day of trial, is nothing more than idolatry and Self-worship. When you face trials, when you face troubles, cry out to the Lord your God, the God of Jacob, who is powerful, whose providence controls all things, who is more than able to preserve you and to strengthen you in Christ Jesus. Cry as the Psalmist did, that we that that uh you might be saved and that He might accomplish it by His great power. The psalm teaches us that we should pray on all sorts of occasions and all sorts of requests, but especially in the day of trouble. James 5, when James wants to address the subject of prayer, he starts it off by saying, Is anyone in trouble? He should pray. That prayer is appropriate again at all times, but especially when we're in trial. Especially when we are in trouble, God has commanded us to come before. For him and to pray. And one of the the things that this Psalm teaches us is that we should pray for those in authority above us, that we should pray for our rulers and our leaders, that we should pray for our government. uh federally and state uh uh and locally and also our leaders in the church. That um we should be praying for uh the elders that God has put above us and the deacons as they do the work of the church that we should be praying for those that God has um put over us to use as um for good in our lives. And we should also be praying for For for situations, for events, for um things that come up in our lives that um that we have anxiety about, whether it's something at work, something um a family event, but As we think about things, as we especially um feel pressure or feel anxiety uh about things, we should pray for them. We should pray before, as we see something coming and as the psalm models the king getting ready to go out to battle. does he do first? He comes before God and offers sacrifice. The people petition God on behalf of their king. Before the battle, part of their prep preparation is to present Their request to God. And as we see things coming up in our lives, things at work, again, things at home, we should pray as we see them coming. We should not only pray before, but during, as we face different struggles and conflicts. As we undergo various trials, or as we are in the midst of different situations, as we have events that might be difficult, as we are in the midst of them, we should pray to God that He would help us. Um Stonewall Jackson as he was uh as he reviewed his military plans with his um his uh posited that he was praying over the the plans that he had just given out, each step, pausing, praying, that God might bless each step of his campaigns. And so as we uh go about our lives, as we go about those callings which God has given us, um, we should pray uh beforehand, but we should pray in the midst of them, that God might give us strength to do the things that He's called us to do. But also we should pray after these things. That we should remember to be a thankful people when God answers prayer. And we should remember not to give up in prayer, but we could to continue in prayer. If things seem to go badly for us, that we not give up and uh just write it off, but that we continue to present ourselves before God, to petition Him, to ask again and again again. God might glorify Himself, that God might give us strength, that God might preserve us for His glory and for our good. And one of the ways that we can do this, besides praying for specific events is just to get in the habit as a people of praying unto God. That we should pray for the day in the morning. Pray for the day ahead. Pray for those activities that he has called us to that day. And in the midst of the day. As we are doing what He has called us to do, to pray for our work, that we might work well, that we might work skillfully and efficiently, and at the end of the day, to to pray to God, thanking Him for His blessing. And confessing our sins before Him and our mistakes, praying for the next day that we might again do those things that God has called us to do, that he might be at work in our lives, that he might be our help and also our stay, that we in the day of trouble turn to, look to, lean upon, depend upon, whom we cry out to to hear our prayers. God does not slumber nor sleep, the Psalm says. And as we read God's word to us, he is constantly beckoning us to prayer. And that partic particular psalm, as it beckons, Psalm 121 beckons us to prayer, it says that he will preserve your going out and your coming in forevermore. So So Psalm twenty is about a day of trouble, a day of distress. Yet even in everyday life, when there is no trouble, no massive onslaught at the time, praying to God and And surrendering ourselves to Him, submitting ourselves to Him in prayer. Well we'll fulfill His will and um and enable Him to guard and protect our going out and our comfort. Coming in, both from this time forth and forever. David was a man of prayer. And as we look at David's life, we see that he went from a shepherd boy, the youngest of all his brothers, somewhat despised. To a warrior who defeated a giant. More that when a a whole entire army was afraid, David, this boy, faced a seasoned veteran, a giant, a man of war, with no arm. armor, but a sling and a few stones. David fought the Philistines under Saul and slayed ten thousands of s of Philistines. And though Saul tried to kill him, He fled and was finally anointed king himself. And he fought off the armies around him. He fought back the Philistines. He established the kingdom and God used him to draw the nation of Israel together as a monarchy. David was the king of an empire in his time. And yet, if we look at his secret of success, if we look at the behind-the-scenes story of how um how this came to be, we see a man of prayer. A man who cries out to God for dependence, for help, for salvation. As we look to God for strength, as we look to God for that power to do That which He has called us to do in our lives. Let us cry out to God. Let us not react to days of trouble with anger or with fear. Or even uh with the arrogance to say, I can handle it. But let us cry out to the God of Jacob, to the God who has saved us from sin, to the God who has drawn us to himself as his people. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I do thank you so much for your word and for the great promises that you have given within it. And Lord, I do pray that you would be with us as we Uh end this Sabbath day of rest and worship. And as we go forth, Lord, to the callings that you have given us, Lord, I do pray that you would uh bless this week, that you would bless our activities in it, that we might uh be about the work that You have called us to um as unto you, Lord, as not unto ourselves or our families, or any man, Lord, but unto you. And Lord, I pray that that in this week as we face uh difficulties as we face uh difficult situations. Lord, that you would direct our eyes to you, that we might fix our eyes upon our great King, Christ Jesus, knowing that we have salvation in him. And Lord, that we would Lord, that we would cry out in utter dependence upon you, knowing, Lord, that's the same. That you hear our prayers, and that you work all things to the good of those who are who love you and are called according to your purpose. Lord, we do thank you so much for this great salvation that you have given us in your Son Jesus Christ, and we pray all these things in your life. And his day, almin