It's in a very strategic place of geographies where three continents come together, where Asia and Africa and Europe meet. And um throughout history, Israel has been in a buffer zone between the power of Egypt and the powers of the Mesotamia uh Mesopotamian uh powers So that uh their position was never um was usually constantly threatened. And we talked a little bit last time about David and how the Lord used David to solidify the nation of Israel under under a king. And he used David to uh to push back uh the boundaries of Israel's enemies and to expand Israel's territory. And as as we look last week at at the custom of Israel when facing a foe, um That David wrote Psalm 20 about sacrificing to the Lord, about submitting himself as a king of God's covenant people to the Lord before going into battle. And praying that the Lord would hear his prayer. So in Psalm 21, we see a psalm of thanksgiving for the victory that God has given. And we see, first of all, we'll look at three points. One, that God is glorified in the exaltation of his people. Secondly, that God is glorified in the defeat of the wicked. And thirdly, that God is glorified in the praise of his people. Well, first of all, God is glorified in the exaltation of his people. And we see this in the first seven verses. as um as the psalmist praises God for a victory given to the king It says in uh there's several things that that the psalmist is thankful for and praises God for in this section. And the first one is showing his str uh God showing his strength to his dependent people. Verse 1 reads, O Lord, in your strength the king will be glad, and in your salvation, how greatly will he rejoice! The thing that is being extolled here is the strength and power of God, and that he has uh shown that power to his people. As we saw the people Submitting themselves to God in prayer, submitting themselves to God and acknowledging last week that God the outcome is not to horses. The outcome is not to chariots, it's not to the military strength, the material muster of the nations, but it's to the Lord. And here in the opening verse, the opening exhortation is that the king will rejoice in the strength of the Lord. This is a common theme in Scripture, and what a great theme it is to for us uh a great lesson for us to learn that we as Um as ransom sinners, as sinners who tend to want to be very independently minded, uh sinners who uh don't often like Help, but want to do things ourselves, to learn that the power of God is sufficient for us, and that we should learn to rejoice in the power of God, in his strength. And not in our own ability to accomplish things. The Apostle Paul, as he was writing, writing to the Corinthians, described the situation where he had a thorn in the flesh. And he had prayed three times for the Lord to remove it. And the Lord said to him that he should be content, and that his power was made perfect in weakness. And uh in the same way here, we see that the king praising God for the strength of his power. Now, God has given him a great victory in battle in this situation. And yet the king acknowledges that it's in the Lord's strength, not in his victory, not in his military power and prowess, but in the Lord's strength that he rejoices and that he exalts. And uh secondly, and uh well joined to this uh first item, is that uh that God has answered his prayer. We uh Psalm twenty w was uh a summary of the prayer of the people and the prayer of the king and the prayer of the Levites unto God for um for victory, for um preservation in this time of trial, in this time of temptation. And God has heard and answered their prayer. And what a great way to see our dependence upon God and His power and His strength in our lives. But to see how um how he answers our prayers. And oftentimes God allows us to um to get into a situation where our back is to the wall. That he might show us, that he might demonstrate in a tangible way. um how he delivers his people and how he answers their requests. Hudson Taylor, who was a missionary to China, um knew uh the power of God and his dependence upon it very well. And um in that work where he had sort of a soup kitchen that would also but he would also use uh the facilities to to minister to those people. And um money was very tight and they they were a mission organization that would wholly dependent upon funds that they would s receive from back in England. And uh one time uh the the food was getting low and the funds were getting low and uh finally the helpers came to Hudson Taylor and said That's it. We've just served the last bowl of rice. I mean that's that's it. We we have no more resources. And Hudson Taylor said, that's wonderful. That's great. And his uh helpers uh thought that he'd gone crazy. That he uh he wasn't reacting in a normal way. There was no uh earthly reason for him to react that way, but he said Now God must help us. God must act. And he told them, wait, watch and see. Pay very close attention to what's about to happen. And sure enough, the next day, they got a check in the mail. They got they received funds to supply food for several months. And the people around then saw what Hudson Taylor saw instantaneously, that when God's people are in a tough position, When God's people are in a situation where they are not able to control things, it's then where God shows his strength and his power. His ability to do what no human being can do, and his love for his people in answering their prayer. Third, we see that God delights in giving material wealth and prosperity. Now, material wealth can be a snare, and at some points in the Old Testament and the New, it's presented as such. Remember the rich young ruler went away sad because he had great riches. And um we see it certain ports uh parts of the scripture uh warning the believer against um Being overly affectionate towards worldly things. And yet, material things are in and of themselves evil, and God delights to give his children good gifts. And just as James says that every good and perfect gift comes from the Father, so God delights to give good things to his children, even material things. We see that he who finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the Lord. We see that children are an inheritance from the Lord. And we find throughout the scripture the beauties of his creation and the gifts that he's given us in nature, in food, in fellowship with one another, are good things. And as we read in verse 3, we see that he delights, God delights to exalt his people by giving them good things. Verse 3 reads, For you meet him with the blessings of good things. You set a crown of fine gold on his head. And this crown of gold not only symbolizes material wealth and prosperity. But the crown symbolizes the kingdom that he has made his king victorious and he has given him a a prosperous kingdom that he might reign over um over his enemies. So he's uh the psalmist here is thanking God for um for his strength to a dependent people, for his answering of prayers, for his um delighting to give his people material wealth and prosperity. And in verse 4, he talks about long life. God blesses his people in giving them long life. Now, um most of the things that uh that are listed here can be taken figuratively. um as well as literally. And oftentimes God blesses the righteous by extending their lives, by leading them in a way that's that avoids death. The Proverbs say that a wise man sees danger coming and he hides himself because God has given him wisdom to understand the situation and to understand where danger is and to flee from it. Um but it can also be taken literally. Um just not all the righteous live a long time on this earth, uh, and yet in Jesus Christ. God gives us extended long life, life unto all eternity. And we read in verse 4, He asked life of you, and you gave it to Him. Length of days, forever and ever. Here's a situation where the king was going into battle, knowing that he could die in the next couple of hours. and in the heat of conflict, that at any moment he could be cut down. And yet he asked long life of the Lord. And the Lord not only saved him from the midst of battle, But the Lord gives him life forever and ever. New life in this world. That's what we have as believers in Christ. And the hope of everlasting life in the world to come. So he's God delights in giving material wealth and prosperity, long life. God delights in giving honor and glory even before men in this world. Though we know that our ultimate uh glorification will be in heaven, where we'll be made perfect, yet God delights in exalting his people in the midst of trial and difficulty. He says in verse 5, Splendor and majesty you placed upon him. That this king and being victorious has been exalted among men. We think of the Proverbs 31 woman Um wives, uh Proverbs 31 says that um the the godly wife will be exalted in the gates. And the city gate was a place where people would come and go and oftentimes uh a place where things would be announced or um things would be debated. Um it was a a civic center. And the Proverbs say that this godly woman who fears the Lord and who takes care of her family will be exalted in the gates, that everybody will know about it. And so, uh, as we see this picture of the king who's victorious, God delights to give him glory and honor in this world, to exalt him before men. And to show his loving kindness, even in worldly praise. The next thing is giving stability and security. And it somewhat that's uh implied in just the nature of the king being victorious in battle, that his enemies did not triumph over him, but he triumphed over them, and so the the threat was averted. But the psalmist here speaks of of a security and a stability that goes much beyond just winning the battle, a single battle. As we read in verses 6 and 7, the psalmist says, For you make him most blessed forever. You make him joyful with gladness in your presence. For the king trusts in the Lord, and through the loving kindness of the Most High, he will not be shaken. That God shows his loving kindness to his people. And drawing them to himself, giving uh his people a relationship with himself, as it says in verse 6, you make him joyful with gladness in your presence. That it's the presence of God that that anchors the believer, that causes him to rejoice, that he knows God. What did uh we read in Jeremiah? Let him who boast boast in this. That they know the Lord, that they understand his salvation. And so the psalmist rejoices, both in the material victory, but in the presence of God being manifest And the king being drawn into the presence of God. And in verse 7 it says, For the king trusts in the Lord, and through the loving kindness of the Most High, he will not be shaken. Beloved, if you are in the Lord Jesus Christ, if he has called you out of darkness into his wonderful light, if he has set his name upon you, if he has given you his Holy Spirit, then you shall not be shaken. No one can snatch those the Father has given to Christ out of his hand. And though you might encounter trials, though you might encounter difficulties, Though there might be times where you are frightened and confused, though there are times where the battle seems to rage on every front. Yet in Christ you shall not be shaken. That in his presence you shall rejoice. There is great rejoicing in knowing God. and in having a personal relationship with him. And so we see that God is glorified in exalting his people in many different ways, in many different situations. um but especially and literally in this psalm, in giving his his people victory and in exalting uh his covenant king. Uh to uh deliver his people from uh the the threat and the enemy that um had uh had beset them We see next that God is glorified in the defeat of the wicked. And just as the scriptures tell us that God will not allow the wicked to go unpunished, this next set of verses is a picture of God destroying those who hate him. In verses 8 and 9 it says, Your hand will find out all your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who hate you. And uh God in his omniscience knows who hates him and who does not. And God in his power is able to destroy all those who hate him. And though it might seem that the powers of this world are great, though it might seem that the uh wicked spiritual powers might be great at times, yet God will destroy all of his enemies. And the picture that he um he gives here is one of everlasting judgment, of fire. Verse 9 says, You will make them as a fiery oven in the time of your anger. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire will devour them. Beloved, the enemies of the Lord, those who hate God, will be utterly destroyed. Next 10 he says that he will remove their offspring from the earth. Their offspring you will destroy from the earth, and their descendants from among the sons of men. Now here he's not uh holding the the children accountable for the sins of the Father, um, but I think uh in the picture here is that those uh who are wicked and do what uh uh what the wicked men before them have done. In John chapter 8, uh the Jews were saying that we are Abraham's children. And Jesus said, if you were Abraham's offspring, you would do the things that Abraham did. But you are children of the devil, therefore you lie like your father the devil. And here that's the picture that we get that um the offspring uh the here are considered wicked men who are about the work of their father the devil And God will not allow wickedness to be perpetuated. He will not allow the guilty to go unpunished. He will not allow those who come against the power of the Most High to get away scot-free. But he will destroy the offspring of the wicked. When uh uh Goliath came against the armies of Israel and um and defy them. And David confronted him. David charged him rightly with his great sin. And what was his great sin? What was Goliath's great sin that the Lord caused him to be defeated? That he defied the armies of the living God. And though David was a boy, though David was only armed with a few stones, Though David was untrained and seasoned in battle, the Lord used David to strike Goliath down and remove him from the earth, because he had made himself an enemy of God. Beloved, we live in a society that hates God. We live in a society that does not care about God's law and is at enmity towards Him. And as we see people living a life of of hatred towards God, and oftentimes being very belligerent not only towards God, but towards those who would ex uh would um express their faith in him. Towards Christians, towards all things religious, those who would seek to um to destroy the Church of God. Yet we know, as we look to scriptures, that those plans will not succeed, that God will destroy the wicked. That God will remove their offspring from the earth. And in verse 11, he says that he will thwart their plans. Verse 11 reads, Though they intended evil against you and devised the plot, they will not succeed. I think a great example of this is the book of Esther. What a great account of God's providence. And his uh taking of the wicked and foiling their plans, as Haman is plotting and scheming to exterminate not only Mordecai, whom he hates, but all of the Jewish people. to do um that great wickedness. And he seems to have the power. He seems to have the plan. It seems all set. The king has approved it with his signet ring. And the day is drawing near. And yet God, in his providence, in his power, removes that victory and instead destroys Haman and his household. God does not allow the plans of the wicked to come to fruition, but he thwarts and defeats it. And children, do you realize that God used Queen Esther? She was not a warrior, but uh but she was just uh uh a queen who happened to be uh Exalted to a place where she could speak a word of truth to the king. And in doing that, the Lord used her. to deliver all of his people. Remember the Jews were going to be exterminated not only uh in the the place where Esther was, but all over the the kingdom. And the Lord used Esther To thwart the plans of the wicked. Finally, God delights in pushing the wicked to retreat and defeat. In verse 12 it says, For you will make them turn their back. You will aim that your with your bowstrings at their faces. And it's a it's a picture of military superiority, of turning an army back, of having a drop on them with uh bowstrings at their very faces. That uh just as Psalm 2 says that God looks at the nations and the kings of the earth and he laughs. As the word describes the nations as a drop in the bucket. So God has power over men and over nations. He holds the king's heart in his hand and he turns it whichever way he wishes, like water. That God is in control over the wicked. And so we we should not fear the wicked. We should not fear what will happen. But we should entrust ourselves to him who has power to subdue the wicked, who will not allow the guilty to go unpunished. Who will not allow uh those wicked plans of evil men to succeed, but who will thwart them, and who is exalted in the defeat of the wicked who hate God. And finally, God is glorified in the praise of his people. And this is what this psalm is. It's a praise to God for his victory that he's given to the to his people through their covenant king. And as we come before God and worship him, as we come before God and and realize that that He has given us victory through his son Jesus Christ. That he has saved us from the wrath of God through his son. That he has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. As he has blessed our great King, Christ Jesus, our Lord and Savior. And as he has given us the victory in Christ, Over our sin and our flesh. That He has blessed us with long life Life forevermore, new life in this world, and the hope of everlasting life in the world to come. And that He will defeat His enemies, Satan, the world, and the devil, shall ultimately be destroyed. But God's elect, those believer believers in Jesus Christ, shall never be destroyed. But we have a great victory. And God has given us his presence. God has heard our prayers. God has answered us in the day of trouble, and we, as His people, delight in His strength And delight by singing praises to him, that we should uh that we should pray unto him, uh that we should, as we talk to other people, glory in who the Lord is and what he has done for us as a people. This should be our knee jerk reaction. It should be a reflex. Just as you when the doctor takes that little hammer and puts it on your knee and and hits it, a normal person, their leg will go up. That should be our normal reaction as believers. When we hear what God has done, when we hear that He has given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ, our reaction should be to praise Him, to sing songs to Him. and to exalt him to one another. As we think about singing, singing is really just an extended shout. And um we see enough at sporting events or uh when uh people have something uh materially good that happens to them that they shout or they yell. Um just out of the the gladness of their heart. So in the same way, um our seeing unto God should be um A sustained shout. A sincere excitement about who God is and what He has done for us And with Matt's instruction, as we learn how to channel our voices, we should work at channeling our hearts. That uh we're not doing something just between scripture readings or something leading up to the sermon or building down from the sermon, but we're singing unto God. We're praising our God. for all the wonderful things that He has done for us. For giving us, again, that great victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the the picture that we're getting here. That of a king who has been victorious, who has saved his people, and has secured safety and security for them against the forces of evil. Whom will that that will ultimately be destroyed. The picture that would be fulfilled in Christ, that great warrior king, who secured victory for his people That they might no longer be children of darkness, but that we might be soldiers of Christ. As we seek to bring application to these things, let me ask you, as the uh the psalmist here glorifies God for what he has done, When's the last time in your prayer life that you thank God for what he has done in your life? Are we a thankful people who regularly make it a habit to thank God for what he has given us? And not just not just food, although that's a good occasion to do it. But to thank God for his Son Jesus Christ, to thank God for all the material blessings he's given us. All the spiritual blessings he's given us, to thank him for the means of grace, his word, worship, and for the congregation of believers that he's assembled in this area Do we look to him and rest upon him as our king? You know, it's uh one thing about submitting unto authority. And uh you can look at this in many different arenas, in the family, at work, um, as a people of America. Your leader can make a great difference. in um in the direction uh of your country or of your business or of your family. And uh as we It's a great blessing to have a good leader, and it can be uh a great curse to have a poor leader. I think as we've uh So I think uh that as a people we should realize that our leader, our king, our covenant head is no longer Adam, who sinned against God and who fell. But if you are in Christ Jesus, He is your covenant head. And He is perfect. And as we look to Him, God has given us a great a prophet, priest, and a great king to subdue us to himself, to rule and defend us, and to subdue all his and our enemies. That as we encounter hardship and trial, and we're tempted to want to do things ourselves, we should look unto our King, Christ Jesus. And let us also, as we read this psalm, beware that we're not found in the camp of those enemies of God. How are they described? How does the psalmist describe those who are wicked, those who are evil, those who will be destroyed? He describes them as those who hate God. Let me ask you, do you find yourself hating God? Do you find yourself Are are you a practical atheist that though you know God, though you um have a knowledge of the Bible and though you confess Him Do you forget about him when troubles arise? Are you slow to turn to prayer and quick to try and solve things yourself? Do you become angry in situations? Um that's one indication. Anger is nothing more than um than a hatred of of God's providence. And though we're not called to be satisfied with um with sinful situations, yet those are situations that God has called us to, that we might affect change in a way directed in His Word. So we need to guard against uh anger because it's nothing more than hatred against God. And we need to guard against forgetfulness because forgetting God is practical atheism That forgetting God is uh is ignoring his presence and in the practical realm that we live in. And here We see the king delighting in the strength of God in big things as well as small things. And finally, do you give thanks to God? Are you a thankful person? Are you characterized by um by your thankfulness to God for many things? I think one way to do this, as we've talked about and as the psalmist says directly, is to practice our singing unto God. Both on Sunday, music instructions that is a great way to do that, but also privately, throughout the week, in our families and even individually, singing songs of praises unto God. To get in the habit of being thankful and showing our thankfulness unto God by singing unto Him, by having that sincere excitement about who God is and about what He has done. May God help us to strive towards that and to exalt in our King, Christ Jesus, our Lord, and in the victory He has given us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much that you have given us the victory in Christ Jesus our Lord. And Lord, we do thank you for your strength, Lord, and we are dependent upon it. And as we come to you, Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes that we might see the wonderful things in your law, the wonderful things of your character. The wonderful plans that you have made for those who love you. And Lord, that we might realize That you are glorified and exalting a people. And Lord, I pray that we would be a humble people, that we, even as David said, who am I that you should bless me so much? Lord, I pray that we might be humble in the salvation that you've given us. And Lord, I pray that you would make us a thankful people. That when we look and realize what we deserve, and we look and realize the blessings that you've showered upon us. Lord, that we would be thankful. And Lord, I pray that you would make us a people that habitually, sincerely praise you. Lord, that you might be glorified and be pleased to glorify yourself in the songs and the prayers and the praises of your people. And we pray that you might accomplish all these things through Christ Jesus, our Lord and Savior, and our great King. Amen