Well, today we return to the book of First Peter and pick up where we left off. We are in the middle, currently in the middle of chapter three, if you recall, and it is my hope that uh we should finish up this chapter possibly Possibly this morning. But the truth is that we are at a portion of this book that requires a bit of time to explain. Our passage today is an example of how the general meaning of the text is not that difficult to follow, but the biblical writers' use of analogy Or illustrations to make a point can raise questions among inquiring minds and cause us to pause and address those relevant queries I think that the problems that can arise from this is that whenever you have situations where only plausible answers can be offered, we must remember that they are simply that. Plausible answers. In the grand scheme of things, some plausible explanations can be pokey. Some can be fanciful, and some without support elsewhere within Scripture, thus making it possible to eliminate. Some of the, how shall I say it, mushy plausible explanations. But there can be times where there may be some equally plausible explanations. That requires us to take uh aside and uh take aside upon and and then defend it. We can get caught up in arguing for positions on minor points in Scripture, and this can unfortunately cause us to lose sight of the major point the writer of the passage is. is making. We have a responsibility to be careful not to major in the minor things. Today we have just such an example of a passage where I understand that you can have over 120 different permutations in an effort to explain. I don't know about you. I think I have some sort of a relief valve somewhere in the back of my head. that causes plausible explanations to begin to spill out in order to make room for new ones when there are so many of them. I take the time to say this because I don't have the intellectual ability, nor do we have the time, to go over 120 possible explanations of this passage. However, I will highlight the questions raised within our passage today and stay within a biblical framework to offer realistic Answers that make sense and explain what Peter is communicating here to the church that he wrote to in his time and its impact on the church. today. Having said all of this, let us focus our attention to the text itself now. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's precious holy word? It is from the book of 1 Peter, chapter 3, and it is from verses 18 to 22. Hear now the word of God. For Christ also suffered, once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. In which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared. In which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this Now saves you. Now not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God with angels, authorities, and powers, having been subjected to him. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we continue in our worship by the study of God's Word. Have us understand what you intended for us to know. Grant us the grace to recognize where we fall short, and change us from within to conform to the will of God and reflect our blessed Savior. We ask this in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Just to refresh our memories and sort of reorient our minds to the text, what we have most recently been studying is the response. Christians are to have when interacting with different institutions within society, the government, employers, and within the institution of marriage With an eye to situations when those that have authority over us persecute us for our faith. Some of what Peter has taught us are. One, we are to obey those that God puts in authority over us. Number two, we are to not obey when they demand that we commit sin. Number three. However, in those circumstances, we are to decline obedience respectfully and be prepared to suffer the cost associated with obedience to God. Sometimes the cost may be slight or it may be enormous. Number four, we should be prepared to offer an explanation for our beliefs, again in a manner that is both respectful and gentle. Number five, we should remember that God is watching And he hears our prayers. And at the right time, and in his choosing, he will vindicate us for returning good for evil and being obedient to his word. We should not take vengeance into our own hands, but trust that God will be the one to do so at the appropriate time. And finally, Peter has been exhorting us to do so with an eye towards evangelism. He has reminded us that it was through the Lord's suffering. In our place, that we received salvation. Perhaps, just perhaps, the Lord may use our suffering as an instrument to lead others to Christ. And so this is a good transition point, I think, into the passage that we have for this morning. Verse 18 begins with: For Christ also suffered. This immediately ties us with the previous thought of suffering for our faith. We should recognize that there are those within the churches That he is writing to that are suffering for obedient for being obedient to God's will. And there may be some of us who have experienced that in the past Or are experiencing that even today. The big picture here is that Peter, in his thought process, is now giving us examples Of those suffering for their faith and God's response to those that have suffered in obedience. That's the big picture here. In verse 18, Peter wraps everything together in Christ and what he has been teaching about obedience, suffering, and positive consequences Christ's suffering culminated in death, as he died once for the sins of others He being just, he led a righteous and perfect life, died for the unjust. This passage clearly teaches the imputation of sin. as well as righteousness. Jesus' death was a sufficient one-time sacrifice Jesus does not have to die over and over again, like the goats did on the Day of Atonement. Jesus being just, innocent, takes the place of sinners who are guilty. As if their sins are his sins. And we receive his righteousness as if his righteousness is our righteousness. He gets what's on our ledger, and we get what's on his ledger. And the benefit of this suffering His crosswork is that so that we may be brought to God His suffering, which led to his death, was for the purpose of bringing us into relationship with God. God, into fellowship with God. I think we must be careful to not go through this point without slowing down. a tad bit. We tend to think about salvation as something really nice, something that's really cool. What Jesus did for me. You really see that, you really hear that in evangelical America. That seems to be the emphasis. What a neat thing. I don't have to go to hell. What a great thing. But when we're focused on this alone, We lose sight of something much more profound and don't take advantage of the more weighty thing that Christ did for us. What I mean is that salvation is not the end. Salvation in many ways is a means to an end. The first question and answer of the Westminster Confession of Faith, shorter catechism. Is what is the chief end of man? What's our purpose? We tend to forget about the second part of the answer First is to glorify God. And the second part is to enjoy Him forever. It's the enjoyment of being in his presence, to enjoy having a relationship with him. So let me ask you, how do you approach your Christian life? How do you see your salvation? Is it just to be obedient and thankful, or is there joy in your fellowship with God? Knowing that he loves you so much, he created a way to have fellowship with you at an unbelievable Price. It brings him pleasure to enjoy being in friendship with you. If being a Christian is not a joyous thing for you, you may need to reconsider what this passage is telling us. Jesus suffered. so that you are brought into a relationship with the Creator of the universe Now, when you survey all the different non-gospel variations of Christianity, such as apostate religion Or cults, and even non-Christian world religions, they all have some things in common. The one I want to point out is that they are all on their own way trying to create a bridge, a pathway for man to have a relationship with God. Yes, they redefine God. Also, the anthropological estate of man and create a way for the Gulf to be rich. And usually it has something to do with what man must do in order to get to that place where he is reconciled. to God. It usually has something to do, obviously, with works or merit. But here Right here. In this verse, we see that what is impossible for man to achieve has been accomplished for us by Jesus dying and suffering upon the cross. Why? So that we may have a relationship. with God. If we're not enjoying God, then I think that's very sad for us Sad because we have a very we have the very thing that gives us the greatest possible joy. A relationship with God. And oftentimes we exchange that for a phony knockoff Which only gives us temporary pleasure. Let us turn from that today. See these phony knockoffs for what they really are. And focus upon the true treasure that we have already sung about, who is Christ Himself, God Himself Now, at this point in the passage, Peter will take a Or create or make reference to a typological comparison between the salvation provided by Noah's Ark and that provided by the resurrection. of Christ. We will get into that detail in just a moment, but I want to point out this is now where we get into what I was talking about a little earlier. earlier. The different views regarding this text. However, I don't want us to lose the point of what Peter is doing here. Let me first state it, and then later on I will return to it so that we don't lose sight. Peter's point is to encourage his readers The church, then and now, that all those suffering at the hands of unbelievers is something that we should anticipate God will vindicate his own and ultimately protect them from the judgment that is to come for rebelliousness. Or sin. This is going to happen. Despite the temptation to doubt that comes from times when the church is tiny in comparison with the world. Peter wants us to consider Noah and just the handful that were saved from God's judgment. Peter knows that the church was tiny in comparison with the world around it, and he points out that being right or truth Is not defined by how big or powerful a group of people are. It is instead what God said. Noah's circumstances, however, should be a powerful encouragement to us, and even more so with small groups of Christians in parts of this world Who are dissuaded from gathering to worship God and even being actively persecuted for their faith in our Heavenly Father. This is a great place to stop, I think, and perhaps pick up next Sunday. But I am way too foolish to do that Right now. I want to take an excursus at this point and look at biblical imagery in this passage. as well as the typology that I made reference to, that Peter is employing so that we can understand Peter's intent. When you do a survey of the Old Testament on arcs, you will find three that are prominent. They are Noah's Ark, Moses' Ark, and the Ark of the Covenant Both Noah and Moses are represented as deliverers and types of Christ. In the New Testament. The time it took to build Noah's Ark shows us God, who was long suffering. Meanwhile, the ark was being. Built. The dimensions and the architectural design of the ark that Noah built was like a floating house. Does it not? It had a roof, it had windows, it had floors. They preserved its inhabitants And brought judgment upon those that were outside of it. Scripture depicts the builder of the ark as a righteous man. Blameless in his time, Noah walked with God. Genesis 6:9. As Noah disembarks in Genesis 9:9 We see that he is depicted as a second Adam, witnessing the new creation, or if you will, the new recreation. The reference to the Ark of Noah is made in order to conjure up in the mind of the readers our mind. Finds the deliverance, the presence, and the imminent judgment of God The second Ark, the Ark of Moses, was also a means of deliverance. Moses was preserved from Pharaoh's wrath by By a basket floating on the Nile. Moses' destiny was to become a savior and deliverer of God's people from the bondage of Pharaoh. And finally, the last instance of an ark is that of an Ark of the Covenant. The functional purpose of the Ark was to contain holy objects. But the ark came to be understood as the footstool to the throne of God. We see that in 2 Kings. Kings nineteen fifteen. The Ark became the local presence of God with His people. The ark led the way for the Israelites in the wilderness and during battle, if you recall in Joshua. The Ark represented God as the divine warrior who battled on behalf of his people. They were to wait on him. and not take things into their own hands. For when they did, they suffered greatly Does this not remind us of what we've been learning? Do not take things or justice into your own hands, but trust in God. For he will vindicate us. In the New Testament, we see that in the Gospel of John, chapter 1 and verse 4, Jesus has come to tabernacle. with his people. Jesus becomes the new tabernacle who is present with his people. Later on, we are told that God's people will become tabernacles of the Holy Spirit. Who was, during Jesus' earthly ministry, present with Jesus and his disciples, but later on he would be in them. John fourteen seventeen. In conclusion, we see that in the New Testament, the dwelling place of God shifts From being with his people to being in his people. The imagery of the ark that Peter uses in verse 20, chapter 3. Should conjure images of God as locally present and as the divine warrior who delivers his people from danger. However, for those who are outside the community of God, for Noah, his contemporaries, and Moses the Egyptians, the Ark would represent. Judgment. Now, let's take a look at water. Speaking of, sorry Water symbolized many things for first century Christians. However, the major concerns facing the communities that Peter was writing to were. Spiritual refreshment, renewal, cleansing, and most importantly, sustaining faith in God under suffering. Water symbolized cleansing. Water not only washed the body, but it symbolized the cleansing of the soul as well. This is illustrated well within that time period in the rituals of the Dead Sea community, whose continued external washing symbolized an internal cleansing. Now, if water symbolizes life, cleansing, refreshment, and renewal, it should come to us as no surprise to learn that it symbolized The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is described as being poured out, and believers as being filled with. The following passages demonstrate this. Look at Isaiah 44, verses 3 and 4. Listen to the imagery associated with the Holy Spirit. For I will pour out water on a thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. I will pour out my spirit on your offspring. Ezekiel thirty-six, twenty-five and twenty-six. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you. And you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit. Within you water cleansing the Holy Spirit. John seven thirty-seven. Now on the last day. The great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If any man is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being shall flow rivers of living water. And then John inserts. But this he spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive. So, in conclusion, it is likely that the original readers of this letter would associate the water allusions made by Peter. To the water in Noah's time, to that of baptism in their own time with the Holy Spirit. The same water that judges say. Now he has already told us in three fourteen verse Peter, that even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. Noah, a type of Christ And Christ Himself were blessed for suffering and enduring at the hands of people who ridiculed and persecuted them. Now, as it relates to the notion that physical water baptism saves, because it can be misinterpreted in this function, Peter makes it clear. He takes the time. He says the baptism that he mentions is not referring to a water baptism. Baptism. Peter immediately disassociates the outward cleansing of water from spiritual cleansing and focuses the attention on none other than Christ's. Resurrection. Based upon the biblical imagery of water representing the Holy Spirit, which we've already talked about. I believe that the proper association in this context that should be made with water is obviously allusion to the holy. Spirit. Verse 20 states that it is by water that Noah and his family were saved. The water is not only a representation of what judged the rest of the world, but it was also the agency by which Noah and his family were saved. The parallel on the other side of the comparison is the resurrection of Christ. Those then who are in Christ The tabernacle will also be saved when judgment comes. Peter reminds his readers that they were saved by the work of the Holy Spirit at their conversion. Therefore, we should consider the water allusions to correspond to the Holy Spirit, who saves both then and now. This has enormous, I think, pastoral implications. Like Noah, these Christians are a small, persecuted minority. Minority, surrounded by a majority that is disobedient to God That they, the church, will also be delivered. The minority in Peter's time, just as Noah And his family were. Now, this is surely comforting when you hear this. Now I know that I I haven't lived that long, but perhaps some of you can commiserate that when perhaps you were a young teenager Or even before then, America was predominantly Christian in its thought, in its ethos. And as time has gone on, now that I'm three hundred and twenty-three years old, I have noticed that things are not like they used to be. Perhaps you've noticed that as well. We are no longer the majority. Within society. And it seems like we're getting to be more of a minority more and more. And I continually uh hear from Christians and Christian groups that you know things are going really bad. And there's no hope for us. And we're going to be persecuted. Well, we shouldn't be surprised to be persecuted, right? And this should also give us great encouragement as we We read this passage, who have perhaps experienced what I've just shared with you throughout the decades, maybe not the centuries. That we have But God, whoever is in God, whoever is in the tabernacle, will be saved That God is the one who will vindicate us. And this will come to a point ending. And also God will judge those who are persecuted. The church, those that are sinners. This I think has great pastoral implications for us. Peter goes on to say The comparison is not the baptism of water that saves us, that is, the physical cleansing, but it is the inward baptism that is brought about. By the Holy Spirit. What about the patience and long suffering of God displayed while the ark was being built? He does refer to that God waited. God was long suffering for the enforcement of his judgment. and display of his righteousness until Noah constructed the ark. However, when the ark was complete, he executed His justice. In this passage, we see that the Son is now sitting on the throne. At the right hand of God, and all angels, powers, and authorities have been subjected to him. He's in charge. Peter is reminding his readers that just as judgment had been brought upon the unrighteous in Noah's time, who ridiculed him? So too will judgment be delivered to the unrighteous of Peter's generation who are ridiculing them. Jesus is in the seat of authority and power. We are not waiting for that anymore. And so when God is ready in his good time, he shall execute justice. We have nothing to look forward to being done. It's all been done. This passage is intended to show the believer should expect to suffer just as Noah and his family did. Again, a type of Christ. And Christ suffered for us. The focus then is for the believer. To rest in the knowledge that judgment will one day come upon the unrighteous and when it We as believers will have the safety of being in the ark of Christ. As Noah was in the ark made of gopher. Our assurance is in the resurrection of Christ, and our salvation is guaranteed by the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit. Just like judgment was experienced in the past, it surely will happen in the future. In conclusion, Noah and his family were saved by being in the Ark of God. The Holy Spirit saved them from physical Harm. Peter's message for the New Testament believer is that it is not the physical water that cleanses and saves, but it is the Holy Spirit. And the ark of refuge is Jesus Christ. Implied in Jesus' resurrection is his death. As a consequence, we also died in end with Christ, who is our ark of safety. And the agency of our salvation and resurrection is administered and executed by the same Holy Spirit Now, we have a lot more ground to cover in this passage, but I have to confess that even my foolishness has limits. And so next week we can pick up from here and go over the other contours. Of the example, illustrations, typology that Peter gives to encourage us. Please join me in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for your Holy Spirit that you sent your spirit So that we may have the application of the salvation that Christ achieved for us. And He is the guarantor. Of our safety. He is the guarantor that we will not receive judgment because of what Christ did for us. The just suffered for the unjust us. He suffered so that we may be brought to you. Grant us wisdom, Heavenly Father, wisdom to draw close to you. Wisdom to not exchange our relationship with you for a positive Pot of soup. Let us not be foolish. Help us always to enjoy you, to draw close To you and to love you. And we know that we can do this only because you have first loved us in Christ. And we ask this in Jesus' name.