I remember being years and years ago in a I was in my twenties at the time and I was uh preaching uh on the a weekend in Pennsylvania. And at the time, a woman who was about my age now walked up to me, a very tiny lady, much shorter than I. And uh she looked up at me and she said, Well, you're little, but loud. And that was her way of saying, I could hear you when you preached Which is a complaint of a lot of people my age as the years go by. But I'm glad that you are able to hear me. It is indeed a treat to be back with you. I was looking up in my records. I keep a record of where I preach and what I preach so I don't go and preach the same sermons over and over again. And uh it was uh six years ago that I was with you in the fall retreat, uh, and it was October of uh 2007 up in White Saufter Springs, as I remember in Pennsylvania. It was a great weekend. I've reflected on it many, many times. Our scripture reading this morning is found in the twelfth chapter of the Book of Romans. Paul's letter to the Romans to which Cliff has alluded uh several times. I want to read Romans twelve, beginning at verse nine, and reading through verse twenty-one. It's a particular section that will become clear, I trust, as I preach the sermon. But follow along silently as I read and make sure that While the sermon is being preached, you keep your Bible open. It's a great visual aid. As well as being able to hear it, you can look at it. And it's important that we do that. And many of us remember where verses are because of using the same Bible for decades and decades. And you say, I don't remember the reference, but it's on the left side of the page, about halfway down. So this is a good way to remember where things are. But right now, let us give our attention to the word of the living God. By the Holy Spirit, our brother Paul writes, let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal. Be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints. And seek to show hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless, and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. This is the word of God For the people of God, thanks be to God. Let us pray Holy Father, as we come now to your word, we ask that by your Holy Spirit, the very Spirit of Christ our Lord, You would speak to us that message to meet our need, so that we may live lives that truly honor you. Not only by the things that we say, but even by the thoughts that we think. Minister to us. Speak to us through your holy word, down deep in the cracks and crevices of our souls. We pray not only in Jesus' name, but for his great honor. Amen. Have you ever struggled with envy, jealousy, covetousness Anger, resentment, bitterness, grudge holding, a self-righteous judgmental spirit You say, Butch, do fish swim? Do birds fly? Are you bald? You say, of course I do. Well, I remember when I worked with Youth for Christ back in the 50s and 60s, I was taking a group of kids home after a club meeting. And uh we were discussing things in the car, and I said, using these rhetorical questions, look, do fish swim? Do birds fly? And one lovely young teenage girl, she was just a great gal, but she looked at me and said, What fish? What birds? And suddenly I realized that I had been talking but not communicating. This morning, I hope to communicate To communicate to you a text brimming with truth, and which, when applied and obeyed, can deliver you from the monstrous sins I mentioned earlier and the ministry. the misery rather that accompanies them. It is a text that God has used to deliver me from myself And to keep me from suffering those miserable things I mentioned earlier. I refer to Romans 12, verse 15. Would you look at it again? It says, rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Would you read that verse 15 out loud with me together? Here we go. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Why does God include verse 15 at His Word? Well, consider the context. Go back to chapter 12, verse 1. Where he says, I appeal to you or I urge you, I call you to my side, that I may speak things of encouragement to you. He says, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies, your physical bodies. A living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. And then he says, Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed. Look right here. By the renewing of your mind. In the final analysis, what is worldliness biblically understood? Worldliness at bottom line is not just a long list of certain things of Christians should and should not do, but worldliness Is thinking like the world. It's thinking like an unsaved person. And that's why God gives us a verse like verse 15, nestled in the passage that I read earlier. Verse 9 tells us to let love be genuine, that is sincere, without hypocrisy. And like all other instruction throughout the passage that I read earlier, verse 15 brings specificity to love. The Greek word here is agape. And we'll talk more about that in a moment. But verse 15 of Romans 12 is the outworking, the practical outworking of 1 Corinthians 12, verse 26. If one part of the body suffers, every part suffers with it. If one part of the body is honored, every part rejoices with it. But when we say, as Paul has said here, let love be without hypocrisy, let it be sincere, let it be genuine. What is love? Well, don't ask the average American on the street because you got all mixed up. What is love? Biblically understood, love is right attitudes, out of which flow right actions, not because you believe the recipient of your love deserves it. Or because you expect that person to reciprocate, to love you in return. Listen again It's right attitudes, out of which flow right actions, not because you believe the recipient of your love is worthy or deserving, or that that person will love you in return. Love is not a feeling first, according to God's word. Feelings do not pull the train of our life, so to speak. Feelings are the caboose. They bring up the rear of the train. It's truth that pulls the train. It's truth that guides our lives. This morning, our brief but powerful text rejoice with those who rejoice Weep with those who weep prompts three simple points, and I think you will find them there in your bulletin. First of all, rejoice with those who rejoice. Now it's always best To determine from a passage of Scripture what Paul or whatever writer it may be does not mean by what he is saying. Does not mean what he is saying. He's not saying here, rejoice with those who rejoice. It doesn't mean that a Christian is always bouncing up and down with a silly grin on his or her face. never acknowledging the struggles or sins that are in that life. It doesn't mean that at all. Positively, Paul uses what we call in Greek grammar a present infinitive. It means to rejoice. to be glad, to be joyful, to be full of joy. And grammatically, scholars tell us that even though it's a present imperative or a present infinitive, it has the power and thrust of a present imperative. And so we legitimately translate it, practice rejoicing with those who rejoice. Now, obviously, rejoicing manifests itself through personality, and we don't all have the same personality. Aren't we glad for that? We don't need another one of me in this world. God has made you and me unique. But you see, God looks at the heart. And so God knows if we're rejoicing inwardly before anyone sees it outwardly. Rejoicing is recognizable externally. And if you don't believe me, just look around you at a football game when your team is ahead. People are almost insane. I have a sister and uh she is a great North Carolina State fan And uh I went to a Maryland, North Carolina State with her one time. And uh it's dangerous to stand next to her at a ball game. I mean, she fairly flails and stands and throws her arms in the air, and you have to you if they make uh a gain, you have to back off so she doesn't hit you. I kid you not. Rejoicing will be manifested, whatever your personality, internally and then externally. The scriptures overflow with this truth. The book of Psalms is loaded with it. You can't read through the book of Psalms without reading about rejoicing, rejoicing, rejoicing over and over again. Listen to our Savior's word in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, verses 11 and 12. Blessed are you when people insult you. And persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Now don't miss this. Rejoice And be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And when the same Apostle Paul wrote the Philippians, he came to what we call chapter 4, verse 4, and said, Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again. Rejoice! And I will say it now a third time to you. Rejoice with those who rejoice. But note what this text is not saying. It is not saying, rejoice with yourself when you have something over which to rejoice. Now, that's not illegitimate to do that, but that isn't what this context is conveying. This context is talking about rejoicing with those who rejoice. Those who are members of the body of Christ. It has to do with your relationship to others. So with whom are you to rejoice? You are to rejoice with those who are rejoicing. It could be rejoicing over a resolved relationship A physical healing, a job, a raise, some extra money, a great time recently enjoyed with family or friends, a house, a car. A new friend. You fill in the blank. But there are many reasons that make us rejoice. And we are to rejoice with those who are rejoicing. This verse has been translated other ways as well. Listen carefully now. Share the joy of those who are glad, and share the grief of those who grieve. Yet another says, When others are happy, be happy with them, and when they are sad, be sad. Now let me ask you a question. What's the great contrast to rejoicing? It's envy Unless I assume that you know exactly what envy is, I looked up in my favorite lexicographer whose name is Noah Webster, and this is what he says: envy is. It is painful or resentful awareness of an advantage enjoyed by another, joined with a desire to possess. The same advantage. It's resenting, painfully resenting, what someone else has, and wanting it yourself That's envy. And God calls it in Galatians 5 verse 21, an act or deed of your sinful nature and mine. Dr. John Murray, who taught decades ago, four several decades before that, at Westminster Theological Seminary, one of my alma maters. He wrote this, the point of this exhortation, that is verse 15, rejoice with those who rejoice. is that we are entered to enter into this rejoicing as if the occasion for it were our own. This mutuality is not natural to us. Jealousy and envy, hatred and malice are our natural bents. And if you're honest, the same is true with you. It's true with me. Back in the 1960s, I was having lunch. with a missionary friend of mine who had just left a country in Central Africa with the clothes on his back. He jumped over a wall, and when the man behind him, Dr. Paul Carlson, tried to shinny up that wall, he was machine gunned down and died on the other side of the wall. And having returned to the United States of America and all of our affluence We were discussing this verse. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. And he looked at me and said, Butch, I find it far easier to rejoice with those, or rather to weep with those who weep, than I do to rejoice with those who are rejoicing. And I think if you're honest, as I am being honest, he spoke for every one of us. All too often, when learning of a success or a blessing that has come to someone else, our natural inclination can be to feel sorry for ourselves that we didn't get it. And then, that's bad enough, we start resenting the person God has blessed with something new, some great blessing that He has brought into their life And that's why, among other reasons, God gives us a text like this. We are commanded to rejoice with those who are rejoicing. Now look right here, would you please? And be honest. Does that characterize your behavior? Or are there people in your life right now who are rejoicing and you want what they have and you resent them for having what God has given them? But by the Holy Spirit, the apostle presents a second truth. It's in the latter part of verse 15. Not only rejoice with those who rejoice. But weep with those who weep. Now, here again, Paul gives us a present infinitive, which literally means to weep Or to shed tears. But let me ask you, is it necessary to shed literal tears in order to grieve with another person? Is it? Is it? Not at all. It's not wrong to cry with someone else. I have found myself often doing that. But you don't have to shed literal tears in order to grieve with someone who is experiencing grief That's why the NIV, the New International Version, translated the latter part of this verse, mourn with those who mourn. Now again, keep the context in mind. Context is king. Context is everything That's how we make sense of the Bible by keeping in mind what goes before the text and following the text so that we interpret it aright. With whom are we to mourn or weep? Listen again. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. It could be weeping or mourning over the death of a loved one, a broken relationship, a lack of a relationship. The loss of a job or a difficult situation at your job, a wayward child, or a wayward parent An illness, recovery from surgery. I don't know how many times at McLean Presbyterian Church where My wife Peggy and I continue to attend when I'm not out preaching someplace else. People have walked up to me and said, you know, when When they put in what we call the flock notes, which is an insert in our bulletin every Sunday that has up-to-date prayer requests and Those who've lost loved ones, they said, you can't believe the number of calls I've received and the cards I've received, and people who've walked up to me to tell me that they have been praying for me. It has been so comforting. What is that? It's the body of Christ taking this passage that I read earlier to heart. It's the body of Christ, the church in action, living out. Romans 12, verse 15, rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. The great contrast, as we said earlier, to rejoicing is envying. So what is the opposite of weeping? It's gloating over, being glad at the calamities of others You say, oh, but that wouldn't happen in the church. Listen, regrettably, I have to tell you That more than once I have heard fellow believers say of others something like this: Well, what goes around comes around. Those words should never come from a Christian's mouth. Listen to the sad result of that. He who mocks the poor shows contempt for their maker. Whoever gloats over disaster will not go unpunished. Proverbs 17, verse 5. But you know right now I can almost hear one of you thinking out loud. But Butch, hold it. Wait a minute. I mean, isn't this rejoicing with those who rejoice and weeping with those who weep a gift that certain Christians have and others of us don't have? Well, it's for certain that some Christians are more adept at rejoicing with those who rejoice and weeping with those who weep. But the context and verse 15 itself and the balance of the entire Holy Scriptures reveals and makes it very clear that verse 15 is the responsibility of every child of God. So we can't cop out by saying, I just don't have that gift. God isn't calling it a gift here. He's calling it a command that you and I are to obey How do you learn it? By putting it into practice. Of all things, it's called discipleship. Ever hear that word? We talk a lot about discipling and discipleship, the shaping of a person into a follower, student, pupil, learner of Jesus Christ. And then when it comes to discipleship, which is what this passage is talking about, which is what verse 15 is filled with, we say, I don't have that gift. Well, the good news this morning is you don't have to have a gift to obey verse 15. You just need to start doing it. And as you do it, you learn how better to do it. It's called discipleship. And may I share some of my learning process with you? In another couple of weeks, I'm going to turn 79. And about 51 years ago, I was somewhat of an interim pastor at a church in Alexandria, Virginia, because the pastor, who was only 43, had had a stroke and it affected his speech. And so they invited me to preach for many Sundays in that church. And one day a 43-year-old man went with his wife to the doctor. And while they were sitting in the waiting room, He keeled over dead in her lap. I got a phone call. Would I go visit this widow who was only in her forties? And so I went to her house I was working at the time with Youth for Christ. I had done a lot of preaching, but I had not pastored. When I went into the house, I sat down on the edge of the seat with her. And it wasn't a few minutes until I said this to her. Well, at least you know where he is. And then she looked at me And God used her answer to rebuke my heart. She looked at me through her tears and said, You don't understand. I miss him so. As I left that house that day, I grew several inches. As a young minister of the gospel. And I said to the Lord as I walked down her walkway, Lord, deliver me from ever saying that that soon. Again. Was it wrong what I said? No, what I said was right, but it wasn't time for it You see, at that point I didn't have enough sanctified savvy as I've come to call it in decades past. I didn't have that sanctified finesse to know now is not the time to try to speak a lot of comfort to this woman. because she's grieving and I need to let her grieve and I need to listen to whatever she may want to say. And then maybe next week I'll remind her how glad she is that she knows he's with the Lord. But I jumped the so-called gun. That's how I learned May I remind you of something? You do not learn how to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep simply because you have graduated from seminary. It doesn't come with a master's degree. You have to learn it by being in the trenches with people, by shepherding people. by loving them, by being with them, when they're rejoicing and when they are grieving. And some days you learn to do both very shortly. I can't tell you how many times I've come back from a funeral home, only to have somebody walk up to me at the church building and tell me a joke. One was grieving, the other was rejoicing and happy. And we're to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Dr. William Hendrickson Whose New Testament commentaries have been of inestimable value to me, I would not be without them, wrote this regarding verse 15 Never will it be possible for us truly to identify with the other person, whether believer or unbeliever. Unless by God's sovereign grace, the truth of Christ's taking upon himself our guilt and misery is by the Holy Spirit deeply impressed. Upon our heart and mind. Listen again. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. But there is yet a third and final point. Are you ready for it? Some of you might say I was ready for it 15 minutes ago, Butch. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Point two, weep with those who weep. Here's the third point in the form of a question. So what? When young seminarians ask me, How do you preach? What should I keep in mind? I say, well, you want to preach expositorily. You want to set forth the meaning and purpose of the passage in its context, with practical application, first of all, to your own heart and then to the people in the congregation. And everybody who listens to your sermon has every right to ask you two questions at the close of it. So what? And how? So what that God has put verse fifteen in Romans chapter twelve Well, here's what. You and I are not allowed to listen to verse 15 and then say something like this. Well, but that was nice. In fact, it was fairly informative. There were a few things there I'd never really thought about before. So I'd maybe give you, I don't know, a C plus, maybe a B. But you see, you don't come to church to grade the sermon. You come and gather together as God's people with Him and one another to have God speak to you, to teach you how to live during the rest of the week. First of all, in this body, in this church. No, Jesus says, if you love me, you will keep. The Greek word there is you will jealously guard the keeping of my commands. And how can you do that? Only by the power of the Holy Spirit, who, thank God, lives within every Christian. God's word demands a verdict. You have to ask, so what? Here's what? Some change has to come into our behavior. That's what. What difference does it make that we have verse 15 in Romans 12? Well it makes all the difference in the world. I know it has for me. And do you know how I came up to get a sermon on verse 15? Because I was reading Romans 12 one day and saw how much I needed verse 15. And I said, you know, I need to dig into that more. I need to prepare a sermon on that, to prepare my own heart for living for Christ, as well as preaching it to others. Rejoicing with those who rejoice can deliver you from envy, from being judgmental, from resentment, bitterness, a lack of contentment. from violating the tenth commandment, which is you shall not covet. And another way of asking, so what? Is now what? You see, that moves from the question, what difference does it make, to what must I now do as I leave this place this morning? Now what? Well, I want you to listen again to the shorter catechism of our Westminster Confession of Faith. Those wonderful 107 questions that make up an introduction to the Christian life. Listen to question 80. What does the tenth commandment require? Don't miss this. The tenth commandment requires us to be completely satisfied with our status in life and to have a proper, loving attitude toward others and their possessions. Question 81. What does the tenth commandment forbid? Thou shalt not covet. The tenth commandment forbids any dissatisfaction with what belongs to us, envy or grief at the success of others. An all improper desire for anything that belongs to someone else When you walk outside today and you look at the cars in the parking lot, do you come across one more expensive than yours? Well, you're bound to unless you're driving a Ferrari What happens in your heart? Do you ever stop and think, boy, that person's got some big bucks or is deep in debt And it's so easy for your your envy to raise its ugly head and to begin resentment. Why does that person drive that nice looking car and I don't? And all of that stuff that is makes up our sinful nature. We are to be totally satisfied with what God has given us And not be envying what others have. And let me tell you, you cannot pull that off in your own will. It demands the grace of God, God's enablement and the ministry, the power, the ability, the energy of his Holy Spirit And remembering a text like this, to rejoice with those who rejoice, and to weep with those who weep. Many years ago, I was counseling a man who at the time was a member of McLean Presbyterian Church. Among his other issues, he was deep in debt. When he came in for another counseling session, he sat down and looked at me with a big grin on his face and he said, Butch, I got another bonus. And I looked at him and I said, Well, that's great. That's going to help you get out of debt because he was deep in debt. I didn't ask him how much his bonus was, that was none of my business. But as soon as I said to myself, don't ask him what it is, it's none of your business, he volunteered the amount. And get this His bonus, not the only bonus he got that year, was more than my annual salary. Now let me ask you, what does your sinful nature do with that? You say, well, which that wouldn't bother you. You're a pastor. You're a seminary graduate. That wouldn't, don't you believe that for a moment. I have the same lousy, sinful nature you possess. And as soon as he told me what it was, and I compared my salary and came up short, envy and resentment began to raise their ugly head in my heart. And I had to be reminded that God says to me that I'm to be satisfied with my less than his bonus annual salary. And I am to rejoice with him who rejoices. And thank God I was able to do that. Don't think for a minute that pastors don't struggle with the same sins you struggle with. We all have the same lousy, sinful nature, I repeat. We need the same grace and the same work of the Spirit that you need. I cannot tell you how many times Romans twelve fifteen has delivered me from envy and bitterness and resentment. And I have been able to thank God for the use of His word in my heart. Furthermore, weeping with those who weep can help us remember our own finitude. And utter dependence on God. And without being morose, it can help you prepare for your own death. Because unless Jesus comes first, you and I are going to die. And I'm closer to that than you. And I live with that reality every day. It helps keep my biblical focus. Because one of these days soon, the Lord is going to call me into his house. And I look forward to that day. Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. So what? Now what? Although you cannot be best friends with everybody in the church There must be someone in this congregation, someone to whom you must have a Romans 12, 15 ministry. And if you're not sure who that is, then begin asking God to point that person out to you. He has a way of doing that. Who is someone you know, you know is rejoicing now, with whom you should rejoice? I don't mean just mentally. I don't mean just in prayer. I mean you need to go to that person and tell them how much you rejoice with them over what they are rejoicing. Who is someone you know, you know now is grieving? And you need not only to pray with that person and pray for that person. But you need to let that person know that your heart goes out to him or her. How are you to keep on living out this text after today? Let me share a few biblically based do's and don'ts. This is the how. This is the now what. Don't say to someone, I know just how you feel. Unless you really do. But do convey that your heart, as I said, goes out to that individual. Don't be judgmental towards someone who has more than you. Do rejoice with them and pray that God will give them grace to use what they have for his glory. Don't declare, especially to someone who just lost the loved one, if there's anything I can do, please let me know. May I tell you something about people who have lost loved ones? Most of them are not about to call you and tell you what you can do. They're too deep in grief. What are you to do? You are to observe that person's situation. And when you see a need, don't say, if there's anything I can do, call me. Meet That need. If you can't meet it, find someone else in this church or in your neighborhood who can meet it and go do it Don't forget to pray for those who are rejoicing and those who are weeping. And when you do, let them know that you are praying for them. Would you look again right here? Are you rejoicing with those who rejoice? And weeping with those who are weeping There is one who rejoiced and wept as none other. He was born through the body of the Blessed Virgin Mary. He rejoiced to do the Father's will. He rejoiced when repentant sinners came to him in faith. He wept With Mary and Martha at the grave of their brother Lazarus, one of his best friends. And he was indignant over death, because he knew that death was not what God originally intended. And then a few days before going to his cross to pay for the sins of those who would put their trust in him, he looked over his beloved city of Jerusalem, and he wept again. He wept for those who didn't weep when they should have. And as he wept, He said, if you, even you, had only known on this day what would bring you peace. But now it is hidden from your eyes. The days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment against you. and encircle you round and hem you in on every side. They will dash you to the ground, you and the children within your walls. They will not leave one stone on another, because you did not recognize the time of God's coming to you. In other words, as he wept, he was saying, judgment is about to fall. And Jerusalem was destroyed in A. D. 70. Jesus is no longer on the cross. He is alive forevermore. And he rules and reigns from the Father's right hand For his finished work is always on display on behalf of those who come to God the Father through him. In a congregation this size. A congregation this size has to have someone at least who has not wept when you should have wept. Who has not paid attention when God has been dealing with your heart, and you have missed God's day of visitation to your own heart. May I solemnly remind you today, caringly, lovingly, pastorally, that there is a final day of judgment coming soon. And if you have entrusted yourself to Jesus, then you can rejoice not only now, but throughout eternity. Because he took the judgment that should have fallen on you and me. But if you don't know him If you are not trusting in Christ and Christ alone, then there is no way you will be able to sustain that judgment on that final day And you will be separated from him and exposed to his judgment. Jesus called it hell. He said more about hell than anyone else in the entire Bible. And he declared that instead of rejoicing, That in hell there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And so I plead with you this morning If God is working with your heart, come to Christ. Come to Him who is the way, the truth, and the life And by his Spirit learn and know the sweet reality of rejoicing with those who rejoice and weeping with those who weep. And when you do, you can be assured that you will have done it Unto him. Amen and Amen.