As we continue through 1 Peter and just preparing us for each portion of the service, I'll be reading from 1 Peter 1, 22. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth, For a sincere and brotherly love, love one another earnestly with a pure heart, since you've been born again, not of a perishable seed. But of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. All flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls. But the word of the Lord remains forever. And this is the word, is the good news that was preached to you. How wondrous it is that we have this good news preserved for us, that we might even hear it this evening as we look unto our Lord. We're at the place in 1 Samuel where the Philistines have returned now the Ark of the Covenant to Israel, but it has languished for twenty years in Kiraf Jerium. Now during this time, Israelites were sorry for their sin. They were sorry that they had been disciplined by God. They had lost 34,000 of their men in the battle with the Philistines. They were saddened that they had lost the Ark of the Covenant, the symbol of God's presence. And along with that, they lost city after city to the Philistines, where they're possessions and sometimes their people were taken. They were living in defeat. They were sorry. They were saddened for that But they didn't have a godly sorrow that caused them to repent of their sins. We need to think of that ourselves because so often we are saddened, not because we have rebelled against God or we have not disobeyed Him. We're sorry that things are going tough in our lives. So often, because it's our own fault, our own sin has brought us to that situation. But we're not sorry for rebellion and disobedience to the living God who is kept us and given us life and saved us. 2 Corinthians 7. 10 describes the way we often find ourselves, the way Israel was at this point. Godly grief produces repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. That's where Israel was, full of worldly grief, sad for their difficult circumstances. Now we often don't realize just how bad the worship in Israel had been and continued ever since the sons of Levi, these wicked priests, Haphni and Phineas, because they began to institute into Israel the same worship that the Canaanites had. Where when people went to worship, when the men went to worship, they laid with the women who were serving at the entrance of the tent of meeting. So what is happening, the men went to worship and laid with prostitutes. That was part of their worship. It was not too hard to get the men to worship at that time. Therefore, to change this was a hard thing. It was no little thing. It wasn't it wasn't saying, you know, uh uh you know, stop uh clipping your toenails a certain way. It wasn't, uh, you know, uh just smile more. Their change in life was drastic. William Blake, who is a Scottish divine from the 1800s, he wrote an expository commentary. He said it. this way. And we don't think of just how perverted their worship was. He says this, doubtly the Israelites found the combination of liturgy An orgy highly congenial, not to speak of the convenience of having both the chapel and the brothel in one location. A superficial sorrow would not change their Israelites and their bondage to sin. They were in need of a supernatural help to change that kind of worship that the men of Israel had been participating in for over a generation. Proverbs 28 speaks about the difference of some being sad. You can be sad for your sin, but unless you actually change, there's no real repentance. Proverbs 28 says it this way, When the righteous triumph, there is glory, but when the wicked rise, people hide themselves. Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper. But he who confesses and forsakes them will find mercy. Blessed is the one who fears the Lord. Always, but whenever he hardened whoever fall hardens his heart will fall into calamity Thankfully, throughout this generation, Samuel, who was a judge and a prophet, kept preaching God's powerful word. And we find ourselves tonight at a place where there is this dynamic and wonderful change As the people repent, have godly sorrow, not just sorrow because of their bad circumstances, but sorrow because they've offended the living God. This is good for us. We live in a culture that is over-sexualized. We live in a culture where men And women are caught up in sexual behaviors that are loose, but also can watch others and their sexual perversions at an instant on the television, on their phone, on an iPad, on almost any device. And it would be easy to say that just happens in the world. But the truth is it happens with us, our men and women, you and me. We struggle with this And we could easily say, this pastor, this is such an over-sexualized generation in time, there's no hope for us. Well, our situation is mild compared to a situation when the worship was an orgy. So that should provide hope. You should see tonight in God's work hope for the world coming to Christ, but for the church who find ourselves entrapped in the same idolatry. of wanting our passions fulfilled and living for them. Beloved, that happens with men and women In our congregation, that happens with boys and girls in our congregation. They see and get entrapped in these things. And they need hope, and what a wonder it is tonight that we will see God at work changing people caught up in their own passions and desires, which became a god to them and ruled and controlled them. Praise be to God that his word is filled with these things that are not easy to talk about, but are the real. And they give us hope because God is an amazing God of grace to come to the aid of his people powerfully and change them. So let us come to God's word. I pray that tonight the Holy Spirit will cause you to consider your own pet sins. The own idols of your heart that capture you as you lust after them, and their promised pleasures rather than God. Especially for you men and women who are trapped in various sexual sins and ensnared maybe by the sin of pornography, as I have been in the past. How good of God to show his help to his church and readiness to help you today. Let us stand and pray, and then we'll open God's Word. Father, how I rejoice and thank you that your word is not filled with nice platitudes and words to just stick on a wall plaque. But your word, sometimes embarrassing, sometimes all too truthful, shows us our own heart and lives. But it's only as we get indeed, as someone was telling me about a wound today, the wound couldn't be healed until it was opened and scraped. And all taken out that it could be changed. Father, we pray that you would wound us even by your spirit and word that we might find your healing. That you have promised and give, even through our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. We're reading from 1 Samuel chapter 7 tonight. I'm just going to read verses 3 and 4 where we hear of the beginning of the repentance of the Israelites. And then later on we'll be reading each section. I don't want to open up so much we can't follow the story. We'll start with this. We won't stand later. You'll just hear those different portions of the scripture read so we can follow it easily But now let us read 1 chapters, chapter 7, and 1 Samuel, and verses 3 and 4. And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, If you are returning, To the Lord with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods and the asterisk from among you. And direct your heart to the Lord and serve him only. And he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. So the people of Israel put away the Baals and the Asterisk, and they serve the Lord only. Brothers and sisters, the word of God. As we begin here, you hear the promise of God's amazing grace to sinners this evening and understand that this particular call is Not to the world. This is to the church. The Israelites, God's chosen people. They found themselves in these horrible and wicked sins. It was not the world that we're talking about. It is brothers and sisters like you and me that so easily get entrapped by seeking after other things. To give us our safety and our security and our pleasure. They're not bad in themselves, but then they come that which we seek and worship, they overwhelm us. And so this word tonight. should encourage you when you need to repent and beloved friends of yours and family that need the same kind of call. The word of God is that which convicted Israel as Samuel for a generation. kept preaching and bringing God's word, and it had effect. Samuel's call to the Israelites to repent was more than having a sadness for the consequences of their sin. It included a call for negative and positive actions to show that it was truly godly sorrow. Negatively, they must put away the gods of the Baals and the Astereth. and their sinful worship practices of cult prostitution. And positively, they must now direct their hearts and their worship to the Lord and purpose to serve him only. If you need to understand that principle, Proverbs 28, 13 just says it, what true repentance is. He who conceals his sins will not prosper. But he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. What a wondrous story this is when you read about Israel, because so often Israel was known by their stubborn hearts. Their hardened hearts. And here the word of God is causing them to turn from their passions after to have a passion for the living God. Spencer Jones says it this way. The reality of a thorough conversion to the Lord is that all their heart must be shown by an earnest and deciding breaking with everything That's opposed to God, especially with everything that the heart clings to as an idol. Your heart must not live Being divided between service of idols and service of God cannot be divided between two mutually exclusive powers. You know, you've heard Jesus say it in Matthew 6. 24, no one can serve two masters. Matthew Henry talked about true repentance in this way. He said, true repentance strikes at the darling sin. It kills it. It smashes it. It does what happens to change it. You can't play with your little pet darling sins. Oh, someday I'll take care of it. Oh, I'll sort of trim off a part here. The cancer has to be taken and rooted out, killed, the hand cut off. Now when Jesus says that, it didn't say actually take out your eye or cut out your hand, but he's talking about mortifying, killing that sin. True repentance strikes at the darling sin, and with a peculiar zeal and resolution put away the sin that most easily besets us. Now, we talked about sexual sins tonight, but that's certainly not the only passions we go after. So the question is, you might say What are these darling sin of mine? How do I know this pet sin that I protect that I only play with around the edges? So ask this question. What is it that will cause you to sin if you don't get it? What is it that you will sin in order to get it? What is it that if you don't get it, you're undone? I had to have that, and I'm not getting it, and oh God, you don't love me I will not obey God unless He blesses me this way. I get this. I cannot be happy without it. You go around depressed and undone because you don't have, you put in the blank. And God will show you, ask God to show, what is it? That I go around, I don't have any peace or happiness because I'm saying in my heart, if I don't, you don't give me this, Lord, then you don't love me. For I have a right to this, God, and if I don't get it, then I'm really not going to follow you. Derek Thomas said this, you can lament and you can be sorry and you can be sorry because of the mess. Lots of people are sorry about the mess in their lives. There's a worldly sorrow. There's a sorrow that comes because what you've done is backfired. We've all been there, haven't we? We get in trouble, we're sorry. But this is folks who've been caught, you've seen it on the TV, there's a sorrow, a terrible sorrow, an embarrassing sorrow, but it's not necessarily godly sorrow. It's a sorrow that they've been caught. Their lives are in a mess, but they're not necessarily turning to the Lord and serving him only. And so Derek Thomas, as he was preaching to his own congregation, said this, I'm asking you tonight, what is your idol? What is the passion that drives you other than the Lord? Is it that to which you give it which you give your affections to more than God? It is that which is more important to you than God and his word and his church. It could be good things such as your family or a job. It may be a hundred or a thousand other things that I don't even have a clue of, but God will bring it to your mind this evening If you're genuine about biblical repentance, you must rid yourselves of your idols and turn to the Lord and serve Him only. How easy it would be if only we had this little Buddha or this little calf in our room somewhere, right? And we could just go home tonight and throw it in the trash. Put it down the garbage disposal. Go bury it somewhere. Give it away. You know, but the difficulty with so many of these things, right, they reside within our own hearts. And we're unhappy with the Lord and his work in our lives because we're not getting what we do want and desire. We desire it more than him. Oh may God show us tonight. I have two articles that I was hoping to hand out tonight, but if you would like them, I'd be glad to send them to you. Just let me know. They're called The Damning Devastation of a Single Coddled Sin. And the other one is how to identify your pet sin. If you're sitting here, Pastor, I don't have a clue what you're talking about. These two articles can help. I'd be glad to send them to you. Israel, after more than a generation of this wicked worship, has turned away. What a demonstration of God's amazing stress. You can experience God's amazing grace tonight. Let's look at the scripture. 1 Samuel chapter 7, verses 5 to 11, see what happens. Then Samuel said, Gather all the Israel at Mitzbah, and I will pray to the Lord for you. So they gathered at Mitzbah and drew the water and poured it out before the Lord. and fasted on that day and said there, We sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the people of Israel. at Mitzbah. Now when the Philistines heard that the people had gathered at Mitzbah, the Lord of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the people of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. And the people of Israel said to Samuel, Do not cease to cry out to the Lord our God for us, that he might save us from the hand of the Philistines. So Samuel took a nursing lamb and offered it as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. And Samuel cried out to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord answered him. And Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to attack Israel. But the Lord thundered with a mighty sound that day against the Philistines. And threw them into confusion, and they were routed before Israel. And the men of Israel went out from Mitzbah and pursued the Philistines and struck them as far as below Bethkar. Why would God do that? They have just gotten rid of all their idols, and now the Philistines come against them That's not the way it works, isn't it? Okay, God, I obey you, and I repent. Now everything goes just hunky-dory. It's smooth sailing. Well that's not what happened at all. They got rid of their idols and the Philistines came back to destroy them. As they gathered to worship, the Philippines thought they're coming to war against us. No, it's not supposed to happen this way. Come on, God. I did my part. I got rid of the idols. Now you give me what I want. Isn't that the way the Coke machine works? You put your 50 cents in or a dollar and a half or five dollars wherever you get it. You know, it comes out the can. God, I did what you wanted me to do. Now bring me all the goodies. But God was testing their faith to see if it was true repentance. Will you only love me if things are going well? But will you love me when you are dependent upon me alone and I'm the only one that can save you? And indeed, how wondrous it was that that's exactly what the Israelites did. They poured out water before the Lord. It was a picture. What Lamentations 2 19 says, Pour out your heart like water before the Lord in the presence of the Lord. They were saying, Lord, we don't have any strength of our own. We're undone before you. You have to help us. And they fasted. They gave up their food for a period of time because they said, Lord, you're the only one who can nourish us and help us against our enemies. And then we have this wonderful picture of Samuel, their judge, but also their priest, who offers a lamb for them. And right as he's offering the lamb, the enemy comes. And so you can just imagine Israel saying Uh this sacrifice isn't working. Let's take up arms. Let's stop worshiping and depending on the Lord. But right at that time, God causes this terrible storm that routes the Philistines. Beloved, most of us give up against our sin way too soon. Things get hard. Things get difficult and we say, no, God doesn't love us. And we don't look to Christ, our sacrifice. This is such a beautiful picture. Is the high priest Samuel offers the lamb, and it's a picture of Jesus Christ, our high priest, and as he prayed for them, as the Philistines were right outside the camp. God works such a wonderful picture of Christ in the Old Testament. The only one who will help us. He wants us desperate before him. He wants us where the enemies are around and he is the only help. That's the nature of true faith. Scripture goes on in 1 Samuel chapter 7, verses 12 to 14. And here we need to remember Because there'll be times when we forget so easily all of God's blessings for us. And we we tend to think, oh, something else has happened here. God doesn't care. But we'll know that Samuel makes a marker so that they would remember. So let's look at 1 Samuel 12, 7, verses 12 to 14. Then Samuel took a stone and set it up at between Mitzvah and Shen and called its name Ebenezer. For he said, Till now the Lord has helped us. So the Philistines were subdued and did not enter the territory of Israel. And the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel. The cities of the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and Israel delivered their territory from the hand of the Philistines, and there was peace also. between Israel and the Amorites. You might easily forget that the battles that Israel lost to the Philistines where they lost 34,000 men, were at a place called Ebenezer. And so when they first thought of Ebenezer, it would be, oh no, Ebenezer. That's where we lost 34,000 men of Israel. But the word Ebba, Ebon, um In in uh Israelites, let me see if I can find my notes and get the actual translation, but it means rock of help. And so they set up this place this rock, this stone memorial to remember what had happened. Now um We tend to do that too, don't we? You can go down to our capital and nation's capital and you see memorials to past presidents and All kinds of different things. Wars. It's to remember. But here they wanted to remember that God has helped us in the past and he will help us in the future Do you have Ebenezer's in your life? I need to have them because I forget. I have at home A folder full of thank you notes. I have it at work, a folder full of thank you notes from people over the years. Because there's times when either in my own sin or the sins of others or discouragements in the church, I just say, God, do you care? One of the things I can do is pull out my folder of Ebenezer's and said, God worked here. Thank you, Pastor. Do you remember what happened here? And thankfully, we haven't always kept a book, but Marg and I have stories of 43 years of marriage where we didn't know a way that God would change things, and he intervened. And we tell that story to our daughter. We want to tell those stories to our granddaughter. Ebenezer, God so far has helped us, and he has helped us. And again, I hope that you have Ebenezer's in your life. And you've marked them and you have a way to get back to them so that you can say, God is good. When we saw no hope, We didn't know if there was a way out. He's helped us in the past. He's promised to help us in the future. I don't see it. I don't know if it can happen. But there's that rock. There's that note. There's that story. God was faithful. He will still be faithful again. Derek Thomas says of this. He says, one of the commentators calls the Ebenezer a gospel rock. Because when you look at that stone, you're reminded of the good news that God delivers his people. And God has delivered you and me from worse than the Philistines. Those of you who have trusted him by faith have been delivered from God's eternal wrath and the fires of hell. The cross can be your Ebenezer stone, both as a reminder of your sin, your wretched, God-defying sin, but also of the beauty. the wondrous beauty of the gospel and God's mercy and grace to you. Well let's look at the last two verses of this chapter, 1 Samuel. Chapter 7 and verses 15 to 17, Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. And he went on a circuit year by year to Bethel and Gilgal and Mitzvah. And he judged Israel in all these places. Then he would turn to Ramah from his home, and there also he judged Israel, and he built there an altar to the Lord. Samuel's ministry was that of a judge. He settled disputes amongst Israel with the Word of God, but he also preached when he went and took the Word of God. And he worshiped with the people and came home and set up an altar there. You may find God's mercies daily, his amazing grace. But this continuing repentance, repentance isn't something you do once. Repentance is something you need to do constantly because our hearts are prone to wander. Our hearts are prone to leave the God I love we love. And so we need to have constant repentance. Martin Luther talked about daily repentance And remembering the gospel, the good news. Acts chapter 5 says it this way That repentance is a gift and God is willing and ready to give it to us that we might trust Him The God of our fathers, Acts 5 and 30, raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on the tree, and God exalted him at the right hand as a leader and savior to give repentance to Israel for forgiveness of sins. Beloved, has God brought before you idols tonight? Passions that drive you away from God, lusts that you must have. It caused your God to look small and you love them more than Him. He gives the gift of repentance, Acts eleven eight And they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God is granted repentance that leads to life. Some of you might need repentance because you've never Turn from your sins to God. You are not in Christ. You might be in the church. You might be in a Christian family, but you have never given up being a God yourself. You love you. And you haven't submitted to God and love him and trusted him, this is a time to do that. God gives that gift of repentance that you might know his amazing grace. But, beloved, when I used to read the Old Testament, when I first became a Christian, I was full of fire. And I read the Old Testament, I said, who are these crazy Israelites? They never follow God very long. Then I was a Christian for about a year and read the Old Testament again, and I said, ugh, that's me. I have a heart that's prone to wander. And thank God that he has this story tonight of people who are captured in their sin. His own people. That he freed again. Will free you again if you're one of his but are trapped. You don't know if there's a way out. Is there hope for me? Beloved tonight, the wondrous thing that there is indeed hope. You might need someone to walk with you. I'd be glad to do that. I know what it is to be caught in sin. Our pastor Doosenberry would be glad to do that. Skip would love to sit and talk with you and pray with you. Glenn Connect would be glad to sit with you. We'll have one of our elders tonight, but Cliff Hall, we'd be glad to sit with you, walk with you, pray with you, that you might know the freedom that is indeed in Christ. Not being perfect in this life, but having hope because God is good in his amazing grace, not just to forgive us once. But as we turn from our sin and turn back to Him, confessing our sin, confessing how we get captured by our own desires and lust, to once again forgive us and free us. A Father who would embrace us. And now say, walk with me. Let us turn to him. Our Father and God, what a wondrous story to have here. What a wondrous thing that you would give us a mirror of the church and for the church. We need this And we thank you that there's great hope, not because Israel was good, but because you are good. And you offer away through the sacrifice even the living and shed blood of our Savior Jesus Christ, that we might have life and know it, and return to you and walk with you for Christ's sake and glory. Amen