Hear the word of God as it comes through the pen of Moses under the inspiration of God the Holy Spirit. For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you since the day that God created man on the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other, whether such great such a great thing as this has ever happened or was ever heard of Did any people ever hear the voice of a God speaking out of the midst of the fire as you have heard and still live? Or has any God ever attempted to go and take a nation for himself? from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, by wonders, and by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by great deeds of terror, all of which the Lord your God did for you in Egypt. before your eyes. To you it was shown that you might know that the Lord is God, there is no other besides Him Out of heaven he let you hear his voice that he might discipline you. And on earth he let you see his great fire, and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire And because he loved your fathers and chose their offspring after them, and brought you out of Egypt with his own presence by his great power. driving out before you nations greater and mightier than yourselves, to bring you in, to give you their land for an inheritance as it is this day Know therefore today, and lay it to your heart that the Lord is God in heaven above, and on the earth beneath, there is no other. Therefore, you shall keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land. that the Lord your God is giving you for all time. Father, we thank you for this your word and we pray your blessing upon us now as we Expose ourselves to the things that you have written for our instruction. And we pray, Father, by your Holy Spirit, that you would enable us to understand these things. To make such applications to our own hearts and lives as would be fitting. And above all, Father, draw us to yourself. Create in our hearts hearts of true worship, that we may adore you and give thanks for you and rejoice in your goodness and your grace. We ask this for your glory and in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen. You may be seated. I wanted to make one other uh uh extemporary comment here. Uh I really appreciated the introit, you folks who provided that. I I want to join you. I want to uh be part of that group. Uh really enjoyed that uh ministry to us in music. You all probably have heard the words many times. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Genesis 1-1 The first Hebrew word that I think I learned was the beginning of the Old Testament. If you look at the title in the Hebrew, it's Bureshit. And uh the bu part is a preposition. In Hebrew, you attach prepositions to the beginning of words. So in the beginning, burreshit. Great things that God has done. And so the very opening of Scripture begins with this great thing God has done in the creation of the world. The first two chapters of Genesis recount that work of creation in some detail. For six days God worked in the business of creating the heavens and the earth. And the final act of his creation is that act of creating human beings, male and female in his own image. And as I shared with the Couple getting married last night. Here we have in uh the second chapter of Genesis, kind of going back. We already have male and female created in God's image in chapter one, but in chapter two, the whole thing is uh unfolded in a little different way in terms of the relationship of the man and the woman. And the blessing that this is and how God is to be recognized and praised as the giver of this great blessing that a man should leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. And in the beauty of this marriage relationship, which then in Ephesians 5 is placed against the background of Christ's love for his church. And so we have that great business of God in creating the world, all things in it, but then in a very special way. creating human beings that they may know him and serve him, and that there may be in the relationship of a man and woman some reflection of the love of God for his people. So the climax of God's creative work in the human beings crowned by God with dignity and honor designed to live in a relationship with him which is beyond the relationships that the rest of creation sustain to him. God created us to have fellowship with him, to know him. and to serve him consciously. But also because we are like God, we have a capacity to relate to him and to communicate our appreciation to him for the wonders of his grace. And that's the business of worship It's bringing from our hearts and from our lips and from our minds that gratitude, expressing those things in the presence of God that we may rejoice publicly and publicly declare before the watching world that He is God. He has done these mighty things and we are here to say that he has done these things and we rejoice in his doing of them and we honor him in our worship and in our praise Well, when Jesus came into this world, he came likewise to do a mighty and great work. I like to think of John chapter 17, which we often call the high priestly prayer or Jesus' high priestly prayer. I think of this as the Lord's Prayer. What we usually call the Lord's Prayer is really the prayer. that our Lord gave to us. So it's our prayer. Jesus is saying you should pray like this. My relationship with my Father in prayer is reflected more accurately. in John chapter 17. Hear Jesus as he comes before the Father. Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. For you granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to all those you have given him. Now this is eternal life. that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus, whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Jesus understands his coming to this world in terms of a great mission, a great work that he would accomplish. And as he pours out his heart to the Father, he reflects upon the progress of that work the effect of that work, speaking of those given to him by the Father, and now he's going to accomplish this great salvation for them, and he's going to offer them back to the Father. as his redeemed people, those united to him. And it is in that capacity, you see, that none in all the world can bring any charge against God's elect. It is in that we are in Christ and clothed in his righteousness. The New Testament then displays for us the work of God's love in Jesus Christ. so that we might respond in love and faith. God works, but God also works in such a way as to display his work. that his human creatures might know him and respond to him in love and gratitude. The wonders of creation are evidence to us of God's eternal wisdom and power. In Psalm 19, the heavens are telling the glory of God. sometimes take a swipe at astrology and such things as that. People think the stars are telling them uh whether to uh try to get a date today or not, or something like that That's not what the stars are about. The stars are telling the glory of God. The stars are giving us information, evidence that there is a great God who created these things. And as such, they constitute a call to us to worship him. They constitute evidence that brings before us the need and the demand that he be worshipped and honored Paul writes to the Romans, for since the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made. so that men are without excuse. The work of God for his people reveals his love and compassion. for his human creatures. These works of God then demand from us, from you and from me personally and individually a response that we may worship God. that we may know him, that we may serve him, that we may acknowledge that he is God and we are his people. Some in our world refuse to hear of the mighty works of God and thus refuse him that worship and glory that is due his name. But others Wrought upon by God's Holy Spirit, begin to listen carefully. Begin to relish the things of God. Begin to rejoice in hearing of the things that God has done. And come to worship him and love him through Jesus Christ. Who are you this morning? What is your heart as you come before God in worship? As we go to Deuteronomy chapter 4, our first point this morning in verses 32 through 34. A challenge to consider the mighty works of God. A challenge to consider the mighty works of God. God's challenge here involves looking at history, looking at the things that God has done, the things that God has recorded in his word concerning the things that he has done. And so our passage begins, and I have some of what I have in my notes is NIV. I'm using the English Standard Version, and I may get caught a little bit between those things this morning, but they're close. For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day God created man on the earth And ask from one end of heaven to the other whether such a great thing as this has ever happened or been heard of. Ask. Inquire. Search it out. Be curious about what God is doing in the world. Listen to, some of you may be familiar with Ken Myers, Mars Hill Audio Journal Ministry. I listen to those pretty regularly. in one of the recent ones, uh one of the names for a historian in French, apparently, and I don't know French at all, and uh if I butcher the pronunciation you will forgive me, uh, is a courier. Someone who is curious about things. And that's God's challenge here before us. That you should be curious. Search these things out. Aren't you a little bit interested? I sought medical help for a rotator cuff problem a couple of years ago. And I went to a local doctor. And I couldn't lift my shoulder much more than this, and even that was painful. And I went to a local doctor and he said, Well, you know, what do you want to do? And this and that and I Put some cortisone in there and that was great for about two days. And uh I came home and I remember saying to Linda The man isn't even curious about my elbow, my shoulder. I would expect a doctor, someone who studies these things and spends time on these things, would be curious He'd be dying to find out what's wrong and do something about it and help me. And he didn't even seem curious about it. Well, could be This is very frustrating. Sounds like from your laughter some of you may have encountered medical people like that. I I hope not I undertook some therapy, got to know one of the therapists who's uh uh named Lisa. Turns out that she is just about uh exactly the same age as our daughter Lisa. And her dad was a year younger than I was at the time and we got to be somewhat friendly and uh uh good little Catholic girl, but she uh understood that all these bones and muscles that she was working on were God's creation. And uh and and she she enjoyed that. She relished that thought. And I asked her If you had something like this, who would you go to? Because she'd seen a lot of patients coming through and uh different postoperative uh rehabilitations and so forth that she was involved in. She told me, she gave me the name of a guy. And I went to him and he asked me what I wanted. And I told him I'm fifty-eight years old. I like to play golf. I like to ride a bicycle. Other than this, I'm pretty healthy. I d I If I can live without this pain the rest of my life and get a little more action out of my shoulder, I'd be grateful. He said, okay. And uh I was had within 24 hours I had an MRI of the shoulder. They don't like to do MRIs because they're expensive. A week later I was in his office between he and his assistant with this uh MRI up on this uh uh uh light board, and he said, you see that black hole right there? That's where your rotator cuff should be. It was gone. It had totally separated and the parts of it had moved apart from one another Well, I now have uh a brass screw, uh some Kevlar thread, but I can do that. He was curious about how things worked and he understood. He wanted to find out how this shoulder worked, how this wonderful, the four ligaments that form this thing we call the rotator cup. He understood how it worked. He looked into it. He was curious. He found out about it. And as a consequence, he was able to come and say, yes, we can do something for you. Now it took nine months before it really felt good. I have no pain. It feels wonderful. I never thought I'd be able to take a car door, flip the handle, and push it open. I don't even think about it anymore. I just pull on the handle and shove the thing open and well at 60 I don't jump out, but I crawl out or whatever I do. God wants us to be curious about what he's done in his creation. He wants us to search it out. He wants us to seek him in it And to hunger to seek things out and to find things out about what he has done and how he's done it in the world which he has created. Now, some of this involves history. And some of you are sitting here in Henry Ford's shoes this morning declaring that history is bunk. We're not interested in history. We want only the present moment. It's a concern to us. But in God's plan and purpose, history is important. These things the scriptures record for us God's workings through history with his people. This is how God has revealed himself. And God is the eternal God, ties together the past. the present and future. And the things in the present are tied for their meaning to things that have happened in the past, the great things that God has done. And so God is saying to his people, Ask now of the days that are past, which were before you since the day God created the earth. The mighty things which God has done. In verses 32 through 34, he really asks three questions. Has anything so great ever happened or been heard of before? This is unique. Has anyone ever heard the voice of God speak as you have and lived? And thirdly, has any God ever come to take for himself a people and separate out for himself a people to belong to him. in a special and peculiar way. Survey the history of the world. Go out and look for it and see if you can find anything. And you will understand what a unique thing I, God speaking, have done with you. I came to you and I brought you to myself. And I loved you, not because you were good, not because you were smart. Not because you had great bank accounts that he wanted to tap into, but simply because he loved you out of the resources of his own infinite character. Now these are, of course, rhetorical questions, meaning they aren't meant to seek information, but rather to drive home a point. the expected answer of these questions and in most foreign languages the uh expected answer can be telegraphed by the way the phrases constructed and that's the case here in the Hebrew. The expected answer is no. This has never happened before. God has never, there's never been a God speak to a people the way you have spoken on the mountain. It's never happened before that a God has come and lovingly separated out of people and wrapped his arms around love around those people for his own glory. This is unique. This has never happened before in the history of the world. This is absolutely unprecedented. And it should be, you see, the business of our worship to say that. When God says, who has ever done anything like that? The worshipper says, nobody. Who has ever separated out of people like that and loved them simply out of his own love? It's never happened before. And I see your grace and your love magnified in that. And I come to worship because of it. The two latter questions unfold God's mighty acts, particularly in the Exodus. They had heard the voice of God speaking out of the fire on Mount Sinai. God had spoken to them, and they had heard the voice of God. You remember something of that scene on around Mount Sinai? Uh they put around the bottom, marked it off. I like to think of it in terms these days we watch on television the uh crime scene investigation shows which are very big. And then I like the some of the science of that and so forth. But we see these tapes This tape that they have, crime scene written on it, and they wrap that around so that people can't go there. That's kind of what happened at the mountain in Sinai. God was meeting on the mountain with Moses. And around the bottom of the mountain they were to cordon it off so that people would not approach the living God. in an inappropriate way and thus bring condemnation on themselves, that there should be a respect for his holiness. And so the mountain was cordoned off. And they remembered that. They had memory of those scenes. And that's what God is calling them to think about. And we have record of those things here in the scriptures. God has recorded for us the wonderful things that He did, the mighty things that He did. God has recorded for us the lines that He put around things. To remind us of his holiness and his sovereign character. And you see as well the electing love of God singling out a people And separating them from other people for his own possession. Has any God ever done anything like this before? No. He set his love upon Israel for his own purpose. And having set his love upon them He continued with them. He labored with them. He gave them his commandments. He sent his prophets to them to remind them of their breaking of the commandments. I like to think of prophets as uh if any of you are involved in the legal profession, I like to think of prophets as covenant district attorneys. Their business is to bring the covenant lawsuit of the covenant God against those who have broken his law. They don't come making up new things. They come on the basis of what God has already spoken, upon the relationship that God has already defined with his people. And they come to remind the people of this God, to remind the people of what this God has told them, to remind them of what kind of people this God has called them to be for his glory. These things were done by God's mighty hand and his outstretched arm, and now God's people are called to remember. the mighty things that God has done. Think back over history and look for the hand of God there. As you read through the scriptures, you look for the hand of God. What is he doing? How is he doing it? How do we see his glory and power displayed in the history that's recorded for us in the scriptures? I love the end of Psalm 48. Walk about Zion. I thought of it as we were singing Psalm 122 earlier. Walk about Zion. Go around her. Count her towers. Consider well her ramparts. Look into these things. Search them out. Be curious about them. View her citadels that you may tell the next generation For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to the end. Search these things out and know them. and be prepared to tell the next generation. Why? Because every generation will not personally see all of the mighty acts of God. There was one generation that saw with their own eyes the things that God did at Sinai and the things that God did at the Red Sea. But they are recorded for us in the pages of Scripture by the very authority of God. That we may understand these things and continue in our reading of the scriptures to search these things out and to inquire of God regarding these things that He has done. One commentator summarizes, the invitation is thus to explore into the whole panorama of human history. within the limits but to the extremities of time and space, to see whether anything similar to Israel's experience of God had been known before. Secondly, in verses 35 through 38, God's purpose in his mighty work is that Israel may know him. That Israel might know that the Lord is God, and knowing that He is God, they may respond to Him appropriately. Just as God proved to the prophets of Baal in Elijah's time that he was the true God by sending fire upon the altar and consuming the sacrifice, so these mighty acts of God give proof. That this God who addresses the people from the fire is the true and living God. Is there any place else to go? To look for religious expression? No, here is the true God. Here are the things that He has done. Here are the mighty works that He has set down for all of history. God was, as we might say, getting their attention. But beyond Israel simply being aware of his power, He desires to bring them into his love and his purpose. A relationship between himself and those people. In verse 36, we have this interesting idea of God disciplining his people. What is discipline? And you know that the Uh older meaning of that is the idea of training. It's not so much the we think of it oftentimes in our day more in terms of simply punishment. But the older, the deeper meaning of this idea of discipline is a training, a loving and careful training and teaching, nurturing even, that one might grow. And so here is God. desiring to enter into this kind of relationship whereby he would discipline and shape a people. train a people for himself and for his own glory, to take them under holy discipline is one way of putting it, to engage them for his purpose. And it is, of course, covenant language. It's the language of a situation where there has been a covenant bond established with a people. I like to think of a covenant as a shaped relationship. A relationship that has a particular character and shape. So God in his covenant comes to people and says, this is who I am? And this is how it will be between us and you, uh uh uh between me and you. Uh I will be to you a God, you will be to me a people, and these are the particulars. This is how it's going to work. This is what it's going to work. to look like. Covenant engagement. We think of engagement, I guess, primarily in terms of Marriage and uh looking forward to marriage. Uh I'm a bit of a car guy. I'm working on an old uh an old British car trying to get it running again, and I like automobiles and cars. And I like to think of engagement in terms of gears and clutches. I uh I had to do a little shopping to find a car with a manual transmission. because I like to drive a manual transmission. And when you let that clutch out, what do you call it? You call it engaging. Why? Because the power from the engine becomes engaged to the rest of the drivetrain, including the wheels. When you push the clutch in, you disengage the clutch, which means you separate the engine, the driving force, from the wheels, the things that put the power to the road. God means to engage us. He is the engine. And he means to engage us so that we begin to spin in ways that he spins. so that we begin to move and think in ways like he thinks, created in his image, that we might, as some theologians have said, think his thoughts after him. To be engaged with God. And that's a relationship to get it out of mechanical terms and begin to think of it in terms of a relationship. It's that kind of relationship with God, that kind of response in love to Him, whereby our lives begin to be shaped and formed. In ways that follow Him, honor Him, and reflect His work and His purpose in our lives. In verse 37, the whys of God's love to Israel are traced back to the fathers. Again, we see the connection of history. The promises to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are not forgotten. In an eternal God, there is a way in which those things are remembered, and in which the promises that are made in one generation will be kept in another. And God's word will not return void, even though years may elapse, will in his time accomplish what he sent it to do and bring about those ends that He has designed. The mighty things which God has done in the Exodus have connections to the promises. made to the fathers. And I would suggest to you that the great and mighty things of the Exodus, which have connections in past history to the promises to the patriarchs, have connections to the future as well. And will bring us to the Lord Jesus Christ if we follow that path with any care Not only then has God done mighty things, he has kept covenant promises and fulfilled in mighty ways the prophecies of old. Thirdly, in verses thirty-nine and forty, remembering God's mighty deeds. Know therefore today and lay it to your heart that the Lord is God in heaven above, and on the earth beneath there is no other. The mighty acts which Israel had seen spoke powerfully of the presence of God and the power of God in history. Calvin, I'm assuming, Skip quotes Calvin occasionally, does he? Well, you have Calvin again today for at least one quote. Calvin, as you may know, uh uh can be a little sharp in his uh uh speech He can be a little tart, as we might say, a little bit uh cynical sometimes. And this is one of those things, but how powerfully it makes the point. They must needs be worse than stupid if the majesty of God, known and understood in so many proofs, did not awaken them to reverence. See, if these great and mighty things go by, then we sit there, huh? Well Of only passing interest. I'm not sure what the big deal here really is. Calvin says, how can you do that? You've totally shut your mind off. There are great things here and you totally missed it. If you really got those things, if you really understood what God is doing, your hearts would be pricked to reverence and worship. You would fall down. Think of Isaiah in the temple, you know, in Isaiah 6. Before the great throne of God, throne of God. Holy, holy, holy. And what does Isaiah do? He's broken down. He realizes that the great one is here. He is in the presence of the great and mighty God. And he is undone. He said, woe is me. I'm undone. I'm uh I'm disintegrated. I'm unraveled. before the greatness of this God Those great acts of God had been written down for our instruction, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10, for our instruction, upon whom the ends of the ages are come. They're there, that we may search them out, that we may know them. Israel is not only to grudgingly acknowledge God. But to take to heart the majesty of God. We have this wonderful expression in verse 39. Lay it to heart. Know therefore today and lay it to your heart. That's interesting language. And the Puritans were wonderful at picking up this kind of language because they were very interested in how we talk about a relationship to God. How are we to speak of it? How can we articulate the things that happen in the heart of a man before God? And they paid a lot of attention to this kind of language and the kind of language you have in the Psalms. Lay it to heart. What does that mean? Skip on by? No, it means stop. Shut up for a minute. And listen. And consider and ponder and let it sink in what God has done. keep his decrees and commandments. Then first of all, as we respond, remembering, we let those things seek sink in. We search them out. And let them come into us and change us. And then we keep his decrees and commands out of hearts of love. Out of reverence to him and an acknowledgement of his greatness, there is a desire to keep his commandments, a desire to live in his pathways. In this covenant, life will take a character and a shape established by God Himself. Having been thus brought out of bondage, you have been called to God's purpose. You are no longer your own in the New Testament. You have been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God. God's people are called to live out God's purposes. God's purpose is to bless his people and show them his love. In verse 40, that it may go well with you and your children. The blessing over the generations, just as the covenant promises to Abraham find fulfillment in the Exodus, and the promises of the Exodus find fulfillment in the Lord Jesus. So the promises of God to us come to our children, for the promise is to us and to our children as many as the Lord our God shall call. Have you heard that before? In Acts 2. That you may live in the land which the Lord your God gives you. Well, you sit here this morning and you say, well, you're you're kind of preaching to Israel this morning, aren't you? You've been talking about Israel and all the things they were to remember and that they were to do and the way they were to respond from Deuteronomy. What about us? Where has God drawn near to you and spoken to you in a particular way? What is your Passover? Where does God confront you in such a powerful way that you can only escape by rejecting Him? It is in Jesus Christ, isn't it? It's in the cross of Christ. Hebrews chapter 1. In the past, God spoke to our forefathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he made the universe. God has put Jesus Christ in the center of his saving plan for people. Jesus himself put it this way, now this is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus, whom you have sent. That's from that same seventeenth chapter of John, from which I quoted earlier. God came down to us in the person of Jesus Christ. The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. Jesus came to gather God's people. To gather for himself a people that would be called the body of Christ. the church of Jesus Christ, of which he would be the head and no other And to that church, he gave his Holy Spirit. When he had ascended to the Father, he gave his Holy Spirit. that his presence might continue with his people. They would not be without a comforter. They would not be without a witness as orphans. But they would have the very presence of Christ sealed by the Spirit. He gave himself, that is Jesus, as an offering for sin upon the cross. He rose again, claiming total victory over sin and death. But that victory is in Jesus Christ. It is his victory. We come to share it only as we are connected to him by faith. As God the Holy Spirit creates faith in our hearts, we embrace Jesus Christ and know Him, whom to know is life eternal He rose again, signifying that the sacrifice that he offered was fully accepted by the Father, and the Father now says, rejoin me in the glories of heaven. The work is done, and Jesus himself on the cross says it is finished. What does he mean that in a bad way? It's all over with, I'm dead, it's over. No, he means it in a positive way. He means that the work that he has come to do is finished. The salvation that he has come to bring. Has been accomplished. Nothing now remains undone. But the gates of heaven are open to those God is bringing to Himself. The joy of God's saving purpose. Remembering the great things of God, and of course when we come to the Lord's table. Jesus, as he gathered his disciples in that upper room, says, Do this. Do this as a creative act of your own initiative. No, do this in remembrance of me There on the cross. There in the resurrection is the mighty work of God. This table calls us To enter into that work. How can we do that? It happened then. Because the Jesus who did it then is at the right hand of the Father now, and he is our host. As we come to the table, he says to us, it is by his commandment, do this in remembrance of me. Remember, the mighty works of God. Search them out, for in them you will come to know Him. Amen.