We'll continue our study uh from the book of Malachi this morning. The first oracle that Malachi delivered addressed God proclaiming his love for his people when it seemed that they were doubting it. In the second oracle, he chastised the religious establishment for dishonoring his name and misleading his people What followed next was the anticipated consequence from clerical slackness, the moral degeneration of God's people. The fourth oracle dealt with the doubt that was in the minds of believers, which was raised by the prosperity of the evil and the wicked. The people went on to claim that God favored the wicked. Why? Because they prospered. God was not s uh striking the wicked down and vindicating those that followed Yahweh on their timetable. God answered their outcries by informing them that he will come one day and judge the wicked and reward the righteous. The eschaton, the end times, would be triggered by him sending his messenger that would pave the way before himself The people of God were to content themselves to God's timetable and not theirs. As we continue our study of Malachi, The prophet's next oracle is about God's concern that the hearts of the people are turning away from him, and he calls them to return to him. Our passage this morning is well known in Christian circles in Evangelical America. It contains the passage where God challenges his people to tithe. As you could well imagine, this passage has been misused and erroneously taken to be the centerpiece of this oracle. It is my hope and intention this morning. As we go through this passage, that we will see is, what we will see is what was on God's heart. And what he wanted them to do about it, as opposed to it specifically being tithing. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? It is from the book of Malachi, chapter 3, verses 6 through 12 this morning. That is Malachi chapter 3 verses 6 through 12. Hear now the word of God. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, How shall we return? Will a man rob God? You are robbing me. But you say, How have we robbed you? In your tithes and contributions. You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open up the windows of heaven for you, and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need. I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the field should not fail to bear, says the Lord of hosts. Then all the nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the Lord of hosts. This is the word of God Amen. Please be seated. And as you are being seated, please join me in prayer Holy Spirit, be with us now as we study the Word of God, which you have handed down to us, preserve for all ages. So that we may know you, along with the Father and the Son, as our covenant-making, loving, caring, merciful, self-sacrificing God. Grant us the grace to see and the grace to change, so that we might draw closer to our Heavenly Father. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. In the scripture, whenever a covenant was made, it had with it associated blessings and curses. Blessings for obedience and curses for disobedience. If you were to reflect upon the history of the nation sired by Jacob You would see the consistent faithfulness of God to the covenant and sadly a consistent faithlessness on behalf of the nation. It would have been well within God's right to apply the death penalty to the nation for their wickedness and non-performance of their covenantal duties. Our first verse points out, O sons of Jacob, are not, you are not consumed. To be consumed would have meant that the theocracy established by the covenant and all its terms would have been eradicated. However, a remnant still remained, and they were back in the land which God promised. But what explains the fact that they were still functioning as a nation, although a semblance of what it used to be is the first part of the verse, what it talks about. It says, For I, the Lord, do not change. In this verse, we have a clear statement of God's reliability and trustworthiness. in all that he says and all that he does. It's been noted by grammatical scholars that this verse, verse 6, is well balanced Neither God nor the descendants of Jacob have changed. God still extends his grace. And the people still are like their father Jacob chiefs Jacob was well known as a deceiver, and it was in his deception that he cheated people. If you recall, he cheated his brother out of his inheritance. He cheated his father-in-law with the livestock that he was given to manage. Cheating is the operative word here, because it applies well with what the Lord will be charging the nation. Given God's lawsuit against his people, you would have expected them to be destroyed by now. But in this verse, we are to see that God is not a God of strict and immediate judgment, but one that extends mercy and patience It is because God is a forebearing God that the people of God are not yet consumed. As we will see in a moment, he gives opportunity to repent and to return to him. The unchanging here is not that he will never demand justice or that the nation of Israel's actions will not earn the nation The theocracy, God's divine rejection. The emphasis on God's consistency is that He is a merciful and forgiving God He is willing to receive the nation of Israel back only if they repent and return to him. As we've pointed out, Israel's waywardness was a pervasive theme throughout the history with the Lord. Verse 7 brings this out for us very clearly. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, the Lord says, and I will return to you. As a covenant-breaking people, Israel had been relegated to the miseries that people not under Yahweh's protection had to endure. God had left his people because they were covenant breakers. But just because God withdraws It does not mean immediate death and destruction or the nullification of common grace. That would occur on Judgment Day They lived very similar lives to those around them. They received the same amount of rain and had to deal with the same insects consuming or rendering their food stores unfit for consumption. Their situation was no different than the nations around them. God states that he was willing to turn towards them And take them under his love, and bless them yet again, only if they were turned towards him in repentance. The people respond by asking, how are we to repent? Are the people asking the question, how is one supposed to repent? Or are they asking the question, in what way are we supposed to repent? I don't suspect they're asking how one repents. The understanding of repentance is turning away from a a certain uh, in this case, sinful behavior towards a godly behavior. Which is well understood. It is to be an inward heart change, a new way of approaching and responding to life situations with God-wared ways. It may well then be asking, as if they're ignorant, what are we, what are you talking about? What are we supposed to repent from? Now the rest of the oracle will address this very question. The answer in it is basically in its most subtle form, tithing. But in reality, this is just a symptom and not the core of the problem that God wants addressed. In order to have a clear understanding of what's going on here, we need to sort of zoom out for from our current situation for a moment and consider what were some of the things that were associated with being the people of God or the nation of Israel. The people were in covenant with Yahweh. He was their God, and they were his people. As mentioned earlier, he would bless them when they obeyed the terms of the covenant and curse them when they didn't. Now, a major aspect of being God's people was that of worshiping Yahweh. After all, he had saved them. and given them a land that was not theirs, and he promised to protect them and prosper them. They in turn were responsible for worshiping him in the way that he had stipulated, and it was in part Of the charter from the get-go of the covenant. There were twelve tribes as we know, and the tribe of Levi was chosen by God to attend to the national worship of God The other eleven tribes were given a portion of the land. The Levites were to subsist on the tithe. The other eleven tribes brought in. All of the tithes and offerings were to go toward the maintenance maintaining of the Levites, the sacrifices. and the maintenance of the properties in the temple ultimately. And as an expression of God's protection. provision and generosity, the distribution of offerings for widows and orphans, which was collected once every three years. Now, if there's any one way to gauge the heart of a nation to their deity, it is its worship of him Do they give thanks to him? Do they show up for worship? Do they support the temple? Do they support the worship leaders, i. e. , the priests and the Levites? Now, if they don't, It usually manifests itself by them not going to the temple or the local synagogue, but instead doing other things. Spending their money on other things that they have placed over God. In this case, perhaps, at the temples of their foreign wives, they have married. And if they're giving, maybe they're bringing in less than what God expects. Lame, blind, or stolen animals for sacrifice. What does all this type of behavior reveal? A heart that is not focused on God. It is a heart that has divided interests with other things This is not a heart that is filled with thanksgiving and expresses itself in an anticipated worship of God. Isn't that true in our own lives? What demonstrates a truly converted heart? One that truly understands. Realizes what great lengths God had to go through in order to save us. It's a heart that shows up for worship and supports it, does it not? Given this background, let us return to our passage. Verse 8 answers the question posed in verse 7. How are we to repent? God starts with an attention-getting question. Will a man rob God? He follows up by accusing the people that of all people, it is they who are robbing him. Secondly, the people ask, how is it that we have robbed you? God answers is in the most symptomatic form. By not bringing in all of their tithes and offerings. Seems ridiculous when you think about it That a man can go into God's storehouse or treasury and rob him of his wealth or possessions. But that's not what we have in mind here. It's about what the people should be giving. Covenantal agreement towards the worship of God, and they are not. This is a form of theft from God. Now coming at this from another way, we must recognize that God is the God of creation. He owns everything on it. Psalm 24, 1 tells us, the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. The idea here is that the riches are being brought to the owner of the tithes and not brought by the owners of the tithes. So either way, God is being robbed by not being given from what he owns or by covenantal agreement. As has been the case with the post-exilic prophets, God reveals that he is not only going to curse, but he has already done so for their covenant unfaithfulness. They are under a curse because they are robbing God. And the robbing is not an isolated case, but rather it's broad in its scope. It's the nation. So how are we supposed to repent? What does it look like? He gives them specifics. Specific details on what they must do. The Lord says, Bring in your tithes. This is plural. It's not singular. Tithes. There were different tides. And there were different offerings that had to be brought in. And as I mentioned earlier, once every three years for the widows and the orphans. These are all the different ties that had to be brought into the temple. Bring in your tithes. Bring them in their entirety. That's God saying this is what you need to do in order to repent. Now the Lord promises a positive outcome for doing so. He will bring rain again Open the windows of heaven to the land so that they will not only barely have enough, but thrive to overflow. But this is nothing new. What I mean is that God promised to bless his people. Give them sufficient reign and freedom from pestilence if they obeyed. Their bounty will be overflowing in comparison to the nations that are around them Let's be clear here. God is not saying that he wants his people to put him to the test as in presumption. Presumption is sin. That was one of the sins that Satan tried Jesus to commit while in the wilderness. Do you remember that? Jump. Go ahead, jump. God says he'll save you. Jesus said, you shall not put God to the test. Don't presume. There's a difference between a person or a group invited to discover the truth. As in the Bereans were were commended that they tested Paul's teaching against the word. Now that's different than to have an attitude demanding that God show off or prove himself. Here God is saying, I've already promised to do this. It's part of our covenantal agreement. I will provide for you. I've already kept my word by cursing you. Verse 9. When you didn't live up to your end of the covenantal agreement. Now we have to be careful here to not misread God's promise. He does not state that he will make them personally wealthy if they tithe. He tells them that he will provide for their needs. so much so that they will not be preoccupied with their daily concerns. Please note that this is for the nation. It's not individual. This is for the nation who has been cursed as a nation. In verses 11 and 12, the details associated with the curse are now mentioned Evidently, God had cursed the people by affecting their agriculture and consequently their economic livelihoods. God promises, if they repent, to remove, rebuke the pests and the diseases affecting crop production and quality. As a consequence for their obedience to God, per the terms of the covenant, God will bless Israel. It will be so impressive that the nations will call Israel blessed. Now, the word blessed in this context, both on a personal and national level, I find interesting. Dr. Jansen did a study of the Hebrew word to bless and came up with the following working definition. To magnify or extol another person's condition as a desirable one to magnify or extol another person's condition as a desirable one. This would also apply for nations So for a nation to be considered blessed by another nation or individuals outside of that nation, they would say that the nation of fill in the blank. is in a desirable condition. That's what it means to say this person is blessed. So for Israel to be called blessed by the surrounding nations, which is what this passage is saying, it would be presumed that the God of Israel has favored his worshippers and as a consequence they are in a desirable set of circumstances causing them to say what The nation of Israel is blessed. And it is in this way the nations will call you blessed, as is found in Verse twelve. God will open up the heavens and the rain will come down to give them abundant yield from the ground and the vines The land will be green and lush with trees giving their fruit. They will truly be a land of delight, surrounded by a desert. I have a couple of things to say in conclusion. Have things changed for us under the New Covenant? Will God not care for our souls if we turn to Him first? Does He not know our needs? Yes, he will and does provide for our needs, but not necessarily our wants. Sometimes these are not needs, but instead greeds. Nowadays, and even out of a passage like this one, God is depicted by some false teachers as some sort of a cosmic genie or an ATM machine. If you do certain things, like send them money, and believe God will make you wealthy beyond your imagination It's right there. This is not what scripture is teaching. What about curses? Well, Jesus took upon himself the curses and eternal punishment that you and I deserve. So we are not cursed. An eternal curse of being thrown outside the camp of God or the loving presence of God. But as Hebrews teaches us, God does indeed lovingly discipline us when we are living outside the will or his revealed will. We should not be surprised when God disciplines us when we worship our secret or even public idols. Common question that arises by Christians regarding giving is: under the New Testament administration, are we obligated to tithe? Now, you have to understand that this is a very complex question with many views that are supported by different theological constructs So my brief, may I add, very brief answer is yes and no. We don't have to tithe because we are not under law, that is, we are not under works to gain salvation. Jesus accomplished for us what we had to do. Now remember, the various tides and offerings that were required under the law was for the purpose of maintaining the worship of Yahweh and supporting those whom he called, the Levites, to administer and lead the worship of the nation. Since Jesus accomplished this perfectly, as a consequence, we can do nothing to add or subtract from our salvation. We trust in Jesus and Jesus alone in his works, not ours. So what I'm saying is that we won't be saved anymore by giving lots of money, nor will we be in trouble of losing our salvation for not supporting our local church. But at the same time, when we consider the New Testament books, we are called to give generously towards the maintenance and advancement of the kingdom of God. As Christians, we should remind ourselves that all that we have comes from the hand of God, and we should be good stewards of it Prior to Christ, the tithes and offerings began at 10%. But now that Christ has come, And as the writer of Hebrews consistently points out that Christ is better. The newer covenant is better. I have heard it said that Christians should look at tithing as a bare minimum starting point. A passage to remember would be from Proverbs 1124. There are many blessings that God has given us in Christ and continues to bless in material ways. But we shouldn't be primarily thinking in those categories. Our giving of our tithes and offerings should be a reflection of a generous heart that wants to see the glory of God lived out in the lives of those who need to hear the gospel. They want to see the kingdom of God grow in places that currently don't have any churches. They want to see and support the work of discipling the saints in their local church as well as reach out to their local communities with mercy and the proclamation of the gospel. By one possessing a heart that desires these things and demonstrates it by giving generously. Well, this is a heart that is truly thankful to God. That is why offerings are a fundamental part in worship on the Lord's Day Not only is it an act of worship, but it's an opportunity for Christians to actively give towards gospel ministry. Finally, and most importantly, God said that he wanted the people to turn back to him. It is no different today for us. Now, for those of us who are elect, God will never leave you or forsake you. Our sinfulness, however, will cause walls to be erected between ourselves and God. The quality of our relationship, our prayer life will be affected. In fact, he may take action in very concrete ways to bring to our attention our sins. And our need to repent from them. Some of you may already know what I'm talking about. God's heart is that he wants you to return to him so that he may bless you And the greatest barometer, indicator of where you are with God is your worship of Him. And your worship of Him not out of simply being duty It's are you worshiping him because you can't help but express gratitude to the God who has done so much for you in this life and the life to come. That's the kind of heart that God wants a thankful heart for. Let us close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for so many things that indeed we have to stop and take stock of and to give you thanks. Please help us to maintain our focus. Let us not get distracted by trivial things in life. Not by things that we don't have or wish that we had, but rather to Enjoy the fullness of the greatest gift any human being can possibly have. And that is a repaired and restored and redeemed relationship with you. May we look to that each and every day of our lives and find our fullness and our happiness and our satisfaction in knowing that We who are so sinful, who don't deserve anything but justice at your hands Received nothing but mercy and grace and forgiveness. How wonderful you are We pray that by your Holy Spirit you would help us to live lives that reflect the joy of knowing you