Proverbs 4 is a passage where Solomon says, Hero sons, the instruction of a father, give attention that you may gain understanding. For I give you sound teaching, do not abandon my instruction. When I was a son to my father, tender and the only son in the sight of my mother, then he taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast my words, keep my commandments, and live. And uh Solomon's assumption here is that one of the uh responsibilities of a parent a father especially, but I think mothers as well, is to uh teach uh their children. And as any good father does, our father in heaven teaches us. in his word. We want to look at that teaching as we have it in the Revelation chapter 21, the Revelation of Jesus Christ as it was given through John. Chapter 21, we'll read that whole chapter and the first five verses of Revelation 22. This morning we looked at the chapter 1. And uh we have a few folks who weren't with us this morning. Uh we're glad to have you. Uh this next week will be the General Assembly of our denomination, and every year uh before the assembly we take as our topic on that Lord's Day, the church, and some uh some aspect of it. This morning we looked at the glorious dignity of the church militant. And this evening, uh the even greater glory of the church triumphant. So Revelation chapter 21. And uh before I read, let's stand and ask the Lord's blessing upon his word. Our Father in heaven, your word describes us as a result of our adoption as joint heirs with Christ. And we thank you that your word says that through him you made the world, and he is the heir, the one who will ultimately possess all things, and we, through our adoption, will possess all things with him. including you yourself. And our God, we praise you and thank you for those glimpses of our glorious inheritance that we find in your word even though they are but glimpses, they are nonetheless blinding with glory and majesty and beauty. And as we uh simply read one of those tonight and reflect upon it briefly, we pray that your Spirit would illuminate. and cause our hearts to be full to overflowing with the glory of our inheritance and with the grace of you who made it possible. And may our reflections be an encouragement to persevere in faithfulness and comfort and consolation where there is sorrow and pain, an encouragement to faith, and an incentive to love and worship. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading the Word of God in Revelation chapter 21. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there is no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men. And he shall dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be among them. And he shall wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there shall no longer be any death There shall no longer be any mourning or crying or pain. The first things have passed away. And he who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. And he said, Write, for these words are faithful and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without costs. He who overcomes shall inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But for the cowardly and unbelievable and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I shall show you the bride, the wife of the land. And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God. Her brilliance was like a very costly stone, as a stone of crystal clear jasper. It had a great and high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels. The names were written on them, which are those of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel. There were three gates on the east, and three gates on the north, and three gates on the south, and three gates on the west. And the wall of the city had twelve foundation stones, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the land The one who spoke with me had a gold measuring rod to measure the city and its gates and its wall. The city is laid out as a square and its length is as great as the width, and he measured the city with the rod. Fifteen hundred miles its length and width and height are equal. And he measures its walls seventy-two yards according to human measurements, which are also angelic measurements. The material of the wall was jasper. The city was pure gold like clear glass. The foundation stones of the city wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation stone was Jasper, the second sapphire, the third Chalcedoni, the fourth Emerald, the fifth Sardanix, the sixth Sargius, the seventh Chrysalite. The eighth barrel, the ninth topaz, the tenth Chrysophrase, the eleventh Jason, and the twelfth Amethyst. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each one of the gates was a single pearl The street of the city was pure gold like transparent glass, and I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its temple The city has no need of the sun or of the moon to shine upon it, for the glory of God has illumined it, and its lamp is the Lamb. The nation shall walk by its light, and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory into it. And in the daytime, for there shall be no night there, its gates shall never be closed. They shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it. And nothing unclean, and no one who practices abomination and lying shall ever come into it, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. And he showed me a river of the water of life, clear as crystal coming from the throne of God and of the Lamb, in the middle of its street. And on either side of the river was the tree of life bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall no longer be any curse, and the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his bond servants shall serve him, and they shall see his face, and his name shall be on their foreheads. And there shall no longer be any night. They shall not have need of the light of a lamp nor the light of the sun, because the Lord God shall illumine them, and they shall reign forever and ever. Thus far God's word. Please be seated. Eye has not seen. Ear has not heard. Nor has it entered the heart of man what God has prepared for those who love him. So says Paul in 2 Corinthians 9 and 10. And no doubt that's one reason that the book of Revelation involves or includes so much symbolism is because uh the things described here are so far beyond our ability to comprehend, beyond anything that we've ever experienced. The writer has to strain for things that we can relate in some way to, to communicate something of the glory he seeks to describe for us. Now tonight I've read a long passage of scripture. There's a lot here and the all that I'm going to try to do is touch on a few points. I'm not by any means going to try to uh even attempt to explain uh everything here. Lord willing someday perhaps I'll have that opportunity, but I'm not going to try tonight. I want to just address two points with you tonight And the first is what is the church triumphant? This morning we looked at the church militant, the church in this world, the church uh in battle by enemies, the church at war spiritually. And tonight we're thinking about the church in its other state, its other expression, the church triumphant or the church victorious, in a in a simple uh answer is the church triumphant is the church in heaven. The church at rest, no longer dealing with enemies. Sin has been put away. In Revelation 14, 13, there's this wonderful verse. I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors for their deeds follow with them. That's the church triumphant, the church whose members have rested from their labors and from their warfare. They are now at that eternal Sabbath in the presence of God Himself. And yet I've said we're talking tonight about the destiny of the church triumphant because there is a certain sense in which even the saints in glory now Have not yet entered into all that will one day be theirs. The church triumphant right now in heaven in the presence of God is not fully perfect, even though Paul said in Philippians 1, to live is Christ and to die is gain, and he says, my desire is to depart and be with Christ. That is very far better than to live in this life. And he said in 2 Corinthians 5, to be absent from the body is to be at home with the Lord. Jesus said to the thief on the cross, today you'll be with me in paradise. And so even though it's true, that believers who die immediately are ushered into the presence of God with all that implies, there's a sense in which even the church in heaven is not yet. All it will be and has not yet possessed its fullness of blessing and glory. That will not happen until what we've just read here in the Revelation occurs. There are several ways in which the saints above are not yet all that they will one day be. For example, they have not yet been clothed with their resurrection bodies. If you look at Revelation chapter 6, verses 9 to 11. Several things here. When he broke the fifth seal, and this is the the lamb who's been given the seal of the scroll of human destiny and history, and he's breaking the seven seals that seal it. He broke the fifth seal. I saw, says John, underneath the altar. the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony that they had maintained, they cried out with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, wilt thou refrain from judging and avenging our blood on those who dwell on the earth. And there was given to each of them a white robe, and they were told that they should rest for a little while longer until the number of their fellow servants This is an interesting passage, and there are several things that come out of it. The implication that the saints in heaven, although they have not yet possessed their resurrection bodies, Still have some form. It says they were given in verse eleven, each of them was given a white robe, a robe suggesting purity, and some seeing that a suggestion of victory. And uh I heard a tape recently where Professor Douglas Kelly from Reformed Seminary in Charlotte was dealing with his pastors, and he cites Calvin to say that uh He understands that the form, whatever it is that they have, is just an installment. It's not the the completion. It's not the glorious body they'll have at the at the resurrection, but yet they have some physical form, but it's not yet the resurrected body. Not only that, know us that they have some unfulfilled desires. The saints in glory, now Although in one sense, blessed have some unfulfilled desires. Here we see them interceding for the final punishment of God's enemies. They desire to see the consummation of all things, and God says, wait. It will happen, but not yet. You have to wait until that other number of martyrs has yet been killed. And that points to another part. The church above is not yet perfect because all of its members have not been gathered in All the elect are not yet in heaven. And so, even though the saints in glory now, in that sense, members of the church triumphant are wonderfully blessed. There are at least these several ways that their blessedness is not complete. They've not yet put on their resurrection body, although they have some form apparently. The full number of God's people has not been brought into the church. And they have some desires that are as yet still unfulfilled. And so that's why I referred not to the so much to the present possession of the church triumphant, although that's wonderful, but to the destiny. What will it be? when the church is perfected in its glory. And that's what I think we have here in Revelation 21 and 22. And let me suggest Just three things. Again, it's a long passage. I'm going to suggest three things. The glorious destiny of the church triumphant in its fullness. Well, the church triumphant will be glorious because she herself will be complete in number and perfect in holiness. This is the first thing. The vision that we see here. describes the final perfection of God's people, God's church. And part of that perfection will be that she will be complete in number and perfect in holiness. Now there are a number of things that speak about that. And in verse 2 of 21, I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God. made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. This that we read about in Ephesians 5, 26 and 27, is finally completed. Jesus preparing that bride that is going to be presented without spot or blemish. Now the very last saint has been brought in. And clothed with glory, and is now being presented to God. And not only that, you see, in verse 8, it speaks of chapter 21. The cowardly, the unbelieving, the abominable, and murderous, immoral persons, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. In the previous chapter, chapter 20, we see the great separation has finally occurred. Once and for all, the final judgment has taken place and Those who are uh the blessed of the Lord have been set apart from those who are the wicked, and those fatal words have been uh been uttered by the king on his throne Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire and into the blessed. Enter, blessed my Father, into the kingdom prepared for you before the foundation of the world. At this point That separation has has has occurred and all of God's people have been brought in. There's not one missing. And Jesus spoke about that in John 6. He said, God, not one of those whom He has given me will I lose. Every single one whom Jesus died for, whose blood was shed to forgive their sins, has now been brought into the church. And you see the description of the perfection, the glory, and the beauty. He carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain. This is Revelation 21, 10, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God having the glory of God and her brilliance was like a very costly stone. Notice she's described as the holy city And she has the glory of God. And then that lengthy description. And I'm not going to read it again. I'm not going to try to elaborate on all the details of the walls and and the size, the gates, the foundations. But clearly, uh again, we might differ on some of the particulars of the uh of the the symbolism, but clearly several things are are intended to be conveyed here. First, the beauty of the city. Then the purity of the city and the glory of the city. Remember, Jesus is going to present the church to himself with in glory without spot or blemish or anything. In Psalm 45, 13 and 14, that that wonderful Psalm of the King's wedding, it describes the bride and says, her clothing is glorious. She's got uh gold interwoven into it, and and it's a picture of the church in her glory. Psalm 29 verse 2 says, Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. And that's the beauty that is now clothe God's people. This described as a city coming down as a bride adorned for her husband and then with all these precious uh uh jewels and precious metals the streets are are are gold and and uh it's a picture of beauty and glory. And so we see here the church perfect in holiness and complete in number. And that may have something to do with the idea that the walls are a cube in the same dimensions. It speaks of wholeness and completion in every direction. And so one day, beloved, the saints above will no longer cry out, oh Lord, how long before you avenge us And the Lord will no longer say, wait until those who have yet to be gathered in have been gathered in. That last one will have been brought in. And it the church will be perfected in holiness and complete in number. So that's the first part, and three parts of the glorious destiny of the church triumphant. To be complete in number And to be made perfect in holiness. The second is that she not only will be perfect herself, and that's the idea, she is in and of herself complete and perfect. But she will inhabit a renewed universe. Her environment will be perfect. And again, there are a number of things that speak of that in our passage. I saw a new heaven and a new earth. And that's That's language, that's biblical language for the physical universe. In the in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. That's the physical universe. This That Earth where we live and then everything else outside of it. So this is language describing a new universe. For the first heaven and the first earth passed away. There is no longer any sea, and I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, The tabernacle of God is among men. He shall dwell among them, they shall be as people, God himself shall wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall no longer be any death, there shall no longer be any mourning or crying or pain the first things have passed away. And so this new heavens and new earth is described in many respects negatively in terms of how it's different from this present heavens and earth. One thing is there's no sea, we're told there in uh in verse one. And then uh in verse four, there shall no longer be any death. There is no mourning. There is no crying. There is no pain. The first things, the things which characterize this fallen world as it was first created are now a thing of the past. And not only that, we see elsewhere in twenty-three uh to twenty-five of chapter twenty-one, the city has no need of the sun or of the moon to shine upon it. For the glory of God has illumined it, and its lamp is the lamb. The nation shall walk by its light, the kings of the earth shall bring their glory into it, in the daytime, for there shall be no night there, its gate shall never be closed. And you get the same thing in chapter twenty. 2. A river of the water of life, clear as crystal, coming from the throne of God and of the Lamb, in the middle of its street, and on either side the tree of life bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit every month, the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. There shall no longer be any curse. I'm dropping down here to verse 5, there shall no longer be any night. They shall not have need of the light of a lamp or the light of the sun. because the Lord God shall illumine them. And so no longer any night. Now whether that's literally true, that there are literally uh the the universe is so reconfigured that there are no more celestial bodies. or whether their light is completely unnecessary because of the glory of God. The point is it's a universe very different from the one in which we live now. And specifically, there is mentioned there is no more curse, and by implication, no more sin. In 2 Peter 3, Peter says, we look for a new heavens and a new earth in which dwells righteousness. That's going to be at the heart of this renewed creation. Somehow, sin and all its effects will be done away. And so this picture of abundance, the abundance of the water of life coming as a river, the tree of life which brings healing, bearing fruit. All through the year, twelve months out of the year. It's a glorious picture of a renewed universe. And this is the fulfillment of what uh the Old Testament writers had looked forward to for a long time. Let me read just a few passages from the Old Testament that anticipate this which has now come to fruition. Numbers 14, 21. The Lord says, As I live All the earth will be filled with the glory of the Lord. That's a promise God makes to Moses, actually, in the context of the rebellion of the Israelites. At Kadesh Barnia, the earth will be full of the glory of the Lord. Psalm 72 This is a doxology which concludes this great psalm about the messianic king. The end of Psalm 72. Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, who alone works wonders, and blessed be his glorious name forever, and may the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and Amen. Psalm seventy-two, eighteen, and nineteen, and then Habakkuk two, fourteen. You remember Habakkuk was the prophet who was given a vision of Babylon coming down to destroy his people. He prayed, Lord, your people are so wicked, do something. God says, Okay, I'll do something, I'll send the Babylonians down to destroy him. In the midst of that prophecy, the Lord says in Habakkuk 2. 14, The earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Now, children, how much do the waters cover the sea? Do you know? Completely, don't they? And God says the earth will be filled with a Knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And here we see described in this passage 21 and 22 the fulfillment of that. the glory of God so filling the whole earth that there's no need for lights, there's no need even for the sun or the moon, and there is no night Now whether we'll need to rest as we do now. There are a lot of implications. I'll leave it to uh Marco Pika to flesh out a number of those things. There are a number of interesting implicates here. But the point is that clearly we see a universe described as very different, in some ways like our own, but in other respects very different. And that will be part of the the glory of the church triumphant. Not only will she be perfect, No more sin, not one of her member missing, all gathered in, but she will be in a perfect environment. But neither of these. Marks the fullness or the chief part of her blessing. This is the third part, and it's the most important. She will enjoy perfect communion with God. Perfect communion with God. Surely that's what's involved here in verse 3. Chapter 21, I heard a loud voice from the throne. That's God himself saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men. And he shall dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be among them. This is the fullness of God's covenant promise in the Old Testament. We've been looking at that in the book of Exodus, haven't we? The anticipation of this, God dwelling in the midst of his people in the tabernacle, people that he redeemed and brought to Sinai, entered into covenant and prescribed how he would dwell in their midst. This is the high point, the chief glory and privilege of the people of God. Then again, verses six and seven of chapter 21, he said, It is done, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of water of life without cost. He who overcomes shall inherit these things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. That's covenant language, the fullness of the relationship, God dwelling in the midst of his people. You remember, and well, and then in chapter twenty-two, verses three to five, there shall no longer be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, his bondservants shall serve him, they shall see his face. And his name shall be on their forests. Earlier in chapter 21, there's no more temple because the God and the Lamb are the temple. And the fellowship that God's people have with him now, that all those other things that in the past were means that were used are no longer necessary. And here they see his face. Now, except for Jesus Christ incarnate, God doesn't have a face. Because he doesn't have a body. Jesus Christ in his human nature has a face, but God in his nature is God doesn't have a body. But this language speaks of That most intimate fellowship. Remember when Moses prayed, Lord, show me your glory in Exodus 33, God said, You can't see my face. I'll show you my back. You can't see the fullness of my glory. I'll show you just a part of it. And even then he had to be hid in the cleft of the rock. But here It says they shall see his face, and it speaks of an intimacy of communion and fellowship with God that heretofore no one has had. And so God's people, God Himself, is the highest good of heaven, beloved. And we'll be set free to enjoy that. All the things that hinder us from enjoying God now, our sins. That causes sins of commission and sins of omission, just a lack of love and a lack of faith, a lack of zeal, or those other sins which cause us to fear and make us feel guilty so we don't come before him. Our unbelief. Physical things that hinder us are fatigue, our bodies. We get sick, we're in pain, and we can't uh look to God as we would. Distractions, we come into worship and either cares of the world or other things. And all those things will be put away, and we will perfectly and fully worship and serve and love God. And this is always held out in Scripture, the Old as well as the New Testament, as the Christian man, the believer's highest good. One thing I've asked of the Lord, David said, that I will seek. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to meditate in his temple. Psalm 73, 25 and 26 Who have I in heaven but thee, and besides thee I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. That's the greatest part of our inheritance, beloved. God Himself. In all his fullness, at least as as fully as we and our humanity, our sinless, perfect humanity, as fully as we can know and enjoy him, we will Psalm 16, David speaks of God as his portion. And he says, in thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand pleasures for the perfect satisfaction and joy. And you see here in um In verse 6, this image that is a biblical image in Scripture, a number of places, I will give to the one who thirsts from the spring of the water of life without cost. It's probably a reference to Isaiah 55. Come and buy without money. You uh who are thirsty, come and drink. But you see that picture throughout the scriptures. Jesus says, uh comes to me and I will give him living water. God himself in Jeremiah says, He is the fountain of living water, all of these things, and then the river of living water that flows out of the throne. uh all speak of this perfect communion that we will have with God in the new heavens and the new earth. And very briefly I suggest that's the threefold glory and blessedness of the church triumphant. That's the destiny toward which even the saints above still look. In some respect is unfulfilled. Their communion with God is perfect. uh uh uh uh in comparison to our own, but yet there are these things. All the elect gathered in and the church perfected in holiness. the universe renewed and perfect and everlasting communion with God Almighty. Perhaps I should just stop there It's a glorious picture, and there's certainly I haven't done it justice and certainly can't add anything to it. But I do think that I ought to make at least a few applicatory comments. So let me do that. I had actually a number of applicatory comments and uh I don't wanna I think I don't want to make them all. Um I would say briefly that this, I think, is a wonderful testimony to the inspiration, the unity, and the sufficiency of the Bible as the Word of God. the inspiration of Scripture in that it tells us things that we could never know. Remember this morning we spoke about how the church is the recipient of God's revelation. And dear ones, we need to assert it and never be hesitant or embarrassed about it. Christianity is a revealed religion. It's not the product of man's reason and man's seeking after God. It's the result of God's initiative to reveal Himself and His works to man. And we see here this in one sense in its fullest and highest point as God Himself has revealed things which Paul says man would never have imagined or never could have seen Again, it takes symbolism to begin to convey it to us, but there we have it, something of the glories of the world to come. We see the unity of Scripture here in the way that themes from throughout the Bible come together here, the river of life, the tree of life, all of these many different pictures. Paradise lost and now paradise regained. God's covenant with his people, the idea of Jerusalem and the new Jerusalem, the curse imposed and the curse removed, all these things come to their uh fulfillment and conclusion here. in this wonderful passage of Scripture. And it shows us the sufficiency of Scripture. Not that we have in the Bible everything we might possibly want to know. We don't There are many questions that we the Bible doesn't answer, only answers very cryptically or in part. And uh even among those that it does speak about, uh there are things that we don't understand as well as we wish we did or could. But in terms of the the the complete record of God's redeeming plan, we have it all here. from the very beginning of human history to its consummation. And so there's a fullness, a completeness in God's Word. We have everything we need for life and godliness here. So the inspiration, the unity, and the sufficiency of Scripture. Notice too that it shows us the progressive, unfolding nature. of human history and God's redemptive program. History is going somewhere. It always has been, because history is the outworking of God's purposes. But they work out gradually and over time and they unfold in various ways. And we see that even here. Now we see it in its fruition. But that's the nature of history and of God's redemptive plan. and we see that reflected here. Notice too the cosmic dimensions of the gospel and the work of Jesus Christ. We think often in too narrow a compass. Now it's gloriously true that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. Hallelujah! That he did. He came to save men and women and boys and girls who were alienated from God and on their way to that lake of fire, which is a second death. He came to pay for their sins so that they could be forgiven and set free. But do you realize the implications of the work of Christ are far greater than that? Not just to save a handful, or even Revelation says, a great number that no man can number from every nation, but the whole universe. Has been or will be affected by the work of Christ. I don't know how long ago it was now, but a year or more ago we were studying Colossians 1. It was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him and through him to reconcile all things to himself. Notice through him to reconcile all things to himself. Having made peace by the blood of his cross through him, I say, were there things on earth or things in heaven? And that's just a hint of the the cosmic dimensions of Jesus' work and the implications of the gospel. The gospel is good news not just for individual sinners, although it certainly that, but it's good news for the whole universe. And that's why Paul in Romans 8 talks about the universe groaning because of man's sin and the curse, the whole created order. is groaning and under uh subject to futility, but it's longing, and one day the day will come and it will be set free to the glorious liberty of the sons of God, the whole universe. perfected, and all ultimately as a result of the work of Christ. Notice as we talk about heaven, now we use, as we do oftentimes, we use the term heaven in a variety of ways, and that's perfectly legitimate as long as we are careful understand how we're using it. Uh we sometimes speak of the heavens and we mean the sky where the clouds are or maybe outer space where the stars and everything are where uh Tom Clement sends his his um The satellites and rockets and everything. And that's a perfectly legitimate way to speak of the heavens. We talk about heaven as the place where God is immediately present. And so we talk about people dying and going to heaven. It means when they leave their body, they immediately are in the presence of God. And that's perfectly legitimate too. But we often use heaven in the sense of the final state of men in the universe And that's what we're looking at here at the end of the revelation. And notice, in one sense, the physicality of it. Sometimes I think we think that heaven is going to just be sort of floating out there in space somewhere And yet it's described here in language that implies that it's, in one sense, it's going to be on earth. Now, what makes it heaven is the presence of God and the fellowship we have with Him. And again, it is a renewed earth, but yet it's very physical. There's water, there are trees. Uh gates are spoken of, any number of different things. So heaven, the eternal state, in some way is not going to be a disembodied condition where we float around without bodies, but it's going to be very physical, but again, a new uh physical order than that in which we have today, in some ways similar, in some ways different. But notice also the spirituality and the God centeredness of our conception, the biblical conception of heaven. The thing that's the most wonderful is God Himself. And that's where, for example, it's very different from the Muslim idea of heaven, which is a place where there are fountains overflowing with wine. And it's a constant banquet and um it's uh much more slanted toward men than it is toward women. Uh it's it's it's a very kind of a uh uh a sensual idea, uh not primarily the uh enjoying and glorifying of God. But that's the biblical sense here. The thing that makes it most glorious is that there is the immediate fellowship with God, the beatific vision, it's been called by philosophers and some theologians. Well, the glorious nature of our future hope, how wonderfully it will compensate for our present griefs, losses, and trials in this life. That's Paul's argument in Romans chapter 8 and verse 18, as he's writing to encourage the Christians in Rome. I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. And the idea is of a scale. And he says, if you take all of your sufferings, all of your trials and disappointments and pains, and you put them on one side of the scale, it won't even go down. That the glory on the other side is so far greater, it makes no impact at all. There's no comparison. And I believe God intends that we should take great comfort and encouragement. We talked today about the reality. The church militant is a church at war, a church under fire, a church undergoing trials, and that's a real part of the Christian life. But an equally real in some ways and even more real because this is only temporary. It's real, but it's only temporary. What we're talking about here is eternal And it's going to be far, far greater. And so I think we need to meditate much on our promised hope as a means of encouragement. In fact, in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, Paul speaks of this In verse 16, therefore we do not lose heart. Why don't you lose heart, Paul? Second Corinthians is full of the hardship of being uh a minister. It talks about his ministry and all the troubles he went through. But though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day. for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, for the things which are not seen are eternal. Paul says, when by faith, and that's how do you see something that's not seen? Well you see it by faith. It's not seen with the physical eyes, it's seen with the spiritual eyes of faith. When you look beyond this world to the world to come, then he says, even though physically we experience the result of the fall, yet our inner man is renewed, we do not lose heart, we are encouraged. We see things in their proper perspective. a far greater weight of glory. And uh Colossians 3, you remember, tells us we're to set our mind not on things below, but on things above, where Christ is. as a very practical matter if you've never read The Saints Everlasting Rest by Richard Baxter. That's a wonderful book, an extended meditation on heaven, which Baxter wrote because he thought he was dying And uh it was really the result of his own meditation. He was ill and he thought he was going to die and he was meditating for his own benefit and the Lord spared his life, so he wrote this wonderful book about heaven. I need to read it again. I have read it, but uh just Doing this reminds me that I need to read it again. And Heaven, a World of Love by Jonathan Edwards. The last chapter in his wonderful book, Charity and Its Fruits, where he elaborates part of the perfection of heaven will be the perfect love that every person will have for God and for one another, and it's a beautiful meditation. on the nature of heaven. And uh we need to, I think, most of us, much more than we typically do, think about these things by way of an encouragement to persevere and and uh a consolation in the face of the sufferings that we have here. Well, we also need to see this as a motivation to evangelism and missions. How rich and full is God's grace to his people, how glorious, saved, and blessed and alive they will one day be, but how fully and completely lost will be those without Christ. Now ultimately God's election has already decided that. But the means by which the elect are going to be gathered in is our prayers, our witness, our uh efforts, and so we need to to to be involved in doing our part, although ultimately the work is God's and seeking to bring to them. Warning warning men of the reality of hell. And I know in our day that's not a popular part of witnessing. We tend To downplay that, I I know that too, you know, to talk about um this world and how your life can be more full, but dear ones to Heaven and hell are are profoundly real, and we need to impress that on men's hearts. Most men I think know that, even though they want to deny it at one level in their heart of hearts, they realize that. Well, I think I just will mention one or two other things here. What glory and praise and thanks we owe to our God. The Father who planned and ordained all of this for us. This was all the fruition of God's eternal plan coming to its conclusion. The Son who accomplished it by his incarnation, life, death, resurrection, and ascension. Remember Revelation 5, you purchased with your blood. Men from every nation, tribe, and tongue, and made them priests and kings unto God. And the Holy Spirit, who works to open the minds and hearts of men to Christ. And draws them by his quickening power, makes them alive. Notice the necessity of being born again. A man who's not born again, as glorious as this is, wouldn't be able to enjoy it. How could he delight in a place where the atmosphere is one of perfect holiness? Where the God of infinite holiness is constantly, his glory is constantly before him, he'd be terrified, he'd be in constant fear and shame. It would be misery. And so we need to be renewed. And it's the work of the Spirit to do that. And so let us cultivate now. an aptness and readiness for heavenly glory. First of all, uh make sure that your name is written in the Lamb's book of life. Well how do you how can you do that, you say Who knows? Who can open the book and look down its pages alphabetically and see if my name is here? Well, none of us can What we're to do is to look to the land. Just look to the land in faith, recognizing that he's done all necessary. For his people, be sure that your trust and faith are in him. Cultivate communion with God. Pray and ask him to help you learn to delight in him because that's going to be the supreme glory of heaven. Cultivate holiness. This is one of the things this morning we said we are to be at war. It's not just that the world is to be at war with us, we're to be at war with the world. And one of the things we're to declare war on is sin in our own lives. Praying for God's grace by the power of the cross to help us put on more and more of the lightness of Christ. And then the activities of this day. Learning to enjoy the Sabbath, worship corporately, privately, and so on. All of these are just an anticipation And uh I'm sorry that I didn't read the quote that I I had found this morning. Um we were talking about the church militant. Let me see if I can find it right here because I thought it was very good A key purpose, though not the only one, for the Church's meeting on earth in its weekly gatherings is to be reminded of its heavenly existence and identity by modeling its worship and liturgy on the angels and heavenly churches' worship of the exalted Lamb. One of the key reasons why it's important for us to meet on the Lord's Day and to worship together, modeling our worship on that we see in the Bible, especially the Revelation. is to remind ourselves of the truth of our heavenly identity and existence. Remember, we saw this morning that the church has its angels in heaven, its great and glorious head in heaven. And we sometimes think as though we have no connection at all. We need to be reminded of that connection so that we might be more and more prepared. when the great day comes. And either the Lord calls us, as he did Ronald Reagan, and says, All right, come up here, or the clouds part and the sky is is wren asunder and the great trumpet sounds and the dead are raised up. to be found ready for to embrace our inheritance, the glory of the church triumphant. Amen.