So we're going to talk, we're going to focus on grace, and uh specifically grace in our lives in uh in this coming session. Um Um social media influencers. I I think probably uh many of us are going, social media influencers who are Because we are of that age that we're not aware. But if you are younger here, you could probably name some social media influencer. Do we have any names of them that you can throw out? No, absolutely not. A name? Mr. Beast. Oh, Mr. Beast. Yes, my grand my younger sort of middle school age grandchildren love love Mr. Beast. A dude perfect. Dude perfect, you know? Um yeah, there's there's a whole long list of celebrities. They all have uh at least half a million followers on their social media accounts. And uh they're called influencers because they um have considerable sway, especially over younger people in the area of beauty and fashion and fitness and travel. and food. I was looking up, you know, who were the big social influencers, social media influencers now, and I was really struck. Rock, you know, the the former wrestler and then now this movie star. What's his real name? He's a social media influencer. Can you believe that But they have a lot of influence apparently, and and I don't think Daniel ever saw himself as an influencer. But what we're going to see in the book of Daniel is that God made him an influencer. An influencer That would influence the hearts of the kings of two kingdoms and would influence their rule over their kingdoms. So how how did that happen? That's what we're going to look at. But before we jump in and read a passage and pray, let's just do a little So we are strangers in a strange new world, and as followers of Christ, like Daniel, we're We're being named and shamed and silenced in a generic kind of way, in a larger kind of way in our culture. And I put up that quote, and Vanessa, thank you for I'm thinking that's a good quote. But uh I think it's a very valid, a very good quote for us to to recall what we're going to make of all this. We are not to be surprised when we find Christianity maligned and marginalized, when we hear Christians being prosecuted and persecuted, or when we find Find ourselves being told we are extremists, haters, and bigots. For a few hundred years in the West, we have been able to kid ourselves that the normal Experience of God's people is to be considered respectable and honorable. To be able to voice our views in the public square and to be welcome. And to be able to speak to those in power and be listened to. It is no longer thus. We are back to the normal experience of the church, facing opposition, being called to stand firm, and undergo suffering for our faith. Yeah. That feels sort of new, I think, to the church in America. But in the church around the world it is it is not it is Not a new thing, right? So, for example, around the time that uh we had the COVID and the shutdowns, there was a book published uh called Faith in the Wilderness. By two Chinese uh believers who basically took sermons from the churches in China and published them. And what they make the point of as they introduce this book of sermons is that if you go to a church on China, in China, You will very commonly hear sermons on suffering. That'll be a common theme of hope Now, that may not be so as much in the church in America, because I think in some ways we have been Influenced by the culture. And what has happened is religion has become a marketplace. You are the Consumer, and the church is the vendor. And the church exists to serve my felt needs of personal Personal well-being in my psychological self. And if that's why the church exists, why would you want to talk about suffering all the time? But if you go to China, these the introduction to this book says That's what you'll hear preached. If you want to read a parallel book to Daniel, there's two books you want to read. You read Daniel, you read 1 Peter, and you read the book of Revelation Peter says this Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something Strange were happening to you. Now, do you hear what he says? We are strangers in a strange new world, and it's not strange. It says, do not think it's strange. As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice. And so far As you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. For if you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory of God rests upon you. So you can go on through that. It's interesting that last line. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief. Or an evildoer or a meddler. You know what the term meddler meant in that day? Someone who is obnoxious. And uh so how how do we uh I mean, it's not strange. Being strangers in a strange new world is not strange. Peter says. So, how do we live in this world? And so Peter will say, well, be careful to live properly. Properly among your unbelieving neighbors, then even if they accuse you of doing wrong. Now you notice what he says. They're gonna accuse you of being hate mongers. accuse you of being oppressors. They're going to accuse you of being dangerous to democracy. Any that they accuse you of doing wrong, they will see your honorable behavior. And they will give honor to God when he judges the world. Isn't that striking? They're gonna accuse you And they're going to honor you. Because of your honorable behavior. So what does that look like? like? What does that honorable behavior look like? And it brings us back to how do we as strangers in this strange new world live a soft outlight the enrollment of Christ when our beliefs are incre increasingly considered bigoted, hateful, means of oppression. And what we're gonna look at this time is a life that makes a difference. Difference. How do we live honorably in this strange new culture? And you know why Daniel and his friends were an inf were influencers because they lived honorably. And what does that look like? Now turn to Daniel 6. We'll read and then we'll pray. Daniel 6. Now if I ask you, tell me the stories you know from the book of Death. The lion's den. What other stories? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abin Gab fiery furnace. What else? The writing on the wall Well, what else? Okay, the lines, Dan? The interpretation of all these dreams? Yeah. to that and tomorrow morning we leave the best until the last. No. Um uh yeah you know we we as Sunday we grew up in Sunday school and we And we heard the stories of Daniel, and our teachers would say to us now, You dare to be a Daniel. That is not the story of Daniel. The story of Daniel is: dare to trust Daniel's God and live an honorable life that reflects your trust. In Daniel's God. Okay. Now, here's what I want you to do. I'm going to read from Daniel 6, beginning in verse 1. You can follow. And I want you to notice what Did the haters, I mean, these are people who hated Daniel. What did they see in his life? Okay? Haters. What did they see in his life? There's gonna be several things. So you listen as we read, think about that. It pleased Darius. So the kingdom Has just turned over. The Persians have conquered Babylon. Darius is the first king of Persia. It pleased Darius to appoint 120 satraps to rule throughout the kingdom, Persia would become the largest kingdom in the world. In fact, they believe at one time it ruled half the population of the world. So a hundred and twenty satraps spread across this kingdom to administer the king's rule. With three administrators over them and one of them who was Daniel. The satraps were made accountable to them so that the king might not suffer loss. Now Daniel so distinguished himself among the administrators and satraps by his exceptional qualities that the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom. At this the administrators Administrators and satraps tried to found find grounds for charge against Daniel in his conduct of government affairs, but they were not able to do so. Now Why were they trying to find charges against him? Jealousy? And he was a foreigner. He was a Jew. They could find no corruption in him, verse four, because he was trustworthy and neither corrupt nor negligent. Finally, These men said, Well, we'll never find any basis for charges against this man Daniel, unless it has something to do with the law of his God. So the administrators say traps when is the group To the king and said, Oh, King Darius, live forever. That's what you always said to a king. If he didn't, he'd chop your head off or something like that. Live forever! The royal administrators, prefects, satraps, and advisors and governors have all agreed that the king should issue an edict and enforce the decree that anyone who prays to any God or man during the next thirty days Except you, O king, shall be thrown into the lion's den. Now, where did they come up with this idea? And it was a faithful prayer. Yeah. Daniel was known for prayer. So the king issues the decree. Verse 10. Now when Daniel learned that the decree Had been punished, he went home to his upstairs room where the windows opened towards Jerusalem, and he closed them. And three times a day Oh, he didn't close them. Oh no, he didn't close them. No, he didn't. They were open toward Jerusalem. And three times a day he got down on his knees and prayed, giving thanks to his God. God just as he had done before. Then these men went as a group and found Daniel praying and asking God for help. So they went to the king and spoke to him about his royal decree. Did you Do not publish a decree that during the next thirty days anyone who praised any God or man except you, O King, would be thrown into the lion's den. King answered the decree. And they then they said to the king, Daniel. Now notice how what they call him. What did they call him? Who is one of the exiles from Judah? See, they were jealous of him, but I mean this They just despise his nationality. Pays no attention to you, O king, or the decree you put in writing. He still prays three times a day When the king heard this, he was greatly distressed. He was determined to rescue Daniel, made every effort until sundown to save him. So the king gave the order. They brought Daniel, threw him into the lion's den. And the king said to Daniel, May your God, whom you serve Continually rescue him. So a stone is brought, he's thrown into the den, the king can't sleep that night. And at the first light of dawn, verse 19, the king got up, hurried to the lion's den, and when he came near the den, he called to Daniel in an anguished voice, Daniel, servant of the living God. Has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to rescue you from the lions? Now I don't know about you. But something about Daniel's faith has really impressed this king. I mean, would you have thought he was going to be rescued from the lions? And Daniel answered, O king, live forever. My God sent his angel. He shut the mouth of the lions. They have not hurt me because I was found innocent. In his sight, nor have I done any wrong before you, O king. And the king was overjoyed and gave orders to lift Daniel out of the den. And when Daniel was was lifted from the den, no wound was found on him, because he had trusted in his God. Okay. What made Daniel trust different. How was he living in an honorable way? What do you see in that passage? He he he he did his job really, really well. Very well. Yeah, you can understand why the king didn't want to lose it. He's the top three. Okay? What else do you see about Daniel? Okay. Okay. Good button. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. He did not have his own agenda. Yes, over here. They said he he did not have his own agenda. Uh they said that, let's see, whoever was over here here there was someone over here yes he was a he was a gifted administrator he did his job really really well Um his character, he obeyed God versus man. Yes? Mm-hmm. I mean it the these people who hate him say they couldn't find any corruption in him because he was trustworthy. Neither corrupt nor trustworthy Negligent. And they they just they saw that in him, yes. Good, good. There is some there is a hand here? He just kept doing it. He was steadfast. He just kept praying three times a day. He always prayed Toward Jerusalem. And so yes. Um just adding on the word continually the king of the Yeah. Isn't that fascinating? You know, it's not just as his as his accusers say there is no corruption in him, but what the king says is why is There no corruption in him because he serves his God continually. I don't know Something was communicated. The king understood this. Yes. Yes, he was honorable. He kept it in the line. Yes. Uh which verse? Uh verse eighty four. Yeah, I'm reading from the N I B eighty four. So if I go back to uh the ESV, it says no error. No error or fault was found in him. B. It's not gonna work. Yeah. Yeah, isn't that fascinating? I mean the haters Recognize his honorable life. Just like Peter. Just like Peter talks about. So let's take this apart. Let's spend some time and take it apart. What I'm going to say is I'll summarize what I see in this passage. That Daniel was known for his character. He was known for his character. Character that uh an honest, hardworking, diligent, faithful man who lived continually to Serve his God. That's who he was known by. Daniel was known by his praying. I mean that's The the other satraps can't figure out how to how to bring an accusation against Daniel. The only thing they can come up with is he constantly serves his God Praying. So now we'll bring a law against praying for 30 days to any other God. And Daniel is known for his faith. And that's That's of course where the passage ends in Daniel six, that uh the king recognizes that it is Daniel had trusted in his God. So those are things that Daniel was known for. So let's take some time and unpack this. And this will be a little longer as we unpack it because I think it's so important to live honorable lives that God can use to bring influence. So let's go back to the beginning of Daniel. Daniel Daniel chapter one. So go back there real quick. And uh Daniel has been brought in to be trained for three years. Uh one of the nobility of the Jews Jews that have been taken into captivity. He's renamed. He's feasting at the king's table. And uh then it says in verse 8, so Daniel 1 verse Verse eight Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food or with the wine that he drank. Therefore he asked the chief of the eunuchs to allow him not to defile himself. And God gave Daniel favor and compassion. But the chief eunuchs Chief of the eunuchs. Now, when I read that, I expect the chief of the eunuchs to say, Okay, Daniel, fine. But he doesn't. And the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear my My Lord the King, who assigned your food and your drink, for why should he see that you were in worse condition than the youths who were of your own age? Do so you would endanger my head with the king. So what Daniel does, so that's the the head eunuch. So then he goes to the eunuch who's in charge of his little pool of training. And Daniel said to the steward, whom the chief of eunuchs had assigned to Daniel, Test your servants for ten days, let us be given vegetables to eat. And water to drink, then let our appearance, the appearance of the youths who eat the king's food, be observed by you, and do with your servants according to what you see And so the king, the the servant did that, and after ten days they look better than everybody else. Now that raises a question in my mind, why Why would Daniel resolve not to eat the king's food? Why? Now people have said different things. Some people say, well, it was religious rule keeping that the food that the king was serving didn't fit Jewish dietary requirements. Maybe it was pork. Maybe the blood hadn't been drained properly. Maybe that was the case. Um Or maybe a portion of the food was first sacrificed before being brought to the table. It would have been offered to idols. But then why would he eat the vegetables? Because the vegetables wouldn't have been the same. So I I don't think he he didn't eat because of religious rule keeping. Other people will say he didn't eat because it was political resistance. Also, I don't think it's religious rule keeping because there's no indication that after those ten days he ever again returned to that diet in his 70 years in exile No indication. So, some people say it's political resistance because it was thought to eat and drink at another's table was to enter into fellowship with him, to acknowledge how You valued your relationship with them. That's why you ate and drank at their table. And so it's politically resistant. I'm not going to do that. But he still ate at the table the king set before him. He just ate vegetables and drank water. And and if that's the case, why didn't he resist the education? And the education was a form of brainwashing. If it was political resistance, why didn't he resist the education? I don't think that's the case. Why did he choose not to eat the food for those ten days? Mm. Sure, sure. That that could be. That could be. I'm going to I'm gonna spend it a little little differently. But uh all of these ideas, I mean commentators vary, but this is what I'm gonna see it as. Um that But it was actually a very positive thing that it was, I think, what we would call what you could call heart guarding. Heart guarding. Heart guarding in the sense That Daniel saw in the opulence and the luxury and the extravagance of the king's table. Daniel Saw a temptation for his own heart. The temptation that could have drawn him into the culture itself. That would have drawn them into the status, the power, the luxury. In a way that other things did not tempt him. And if this happened, of course it would disable his potential to be any of an interesting. There was this heart guarding, I think, going on in Daniel's heart, and the reason that he resolved is because Daniel. Daniel already had a feast. He had a feast. And what is amazing me, this man is a young man Babylonians began training nobility at the age of 14. This young man apparently knew. That the opulence of that feast would not tempt him because he would place his heart on the feast that he Already had in his God. Daniel was living out this truth of his heart. That he was feasting on his God, his beauty, his glory, his grace, his sovereignty. his goodness in the midst of his exile. And what the Bible will call that type of thing, it will call it holiness, right? Holiness. Holiness, the word means to separate from, to be distinct, to be unique, to be set apart. We hear the word holy. And we tend to think of it in negative terms, to pull away from. But what I want to challenge you with, I think hold Holiness needs to be seen in very positive terms. It is to feast on, such that everything else changes Changes its value. Everything else looks different because my heart is feasting upon the holy God himself. And so I'm I'm gonna use that term holy, that holiness is just not our Religious rule keeping. It's not a fortress reality living in sort of a cultural isolation. I can't get defiled by The strange world around me. And it's not this self-righteous, hostile demonizing of others around me. That the nature of holiness is a feasting on that which is infinitely worthy. And beautiful and glorious. And for Daniel, it was a feasting that gave him this resolve, this courageous Resolve that you're going to see throughout his life and throughout his friends' lives to honor his God with his wholehearted devotion. And isn't that what you see In Daniel 6, what the people see. What his haters see. He lived continually Serving his God. He lives continually, trusting his God. There's no corruption in him. He prays continually. Why? It was a very positive thing. That doesn't happen to people who are reacting to a world. That happens to people who are Feasting on a reality in their own hearts and lives that gives the freedom To live honorably. To live honorably in wholehearted devotion. Holiness. Um in the nature of holiness, let me flip flip this now a little bit for you. The nature of holiness is that holiness is always humble. And what you'll see in book of Daniel is every every interaction Daniel has with his friends. And Daniel and his friends have as They relate to a hostile culture. Every interaction is with humility and respect. You see, then the nature of holiness, it is not self-righteous, it's not hostile, it's not deep Demonizing, it's not obnoxious. That's not holiness. That's self-righteousness That is pride. That is believing down into your own agenda. For the nature of holiness. is humility. And you'll see that this man who is known, who lived continually to serve his God with no corruption. Every interaction. And every interaction of his friends as they are confronted and threatened and accused. interaction is with humility and respect. And you see that in the New Testament. First Peter. But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. Holy. But then what does it say? Always being prepared to make a defense, but do it with Gentleness and respect. If our voices are angry and spiteful And hostile and demonizing as we respond to our strange new world, you will have no influence. You see Sound just like the world. Peter will go on and so Colossians will say this. Therefore, as God's chosen people holy and dearly loved. So holy, there it is, holy. Clothe yourselves with what? Compassion Passion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience Exiles that sound just like the hostile world that we live in will have no influence. on that world. Because the nature of holiness is humility. You see, what's important for us to understand about the gospel is that God does not separate people into God. Good and bad. We do. God most fundamentally separates people See, the nature of sin is pride The nature of the gospel is humility. Holiness and humility then lead to what I I would call a bold gentleness. A bold gentleness. We do Do address our concerns in a political world. We do seek to speak for righteousness' sake. We do exercise our rights as citizens. But we do it with bold Gentleness. That's the nature of holiness. And that's so different from our age because we live in an age of outrage. In fact, Newsweek published an article they called The title, cover page article, Outrage Porn. We're addicted to outrage. We are People who celebrate my right to be wronged. And I think as Christ's followers engaged in our culture, we should be inoffensible We should not be people taking offense. Yes, they it is meant hostile. It is meant it is painful We think it's wrong. humble people, I don't think we need to take offense. Because you know what? If it weren't for the gospel of Jesus Christ, I wouldn't be just like that neighbor that I'm taking offense with I would be just as shaped by the culture as the neighbor is shaped by the culture if it wasn't for the gospel of Jesus Christ who changed my heart. So I I don't need to take an offense because how I yearn for their hearts to know the freedom of Christ And being obnoxious, hostile, spiteful, critical, negative, that sure ain't gonna help. It's not gonna help. So Daniel is known for, I guess you could say, holy humility. Which leads to bold gentleness. And I think that was one element of his influence. That's who he was The other element of his influence, so we'll move more quickly through these, was his prayer of life. You know, he was just known for prayer. He was just known for prayer. Daniel 6. He prayed three times. times a day, fell on his knees, gave thanks to God. Daniel, we can go you can go back to Daniel too, when uh when the king can't get his dream interpreted and he tells he tells all his uh uh all his dream interpreters tell me the dream and its interpretation they say nobody can do that you tell us the dream we'll interpret the king gets frustrated and said, you're all dead. And so what does Daniel do? He goes home to his friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Bible. What does he say to them? Let's pray. Let's ask God for wisdom. He's the revealer of mysteries. In Daniel chapter nine, you see you see this extended prayer of Daniel. Confession and intercession for his people. In Daniel chapter 10, Gabriel comes to him in response. But Gabriel says it's, you know, it's basically difference is a praying life. And the humble are those who pray. Because the nature of humility is dependence on the sovereign, gracious God to do what only He can do. It's so easy to get so invested in our own power to engage our culture When only God can do that work. And so the humble the humble are those who pray Pray. The self-righteous are self-reliant. The humble are grace reliant They need their sovereign God to do what they cannot do in hearts and lives. They need God to do that work. So they don't stop asking him. Which brings to the next point. Your prayer life will tell you a lot about your faith. Because if your faith just This goes down into your own agenda. You know how big your prayer life's gonna be? It's gonna be about this big Because your prayer life is all centered around you and your agenda. That agenda may be larger for some and smaller for others. Or does your faith go down to the sovereign purpose of God? For this nation for the world. How did Jesus teach us to pray? How did he teach us to pray? Our Father, who art in heaven, the in in heaven for king ruler over all creation over the galaxies over nations over kings our father in heaven may your name be on May your kingdom come. May your will be done on earth. Notice that last word. May your will be done where? On earth. You see, your prayer life will tell you a lot about your faith. Does your faith go down into the kingdom? We're going to talk about this tomorrow morning. Who has brought his kingdom to do his work in the whole earth? Can you imagine how large your prayer life would be? The life that makes a difference. No for its character Holy humility that engages the world with bold gentleness. Life of prayer to God's kingdom The kingdom would come on the earth as in heaven. It grows from humility. And lastly, the life that makes a difference is a life of faith we're going to come from. Right back to where we started this morning. Shadrach, Meshach, and Bednego, the fiery furnace. What does King Nebuchadnezzar Say to them. Who is the God who will rescue you out of my sovereign, mighty, authoritative, kingly hands? Who is the God who rescue you? I love their response. Is this Be so. Our God whom we serve, and I think you could add, as with Daniel, our God whom we serve continually He's able to deliver us from the fiery furnace. Just like he's going to deliver Daniel from the lion's, he's able to do that. And he will deliver us out of your hand, O King. But if not, be it known to you, O King, that we will not serve your gods for us worship the golden image that you have set up. What tone of voice do you think Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednikah said that to the You think it was defiant? Ah, king If this be so, our God whom we s I don't think so. I mean the nature of their faith was Our God's got this. We have stood honorably before Him and before the King. And King For God's able to deliver us. And he will deliver us one way or another. But regardless of how he chooses to do it We won't serve and worship your gods. People of influence Feast upon their God. Engage and live in the world in holy humility. Petition him for his glory. kingdom come. He is at work sovereignly. Do we believe that? Are we asking him to do that? And trusting down into a sovereignty, not into our agenda. Let me just close with this. We are not victims in a world gone, man. I think that's how we often think of ourselves. It's very easy for us to adopt the entitlement Victim mentality of our culture. And that is sad. We are not victims. Victims in a world got man. We are servants of a sovereign king who has sent us into exile. We are servants of a sovereign king moving on hearts and lives for the glory of Christ, who is holy Humble, praying, faithful, exiles. And you can go back and read through all those stories in Daniel And you'll see, Daniel is a record of God moving on hearts and lives. Moving on the hearts and lives of kings. Moving on the hearts and lives of kings who rule over their people, affecting the shalom of the a culture. It's flourishing, its well being. Why? Because they were defiant and angry No. Because they knew they weren't victims in a world gone down. They were sent exiles. They were servants of the sovereign king And no matter how strange and crazy the world is, that king is still at work through his people. We'll look at small morning what that looks like in a little more detail. Um well Let me close in prayer and then we can take some little bit of time. Like I said, this was a little longer, so thank you. Thank you for your patience. I really appreciate that. Maybe you're not feeling patient, but it appeared to be the case, so thank you very much. Gracious Lord. Help us to be a people who trust down into Daniel's God. And become influencers. Because you are leading us in honorable lives. And even though we are dishonored, your intent Is that one day you will be honored before your throne. We yearn, O Lord. Lord, that you would deliver us from a victim mentality. And that you would free us. to be a people who see opportunity all around us in this strange, crazy world. That we We would be inoffensible as we love our neighbors, as we serve in the name of Christ, as we lift up the gospel, as we live in continuity. Community, as we do so in holy humility. Teach us to pray And continue to move our trust deeper and deeper into you. The God you have become to us in Christ. In whose name we pray. Well time's up, but uh I'm welcome to if you have any other comments or questions. Um well we we do have Well was excellent. I I'd read somewhere that the names and and the point about why did Daniel re refuse the king's food. I'd read that the names the king gave the the boys were names of Babylonian gods and they didn't make a peep about that. And I think it was because he was ground he knew who he was. It didn't really matter what this guy was calling him, but he didn't take offense at that. He just said, okay, and moved on. Oh. I thought I really appreciated those points you pulled out. Yeah, thank you very much. And and I I'm glad you made that point there. You know, the renaming of Daniel's friend Daniel and his friends, like I said, was their Their names all were centered around Jehovah. They're renamed in a way that reflects the gods of the Babylonians as a way of assimilating And that's and and that's one of the reasons the culture names you. That's one of the reasons the culture puts names on you. Because it it wants to to assimilate you. No. We have a firm identity. We don't need to be offended by those names. The King of Glory. Has made us his own. Yeah, thank you for sharing that. Yes? Sure. Um on a second thought, thinking about why he didn't need It does say that he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself, which does strongly conjure up the Old Testament and defiling with certain foods. So it could be diet. the uh restrictions. Yeah, it could have been I I think of the defile himself in terms of defiling his heart. Um eating on a feet was going to continually feast on God Himself. So as sort of an act of saying, hey, I'm going to address this in my heart right now for 10 days. And he did that and he said, Yeah, okay. This is not gonna be my feast, God is. And so he went back to the feast. But yeah, that's a good good point. Yes. I I really appreciate what you're doing and encouraging us to persevere and uh it it rejuvenates my heart and I really appreciate it. There has been than one example in uh recent years for me to see that and trusting in the sovereignty of God was when Leia, most everybody knows my daughter Leah was in Jordan and I need to talk with you apparently. Um but she was there when uh the um uh October seventh um attack occurred and so many people came up to Tim and I and said, you know, aren't you gonna go over and rescue her, you know, and bring her back? And And you know, forget it and there were many parents that were very concerned about that. And God just gave me an unbelievable piece. I had put God or put my daughter in his hands and I trusted with that and you know and he pulled her through and it the whole time it was just God's sovereignty reigned over my heart in her protection and you know I praise him for that and I think that that influenced a lot of the other students saying, Well if she's staying, you know, then I'll stay and uh it was it was it's a great example I think of trusting in God with that. Yeah. Very good. Thank you.