So, the book of Daniel, living with clarity, grace, and hope in a polarized culture. What we're going to focus on tonight is uh is clarity. And uh this may this this specific talk may be a source of great consternation uh as we go through it, but we're going to come to A point of understanding why it's so important that we understand our culture today. So, Daniel chapter one. Daniel chapter one If you have a Bible, but a reform may have it, turn there to Daniel 1. Just read seven verses in the beginning. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave. Underline that in your mind. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand with some of the vessels of the house of God. And he brought them to the land of Shem. Then the king commanded Ashkunaz, the chief eunuch, to bring some of the People of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility, he is without blemish, of good appearance, skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge Knowledge and understanding, learning, and competent to stand in the king's palace. And to teach them, now listen, to teach them the literature and the Language of the Chaldeans. The king assigned them a daily portion of food that the king ate and of the wine that he drank. And they were educated for three years. And at the end of that time they were to stand before the king. Among these were Daniel and Anaya, Mishael, and Azariah, the tribe of Judah. And the chief of the Chief of the eunuchs gave them names. Daniel he called Belshazzar, Henaniah he called Shadrach. Mashael he called Meshach. Hezariah he called Abed. And turn over to one other passage, Jeremiah 29. Jeremiah is now writing to these exiles in Babylon. Jeremiah twenty-nine, verse four. Verse four. This is what Jeremiah wrote. Right. This is what the Lord God Almighty, the God of Israel, says to all those I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. Did you hear that? This is what the Lord Almighty, God of Israel, says to those I carried into exile from Jerusalem. Jerusalem to Babylon. Build houses, settle down, plant gardens, eat what they produce, marry, have sons and daughters, find wives for your sons, give your daughters in marriage. So that they too may have sons and daughters. Increase in number there, do not decrease. Also seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have Have carried you in exile. Pray to the Lord for it, because if it prospers, you too will prosper. Yes, this is what the Lord God Almighty, the God of Israel, says Do not let the prophets and diviners among you deceive you. Do not listen to the dreams you encourage them to have. They are prophesying lies to you in my name. I have not sent them, declared the Lord. The prophecies that they were receiving was that uh they'd be gone in two years. And Jeremiah had told them no, seventy. Okay, let me pray. Gracious God. We are uh feeling more and more as your children As strangers in a strange new world. But it is in fact not really strange. For we, your children, have always been strangers. Exiles, aliens, looking forward to the home that you have made for us So lead us in the study of Daniel. Rescue our hearts from hoping in the wrong things. To bring deliverance. May your spirit prosper your word and its work in our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're gonna look at clarity. Um Daniel and his friends uh found themselves as strangers In a Strange New World. It's the story of Strangers in a Strange New World. He was removed from a society where Judaism shaped the culture. It shaped every aspect of living and thinking. Business, social, family, life. Now Daniel and his friends find themselves in a foreign culture. Their God. Their God has been defeated. His golden vessels have been taken from the temple. Placed in the temple. The gods of Their religion has no culture-shaping power, has no culture-shaping influence. Their beliefs are marginalized. And they are given a new identity with every effort to silence them and assimilate them into the culture There are strangers in a strange new world. So are we. Let's just get a little bit of background. We'll set a historical context here. 605 BC. So that's That was a long time ago. The ruling power in the Middle East was the kingdom of Assyria. The kingdom of Assyria had conquered the northern kingdom, Israel, had taken them into exile. God had delivered the southern kingdom, Judah. But then at the battle of Karchanish, Babylon defeats Egypt and Assyria. And Babylon becomes the ruling power. And they besiege Jerusalem, and they take nobility, they take leadership. ship from that city. And he is taken as an exile to Babylon. That would be the case until 597 BC, when Jehoiakim, king of Judah, rebels against King Nebuchadnezzar. And so King Nebuchadnezzar comes for a second conquest. And a second deportation. And it's still not done because in 586 BC, King Zedekiah Of Judah, allies with Egypt, rebels against Babylon, and this time King Nebuchadnezzar has had enough. He returns and he burns Jerusalem to the ground. He destroys the temple, he tears down the walls, and he takes everybody but the poorest into exile. to Babylon. And we say, well, you know, that is that's ancient, ancient history. How did this how does this relate to us? Well the book of Daniel isn't about generic suffering. The book of Daniel is specifically about how to live in a culture where your beliefs are dismissed and disdained and ridiculed How do we live as strangers in a strange new world? And uh if you've ever wondered, as you look at the persecuted church around you, If you've ever wondered what it's like to be a stranger, to be a sojourner in exile, you're finding out. In our culture. You're finding out. If you're a follower of Christ, the narrative of our US contemporary culture is beginning to feel like a strange strange new world. Some examples just uh that pop up to me. Uh I was really struck at the 2025 To Senate Judiciary hearing confirmation hearings for the Supreme Court nominee Judge Katanji Brown Jackson. In that interview, Senator Marcia Blackburn, a Republican of Tennessee, asked Judge Jackson to define the word woman. And her response Response was she could not offer a definition because she was not a biologist. That's interesting. Well, shortly after that, New York Times would uh publish an article called A Vanishing Word in the Abortion Debate Woman. New York Times. And they pointed out that uh that now woman is not a word for our culture. We talk about pregnant people, or we talk about birthing persons. And change change happens so rapidly around this. In 2020, Narroll, Pro-Choice America, instructed their abortion activists to use the language of women's choice. 2020. 2023, three years later, Nerrl's Guide for Activists insisted on gender-neutral language. Pregnant people. It is a strange new world. There's a there's a a man named Matt Walsh. About four years ago, he uh he likes to go to colleges and just ask sort of interesting questions to college students. And uh so he was at a a college And he would just he just stop students. And he says, Can I ask you some questions? And he uh his interviews on this campus went sort of like this. He would stop students. And he would say, What would you say? Now he's a five foot seven white male. And he said, What would you say if I told you I was a woman? And you know, none of them could hesitate. They said, well, fine, if if you're a woman, that's that's fine. Well Well well what if I told you I was a Chinese woman? Now at that point you could see they're getting a little confused. Because he's obviously not Chinese But hey, I guess if you want to be a Chinese woman, okay. Well, what if I told you I was a six foot seven Chinese woman? He's five foot seven. He said and it's the the interviews were fascinating because he often had two students together. And often in those interviews the the two students would sort of like Look at one another like, huh? What do we say? Okay, if you want to be a six foot seven Chinese woman, I guess you are How did we get here? Why are we here? How did this strangeness? How did this strangeness come about? Well, it's just so important that as we think about this, that we understand that we are not here by accident. We are not in this place by accident. God, it says specifically, and Daniel 1, Jeremiah 29, God says three times. I sent you. You are exiles because I put you In exile. You were those that I carried into exile. Peter, if you want to read a book parallel Parallel with parallel themes in the New Testament of Daniel, read 1 Peter. Peter puts it this way: an apostle of Jesus Christ to those who are elect exiles. chosen exiles. The dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and the thing. We are chosen exiles right now. He would say, Peter would say, Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles. Sojourners. Residence Aliens. Residents, you live in a place. But you are strange to that place. Aliens Now, that is our experience. I think, quite frankly, we're we're coming to understand as believers in America what it's like to be. A sojourner and an exile, an alien. How are we responding to that? What what typical ways do you see followers of Christ responding to that Okay, but What about my rights? You keep talking about rights, what about my rights? Religious freedom. Or somebody said, silence? Oh yeah, cancel. You know, you're gonna get canceled. Just be silent, okay? Somebody else. How are we responding to this strange new world Anger. Anger. Hostil I mean even hostility. We might even go that far. How are we responding? to this region of hopelessness. Yeah, hopeless despair. You know the list the list can go on. How did it happen? Middle I I uh was listening to a podcast recently and a middle school teacher. So are you two in middle school? Okay? Okay. You're in high school. Excuse me. You carry your age well. Middle school teacher asked the class, middle school class, how many of you identify as LBGT? The entire class. The entire class. How many of you believe that Sistian people are oppressors? Sistian means somebody who identif who identifies with their biological sex. The whole class agree. Strange. Strange new world. How are we responding? How are we responding to it? Well I I want us to take a little time and try to understand this this culture that that we're living in He would say, It is easier to despise your enemies than to understand them So let's understand. How did I mean you asked the question. How did we get here? Let's let's try to understand That a bit. So Daniel arrives. He arrives. And he's set apart for training to teach them So it was very common in that culture that if if you were of a noble parentage that about fourteen years ago Old, you were set apart. For three years you were trained, and at the age of 17 you began entering into your role of leadership. In the nation. So, why in the world would the king of Babylon take Jewish exiles, nobility, Daniel was nobility, and begin trust. training them in the literature and language of the Chaldeans. Why? Yes, Vanessa. Yeah, to assimilate them Exactly. That they would just become a part of the culture. And then lead their people in merely becoming a part of the culture. So Daniel's trained for three years. He learns the language and he learns their stories. And stories are so important to understand. I want to tell you about a person. This is my my son-in-law, Ben Johnson here. Um Ben is a uh as an Air Force officer. Um and he was selected by the Air Force for scholarship. They sent him to Jordan for two and a half years. For a cultural immersion experience. Before leaving for Jordan, he did uh uh an Arabic intensive so for six months, eight hours a day, five days a week week he was tutored one-to-one in Arabic. He was in with his family, went to Jordan for two and a half years. There he did his master's in international relationships at the University of Jordan in conflict resolution. Now He would tell me that when he the first year he was there, he would leave classes and his head would be spinning. Because the The world view of Arabs is so very different. So very different. And especially when it comes to conflict resolution. Solution. And it was an immersion program. So he didn't live in a U. S. compound. He lived in a local building, a local apartment building. He and his family, i because of immersion, he would spend time with his Arab classmates and their families. Um my wife tells the the absolute funniest story. She my daughter was um pregnant, having a problem pregnancy, and my wife flew out to be with him. And uh my this it's their children. My uh my son-in-law said, Mom, you need to take the kids with me to go to a wedding. An Arab wedding. It's it's one of my classmates he's invited to the wedding and uh and you need to come. Well here's the thing about Arab weddings. Men celebrate in one part of the house. Women celebrate And celebrate in the other part of the house. So Gail, with her grandchildren, is in the other part of the house with all the women, none of whom speak English. And all of whom are trying to get her out on the dance floor to dance with him. That was quite the cross-cultural Experience, wasn't it there? Yeah. Well, Ben was becoming multicultural. He was he Ben was coming to understand the language and the literature. Literature, the stories, the thinking of the Europe. Upon returning to the U. S. , he would run the Egypt Jordan desk for the joint chiefs of during this Arab Spring and then he would run the Egypt Jordan desk for the National Security Council. Well why? Because he understood Arab culture in a way that no one who had not been immersed in that culture could understand He's fluent in Coptic Arabic, he's fluent in Jordanian Arabic, and he's fluent in Syrian Arabic. He knows the Arab world. But do we know our world? Do we know our world? The question was said, how did we get here? How did we get here? Well, let's uh let's take some time and look at how we got into this strange The founding of our nation, Declaration of Independence, was based upon what was called Natural law. So it said the laws according to the laws of nature and of nature's God, we are entitled to certain unalienable rights. Now I'm not Not saying that this is a Christian document, but I am saying that it held at its core world view an understanding of the world. That reflects the doctrine of Judaism and Christianity. The idea of natural law. And natural law is that the creator has a Established a moral order in this world, and for humans, and for human society to flourish, to really enjoy life, liberty. In the pursuit of happiness, our lives have to understand this moral order or this natural law. And The very basic belief that was behind that document is that human nature is designed. Designed with moral order, with a sacred order. That to flourish you must enter in In the past three hundred years since that document was written, we have watched the complete redefinition of what it means to be human. And we need to understand this if you're going to understand what's happened to our culture. A complete redefinition of what it means means to be human. And it goes back to elite thinkers, it goes back to fringe thinkers of the 18th century. Most names you maybe have forgotten. But whose definition of human nature has now become culturally normative. So let's just we're gonna walk back in time And answer the question: how do we get here? It began with thinkers like Rousseau and Hegel Marx. And at the core of their thinking, just a few things to think about, they said very basically that human nature has no Intrinsic moral purpose at all. We are self-defining beings. There is no moral Purpose beyond us. They would go on to say that what is self-defining is your inner feelings and And desires. It's whatever you you want, whatever you desire, whatever you believe will make you flourish. That's What is self-defining. And this is fascinating. This is what, you know, this is so normative now, it was crazy Three hundred years ago, that the nature of morality is manipulative. That any group That seeks to say this is moral and this is not is a group that's just seeking to exert power over another group and justify exploitation of that group of people. That's why cultures create moral order. To control, to manipulate, and to dominate No. It would evolve a little further with uh guys like Nietzsche, you know, God is dead. Uh Nietzsche, I think it's uh When people quote that, I don't think necessarily understand what he was saying when he said that, but he came up with this idea of the Superman The Superman is one who engages in, listen to this, dramatic transgressive self-creation. We can and should be whatever we want to be, and we are not answerable to anyone for that choice. You see, you see this complete change of understanding who we are Self-creations who who can shape ourselves any way we wish, self-determination without limits, self-expression. Without the right to make any judgments. And then Freud came along, Australia neuro neurologists Founder of Psychoanalysis and William White Reich, who coined the term the sexual revolution. And they would add this dimension that the authentic person Is the sexual being guided by the inner psychological self. And so now sexuality becomes a dominant theme in the idea of myself creation. Hmm. See a lot of that, don't we? Insexual codes must be shattered if humans are to be truly free. That's ancient philosophy. I'm sorry. That's social construct. That's the fabric of our culture now This is who we are as a people. So, summarizing in one final point. We've redefined what it means to be human. What we've now decided. As uh ideas flow downhill. And all ideas have consequences. And bad ideas have bad consequences. We are self-creators, shaped by the inner desires and feelings. Freedom is self-determination without limits or judgment. And to the extent that society prevents you from acting consistently with your inner feelings, it prevents you from being who you trust. Truly are. That sound familiar? And now this is what's this is What we're saying so clearly. Identity becomes political because My identity is a matter of civil rights to be protected by law. How did we get here? This is how we got here. And things things can change so rapidly because now it's life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness means my constitutional right to pursue self-determination and expression without limits. That's where we are. And ideas have consequences? And ideas flow downhill. They flow downhill from the elite thinkers. into cultural normity. And it was recognized uh, you know, back in in the Second World War, you're familiar with uh Victor Frank And he would say this. I'm absolutely convinced that the gas chambers of Auschwitz, Triblinka and the Danic were ultimately prepared not in some in ministry of the of other in Berlin, but rather at the desk and in the lecture halls of the nihilistic scientists and philosophers loss of memory. Ideas flow downhill. And they flow downhill in shape called And things can change so quickly. And it's I mean, let's be honest, we have watched things change so quickly. How don't we think about it? In nineteen ninety-six, the Defensive Marriage Act was passed by President Clinton. Nineteen ninety-six, DOMA. Defines marriage for federal purposes as the union of one man, one woman, and allows states to refuse to recognize same-sex marriages granted under the laws of the states. That was nineteen ninety-six. 2020, U. S. v. Windsor Supreme Court. The court saw objections to gay marriage as being grounded in what they technically termed constitutional animus, which means irrational bigotry. So in a matter of time seven years this drastic change that said any objections, any religious objections to LBTQT matters Is bigotry and oppression of rights. 2015, O'Burgerfeld versus Hodges, legalizing of gay marriage, justice Anthony Kennedy said this at the heart of this liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence Here's what he said. The heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, of the mystery of human life. Beliefs about these matters could not define the attributes of personhood were they formed under the compulsion of the state We are now sovereign self-creators. Sovereign self-creators And then in 2020, Bostok versus Clayton, another Supreme Court decision, which took Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Movement and applied. it to uh transgender individuals. Did you see how rapidly culture has moved? How very Very rapidly. These whole new ideas, this whole new definition of personhood. And what has happened as they quit quickly flow downhill. Well, it affects freedom of speech, right? What is hate speech? Hate speech is saying anything that does not affirm a person's chosen identity. That's hate speech So what we do is we now conflate hurtful as wrong and affirming as right It's affected freedom of religion, obviously. That's why bakers and florists and uh internet people re who re It affects the role of the family in the child's life. The new title line rulings under the Biden administration around the use of bathrooms. sports um california's new law that uh teachers are not allowed to inform parents of their children's genity gender diversity This is the world that we are living in right now. Very, very Strange new world. And why is it important that we understand this? Why is it important for us as Christians? To be multicultural people. I think it's important that we grasp the seriousness of the narrative. that is shaping our culture. Because this is the culture you have been exiled in. This is the culture that God has sent you into. And if you live Listen to this and you feel hopeless or despairing or angry or whatever other you might emotion besides hope, then that's why you need the book of Daniel. That's why we need the book of Daniel. So that you're placed your hope in the right place. You see the dangers, you hear these things, you know I I'm in my 70s. I grew up in the 50s. The danger is that we long for the good old days of Christendom. When the church had prominence and power. And when we long for those good old days, it's really easy to default. To power plays to get that influence back. To defaults to the idea that political power Politics May slow the slide. We're political people. We're citizens of a political nation. We do engage in political decisions. But please understand, politics may slow the slide, but it will not change the new definition of self that has taken Mastery over the cultural narrative of our nation. It cannot. Because politics cannot change hearts. It's about power and control. Not about about heart change. See, that's what the gospel is about. So what we're going to do in the next three sessions is we're going to ask The simple question. How do we receive our sentence as exiles into this strange new world and engage our culture with clarity? Hope and grace. How do we engage our sinless and engage our culture With clarity and hope and grace. And they close it Gracious Father, as we study Daniel, we're going to see the People who had no idea that it would make any difference in the culture that they were sent. And yet just by being the people of God, you would touch the lives of kings. And you would add texture to the fabric of cultures that wasn't there before Daniel was written to give hope to exiles