I'll just uh we're going to continue uh looking at Daniel, Living with Clarity, Grace, and Hope in a Polarized Culture. We're going to focus on hope this morning. I'll just introduce my family a little bit more. This was our family reunion three summers ago. So three summers ago. And everyone is there except this guy who was in his uh cadet summer at the Air Force Academy, he's now a senior at the Air Force Academy. And um we as you can see we have uh a couple of well we have four adopted grandchildren, two from Ethiopia and two from Tanzania. Tanzania. My older son works with Corn Medic Cornell Medical and served with them in medical development in Tanzania for 17 years. He's now back in New York with the medical college there. So that's our crazy and absolutely wonderful family. In our retirement, if we're not working, we're probably visiting one of those families and enjoying them. They live in five different states. Uh it lasts until this year they lived in five different time zones. So just a little bit of information. About who we are. Well, last night uh we talked about the fact that we all recognize, I think, that we are becoming strangers in a strange new world. And we pointed out that that strangeness began developing over 300 years ago. with ideas of elite thinkers. And uh the nature of ideas is that they have consequences, and those consequences tend to flow down. From the minds of elite thinkers into the very fabric of a society and a culture. And that's what we've watched happen over the past 300 years. years in uh in our culture. And and as Peter tells us, we are we have always been exiled. We have always been resurrected. We have always been strangers. But now we are coming to realize how very strange the world is, into which God God has sent us. Because the point of Daniel is God says to his people, I have sent you as exiles. You were Here for a reason. And just to review a little bit of what we said, here are the ideas that have now That are now shaping the social fabric of our culture today. And it the idea has at its core just this redefinition Of what it means to be human. The redefinition of what it means to be human. That we are those who are self-creators. There is no moral order outside of ourselves. There is no moral definition that can be imposed upon ourselves. We are self-creators shaped by our own inner desires and feelings, and we are absolutely free for self-determination without any limits or judgments So versus a world of moral order, we have become a world of sovereign selves. I have the right to define myself any way I wish to define myself. And to the extent that society prevents you from acting consistently. Consistently with your inner feelings, it prevents you from being who you truly are. And so any society that seeks to impose morality is just an oppressive society. Preventing you from being who you are need and want to be. And the result of that is that identity becomes political. And isn't that what we're saying Identity becomes political. That it is my civil right to be protected by law. Be whomever I want to be, and whatever I want to be. The law must protect me. So the new Title IX regulation just passed by the Biden administration a reflection a reflection of that. And so we've come to a culture now, which instead of being governed by Nature's laws, as our declaration of independence said, it is governed by my own heart and desires. And life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness mean My constitutional right to pursue self-determination, self-expression without limits And that without limits is to be protected by the law. It is political. Now, is that what we see Yes. Daniel, let's pray. Gracious God, we come in your holy name. We acknowledge this morning that we are Strangers, exiles, and aliens. For a long time it was easy for us to believe otherwise But now you have made clear to us that we are who you always sent us to be. Now show us how to live And how to trust as your sent exiles. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. If you have a Bible, turn to Daniel chapter four. Daniel chapter four. And uh the book of Daniel, we're gonna look at this in more detail, but the book of Daniel, Daniel Daniel is interpreting dreams. He interprets two dreams of King Nebuchadnezzar. He interprets a dream of King Darius of the Persian Empire. And In this case, this is the second dream of King Nebuchadnezzar. It's the dream of the great tree that is a picture of his empire, and that tree is cut down. And it's a picture of what's going to happen to King Nebuchadnezzar, his his uh being animalized, you might say, and then restored. Daniel's called in to interpret That dream. Following verse 19 of Daniel 4. Then Daniel, whose name was Belshazzar, was dismayed for a while, and his thoughts Alarmed him. And the king answered and said, Belshazzar, let not the dream or the interpretation alarm you. And Belshazzar answered and said, My lord, May the dream be for those who hate you and its interpretation for your enemies. The tree you saw, which grew and became strong, so that it was its top reached to heaven. And it was visible to the end of the whole earth, whose leaves are beautiful and fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, under which the beasts of the field failed Shade in whose branches the birds of the heavens lived, it is you, O King, who have grown and become strong. Your greatness has grown and reaches To heaven and your dominion to the ends of the earth. And because the king saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven, saying, Chop down the Tree and destroy it. But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, and the tender grass of the field, and let him be wet with the dew. Let his portion be with the beasts of the field till seven periods of time pass over him. This is the interpretation, O King. It is the decree of the Most High. High, which has come upon my Lord the King, that you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. Like an ox, you shall be wet with the dew of heaven. Seven periods of time shall pass over you till you know. Now listen to this, till you know That the Most High rules the kingdoms of men and gives it to whom he will. Did you hear that? The Most High rules the kingdoms of men and gives it to whom he will. And it was commanded to lead the stump of the roots of the tree. Your kingdom shall be confirmed for you from that time, from the time that you know that heaven rules. Therefore, O King, let my counsel That there may perhaps be a lengthening. of your prosperity. So here's the question that we're gonna well, no, let me before I get to that question. We are strangers in a strange new world. This is a quote from Alistair Beggs' book on Bull Faith. It's a book about commentary on Daniel. Here's what he says. What are we to make of all this? The strange new world that we're living in. We are not to be surprised when we find Christianity maligned or marginalized. When we hear Christians be Being prosecuted and persecuted, or when we find ourselves being told we are extremists, haters, and bigots. For a few hundred years in The West. We have been able to kit ourselves that the normal experience of God's people is to be considered respectable and honorable. To be able to voice our views in the public square and be welcomed. And to be able to speak to those in power and be listened to. It is no longer thus. We are back to the normal experience of the church, facing opposition and being called to stand firm and undergo suffering for our faith. We are back to the normal experience of the church in America. Increasingly so. And so the question is that we're going to ask is how do we as strangers in this strange new world, how do we live a salt life? In the aroma of Christ, when our beliefs are increasingly considered bigoted, hateful, and a means of oppression. How do we live? Now when Rick heard this series at Whitesulfur Springs here um several summers ago, uh it was for six or seven weeks. So I Able to go chapter by chapter through Daniel. What we're going to have to do here is we're going to have to do topics. We're going to have to do themes in the book of Daniel. And as we do those themes, you can go back. And read the book and follow the themes. But here's where we're gonna start a major theme in the book of Daniel. How do we stream In a strange new world, live as salt light in the aroma of Christ. When our beliefs are increasingly considered bigoted, hateful, and a means of oppression. How do we live? And this is an overarching theme in the book of Daniel. We live by faith in a sovereign God. We live by faith in a sovereign God. A sovereign God who gives the kingdom of men to whomever he Even if that means oppression for his people. And you see that as a theme. That runs throughout the book of Daniel. So if you take Daniel's first dream that he's called in for King Neb Nebuchadnezzar. And uh Daniel You know Nebuchadnezzar seen this giant statue, a head of gold, a torso of silver, uh thighs of bronze, and then legs of iron. And Daniel's asking interpreting, and Daniel says to the king, Well, you're the head, you're the gold, you're the greatest kingdom. And then there's this realization In Daniel 2, as Daniel speaks to the king, that he is speaking of a God who rules over the kingdoms of men. And he Does as he chooses with those kingdoms. So in verses 37 and 38, you, O King, the King of Kings, whom the God of heaven He has given the kingdom, the power, the might, and the glory, making you rule over them. He makes clear to the king who is king. And it's not Nebuchadnezzar. God is king. And he has made Nebuchadnezzar to rule over them. Nebuchadnezzar will then do something really stupid, and he will build this giant 90-foot statue of himself. He's the head of gold. Why just be the head of gold? I'll be all gold. And uh 90-foot high statue. That's really high. Uh and he calls everyone in his kingdom to come and worship at the statue. Course, there's uh a few of them that refuse, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abindigo, they get thrown in the fiery furnace, and uh and in Daniel 3 you see them Acknowledge, and we'll come back at the very end to that, that we serve the God who reigns, and it doesn't matter whether you throw us in the furnace or not, he still reigns. And then in our in our chapter today, Daniel uh uh Nebuchadnezzar has the vision of the of the tree, and the tree is cut down. And uh Daniel again repeats To the king, King, until you understand that there's a king who has given you your kingdom and ruled over the kingdoms of men, you will be an animal And uh then of course that happens and as the king comes out of that experience and Daniel chapter 4, he says of the Most High God, how great are his signs, how mighty his wonders, his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, his dominion endures. from generation to generation. How do we be those who live as salt light in this world? Well, we're going to have to be the Those who trust in a God who reigns, who trust in a sovereign God. And of course, the last dream, the riding of the of the wall with King Darius in Daniel chapter five. Again, the same thing in verses eighteen through twenty-one. King, your days have come to an end because there is a God who rules over your kingdom, and he has chosen that your time Time shall end. How do we live? We're going to have to live as people who trust in a sovereign God. And that's one of the major themes in Daniel. Now, how do you understand faith? We said you've got to believe in the Sovereignty. How do you understand faith? That that's pretty important for the people of God, since we're called to live by faith. Um, do we have any Metz fans here? Well we got some Metz fans here. Okay. I know I know your ladies are thinking, why do we Men always come up with sports illustrations. You know, I can't wa well anyway, I won't go any further with that. But it was uh nineteen 1973, uh their great hopes for their season was going down the tubes. And in August, the Mets board chairman Don Grant met with the team and he told them they were There was still a chance to turn the season around. And a relief pitcher Tug McGraw, apparently, that's just the anecdote, stood up, he slapped his glove glove on his thigh and he said That's right. We can do it. You gotta believe. And uh that would become the mantra of the 19 73 New York Mets, you gotta believe, who would lose the World Series in the in the seventh game. Well, you gotta believe what is the question. You gotta believe what? You gotta believe that good things happen if If you believe enough, that's what you gotta believe. You gotta believe that that what you want to happen, if you just believe down into it hard enough I mean that's what they were saying. You gotta believe that good things will happen if you just believe enough. You gotta believe. Um you see, the nature of that faith is a faith that believes daily That's the nature of that faith. You know what did they what did they have to believe? That they could turn their season around. That was their agenda. You gotta believe down into your agenda. And unfortunately, that's where a lot of our faith is. And you can recognize the reality of that gotta believe faith in your response to life's circumstances when God doesn't come through on your desires and your agenda. Because so what what so easily happens when God doesn't come Doesn't come through on my desires and on my agenda, then I get angry with myself. How did I mess up? What did I do wrong? Where was my lack of faith? Or I get angry with God God, where were you? Why didn't you prove faithful? Or I just go back and forth between both. You see, that's you gotta believe that response just reflects that what you're believing down into is your own agenda that you want God to bring about. And the nature of the faith that is in the book of Daniel, it's a faith that trusts all the way down into God. A faith that trusts Trust all the way down into God's sovereign rule and wisdom and purpose and power and love. And it's where the book of Daniel begins. God says, I sent you here. And the prophet Jeremiah comes to him and says, and I sent you here to a Accomplish my purposes, my sovereign purposes. Sovereignty over kings and kingdoms is the theme of every chapter of Daniel. Every chapter And the danger for us as we live in this strange new world, and we get angry and anxious. And despairing and frustrated is that what we're doing is we're believing down into our own agenda of a nation that we wish it could be what it was be. But it was. And we don't understand. It's a nation whose heart has very has changed in its essence. We've got to believe down into a sovereign God who runs Rules over the kingdoms of men. Interesting in God's sovereignty You're going to see God's purposes. Now, turn to Jeremiah 29. Jeremiah 29. Jeremiah writes To the prophets that he has sent. And he's going to talk to his prophet, he's going to talk to his people about his sovereignty. Sovereign purposes in exiling them. And it's sovereign purposes that we need to understand as we are now Understanding ever more clearly, we are exiles in a strange new world. This is not the world of Christendom. That we lived in even 30 years ago. So look at Jeremiah 29. Verse 4, let's read from there. This is what the Lord God, the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says to those Now notice what it says. Says to those I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon You see the picture? You want to know why you're in Babylon? Because I carried you there. You want to know why the church is in exile? Because I carried you there Build houses. Settle down. Plant gardens. And eat what they produce. Marry and have sons and daughters. Find wives for your sons. Give your daughters and marry daughters. so that they too may have sons and daughters. Increase in number there. Do not decrease. Also seek the peace. Now listen. Also seek the peace and prosperity. Prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. Pray to the Lord for it. Because if it prospers, you too will prosper. Now look down at verse 10. And this is what the Lord says. When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my gracious promise to bring you back to this place. Bring you back home. For I know can't we I mean I can't wait until he brings me home with us. I'm an exile waiting for my home going. This is what the Lord says, when seventy years are completed, I will come to you, fulfill my gracious promise to you to bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord plans to prosper you, not to harm you, plans to give you a hope and future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me. And I will I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. You will seek me and find me. I will be found by you and I will bring you back. From captivity. What is the sovereign purpose of God sending his people into exile? What does this sodom purpose for his church being in exile? Well, first of all, God says, I'm doing this for you. I'm doing this for you. Notice what he says, the exile is going to change his people. They're going to do something that they is the very reason that they were placed in exile. They're going to do something they should have done Done before they were placed into exile. Then you will call upon me and pray to me. You will seek me and find me when you Seek me with all your heart. See, Jeremiah writes to him, and he says, God's sovereign purpose for you in your exile. Is to change you, my people. That you would seek me. And unfortunately, I think there's a lot of things the church is now seeking in the midst of his exile That actually displaces God from the center of where we are. Because what we're seeking is not going to be found in politics and it's not going to be found in legislation. And it's not going to be found in political Power. Yes, we're citizens. Yes, we're engaged in politics. But no, that is not our hope. The sovereign God who rules the nations is our hope. And I don't know about this election. This election is the craziest election I've seen in my seventy plus years of life. And I don't know where you stand on this election But it is absolutely crazy to me. But do I despair? Am I pessimistic? Am I cynical? No. Because it's the sovereign God who rules the nations. And he's calling us Us as God's people, will you trust down into me and not into your own agenda? Because you will only be the influencers that I have sent you to be if you are trusting down into me Instead of into your agendas and your hopes, and your plans, and your fears, and your concerns His people will change. But also he sent them for the purpose of the battle Babylonian and the Persian people because he says, I want you to pray for them. Why don't you pray for these people? I want you to pray for their he uses the word shalom. We we can Translated peace, but it's it's well being, their flourishing, the the wholeness. I I want you to settle and I want you to multiply in this strange new world that I've sent you. And I don't want you to be hostile towards it. I don't want you to disdain them. I don't want you to be fearful. I don't want you to be combative. I don't want you to I don't want you to believe in all kinds of conspiracy theories like the prophets were telling you before. I want you to pray for Shalom. For wholeness in every aspect of life. And we're looking in your next talk. You know, you were a tough group. You go from one talk right into the next one. We'll look a little bit more at what that wholeness that God is calling us to invest in looks like. But it moves us out of our ourselves into the hearts of the people that we think are strange. So Does our response, does your response, does my response to this strange new world reflect Face or reflect fear. And if it's fear Then what are you trusting down into? Because the church was never called to live by fear. It's called to live by faith. You know, why can we trust all the way down into God's sovereign rule and purpose when we just have to The book of Acts. For truly in this city they were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel To do whatever your hand and your plans had predestined to take place. And now, Lord, Look upon their threats and grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness. You know, Jesus Christ was the ultimate resident alien. Jesus Christ was the ultimate exile. And Jesus Christ entered into God's sovereign purposes. into whatever God's hand had planned and predestined to take place. So that we could Trust this sovereign God. We could trust down into him instead of trusting down into our fears. Which our fears are rooted in our agendas. familiar with So Derner Truth. Abolitionist, freed slave. If you if you go to a tombstone, you notice what it says. The quote on the bottom, is God dead? That quote, we don't know exactly where We think it was at a Ohio and anti-slavery meeting. And Frederick Douglass was moving from the principles of nonviolence in the abolitionist movement. And as he was giving his speech, Sojourner Truth stood up and said in the midst of this abolitionist crowd, is God Dead? Because it sure looks like that's what you're trusting down into And I think in some ways, as I see the church responding to our strange culture today, our strange world, it's like we're saying But somehow God is dead. He's not He's the sovereign king. He's ruling over nations. And we are his exiles. Sojourners. And God has a purpose for us. He's going to change us But he's gonna work in this strange world too. And that's what we'll look at. Well, at eleven o'clock. We're gonna stop we're gonna stop here. Um take a few minutes for just some questions, comments. If you have some. Yes Yeah, thanks for the message. Um how do we find that balance where it is, as you say, trusting the down in uh so And not crossing the line between that by political action, by moving the right way, or political positions is that itself Yeah. Yeah, that is su that is Can I repeat that? Yeah, that was such a good question. I'm not sure I could repeat it. But the question was how do we find Because we are called to be politically active and to pursue righteousness. But what we And we want to engage in that, but at the same time, not with belligerence, not with fear, not with anxiety, um, but trusting Down into where's the balance of knowing that whether I'm trusting down into God's sovereign agenda or trusting down into mine? Where's the balance? And I think the truth is because We're always wrestling with our faith. Every day I am trusting in things other than my God to give me life, hope, help, and happiness. Every day I'm trying I'm wrestling with that. So we're probably going to go like this. Um But I'm I I think next the next talk, isn't this great? I could say the next talk we'll try to address that question. So what I'll say is then if the next talk you want to expand your question, why don't you do that? Because I think in many ways you've answered your question the way you've framed it. Um but yes, we'll come back to that. Yes? Oh good, we got a mic. Um, I appreciate exactly what you pointed out at the end because obviously we're in election season and Frankly, so many of our brothers, evangelicals and Christians, are obnoxious about you know it seems to me that uh during this season we as Christians are no and just as blind supporters of Republican Party and and and and Trump and and and watching Fox News and it can be a distraction, I agree. I mean a lot of unsaved in this country are from democratic persuasion And I think we are we are you know putting roadblocks and and and stumbling blocks in front of them because we are so perceived that so politically involved I'm not speaking against obviously we all have our responsibilities and duties but um like I said yeah it's just this is some stuff of you know online you see it and in T V and and blog posts and all that stuff. It seems like they're just we we perceived as this monolithic thing, um that is just all about politics during election years. So it's a balance. It is. And uh and social media has a lot of ways of of uh of shaping truth and uh and identify So yeah, it's uh we're uh again, I think at this election it is a strange it is a strange time. It is a strange time. Um yes, Vanessa First of all, I have a lot of respect for any man who quotes 'Cause he's my guy. But you know, he's retiring. I heard that and I'm brokenhearted, but that's another it won't go We won't go there now. As a matter of fact, one of the things that he has said, because I listened to him on the radio and his um other things, is that we as as Christians have lost what I Our real purpose is in being salt and light. You know, maybe instead of being distracted by politics, we are the voice of peace and reconciliation and love. in helping and assisting where the needs are rather than carrying signs. We'll we'll talk about that the fourth talk. Because that's an important part of the book of Daniel. That's an important part of Jeremiah. Okay. Other I want I want to give you plenty of time to get a break and I'm sort of selfish and giving you plenty of time to give a break because I want to have time to review the next talk. Since you're putting me back to back here. So uh another uh any other questions, comments Okay. Okay. Yes. Caroline I like the word steadfast. Steadfast. I like that. And why do you like that word? Well, stand firm, let nothing move you. Um Yeah, to stand. So that that one verse talks about when we have nothing left to do, we stand. And I know I've been standing But also standing and looking up. So I just like that. Steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. But the nature of looking up, you're right, you're looking up to the God of heaven who rules over the kingdoms of men. Yeah. Good. Okay, well Yes. One more here. Yes. Yeah, just uh just real quick. Uh about the balance. Yes. Maybe we should uh Personal opinion. Sure. Uh let our leaders be belligerent, be rude, be They're doing a good job, Abbott. You know, let him let him do that. And we as Christians at a personal level with other people be nice, let's say let's use that word. Just be the voice of reason among our peers, our co workers, uh the people we relate to. Uh I let the leaders that we follow do the hard work. Uh as for balance, I think that's good. Yeah, and actually we'll talk a little bit about that too. No. Really you're gonna give me that log? No, no, no. Okay, yes. Um thank you. Uh I'll let you know if things are going the way uh I trust that it should happen and it's going exactly into my agenda, but how do I know is God agree with whatever's happening? Because I'm happy it's what I want, but how do Do I know God like it or God approved my agenda? How do you know if God approves your agenda? Wow. That is a question. question that every one of us asks every day. Um is and that let me try to capture The nature of our hearts are they worship all the time. That's the nature of our hearts. We place and worship worth. We place worth. On things that we believe will give us life, happiness, significance, security. And then we pursue those things. And so my agenda is often going to reflect a heart that is believing in something other than God, that is placing worth on something other than God to give me those things And the heart is very deceptive, as Jeremiah says. So the nature of walking by faith is that I am constantly bringing my heart before the King of heaven, before his gracious throne. The work of the Holy Spirit might constantly be exposing my idolatry. So um you know my uh as I Pursue my as I pursue what I believe is my a good agenda, I I always have to ask my heart, is this agenda the pursuit of something on which Foremost of all, at its heart is God alone is going to be my Savior. Satisfaction here. Which means if God doesn't come through on what I thought was good, it's okay. Because he's the object of my hope. He's the object of my security. He's the object of my confidence. It's okay But sometimes God will really expose my heart and we can be pursuing agenda for years. And suddenly God will expose our heart and we're gonna go, we go, oh my And I've walked down this path. And the marvelous thing about the God of grace. He says, guess what? Here we go. I don't I'll I'll take you from where you are and we'll start walking the way we're supposed to walk. That's okay. I may have to deal with this stuff to I brought with me here, but God's really good at dealing with that stuff. He's really good at it. That's the marvel of the grace he shows us in Christ Did that answer your question? Okay. Well, thank you all. I think we're supposed to be back here at 11. Let me close in prayer and then we'll have an announcement. Father, what a joy to be with your people. And what a joy to sit under your word. And how we pray that the heart and the spirit of Daniel that you poured into that book might be poured into us. And that you would give us A godly, righteous perspective on what is before us in this nation as your people, and how do we live? For the shalom, the well-being, the flourishing of our neighbors and our nation. Show us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay.