You would want to know that. If you haven't turned your Bibles yet, um uh if you would, to our passage this morning, which is from uh James. Our passage from James is chapter 5, verses 19 and 20. And this will conclude our study of the book of James this Sunday. James as uh it well it it appears to me has concluded his epistle in the same manner that he started as I mentioned last week as a book ends. And what I mean is that the topic of testing of trials and And the suffering that one undergoes in order that the Lord would mature us and prepare us for the rigors of the Christian life and at the same time making us holy. In dealing with the problems that were brought to his attention that motivated him to write this letter in the first place, he reminds us that salvation is by faith. It is a faith that manifests itself in in a life that is changed by acts of good deeds or works. Not that the works save you, but that they vindicate the faith claim that all professing followers of Christ make. He famously says, You say that you have faith, let me show you my faith by my works. Part of his message Is that on the day of judgment, will your works be evidence for your faith claim, or will their absence bear testimony against you Additionally, he gives us some tests for genuine religion. What he means by that is that all sorts of people will say to you what you must do In order to actually go into heaven, or what you must not do. He gives us three tests, if you recall. Bridling the tongue. A self-discipline that reflects that a heart that builds up and doesn't tear down. A disciplined tongue is one that trusts in God. The second one was helping those in need with a clean heart that doesn't try to get something back in return. He illustrated this to us with widows and orphans. those who have no status within society or personal resources. And finally, abstaining from being worldly. That is, seeking out a friendship with the world at the expense of our relationship with God. Seeking out worldly wisdom to solve problems in the place of God's wisdom And in the chapter we are now studying, we returned back to not the reality of being under difficult circumstances. But James provided us counsel on what we need to do. Meanwhile, we are being tested. so that we may succeed and grow. And what were they? If we recall, the first one was that we need to be patient. The second one was to reach out to God in prayer. And coupled to that was the third piece of advice. Don't let your circumstances dictate how you feel. Remind yourself of who you are, why God is doing this in your life, and where your eternal destiny will be. Trust in God's Providence. As a result, remember, he said, sing a song of praise. And fourthly, the last thing that we looked at was to turn to the elders for prayer. and constantly confess to one another with a genuine heart and with that forgiving one another. This will ultimately be a medicine for a community stricken with the sins of factiousness. self-ambition and tongues that tear one another down. One doctrine that James does not explicitly reference But you can see the fingerprints of it throughout is the doctrine of the visible church and the invisible church. Throughout the letter, he's talking to the visible church, but he does not call groups. factions or individuals out by name. He uses hypotheticals. Let's say, for example We are left, you and I, we are left, to make those distinctions in our study. And then personally ask ourselves, is my faith claim in Christ genuine? Does my life reflect a genuine conversion? Or am I just sort of believing in the existence of God, just like demons do, James points out? Self-reflection is a needed enterprise by every church, and a strong argument, I believe, for why those within the church need to hear the gospel just as much as those outside of the church. the church. Today our passage provides another example of that. James does not tell us about the condition of the wanderer. Which we will get to. I mean his genuine spiritual condition. Is he a member of the visible or the invisible church? We don't know. James doesn't say it. He just instructs the church, as he has been all along, not making assumptions as we should not. make assumptions because the truth is we cannot know what's in the heart of a person. Only God can. Furthermore, this teaching of James is not for God's benefit. For the very same reason. God does not need to test us to see what's in our heart. It is for the benefit of those within the visible church. And who are those? You and I. It is important for us to not fool ourselves into believing that we are saved. when we are not. Second, it is for the benefit of the church authorities, the elders, who have the responsibility of church discipline, of which the end goals are to protect the errant. Sheep from himself, others within the same congregation, and finally the reputation of Christ and his name With that in mind, let us now dive into our last passage in this wonderful book that is an important corrective to easy believism. In what is called carnal Christianity, that seems to teach that being a Christian is a spectator sport. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's inerrant and infallible word? The following is from the book of James, chapter 5, verses 19 and 20 Hear now the word of God. My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. This is the word of God Amen. Please be seated. And join me now, if you would, in prayer to the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds. Holy Spirit, we ask you now to be with us. Help us to be attentive to the Word of God. Help us to be focused upon what it teaches us about ourselves. What it teaches us what we must do in order to be like our savior. Help us to see where we fall short and grant us grace to overcome And joyfully be obedient to our Heavenly Father, so that He may be pleased with us as His children. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. As most letters of his age, James does not end with either greetings or benedictions, but rather in a way that would seem appropriate to James's personality. It is a call to action. Thus far he's spoken about what is improper speech, you know, taking oaths to manipulate others to get what you want. Then he spoke about the proper speech by using the power of prayer and confessing to bring healing on the physical, spiritual, and community level. And he does the he closes his letter by using speech for the purpose of living out what James called Intu Eight, the law of love James's final thought is concerned with the churches doing something that is antithetical to what seems to be going on. It is using speech, the tongue, in a loving, compassionate, and concerned way. It is no less than the application of the royal law of God. It begins by addressing the church in the warmest of ways. My brothers. He continues by using the conditional word if. If any among you wanders away from the truth. Wandering comes from the Greek word planao. We use this word for planets. Because it seems that from our perspective, planets wandering around. in the heavens. Wandering away from what? Well, James says the truth. Now here, the truth does not mean Christian doctrine in the most broadest. and comprehensive sense. But more specifically, it means to all that is involved or associated with the gospel. This truth is something that is to be done as well as to be believed. There are two passages that will help bring this out. The first one is in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 7. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? Obviously making reference to the gospel. The second passage is from 1 John 1. 6, where the apostle says, if we say we have fellowship with him being God, While we walk in darkness, we lie, and do not practice the truth. Again, making reference to the gospel. Therefore, what James has in mind here is the gospel of the Lord, which gives us entry into the kingdom of God, what teaches and motivates us to live a life. of kingdom ethics as given to us within the Word of God. So these people have sort of wandered away from the normal orbit of being within God's community. They have wandered away. Now this effort of going after the care of this wandering brother or sister who needs healing for his soul. This is now different, you see, from what James has just talked about in the previous verses, which was about physical healing via the elders. Thus far, James has been telling disciples to repent from their sins and bring themselves back to a right relationship with God. But here He doesn't. He exhorts them instead to bring other disciples back. You see how he shifted. Here the person going out in an attempt to bring back the church member is not specified as either a church officer, uh this is anyone, whoever this person or the person is. It can be really any one of us, you and I, within the context of the broader church community. Now to bring back, the Greek word there is epistrapho, can and is used to mean the initial return to God from sin. as in conversion. However, in this context, James is saying this about a person who is among you. Which at the very least would mean persons who have made a profession of faith and have identified themselves as being a disciple of Christ. To bring back then means turning back to the faith from which one has strayed. Since the next verse seems to indicate that this person's sin will lead to spiritual death, It also has the implications of apostasy for this disciple. Apostasy meaning leaving the faith. So what about those that are in church and yet are not believers? These are folks who have been in the church, persons I have in mind, for a very long time, perhaps their entire lives, and have been doing and saying the right things. you know, sort of in the background, sort of under the radar, and um and then maybe they don't even leave the church. They may not know the gospel. They consequently don't believe the words of truth. And their hope may be in that their good works will be sufficient to enter into heaven. Might this be you? Have you spent your entire life in the church? And maybe your hope is in something different than Christ alone. Now let me just say. But James never says you have to do good works to make it into heaven. He has said That for the genuine believer on the day of judgment, the good works will stand as evidence of a genuine conversion. The good works will vindicate that they have believed in the true gospel. He does not even say you have to do a certain amount of works either, right? He says, I will show you my faith by my works. He doesn't say, I will show you my faith by the amount of work that I do. But what are we do what are we to do about this person that I just made reference to? The one who sticks around. How can we tell who they are? The truth is, if they're good scouts, they're a way through life for salvation Doing good works and looking like the real thing. Well the truth is that you really can't identify them to be different. Than the true thing. One of the reasons being that they're sort of chugging along and doing all the right things and saying all the right things. We can't tell the difference between the genuine believer who is wandering in sin, or if it's an unregenerated believer in God also, who is a member in good standing. who is wandering away. You may very well know people on a personal level that have shared with you that they were perhaps in the church for many decades. And when they were in their perhaps their seventies or their eighties, they got saved because the scales came off. One day when the pastor was proclaiming the gospel or a friend visiting their home told them about the gospel. This is one of the very reasons that I proclaim the gospel on when I visit people on their deathbeds. I, you, are unable to get into their hearts and see if they're genuinely converted souls. Only God knows. And perhaps ourselves too, if we can make the distinction. James in verse 20 states, let him know. This is the person who goes after the church member who is wandering away. He does not have any specific person in mind. So this hypothetical situation is one in which a disciple wanders away from the community and becomes engrossed in sin and is brought back to the community by the efforts of a brother from within the community. Let's be very careful to note that James is not speaking about or addressing those that don't come back. He is not talking about those that don't come back. He is talking about individuals who do come back. And so making reference to that, we should point out That he also, in the text, has not made any distinctions between those that are in the visible church or the elect, the invisible church. And as he has not, I shall not either, unless it's important to what we're saying here. What this means is that we believers are called to consider the wonderful outcome of intervening in a fellow believer's life in such a positive way. Let's ask ourselves the question, why would a Christian wander in the first place? We could spend some time on this, can't we? Now, we have to answer the question within the context of what James is saying here. This is a member of the church. He's wandering about, committing sin. And one of the implications here is that the person has left because they're engaged in gross sin, perhaps. And that they recognize that the community, the rest of the church community, would not tolerate this kind of lifestyle. So they sort of leave. James is not clear if they left without making noise or if they used the bullhorn on their way out. What would we be doing by going after an erring brother Well, we would be saving him or her from his sin, as well as many others that would have been committed as a consequence of not getting involved in that person's life. We are told that we shall save that person, the erring brother, from certain spiritual death. This is not physical death. But spiritual, eternal death. We are to see then from our limited perspective, we are engaged in an activity that may impact the person's eternal status. To cover biblically means to blot out, blot out sin. In this context, the returning brother will be saved from eternal death. And of course, in the process have many sins blotted out. Again, this can be ambiguous, and I think that James has chosen his words carefully to be just. ambiguous enough, or should I say, flexible enough to achieve his goal. First, if the brother went away being non-elect and is brought back into the community by the love demonstrated to him, this may lead to his actual salvation, and thus a multitude of sins would be covered, as in what normally happens when anyone is saved. Second, if the wandering brother was genuinely saved, already then by successfully bringing him back, a multitude of sins already committed will be covered or forgiven. This is so, because the return of the brother assumes a confession and repentance from their sins. Otherwise, why would the person return? But there would also be forgiveness. Now, I want to look at this a little bit more closely and in detail, how this works in the life of a believer and in the life of the community of one who is genuinely converted. Now we know that we can't save anyone, right? Jesus and the crosswork of Christ and the grace of God is what saves any person. So in what way are we saving a sinner here? Who is considered a brother from spiritual death? Well, we have to understand that we are instruments that God uses to bring about salvation in people's lives, right? Just like a carpenter makes a cabinet, let's say, with a table saw or a jigsaw, it's the saw that does the cutting But it's the cabinet maker that is making the cabinet. The cabinet maker is using an instrument to achieve his end So in this way, we should see ourselves as being used by God to bring about salvation for a person. Now, 1 Corinthians 15, 1 and 2 shed some light here. And I'll read that for us. Now, I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received. in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached you, unless you believed in vain. The point is that we must stay in faith as believers, as those who have made a proclamation of faith to the end. Otherwise, we would be apostates. We must continue in the truth. If we don't believe the truth of the gospel throughout our lives, then salvation is not promised for you. You must endure to the end, in faith, in perseverance. Now, if you don't, then as I mentioned, you will be an apostate A person who has turned away from the faith. Please note, I said a person who has turned away from the faith. I did not say that they were once saved and then they lost it. God, however, is keeping his children in faith to the end. Not in the faith, but in faith. There's a difference between the two. Philippians 1. 6 tells us, and I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. He will persevere us in faith. Right. I cannot say, then, that I am guiltless on the day of Christ the day of Christ because I trusted in Jesus when I was a teenager. But I can say That it was God who showed me Jesus and gave me that gift of faith as a teenager and gave me faith to trust him to the end. That is why I shall stand on the day of Christ What are the means by which God keeps his children? One of the means is his children. Hebrews chapter 3, verses 13 and 14. So very important for us to consider. But exhort one another every day. He's speaking to the congregation. He's speaking to the churches. As long as it is called today, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. Well, this would be sort of wandering away, right? That leads to wandering away. For we have come to share in Christ if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end. So much there to help us to see. God tells us and uses us In our exhortations to one another as a means to keep us from wandering away God has ordained that God's elect will be saved, and as a consequence, a multiple, a multitude of sins will be covered And he has also ordained that he will persevere us in faith to the end. And he has also ordained that he will use his children, you and I. to exhort one another to that end. What then does this mean? This is a big deal It's huge. We are all tools. We are means by which God uses to keep us upon the path of faith. I've heard people's testimonies over the years and how they have shared with me that they've considered leaving the faith. But in some instances reflected upon the behavior of other believers who demonstrated that for them Christianity was real. In some cases, the love demonstrated to them caused them to stay or come back. They were exhorted to not wander, to return from their wandering. That is what you and I do. This is what we do for one another. God uses us to return people to the truth. The gospel wandering seems to indicate that we experience some sort of spiritual decay. And this means that we need to tend to our faith. This means that you need to tend to your faith. We have to invest in our faith. Are you doing that? Are you investing in your faith? We have to stoke the fires of our faith. Where will you find that? In society today. Where can you go where people will stoke the fires of your Christian faith, brothers and sisters? Will it be at the Elks Club? Dear Country Club Will it be the Girl Scouts? Will it be the local government? Now all of these institutions can do good in and of themselves, but You know, they're just not going to exhort you in your faith in Christ. So what does that mean? That you need to be at a place where your faith will be exhorted. And that is the church. That is the community of Christ. If you are not participating in the community of Christ, being exhorted, you may Wander away. You need to be here to exhort brothers and sisters in Christ so that they won't wander away. This is a huge big deal for what we can do as the body of Christ for one another Finally, from our perspective, although we know that there will be those in the Christian community that are not genuinely saved, and in time they may leave it, think back to the parable of the soils. We should look at each wondering brother as worthy of pursuing for the benefit of their souls. And in the meantime We would be doing what? We would be reflecting the great shepherd himself, who would set aside the ninety-nine sheep who are safe and well, and go looking for the one that was. wandering off. Perhaps in some really serious danger. There will be times when an earnest effort has been made to reclaim the brother. whether in person or by an elders or of the within the church, and the response has been rebuffed by that person We should, in those situations, at some point, we should accept their decision and trust the Holy Spirit to work his will in their lives in the way that he sees fit The point I'm making is that you shouldn't feel responsible for not succeeding in bringing that person back. Our responsibility, in the case that James has laid out, is to bring that person back to the truth. The truth is defined as the gospel. the hub and the center point of all Christian living. James is teaching us that change comes from the truth of the gospel. So how do we do this? Well, I think Galatians 6. 1 speaks to this quite well Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourselves. lest you two be tempted. The reality is that as a pastor, and for that matter, any pastor we normally hear about issues within our congregations that need attention to what I call five minutes of midnight. And we're asked to turn back the clock and bring about restoration. But you members of the body of Christ, you tend to know about these situations way before the pastor does. This is something that you're called to. It can be so instrumental in working in the life of a wanderer How do you need them? What is it that you need to do to accomplish this? Well, gentleness, winsomeness, honesty. Tenderness. It requires self-sacrifice from you. It requires a good and proper knowledge of the Scripture and a call of the gospel upon our lives. And it requires love. It requires love on your part, doesn't it? Self-sacrifice, by definition, requires love. When your heart is filled by God with compassion and love And then out of the overflow which is then demonstrated for the brother who is engaged in a lifestyle that is leading him to personal destruction, this is more profound expression of the royal law of of God than being friends with, sometimes I've heard it, as low-maintenance Christians. James is teaching us that if a church is to thrive, it will be in the practicing and proclaiming the truth to ourselves and to others. All the stuff that came to his ears, the strife and the sin he heard about Well, James's pastoral response is a gospel that is lived out Beautifully. For those who have lived out the gospel beautifully will on the day point to works that will justify, or if you will, vindicate what? Their faith claim in Christ But before you can point to those works, you need to make that proclamation of faith. Have you done that? Have you accepted Christ as your Savior? In the end, as throughout the entire letter, James's Christianity includes the understanding that a true Christian disciple Is not only a believer who shows their faith by their works, but by their love for their brother. Go love your brother and sister through the gospel and live a life beautifully. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gospel. We thank you for your son, the Lord Jesus, who did live beautifully. We can all agree to that We pray that you would help us through the work of the Holy Spirit to live beautifully ourselves. May the words that come out of our lips be words that build up and not tear down. May they be words that speak the truth of the gospel. The love of God, the forgiveness of sins, and help us to love one another as you have loved us. And we ask this for your