I should say it's something of a relief to me to know that Skip and Bonnie had already planned to be back this Sunday, and that the reason they're here is not that Skip heard something about the last sermon and and cut short their trick But it is to good be good, it is good to be back with you, all of you, this morning. And you can see in your bulletin this morning that we'll be considering again Psalm 98. Stand with me then for the reading of God's Word. O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Break forth into joyous song and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody, with trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord. Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness. And the peoples with equity. This is the word of our God. Amen. Let me pray for it. Our Father, we thank you for your word. And we thank you for it, knowing how much we need it. Living in a world such as this one, a world Enveloped in darkness. And we know our own hearts too that there is darkness yet within. How we need this word which shines so brilliantly. Which gives light, light to lead us, to guide us. And that's our prayer this morning. That you'd give us eyes to see this light and follow. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Psalm 98. Well, this is the second of two weeks that we're spending with this Psalm, two weeks separated by about a month. And let's review quickly some of the ground we covered a month ago. Remember, I said that one way of understanding this psalm is that it is a psalm of Swelling song. And by that I mean it's a psalm that calls for praise from an ever-expanding chorus. As you make your way through the Psalm. So in the beginning, verses 1 through 3, it's clear that the house of Israel especially ought to sing. Because he has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. That's what it says in verse 3. But then the psalm goes on and the chorus expands. Verses 4 through 6, all the peoples of the earth ought to sing, make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth. But the Psalm goes on, and the chorus keeps expanding, verses 7 through 9, not just the house of Israel, not just all the peoples of the earth, but the whole of earthly creation. The sea and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it, the rivers, the hills. So you see, everybody ought to sing God's praise. Everything that He has made ought to tell forth his glory. And why? Well, remember last time we noted, according to Psalm 98. The answer is because of two of God's works in particular, one past and one future. In the past, the Lord accomplished salvation for his people. And in the future, the Lord will come and judge the world. So those two works especially are held forth for us here. As very good reasons for creation-wide praise. Redemption in the past, judgment in the future, and last time we focused on the first of those two: redemption in the past. And you remember what we saw. We saw that the Lord has saved. He saved his people from their enemies. He has saved publicly. That is to say, what he's done for his people, he has done for all peoples to see. He has done for all peoples to embrace. He's done it publicly, not done in a corner. And he has saved gloriously. That is to say, what he has done for his people, he has done in such a way as to put his own might on display. And his faithfulness and his holiness. The psalmist could say all of that about what God had done for Israel. How much more can we say all of that and more? When it comes to what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. So that was last time. Redemption in the past. This time we're going to focus on the second of those two divine works that we've noticed. Noticed, judgment in the future. Redemption in the past came at the beginning of the Psalm. Well, now, sure enough, judgment in the future we find at the end of the Psalm. So look down now, beginning at verse 7. Here again is this summons to praise, to glory. Let the sea roar in all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord. And why? What's the reason? The rest of verse 9. For he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity. Judgment yet to come, here in Psalm 98, that's held forth as good news. That's held forth as reason for praise. And notice here what we learn from this psalm about that judgment to come. What we learn, and I think this is on your handout, in your outline, we learn that the Lord will come, we learn that the Lord will come and judge. We learn that he will come and judge the earth, and we learn that he will do that righteously. All of that's in here in Psalm 98. And we're going to train our attention now on each of those lessons to learn in that order. First of all, the Lord will come. He comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world when he does come. Now here's the question. What do you think it would have meant? to ancient Israelites, to hear it said, the Lord will come. The Lord will come. Think about what Solomon said when he prayed at the dedication of the temple. He said, Will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you, how much less this house that I have built? Will God indeed Dwell on the earth. That was Solomon's question. Well, we can imagine a similar question. Will God indeed come to earth? Does it even make sense to say something like that? How might the Israelites have understood that? Well, we need to be clear here on what is and isn't meant by that sort of language God cannot come to earth in the sense of God as God moving from one place to another. In his being, he isn't even bound by space to begin with. And even when we talk about God's relationship to our space, Well, what we say is that he is always, already, everywhere. And so in that sense, there's no coming and going at all. But God can come to the earth in the sense of acting in human affairs in such a way as to make his presence known. Acting in human affairs especially in such a way as to make his commitment to his covenant people known. And that's what it would have meant to ancient Israelites to hear it said, the Lord will come. And not only that, but still camping out now in the Old Testament setting, they also knew that it was often the case that when the Lord did that, when he acted. So as to make his presence known, he'd provide some symbol of his presence for them to see. Some symbol of his having come. And it was often the case that that symbol was the cloud. The cloud of his glory. And so when he came and saved Israel at the Red Sea, he sent his cloud. And when he came to the temple that Solomon had just built, he sent his cloud. And so the ancient Israelites, they would have had some sense, some idea of the Lord coming But of course, all of that was to set the stage. That was to set the stage for what we know now to be the real coming. God acting in human affairs to make his presence known, to make his commitment to his people known, but no longer symbolized with a mere cloud. But now embodied, literally embodied in the coming of his one and only Son In Jesus Christ like never before, the Lord had come. And isn't that what we sing? It's likely that in the not too distant future you will sing it. Joy to the world, the Lord is come. In a unique way, in an unprecedented way, God came when the Son of God came. So remember what Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, said. He said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited And redeemed his people. I love that way of putting it. What an understatement. God has visited. And redeemed his people. The Lord God of Israel has visited. He has finally come. And we can just imagine what might have been going through Zechariah's mind in terms of what that meant. To be able to say, the Lord has visited, the Lord has come. Because after all, Zechariah would have known Psalm 98. Faithful Jews knew Psalm 98. And so we can just imagine, especially as some of them began to grasp who this one was in their midst. Well, we can imagine that what was going through their mind was its judgment time. Because after all, that's what Psalm 98 says. The Lord has come, well then. It's time. It's judgment time And the reason we can imagine that that might have been going through their minds is that that's exactly what was going through the mind of John the Baptist himself. And it wasn't just going through his mind, it was going through his words. John preached this. John said, in effect, the Lord is come, and so it's judgment time. That was part of his ministry. Now, think about John's ministry. Think about John's experience. At first, John knows this one in our midst, he is the Christ. But as time goes by, in the ministry of Jesus, John begins to wonder, is this the Christ? John begins to wonder, has the Lord really visited his people? Has the Lord really come? And sure enough, the reason why John begins to wonder that is that in the ministry of Jesus, there's no judgment. At least not the kind of judgment that John and others had in mind. And so finally, John has to ask He sends word by his disciples and said to him, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? Well, what John had to realize, what all the disciples had to realize, what we today still have to realize, we've got to come to grips with this. is that it turns out that that promised coming of Psalm 98, well, it would be fulfilled in two successive comings of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, with his first coming, judgment had begun. There were aspects of judgment in the earthly ministry of Jesus, in the redeeming work of Jesus, but only at A future coming. Would judgment be full and final and public? So John was right. John was preaching the truth. It's just that John had to come to a better understanding of the very truth that he himself was preaching. Listen to Acts 1. As they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took them out of their sight, and while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? I love these rhetorical questions that you come across sometimes in the scriptures. Why are you looking into heaven? Why are you looking up there? This Jesus, who was taken up from you in heaven, will come. This one who had already come and who had just disappeared from their sight, he will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. And that's where we find ourselves today, isn't it? Waiting. Waiting for the coming again of the one who had already come. The Lord will come. That's the first point. And that brings us then to our second point, which is that the Lord will come and judge. When he comes, he will judge. When he comes again, it will be judgment time. It will be judgment full and final and public. When Jesus comes again, the people of God, we will be acknowledged and acquitted and rewarded, and the result will be eternal life. That will be our judgment. But the enemies of God will be exposed and condemned and sentenced, and the result will be eternal destruction. That will be their judgment. And who's going to do all of that? Jesus Christ Himself. He's the one Who's going to carry out that very judgment? He said this about himself. John 5. Jesus said, The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father, and he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. That's John 5. He said it as well in Matthew 25. He said, When the Son of Man comes, there it is, when he comes in his glory, and all the angels with him. Then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he, he will separate. One people from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. So you see, Jesus had said this about himself, that he would be the one who would come and carry out judgment. And not only did he say this during the course of his earthly ministry, but then he taught his disciples this again after he was raised, and he taught them after he was raised that they were then to go and say this very thing. Listen to Peter in Acts 10, talking about Jesus' ministry to them. Peter says he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one. Appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead That was Peter in Acts 10. Listen to Paul in Acts 17. God has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. Jesus Christ Himself. Is the one who's going to carry this out, and that is so fitting. It is so fitting That Christ Himself is going to be the one to judge. It's fitting for us who are His people. On that day, think about it, we're going to be acknowledged and acquitted by the very one who lived and died. Precisely in order that we might be acknowledged and acquitted. The very act of judging us, which will mean forgiving us And accepting us and welcoming us. As staggering as this is to contemplate, the very act of judging us will be one of his rewards. For all that he did to save us. And so it's fitting. But it's not only fitting with respect to us, the redeemed, it's also fitting in a sobering way. For his enemies, because on that day they will be judged justly by the one who was judged so unjustly by those who represented them By those who embodied all that they stood for. Jesus Christ Himself will come, and He will judge. And then our third point, when he does that, he will come and judge the earth That's what it says in verse 9. He comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world. Now, of course, what that means is not that he's going to judge the ground we walk on. What that means is he's going to judge all the peoples who walk on it, every person. Who has lived, he's going to judge the peoples of the earth, the peoples of the world. No one's going to be so rich and powerful that he gets a pass. And conversely, no one's going to be so lowly and oppressed that he doesn't count, that he doesn't rise to the level of judgment. No. No one's going to be overlooked. No one's going to be able to hide. No one's going to be able to file a motion to get a different judge. No one's going to be able to plead that they don't fall under his jurisdiction. No, he's going to judge everybody who's ever lived. Think about our own experience. Sometimes some dramatic event takes place somewhere in the world, some earth-shattering event. And then what happens next? Before too long, word gets around, and everybody turns on their televisions. And everybody's watching the same footage on their televisions. And then what happens before too long, somebody observes that this dramatic event, thanks to television. has become a shared event. It's become a global event because there's this sense that everybody All around the world is tuning in. Everybody's involved. There's this sense that life has stopped. And we're all here and nothing else is going on. And we're all tuned in to that one thing. In our own lifetime, surely, September 11th was just that. And so we have this sense that there's this global event and everybody's attention is trained on it. Well, we have never sensed that, the way we are going to sense that on that final day Because then life will stop like it has never stopped before. And we'll all be there. And nothing else will be going on. The judgment of that day will be the business of every man. Because he is going to judge everybody who has ever lived. And understandably, that is hard for us even to try to contemplate, to try to imagine. The Bible does not go into detail about the logistics of a worldwide judgment. Have you ever wondered how's that going to work? Judging all peoples of the world in sight of all peoples of the world for the public vindication of God's justice. The Bible doesn't say precisely how that's going to happen. But the Bible says what we need to know, which is that it's going to happen. And so our calling here, as it is everywhere, is to live by faith and not by sight. It's even to live by faith and not finally by imagination. It will happen. However precisely, it will happen. The Lord will come. He will come and judge. He will come and judge the earth and then. A fourth point. He will come and judge the earth righteously. Because our Psalm says that too, there in verse 9. He will judge the world with righteousness. And the peoples with equity. And here, too, we can draw upon our experience, human experience. Think about what judgment entails. What does a judge have to do to be a judge? Well, among other things, he has to know. He's got to know the facts of what's been done, and he's got to know the law that governs what's been done. He's got to evaluate, that is to say, he's got to form conclusions about what's been done according to the standard of that law. He's got to pronounce his findings. In other words, he's got to say what his conclusions are about what's been done and about the sentence that properly follows. And then he's got to order the execution of the sentence. He's got to direct the fulfillment, the consummation of the judgment. The point is, Christ is going to do all of those things, and he will do all of them perfectly, righteously. At every step, his knowledge will be sound. No mistakes, no facts that he overlooked No aspect of the law that he forgot to bring to bear, his knowledge will be perfect, and his evaluation will be correct. And his sentence will be just, and the execution of the sentence will be self-controlled, self-controlled. He will be perfectly righteous in his judgment. And you see, this is why, this truth that we've been talking about, the truth that the Lord will come and judge the earth, this is why that's good news. This is why that truth in Psalm 98 is reason to sing to God's praise. This is good news. When the Lord comes and judges the earth, he'll do it very well. Impeccably, not incompetently, certainly not crookedly Don't we want final judgment of all things to be done well, to be done justly, to be done fairly? Can you imagine what it would be like to live with the thought that at the end of the age there will be a final judgment? a judgment upon which eternal destinies depend, and it might be done badly, might be done incompetently, Crookedly. Can you imagine the anxiety, even the terror that we would feel at that thought? But we don't have to feel that We don't have to feel that anxiety, that crippling terror, because that's not going to happen. Listen to Psalm 75. Here the Lord says, at the set time that I appoint, I will judge with equity when the earth totters. and all its inhabitants, it is I who keep steady its pillars. You see, it's as if the earth right now is tottering It's shaking. It is trembling with injustice. And the Lord is saying, and this is good news, the Lord is saying that He will judge the world and He will come and steady it. He'll preserve the works of his hands. He will not let the works of his hands completely disintegrate. Because of the weight of injustice. He won't let it happen. He will judge with equity. So those four lessons to learn here, he will come. And he will come and judge. He'll judge the earth, and he'll do it perfectly righteously. Those lessons to learn here, and these are lessons to take to heart. These are lessons that ought to shape our lives. And let's think now about how they ought to shape our lives. First of all, let me say to you, in Christ, take heart As one in Christ, take heart. The fact that the Lord is going to come and judge the earth righteously means, among other things, that your salvation is secure. Now, why do I say that? I say that because your salvation depends upon God judging you righteously in Jesus Christ. More profoundly, it depends upon God. judging justly Jesus Christ himself. It depends upon God having a just regard for what his son did for you and what his son has given to you. Think again about 2 Corinthians 5. For our sake, God made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. And what that means is that by faith in Christ you are now robed with the very righteousness of Jesus Christ. And what that means is that it would amount to gross injustice on God's part. If on the last day he failed to recognize that righteousness as entitling you to a place in his new world, that would be unjust on God's part. If your salvation depended upon your good works to satisfy the law of God, then the truth of the Lord is going to come and judge righteously Would fill you with dread. But it doesn't depend on your good works to satisfy the law of God. It depends upon Christ's good works. His sufficient works, his life, his death, his righteousness given to you. And that's why, after all, this truth becomes reason to sing. And not dread. So there is that, first of all. I say to you, take heart. And then, second, I say to you Don't strike back. When you've been wronged, don't strike back. Remember what Paul says in Romans 12. He says, beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. That's Romans 12. And the fact that we've been considering here, that the Lord will come and judge the earth righteously, among other things, what that means is that you shouldn't take that vengeance upon yourself. Judgment and vengeance. The Lord is a just judge. And that, among other things, sets you free. That sets you free to entrust yourself to Him. To entrust all of your circumstances to him, including circumstances in which you have been wronged, in which you have been treated unjustly by somebody else. And you know who set you the perfect example of that. Well again we come back to our Savior. Jesus did. Jesus set the perfect example of entrusting oneself to God, even while being treated unjustly. And Peter tells us about that. 1 Peter 2. Peter says this, to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued. And trusting himself to him who judges justly. That's 1 Peter 2. You see, Jesus set us the example. He set us a kind of double example. Because we're called to emulate both his outward conduct and his inward disposition. What was his outward conduct? Well, he didn't strike back. He he exercised self-control. And he he pressed on in his calling. That was his outward conduct. And what was his inward disposition? What was it within him that made it possible for him to conduct himself that way? It was that he entrusted himself. to his father. He remembered that his father is just. There's your example. Now take that personally. Stop and think about a time in your life when you were wronged. And there are so many ways in which we can be, in which we have been wronged. Maybe you were physically harmed. Maybe you were lied to or lied about. Maybe you were insulted in front of a big group in a way that was most embarrassing. Maybe your property was damaged. Maybe your reputation was damaged because you were falsely found guilty of something you didn't do. So many possibilities. Here's the question: When you were wronged, how did you react? Did you strike back? And here, too, there are a lot of possibilities. So many ways in which We can strike back. With deeds, with words, with thoughts, with emotions. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And you interrupted him and said, No, Lord, it's mine. I'll repay. And I'll do it right now. You may or may not repay right now, so I'm going to go ahead and do it now. Because that way I don't have to wait. And so maybe you struck back with a closed fist of your own, and you tried to tell yourself that it was in self-defense, but you know it wasn't. Maybe you send an email to destroy his reputation because he's the one who damaged yours. Maybe you resorted to fantasy and you know how that works. You can rehearse these scenarios in your mind that are so satisfying in which he gets his come-up. Maybe you nursed hatred in your heart. For some reason I don't know why, but I remember the 1984 movie Red Dawn. Thankfully I don't remember much about it. But I remember this. I remember there was one character in that movie whose family had been wronged, a boy. And another character in the movie picks up on that, that this boy was bitter. And he says to him, boy, all that hate's gonna burn you up. And his response was, it keeps me warm And that is all too true. That we can nurse hatred like that because it keeps us warm. When you were wrong, did you strike back in any one of those ways or more? If you did. The explanation, at least in part, is this. You did not entrust yourself to him who judges justly, the way Jesus did. You lost sight of God. You lost sight of God who is just and who will satisfy the claims of justice at the end of the age. And whenever you've retaliated like that, it's time to repent and to see God again. To see just how just He is. And how just is his son who will come and judge the earth righteously. And let me say, this applies not just to circumstances in which you have been wronged. But it also applies to circumstances in which someone else has been wronged, and you see it, you observe it, and it upsets you and it makes you angry. Have you ever seen news footage of a scene in which somebody who's been found guilty or maybe they've they're just suspected of being guilty of some ghastly crime and and there's footage of that person being paraded? into the prison or into the courthouse past this crowd of violently angry onlookers. And it's chilling. And it's chilling not just because you're seeing this person, but because you're also seeing the crowd. And you're seeing their faces red with rage. And you're seeing their signs and the things they've written on their signs, and you're hearing their words and the kinds of punishments that they are calling for. Now, what what leads to those scenes? It's the same answer. Blindness to God and to the justice of God A refusal, a failure to see the God who is just and his son who will come and exact justice at the end of the age. Because if you can't see that, if you refuse to see that, if you block all of that out, All you're left with is the inflicting of earthly pains to satisfy justice. And so that's what you cry out for. But your cries are made all the more desperate because deep down you know that even those pains can't finally make up for the thing that was done. So what's the answer? Same answer. Repent. And see God again See God in all of his justice. See the Son of God who will come in justice. When you've done that, when you've taken those truths to heart, you'll still feel angry about earthly crimes. You should. And you'll still pray for the proper functioning of earthly courts. You should. But you will have changed. Your reaction will have changed Instead of vengeance and out-of-control, blood-red rage, now it's self-control. Because you will have been reminded that there is a higher court and there is an ultimate justice. And as a Christian, you will also have been reminded that you yourself are a sinner who's been forgiven. And that you're ready for final judgment, not because of anything you've done, but because of immeasurable mercy. He has not dealt with you according to your sins. He has not repaid you according to your iniquities. So don't strike back. Entrust yourself to him He will judge you righteously, regarding you righteously as one robed in the righteousness of Christ, and that will mean eternal life, and entrust all wrongs to him, because he will bring all things to right. For that reason. Among so many reasons, let us sing. Sing to the Lord a new song For he has done marvelous things, and in the end, he will do marvelous and just things yet again. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, so we worship you. As the God of all justice. Lord Jesus Christ, we hail you as the one who once came and will come again and judge the earth in righteousness. We tremble and we rejoice at the same time. And we would sing. We would abound in joy to know that we have such a Savior and Judge in you. May it be so for your glory among us. Amen.