Well it's good to be back with you this morning. You can see in your bulletin this morning that the turning our attention to Psalm 98 Psalm ninety-eight. Here then the word of our God, Psalm ninety-eight, beginning at verse one. O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Break forth into joyous song and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre. With the lyre and the sound of melody, with trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord. Let the sea roar and all that fills it. The world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands, let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord. For he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness. And the peoples with equity. Our great God, we thank you for these words, stirring and powerful And we pray that you would stir us by them. We pray that your Spirit would so work in us and among us this morning. That we might find ourselves all the more determined, all the more eager to sing to you a new song. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, Psalm ninety eight. Psalm ninety eight. One way of describing this Psalm is that it is a psalm of swelling song. This is a psalm of swelling song. And by that I mean it's a psalm that calls for praise from an ever-expanding chorus. In fact I was thinking we got Perhaps a little glimpse of that this morning. Because at first we heard, I think it was five voices in the back of the room. That's how we began this morning. But since then the song has swelled, and this room has been full of every voice joined in praise. Well, this very psalm. is a psalm of swelling song. Notice how it begins. Verse 1, O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. And in verses 1 through 3 It's clear that the house of Israel especially ought to sing. And the house of Israel especially ought to sing because, look at verse 3, he has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. So the song ought to begin there. But it doesn't end there. In verses 4 through 6, The song swells. It becomes clear that all the peoples of the earth ought to sing. Look at verse 4. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. But then notice the song shouldn't end there either, because in verses 7 through 9 the chorus expands even beyond that. Not just the house of Israel, not just all the peoples of the earth, but the whole of earthly creation. the sea and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it, the rivers, the hills. You see, the Lord is so great, and his works are so great that everything he has made ought to sound back his praise. So much so that the psalmist has the sea roaring and the rivers clapping and the hills singing. He resorts to that kind of personification because anything less than total praise won't do. So it's a psalm of swelling song and words and images. Everybody ought to sing God's praise. Everything ought to tell forth God's glory. And why? Why is that? What is it about the Lord? What is it about his works that makes him worthy of that? Well, this psalm answers that question. Because this psalm sets before us two of God's works in particular. As very good reasons for creation-wide praise. Two of God's works, one past, one future In the past, the Lord accomplished salvation for his people. In the future The Lord will come and judge the world. Psalm 98 sets both of those before us. Two of God's works, one past, one future. Redemption in the past, judgment in the future. Two of God's works, and wouldn't you know it? We've got two weeks to cover them. Isn't it nice? Isn't it nice how that all works out? This week, redemption in the past. And then Lord willing, on November 20th, When I'm with you next time, judgment in the future. Now let me be clear, when I say that, I am not predicting that November 20th is going to be judgment day. You can get yourself in a lot of trouble making those predictions. There's been too much of that lately. But I am definitely predicting, I am going on record as predicting that the sermon on November twentieth will be about the Lord coming in judgment. But I I could be wrong. But that's the plan. These two divine works this week and then in a month or so So this week, redemption in the past, what does Psalm 98 teach us? And this is there on the back of your bulletin. Teaches us that the Lord has saved. It teaches us that he has done so publicly, and it teaches us that he has done so gloriously. Those three lessons this morning about redemption in the past. First of all, the Lord is saved. Verse 1, his right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. Now, this is one of those Psalms that does not have a heading. That associates it with any particular event, any particular author. We're not told here precisely the salvation the psalmist has in mind, whoever he was. We're not even told here that it was just one event, one act of salvation. It could be that the psalmist has any number of things in mind as he looks back on the history of God's people. It could be that it was something relatively recent, and that's why he thinks a new song is called for, but not necessarily. The classic Old Testament instance that comes to mind is Israel's deliverance at the Red Sea, but we're not told here. We do know this much. What the psalmist sees when he looks back, however far he's looking back, what he sees is rescue. And what he knows is that Yahweh, the God of Israel, was the rescuer. At some point, or points, in some way, or ways. The Lord saved his people from their enemies. So we begin there with that basic point. But then we can begin to fill it out. Not only has the Lord saved, But he has done so publicly. He has done this for everybody to see. Look at verses 2 and 3. It says, the Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nation. And then verse 3, all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. This is a running theme in the Old Testament. Word gets around. You see this over and over again in the Old Testament. Word gets around about what the Lord has done on behalf of his people Exodus 14, that's where you read about Israel's deliverance at the Red Sea. Well the next chapter, Exodus 15, there you find the song of Moses. Celebrating that deliverance. And this is what Moses says in Exodus 15. He says, the peoples have heard. They tremble. Have seized the inhabitants of Philistia. Now are the chiefs of Edom dismayed. Trembling seizes the leaders of Moab. All the inhabitants of Canaan have melted away. That's Exodus 15. Word gets around. And in fact, later Moses uses that same truth to appeal to God to have mercy. Later in Numbers. When the Lord is angry with his faithless people and he proposes to Moses, maybe I should just wipe them all out and start over with you. You remember what Moses says back to him You know what? Remember that the case that Moses makes, it boils down to this, Lord, you can't do this because word gets around. If you do this, the nations will hear about it. They'll find out. And they'll say about you that you couldn't pull it off. So even when he's appealing for mercy, Moses is drawing upon this theme, this reality, that word gets around. So yes, the Lord has taken to himself this one people, and yet the reality is that what the Lord does for this one people, he does in plain view of all peoples. He does it publicly. God does not hide his marvelous deeds, not in the end. And we can even take it a step beyond that. What the Lord does on behalf of his people, he does publicly, not only for all peoples to see. but also for all peoples to embrace, for all peoples to make their own. And that helps us to understand why in Psalm 98 all the peoples of the earth are called to sing. Remember verse 4. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Now think about that. Why should all the peoples of the earth make a joyful noise to the Lord when he's not their Lord? And they're not his people? Verse 3 says that he has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. But these nations aren't the house of Israel. In the Old Testament, they're the houses of Philistia and Edom and Moab and Canaan and all the rest. And not only that, to make this perhaps even more perplexing, it's a joyful noise that they're supposed to make, not a grudging noise. Not a reluctant noise. Not the noise of, well, okay, I guess Israel was right after all. No, a joyful noise. Well it can only be truly, genuinely joyful if All the peoples of the earth look at what the Lord has done for the house of Israel and see it as in some sense for them too. That's what gives rise to a joyful song. And wasn't that the idea from the beginning? I mean the beginning, backing all the way up to Abram. You remember what the Lord said to Abram in Genesis 12? He said, I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. Him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed That was the idea from the beginning, that what the Lord would do for Abraham and his descendants, the house of Israel, would eventually be for the blessing of the whole world No, it wasn't as clear in the Old Testament as it became later in the New Testament and as it still is now, but it was there in the Old Testament implicitly. In Psalm 98, it's there implicitly. This summon All peoples of the earth, look at what the Lord has done for the house of Israel and get on board. Side with Yahweh. Kiss the sun, as it's put in Psalm 2. All peoples of the earth take refuge in Yahweh. All the peoples of the earth, do you hear that song, that new song that's arising from the people of Israel? Make that song your own. Make that joyful song your own. Make Israel's God your own. And lay down your idols at last. This has been done publicly. Not just for all peoples to see, but for all peoples to embrace. So the Lord has saved. He's done this publicly, the psalmist says. And then third, he has done this gloriously. He's done this gloriously. You see this throughout verses 1 through 3. The Lord has saved in such a way as to reveal his glory. In such a way as to put his own greatness on display. And what in particular has he put on display? Well, first of all, he has displayed his might. Look again at the language of verse 1. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has bared his arm, and it is a mighty arm. And he has saved. So he's displayed his might. Second, he's also displayed his holiness. It says his right hand and his holy arm. Have worked salvation for him. When the Lord saved the house of Israel, who showed he showed himself to be God, the Holy One. High and lifted up. He showed himself to be the pure one, altogether separated from sin, the one whose actions are praiseworthy through and through. So he put his might on display, he put his holiness on display, and he put his faithfulness, his faithfulness on display as well. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. It says that in verse 2. He's revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. Now, in what sense was saving Israel the right thing to do? Well, it was the right thing to do. It was an act of righteousness because he had sworn to do it. That's why. Verse 3, he has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. He has put his faithfulness on display. I read before the promise to Abram. The Lord said that again and again to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. He made those promises again and again. And so when the Lord saved When the Lord intervened, when he stepped in and saved his people Israel, he showed himself to be a faithful God. A God who keeps every last promise that he ever makes. So, those three lessons to be learned here. The Lord has saved. The Lord has saved publicly. The Lord has saved gloriously. The psalmist could say those things. Now, fast-forwarding into the present, into our present, how much more can we say the same things? Because we know Christ. Because each of these three points has come to fruition in the Lord Jesus Christ. First of all, the Lord has saved. And he has saved us in Christ by the sending of his son. Remember what Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, said in Luke 1. He said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. And has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved. From our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us. That's Luke 1. Zechariah said those things. Zechariah was the father of John the Baptist, but he wasn't talking about John the Baptist. He was talking about the one who would live and die and rise for his people. The Lord has saved. And our second point, in Christ, the Lord has saved publicly, publicly God doesn't hide his marvelous deeds, not in the end. That was a running theme in the Old Testament. Well, it's true in the New Testament as well. It's true in Christ as well. Paul said so. He said so when he was on trial. This is from Acts 26. Paul on trial defending himself before Agrippa and Festus, defending himself, talking about Christ. And it says this, as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, you're out of your mind. Your great learning is driving you out of your mind. But Paul said, I am not out of my mind. Don't you love that sort of understatement? No, I'm not out of my mind. Most excellent festas. But I am speaking true and rational words. For the king Agrippa knows about these things, and to him I speak boldly, for I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice. And then what follows is one of my favorite phrases in the whole of the Bible. Paul says, For this has not been done in a corner. This has not been done in a corner. This is public. Public domain. The events of Jesus' saving work unfolded in public. Think about his death and resurrection. Nearly everybody was involved in his death. Pilate, Herod, Roman soldiers, Jewish leaders, Jewish commoners. And then hundreds of people saw him after he was raised. Paul says so in 1 Corinthians 15. The events of Jesus' saving work unfolded in public. And not only that, but also the interpretation of those events has now been preached all over the world. Paul and his fellow workers were the ones who were preaching it, and those truths are still being preached all over the world. This has not been done in a corner. God does not hide his marvelous deeds, not in the end, least of all his marvelous deeds in Christ. This has been done for all peoples to see, and as I was saying before. For all peoples to embrace. Not just to observe from a distance, but to come to And embrace. And in fact, saying that is what led Festus to say to Paul, you're out of your mind. Paul says, Acts 26, just before the bit about Paul being out of his mind. He says, to this day I have had the help that comes from God. So I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass, that the Christ must suffer, and that by being the first to rise from the dead he would proclaim light. both to our people and to the Gentile. And to the Gentiles. That's the kind of thing that got Paul in so much hot water. And to the Gentiles. Light to the Gentiles, not just light to see from a distance, but light to come to, light to walk in, light to live by, light to be saved by. In Christ, the Lord has saved publicly. And then our third point, too, in Christ. The Lord has saved gloriously because in Christ He's put those same three things on display like they have never been displayed before. He has displayed his might. I mean, nothing less than resurrection might, the power that raised Jesus from the dead. And he has displayed in Christ his holiness. Because the Holy One of Israel sent a holy Savior, whose holy cross reconciled the demands of holiness and mercy. And has now poured out his Holy Spirit, so that we might be holy as well. And sure enough, in Christ The Lord has displayed his faithfulness. In Christ, God has spoken the yes and amen. To every promise he has ever made. Remember what Zechariah said. I read it just a bit ago. Listen to it again. God has raised up a horn of salvation for us to show the mercy promised. Promise to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham. God made promises and in Christ he kept every last one of them. So, if the psalmist could say it, how much more can we? And not only can we say it But we can also sing it. The Lord is saved. The Lord is saved publicly. The Lord is saved gloriously. Therefore, people of God, sing. Sing. That's what the psalm says. Oh, sing to the Lord a new song. Now you can't help but notice a little bit of irony in them. And the irony lies in this In obedience to Psalm 98, which says, though sing to the Lord a new song, in obedience to Psalm 98, we sing, among other things, Psalm 98. Now Psalm 98 is a lot of things. But if there's one thing Psalm 98 is most certainly not, it's new. Psalm 98 is not new. And by not new, I don't just mean not brand new This isn't a poem we just drove off the lot yesterday. And I have that in mind because Christy and I have been looking at cars lately. Psalm 98 is ancient. So the question is, are we actually in violation of Psalm 98 whenever we sing Psalm 98? And there are several answers to that question. The first answer is that can't be the case, because if that were the case, we'd only be allowed to sing each song once. Because they say about new cars, as soon as you drive it off the lot, it's not new anymore. The second answer gets more to the heart of the matter. Even when we sing old songs, well-worn songs, ancient poems, even a poem as ancient as Psalm 98, for us who are in Christ Those songs are ever new. Why? Because with the passage of time, I mean with the passage of time as we walk with the Lord. There's something about us that's new. The song itself hasn't changed, but we have. We have grown in our knowledge of God. We have built up a deeper reservoir of experiences, of memories in our knowledge of God. And that's why we can sing a song we've known our whole lives. And we know it so well that we don't even have to pick up the handle because we know the words, and it still feels new And the wonder is this is going to be true for ages upon ages in God's new creation. Because we're going to keep knowing him. Forever and ever we're going to keep growing in him. We're going to keep tasting and seeing that the Lord is good, seeing that more fully than we ever saw it before. And that will lead us to sing. Like we have never sung before. Think about your own favorite hymn. That hymn means more to you today than it did when you first learned it. When you first sang it. That's one of the reasons it's your favorite. The hymn has not changed. Same words, same music, but you've changed. Your knowledge of the Lord has grown, and so it feels new These three lessons we've learned today, the Lord has saved. He's done so publicly. He's done so gloriously. It means so much more to me to say that today than it did ten years ago. And Lord willing, it'll mean even more ten years from now. The truths themselves will not have changed, but I will have been changed. I will have been made newer. You see, the song is new because his mercies are new. Every morning. His mercies are new. And so it's one of the wonderful ironies of Christian song that we can sing songs that celebrate the old, old story of Jesus. And those songs are ever new. For me, there's an added dimension of this now. Hymns I've known for years and years, they are new to me now. Because now my children are singing them with me. In fact, I suppose it's a swelling song. Because it's not just my voice anymore. It's not just Christy and me singing Voices have been added to the chorus. And then the five of us go off to worship on the Lord's Day, and there are even more voices. And the songs are new every morning. There's a great illustration of this in the Bible. Near the very end of the Bible. Revelation fifteen. Here's what it says Verse 3, it says, They sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb. Saying, Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty, just and true are your ways, O King of the nations Who will not fear you, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy, all nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. That's Revelation fifteen, verses three and four. And notice, by the way How much of Psalm 98 is in there? So many of the things we've talked about this morning are there in that song in Revelation 15. Now you notice that song has two titles in Revelation 15. It's the song of Moses, the servant of God, and it's the song of the Lamb. Now here's the question. Thinking about this whole idea of new song, how is that the song of the lamb? Because there's nothing in that song about the Lamb of God. Put another way, what's new about those words? I mean, if you look at those words, Moses could have sung those exact words, the words of that song in his own lifetime. Hundreds and hundreds of years before the lamb was revealed and slain. There doesn't seem to be anything new about this song. There doesn't seem to be anything, well, lamb-related about it. So what's new about it? Well, it's new. It's the song of the Lamb, because in the revealing and the slaying and the rising of the Lamb. Those words now mean more than they ever meant before, including in Moses' lifetime. In the Lamb. Those words are new. They make sense like they never made sense before. In Christ, it is a new song. And it will ever be so. What should all of this mean to us this morning? It should mean that we sing. We ought to be people who sing. And it means not just to sing, but to sing in a certain way, to sing from the heart as those who have grasped this, that the Lord has saved us. And that he has saved us on the world stage, not in a corner. And that he has saved us for his own glory. Will you sing? Will you go your way singing as one, as a congregation grasped by that truth? I remember when I was in high school, in my senior year of high school, I sang in a choir. And I remember that choir class met seventh period out of eight. So it was almost the last class of the day. And you know how you're sometimes feeling by the last class of the day. Don't want to discourage any of you students here, but. You know, by seventh period your energies can be flagging a bit. You need to rally. And I remember one day when a friend of mine in the choir, he was having a hard time rallying. And I I remember this so vividly as we walked out of the room that day after singing. He said He said, if I might write my memoirs someday, I'm going to give them the title, Some Days You Just Don't Feel Like Singing. Some days you just don't feel like singing. And that that's that stuck with me. That title. And I come back to that often when I think about worship, when I think about singing in worship. Some days you just don't feel like singing. And there are days like that. There are seasons like that. There are times when you hear O sing to the Lord in a new song, and there doesn't seem to be anything in you that rises up to meet the summons Well, in times like that, here, here is fuel for the fading fire. Here is the gospel. The Lord has saved He has saved you. And he's done so publicly, not in a corner. And he's done so for his own glory. Come back to those truths. And I mean come back to them time and time again. If you're going to sing a new song, come back to the old story. And bask in it. Come back to what Jeremiah called the ancient paths. Keep tasting and seeing that the unchanging gospel is good That his mercies really are new every morning. Sing to the Lord a new song. For he has done marvelous things. Amen. Let's pray together.