And in Psalm seventy-three, twenty-four to twenty-six, the psalmist says, You guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? There is nothing on earth I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail. They will fail. But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. So we're privileged again tonight to have Pastor McGuire come and bring us God's counsel from the first time. I was trying to think of a word that if you were here this morning and heard the sermon and then Came this evening and heard this sermon, what you might think, what might appear to your brain, what word you might think of. And uh the word I came up was with a word that um uh was in my dictionary here in my phone. Um the word is schizophrenic Yeah the psychologist's behavior of social science, uh so-called social science, would tell us that a schizophrenic or the state of schizophrenia is characterized by the coexistence of contradictory or incompatible elements So if you were here this morning and heard the Apostle Paul speak to the church, speak to you, but speak particularly to the Church of Galatia. It was really having large, big, hard problems because of false teachers He again and again fought for and proclaimed the gospel that as a Christian you're saved by grace through faith. There is nothing you can bring to God except your sin. And because of the work of Christ, you are brought into his kingdom and kept as his child. That you don't do anything, it has been done for you It's not your works. It's the works, the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. So you said, yeah. All right. I like that. And then you come and tonight, and if you look at sermon titles, right? Some do's and don'ts. Wait a minute. Didn't you just tell me there wasn't my works? Right? But if you remember as the sermon ended this morning And we not only were in Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, it said, we're not saved by our own works that we should boast. But that God has prepared good works for us. And as we come to Towards the end of the book of the Church of Phezzalonica, it is a church that was a strong church. It was a church that when Paul preaches to it, he says, You not only do well, I want you to accept. Excel in these things. Because you have trusted me, because you do know my grace. Now as my child who loves me and wants to please me and follow after me, these are the things that you could do that would. Honor your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So it's that kind of understanding that we come to these few verses this evening that we who know and love Christ. And because we are his, we were slaves to sin, but now we're love slaves. We are slaves, slaves to Christ, but it's not the kind of slavery that's uh bombastic and beat you down. But when it draws you because of the love that you've been shown. But still, we have been bought. We have been bought with a awful price. An awful, wonderful price the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. So he calls us to worship him this evening and to understand from the book of uh Thessalonica, what these do's and don'ts are that he's calling the church to. So it's that kind of understanding that Hopefully you realize that I'm not crazy. Well, you might just not maybe as much as you thought But that I'm not crazy, but even the Christian life isn't crazy. That on one hand we're told Christ has completed and done it all, and yet here we are called to do's and don'ts. All right? But it's because we're his children now by his grace and we lovingly follow him. And if we're going to honor our older brother, the Lord Jesus Christ. If we're going to love our Heavenly Father, if we're going to be indeed empowered by the Holy Spirit, these are the things that God calls his beloved, his children. So let us stand and hear God's word after I pray that we would understand what indeed God calls us to. Our God and Father, I thank you. That you have not left us alone to our own to guess what we should do to please you. We thank you that you have laid out in your word what it is for your children to follow you. And we thank you that it's the right way, the best way, that you are a shepherd who leaves your sheep through all things. And sometimes in your leading of us to follow after you, it is through. Uh quiet waters and green pastures, and sometimes even the valley of the shadow of death But we thank you that you are with us to lead and guide and strengthen us, and you call us to follow after you. So would you bring that calling to these specific ways and these specific things into our own hearts tonight so that we would find joy in being your children And indeed, following after you in this way, that Christ would be glorified and honored. For we pray in his name. Amen. First Thessalonians chapter 5. We'll be reading just these few verses as we're continuing, as Paul is getting to the end of speaking to this church. and telling them the very things that he would call them to do. He's giving those last remembrances. It's almost s like some of the parents are doing this week. It's kinda like the last things you're saying as you send the the child off to college, right? Right? Yeah. Alexa, you're going with a van you hadn't had one before, right? So you probably I guess some different things said to you than than we're said to you before, right? It's not because your parents hate you, you know, they've provided the van and they love you. But they're gonna be saying some things you know they want you to pay attention to, right? And so as the Apostle Paul is ending this letter to the church, he says I want you to pay attention to this. This is for your good. It's not because I hate you. It's not because God is trying to put this burden on you, but it's because it's good for you. for you. First Thessalonians chapter five, verses nineteen through twenty-two. Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. Amen. Please be seated. Well, when we talk, when we talk about do's and don'ts, that's the way that's the order we give 'em, isn't it? I'd never most people don't say don'ts and do's. You know, they say do's and don'ts, but uh the Apostle Paul, as he's writing the church here, he starts with the don'ts. So that's how we're starting also. So if you look at the scripture there, he starts off that God has for you his church, the Thessalonikan church, but also for you some don'ts this evening if you belong to Christ The first is, in 1 Thessalonians 5, 19, do not quench the spirit. Now, it's not talking about as the world would talk about it. We all have a spirit within us. And you want to get to know your inner spirit, so follow your heart. You know, the Hallmark channel. You know, if you want to know what you do, don't quench that spirit within you just No, we're we're talking about here of a Christians who are endowed with the Holy Spirit. Matthew five eleven. Jesus John the Baptist was talking, he says, I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I. whose sandals I am not worthy to carry, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. Every Christian has the Holy Spirit. You don't have to worry about Pentecostals who come to you and say, have you had the second blessing? Or everybody has the blessing of the Holy Spirit Galatians 4, 4-6, it says this. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent his forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law. so that we might redeem ad receive adoption as sons. Because you were sons, God has sent his spirit of his son into our hearts. Each one who is in Christ, we have Christ's Spirit dwelling within us. The Spirit, uh many of you would know, is that word dynamos, speaking of the word. You hear it in there? What's that word you hear in there? Dynamite or a dynamo, right? Full of power Each Christian is full of power to follow after God, and we can't extinguish The Holy Spirit, but we can quench it. It's like a fire is there and you throw some water on it or you put something over to try to snuff it out. The Holy Spirit in a Christian will never be snuffed out, but it can be quenched by our own behaviors. And he's saying, you can't have what you need to follow after God. You can't do it in your own strength alone. And God has given you his spirit that you might be powerfully able to follow after him. But you might quench his spirit. John Valvert says this: it is patently impossible to extinguish the Holy Spirit in the absolute sense to put it out. His abiding presence is assured for all Christians. His person is indestructible. But quenching is the sense of resisting or opposing his will. Quenching the Spirit may be simply defined as being unyielded to him and saying no. The issue is whether we're willing to do his will And the truth is, Christians have our own little spiritual temper tantrums. We know what God would have us to do, but we, like little children, think we know better or we want our own way. We just say, no. Now, most of us, you know, if you'd follow us around during the day, you would never hear an outburst like that, right? But we know how to stomp our feet and say no very quietly, don't we? We all know what God would have us do very often. We just say, I'm not doing it. I think my way is better. I don't like what you're doing, God. And I don't like that you want me to do that. My friends aren't doing it. I don't want to do it. And when we act like that, we quench The Spirit. God's not about to help us and strengthen us at that point when we're like little children rebelling against Him. And so to not quench the spirit is say, oh God, I know I just act like this at times. I confess that I just acted like that. I knew I wasn't supposed to say that to my wife. I didn't like what she said. Or I didn't like her attitude. Of course, this isn't my wife. I'm just talking generically. Right? And and I'm and I'm saying to myself, don't say it, Jerry. You know you shouldn't say it. You know if you say it it isn't going to be good. You know that God wouldn't want you to say that. Well I just say, but I gotta get it out I gotta let her know. Right? And at that point I'm just saying, God, I know better what you do, and I'm having my own little temper. And I say I know it better than you do, God. And then I spend the next day and the next week picking up the pieces. Because I quenched the spirit and acted on my own. And we have a lot of that going on in our lives. A lot of difficulties in our life. God will bring trials so that we have to rest on it. But a lot of our difficulties come because we've quenched the Spirit and we're trying to do things our own. And so what he says here is don't quench the spirit by going off on your own way and your own will. So you might just take an inventory, you know, and start thinking about that. Where is it in my life that I'm quenching the Spirit? I know exactly what God would have me do. Sometimes it's children with your parents. Right? I know that when they tell me to take out the trash, I'm supposed to do it right away, in the right way, and all the way. Right? Just get up and do it. Right? But you kind of sit there and go, hmm. Yeah, well, I kind of like this game, or I want to get up right now Uh, maybe I get my brother or sister to do it. You know how we act, right? And and that's just a small thing. We have the same thing at work and with each other. And we quench the spirit when we say that one of the pictures we see of that is King David, of course, after his gigantic sins of adultery and murder. But the same thing happens in miniature with us. And what he needed, when he goes back and confesses his sin, he not only needs his sin forgiven, but he says, Oh God, unless you give me your spirit, I'm undone. I can't do this myself. I need you to fill me with your spirit and for me not to quench it. So in Psalm 51, verses 9 and 10, he says this Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Lord God, I need without your spirit I am undone. I can't do the Christian life on my own. So, brothers and sisters, don't quench the spirit. Confess your little temper tantrums. Confess how quickly you are to go your own way and do your own will. And say, oh God, draw me back to yourself. The second, don't, in the scripture here, 1 Thessalonians 5 and 20, don't despise prophecies. This is a description of a particular way in which the Thessalonian Church was in danger of quenching the power of the Holy Spirit's work amongst them. And that is when they were despising the one bringing God's word. Now, sometimes in the Old Testament, in the scriptures, a prophecy is someone who will tell you what's going to happen in the future. And that happened, Psalm 22, Isaiah 53, or Messianic Psalms and prophecies about the Jesus who is going to come. They talk about his crucifixion. It's pictured there for us. But most of the scripture isn't that kind of telling us what's going to happen in the future, but it's a forth telling of what's God's will is for us. And so it when you're despising the prophecies because we have all the scripture, we're not getting prophecies today. We're not going to skip her eye or not going to go come up in front of you and say, next week this is gonna happen. That's unless we're announcing the election on November or whatever it is. Is right, yeah, we could do that, you know. It's scheduled. But we're not gonna be telling you, you know, uh, you know, next week that uh you know this is gonna be happening, God's coming back. That's not the kind of prophecies we have God's word before us now in the Scriptures. But this is the kind of the prophecies that we already have God's word that you and I despise. To despise the prophecy is to do what Herod did with Jesus before he was crucified. Luke 23, 1. And Herod with his soldiers treated Jesus with contempt and mocked him. And that's what we do when we say we're going to go our way and do our will. We know what God's word says and we treat it with contempt. Now I'm not telling you, I've never been one of these people that says, don't, when you set your Bible down, don't ever put a book on top of it. Ooh, you're having a jump for the Bible. No, you just have a stack of books. You're not treating it badly Right? But you have contempt for the Bible when you open it and you read it and then you forget it. When God has given you his love letter and his directions, and you say, I don't care, I'm going my own way, you have contempt for the prophecies. And you quench the Holy Spirit. Do not despise the prophecies. James in chapter 1 and verse 22 says this Be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving ourselves. So, beloved, if you come to church and say, I put my time in, I heard it, maybe I could tell you one of the pastor's points. You're quenching the spirit. You're despising what God's Word has for you. It's not that I'm so great, but it's my job is great to bring you God's word. In spite of me and all my failures and weaknesses, God has called me to speak his word to you. And when you sit there and ignore it or bored or not pay any attention, you're despising Yeah, you you're not exactly making me feel good, but I'll make it. The trouble is what it's doing to you. Because you're saying, God, I don't care about your word. I'm just gonna just let me put in my time so I can get out of here and go on. Right? Oh man. We do that, don't we? We despise God's word when we do that. And we quench the spirit. He's saying that. Boy, God has what you need. Don't quench the spirit coming to you and directing you and speaking Strengthening you by just being a hearer of God's word and not by his grace a doer. Those are the don'ts. God also gives us do's 1 Thessalonians 5. 21, some of the do's. But test everything and hold fast what is good. Well, I know we have to hear it, but I have to test it. And the word testing is what you do with gold and silver. It's Like you were in the Old West, and these guys went out and they brought in all this ore to you and they said, Look at my gold ore. And you pay me for it, whatever it's worth. And you saw these flecks that were shining like gold, and you found out it was only fool's gold, and it wasn't worth anything. If you didn't test it, you would have lost all the money. But the other guy brings in the ore and you say, it's worth $40 a ton. Wow, you really got a lot something here. But you have to test it to see what it's worth. And so God is putting this job on you, what you are called to do. You're not only supposed to hear my word, but don't just say, Pastor McGuire said it. That's great. I'm going to do it. Now, I might think you should do that. I love to tell other people what to do. Ask my wife. That's fun. But you need to test what I say to you. God's calling you to be active, not just to hear it and receive it as from Him, but test it. Oh man, you're calling me to do. Yeah. It's interesting because in Acts 17, the Apostle Paul of all people, Acts 17, verses 10 and 11, it says, the brothers. Immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. When they arrived they went to the Jewish synagogue. Now these Jews were more noble than those, and even in Feslinica, the chapter we're in tonight, the church. They received the word of God with all eagerness. Do that. You should become morning and evening being eager to receive God's word. But then examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. The apostle Paul? Yeah, they went back to the scriptures and they said, was Paul telling us the truth? An apostle from God. And so if they needed to, how much with the Apostle Paul, how much more? Yes, I've been examined And yes, I trust that our pastor in the session listened to what I say, and when I make a big boo-boo and say something wrong, they're going to come and tell me and lovingly Uh come to me, and if it's wrong enough, I'll come up and ask your forgiveness for being such a fool. But beloved, we need to be active with this, actively receiving God's word, but actively like assayers, seeing, is this really silver or gold? Is this really precious? We're called to examine the scriptures and say, yes, that is exactly what I needed for my soul. And how do you know if it's right? How do you examine? How do you get good at that? Well, you get good at it the way bankers get good at figuring out what false dollar bills are Whether it's a dollar bill or a fifty dollar bill or a hundred dollar bill or five hundred dollar or even I know some of you have had a lot of these, a thou no, no who has a thousand dollar bill, right? Who's even seeing well maybe you have, right? But you know how they get good at those? They don't march in counterfeits and say, look at the way this one's counterfeited. You see what they did up in the corner and how they messed up here? Oh, but look over here. This one was double stamped. And you can see that if you look clearly. They don't they don't teach people how to handle false money that way. The way they get them to do it is they just give them money. And they sit them there and say, handle this. Get used to these dollar bills. Look at them. Smell them. If you need to taste them. You know, get get them in your hands. Keep them coming. And they do that with five dollar bills and ten dollar bills and fifty. So they're so used to them, and they know them so well that when a counterfeit bill comes in, they can tell. Now, I know that printing has gotten much better, so they have these little pens they use now and and but that's not for the people who is really getting the counterfeit. That's just for the person at the at the at the grocery store, right? They're not handling all these bills all the time. But the real people going after the counterfeiters, they do it because they handle them all the time. And that's how you'll know if the counterfeit word is being brought to you. Because you've handled it. Because you've been in the word. Because you've heard the word and you have an idea of where to go in the word. Right? And when the pastor or someone else says something fishy or funny that's not good for your soul, you're gonna go, what? Huh? What was that? Really? And we should actually be doing that when something comes up and then go back to the Word of God. So it says, but test everything. When the pastor says good stuff, hold on to it. Do it. Enjoy it. For those who have their powers of discernment, it says in Hebrews, trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil. The other thing you're told to do in 1 Thessalonians 5. 22 is to abstain from every form of evil. Now, when I first looked at this, I thought, well, it's just like other scripture says, you know, don't do anything sinful. Stay away from bad things. But really in the context, it's here, it says, they believe it says, stay away because you've been doing this kind of training from every form of evil prophecy. Particularly as you look at the scripture, the Apostle Paul is calling the Thessalonians to reject false doctrine. Greg Beale Uh new t uh Old Testament professor said this. This verse is not primarily warning people to abstain from any kind of sinful association with the outside world, though the scripture speaks to that elsewhere. But to separate from false prophets within and to reject their erroneous message. And that's what the Apostle Paul was doing in the book of Acts as he was leaving. And he brought the elders together and he says this. I know that after my departure wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock, and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things To draw disciples away after them. That's what happened in Galatia. We saw that this morning with the Judaizers. And so most particularly, brothers, it's talking about the elders. You know, and when someone comes to preach, you don't let just anyone in the pulpit here. Right? What are his credentials? Where has he been before? All right? We have someone coming to the to the fall retreat. And uh R. Kent Hughes, whose preaching is well known, and we can go look at what he said, and we've read his books, and we know that he's faithful. And uh when we bring things for the Sunday school material, we don't just get anything and said, oh, that'd be a good topic. I like the it's a beautiful brochure, and look how slick their magazine is We read what it says, they teach, so that we know whether it's right or wrong. Stay away, abstain from every form of evil prophecy. John 4, 1 through 3 through 3 says, But test the spirit, see whether they're from God, for many false prophets have come into the world. So we have some do's and don'ts if you belong to God. And it's really talking about receiving his word. We quench the Holy Spirit When we want to do what we want to do rather than God's word, when we hear it, but don't do it And when we hear it, but we don't test it. And when we don't test God's word from all the different kinds of things we hear, we get into trouble also. Your Heavenly Father promised to help you as you call upon Jesus, His living word, to follow His written word. This past week I had someone come to me that uh I was talking to, and they were doing exactly what I'm an expert at. They rationalized what was going on in their life. You know what rational is what wising is You know it's wrong, but you make an excuse that say it's right. So for me, someone who has trouble not stuffing my face too much and getting my joy from food, not just for the calories I need, but because I enjoy it. And when I feel bad, I can go eat food And when I feel good, I can go eat food. And when I'm feeling anything, I go eat food. And I just can do that. And and instead of going to the Lord, right? And so if I were to rationalize, what I would go do is I'd hang out in a bakery all day where they were giving out free samples. And uh and and I could be the one telling people how good it is, and I could say, this is a great place for me, because I could get the smell, the bakery, all that you know, that would be that would be disastrous for me. But I could rationalize it. Right? Because I could say I'm meeting all kinds of non-Christians here. I have a chance to testify, you know. Uh they have free Wi-Fi and so I don't have to pay for it and and uh and I'm saving money because they give me goodies all day long. You know, I can I could really rationalize and I could have you all convinced I'm so good at rationalizing. And we all are, right? And so what the scripture says here is that you're going to quench the spirit when you live that way. And I was speaking to someone this week. And and uh I think one of the reasons they told me what they were telling me about their life because they knew that, and I had to say I had to say to them, you know what the scripture says. You know that God wouldn't allow you to do that. But they said, God brought it into my life. He allowed the situation to happen. It must be good. Even though the scripture was saying, warning, warning, danger, Will Robinson. You're about to get crushed by a meteorite. You know, it's you don't go that way, right? But they were rationalizing it out, and I had to bring the word of God, and they said, Oh, Pastor, thank you Thank you, you're right. And so your heavenly father promises to help you call upon his living word, Jesus, to follow his written word. If you'll turn with me to this last scripture in 2 Peter chapter 1, it's an encouragement. As it talks about God's word, as it talks about how as we hear and receive and follow God, the Spirit won't be quenched But he'll fill us. He'll strengthen us to follow after him and honor Christ. When we love his word more than our words. When we love what he calls us to do more than our rationalizations. So we can do what we want to do. In 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 3 and 4, it says this: God's divine power, His Holy Spirit. Has granted to us all things pertaining to life and godliness. He has given us all that we need to live a godly life in his word and by his power. You're not left alone. You don't have to figure this out on your own. You don't have to do it in your own strength only. He will help you. His divine power has granted to us, every one of us who belong to him, all things that pertain to life and godliness. To have this life in this world and to live it in a godly way through the knowledge of Him who has called us to His own glory and excellence. by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises. He's granted this to us, to direct us, to help us, to empower us, to subdue us That through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. Through this, through God empowering his word To direct you to become like Jesus, having escaped from the corruption that's in this world because of sinful desire. Do's and don'ts, brothers, sisters. Do's and don'ts. Not to force you into this little corner and say, now don't you do this. Don't do anything in this world for my kingdom. Just make sure you're safe. No, it's do's and don'ts. So that we would be strengthened to follow after Christ. To give glory to him in this world and bring forth his kingdom. Let us look to him Our Father and God, how I know too well what it is to quench your spirit. What it is to throw my own spiritual temper tantrums and have pity parties. And I thank you for the mercy and grace that you show us To forgive your rebellious children and to give us your spirit in full abundance. When we come calling that you would renew us, that you have given us and granted us all things that we need for life and godliness. That indeed we might be conformed to even Christ our Savior and glorify Him. Strengthen and encourage us, Lord, by your Spirit as we come Not just to hear your word, but to receive it and to test it and follow it. For Christ's sake and glory. Amen.