Before we read the scriptures together, may I thank you as a congregation for inviting me to come to preach to you. As I told you right at the commencement, I don't speak, I preach. And it's been my privilege to do just that to you and for your kind words to me as it's encouraged me throughout the weekend. I pray God's richest blessing on you all, and particularly upon my dear friend, Pastor Dewsenbury and his wife, Barney, not only in their work at the church, but on their sabbatical They're going off to the other Celtic country in the United Kingdom to Scotland, but I won't hold that against them. But I am really glad to be able to come and read the word and preach the word to you. Would you please stand for the reading of Scripture? I want to read to you from Romans chapter eight and verses thirty-one through verse thirty-nine. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who should bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is he who condemns? Christ Jesus is the one who has died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword as it is written? For your sake we have been killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth. nor any other nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Please be seated. The text this morning is the same one that's been with us uh for the last two days, and that's in uh Romans chapter eight and verse thirty-four. And I want to deal this morning with something that we touched on without it really being the um the center of what we had to say. um uh which was the intercessory work of Jesus Christ. And I thought sure that I put that uh thing uh right on the text here and uh Uh I have so many sermons in this book I've been trying to uh to keep them from getting too um multitudinous, but uh I have obviously failed. But who knows? I found it at last. Um and I want to deal with something that uh may very well be uh quite strange to some of you. Not as a word, although some of you young people um may not even understand what it means. And it's the word intercession. Now I said I talked about it briefly yesterday. And intercession means that someone speaks on our behalf, often in a situation of great danger. If someone intercedes for a criminal, if someone intercedes for somebody who has uh broken broken the speed limit, if someone uh expresses extenuating circumstances, it's it's it's a it's a an intercession. If a mother, when her child has done something quite grievous and the father wishes to administer fairly salutary punishment, the mother will often intercede. You know, don't don't do this. It's it's i they doesn't deserve that. Well, that's intercession. And the great work of Jesus Christ at this moment Is that he is interceding for us. We are a bunch of sinners. And we really don't know how To approach God. We don't know what to say in this eighth chapter. Likewise the Spirit helps in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought. Well, what are we going to say to God? If we don't know what we're saying, we're going to say some pretty dumb things. How could our prayers be answered? Well, Jesus intercedes for us. And he's doing it at this minute when we had prayer earlier. What makes that prayer effective? Is it because Pastor Dusenbury offered it or because you offered it? Not at all. It's because Christ was speaking on your behalf. Before the throne of God, I have a strong, a perfect plea, a great high priest whose name is love, whoever lives and pleads for me. That's what Jesus is doing at this moment. And he does it constantly throughout our lives. If we are believers, We're not approaching God all on our own, standing before his awesome majesty and his all-consuming purity without someone between us and him. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he intercedes for us before the Father. He brings us so that our imperfections, which are all too clear to him, they're not allowed to interfere with the prayers we offer. He takes our prayers, as it were, polishes them up. Cleans them out, gets rid of all that's unworthy, so that we can offer prayer without problem. Remember that Every one of you. Some of you children pray. I know you do. I'm sure you're encouraged to pray by your parents and you join in corporate prayer here in this congregation. How how are those prayers coming up before God? Well, Jesus Christ is cleaning them up. He's not allowing them to go before the throne. With all your failings and and and all your misgivings, uh you children feeware. Maybe I shouldn't be here, but I'd better bow my head because Dad says so and uh Dad'll be real nasty if I don't uh or the preacher will see me and he'll ask me afterwards, why were you behaving like that? Jesus Christ will take your prayers and present them faultless before the throne of grace. And he does that not only for our prayers, he does that for our whole lives. Jesus intercedes for our lives, the life you try to live to the glory of God. Do you? Could you say that this weekend you've lived every minute so purely that it's blameless? And that we're in the presence not just of the saints on earth, but the perfected saints of heaven. And all of you are perfect except me, which I really feel bad about. But you know you're not. You're just not been perfect. I know you haven't. Some of you young people haven't been perfect. You haven't thought the things you ought to have thought. Some of your adults have not been perfect. Well, I would say not some, all. All of you. How then can you come into God's presence this morning and expect Him to bless you? Ha ha. Jesus has interceded for you. He is there before the throne and he answers. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he pleads on our behalf. And all the works that we do, whatever you do, what kindnesses you show, what generosity, what consideration. that you show to other people, maybe you belong to an anti-abortion group, maybe you contribute uh clothing to to an a abortion uh an anti abortion clinic or a um a a cause o of that order and and you take uh the children's clothes that uh they've outgrown or uh you've bought new things and given to them and Maybe you help and counsel young women uh on the verge of of destroying a human life. And you say, That's good. That it is good. But it's only good if Jesus Christ has interceded for you. And perfected it so that your work is pleasing in the sight of God. And he pleads for us when the devil attacks us No accusation of the devil, you see, can cause you any trouble and carry any weight against you. Because Jesus Christ intercedes for you. Do you remember when he was tempted, when he went into the wilderness after his baptism? Who does he meet with there? Well. He doesn't meet with Simon Stilites up a pole, as I told you about on Friday nights. He doesn't meet John the Baptist, who is at this point still alive and was very familiar with the wilderness. And dressed in uh uh camel's hair and and ate uh uh wild honey. He isn't there. Well who does he meet with? He meets with the great accuser of the brethren. And he comes face to face with the devil. And the devil attacks him. You know, don't you be fooled. These nice uh suggestions, tear these stones into bread, uh Jump off this tower, uh whatever the temptation was, it sounds so gentle, it was an attack And Jesus has to face him. And in facing him, he overcomes him. The devil departs from him. To come back at his cross, and I'm sure was always pervading the people with whom he ministered to every day up until the cross. But he comes back at the cross. To undermine his faith. Jesus defeats him. Well, what does that mean for us? Well, the devil cannot destroy us. We are his children. Christ in you, the hope of glory, says the scripture. And you, Christ dwells within you. We'll have more to say about that in a moment. But we are totally encompassed by the grace of Christ who prays for us. Who asks God to defend us? Who does not permit the worst of trials to come to us? You may say this morning, well, the worst of trials will come to me. You may have been, we heard last night from Chuck about his ailments as a result of uh of that tragedy that happened to him. But it wasn't a tragedy. None of you has ever been in anything which God did not purpose for your good and for his greater glory. And Jesus is praying for you. When you feel really downcast, when when when when your condition, your health, and I know that only too well myself, that when my health drags me down to the abyss, And I feel so depressed and dark and uh and there have been times when I just wished I could end it all Jesus Christ prayed for me. He prays for you. You may have trouble in your marriage. Jesus Christ is praying for you. Are you praying? Because he's praying for you. He is encompassing you with his love. Do you belong to the Lord Jesus? Are you his friend? Jesus is concerned for you. Do you suffer from ill health? We heard from Chuck last night. Jesus is praying for him. Praying for his family. Praying for every one of us. We're surrounded by his intercessory work. You see, we've got to understand that Christ intercedes for us in two ways. The first way is passive. And that is, and it's my definition. If you don't agree with it, don't go after any theologian, because he, poor soul, whoever he may be, is not guilty. I am guilty when I say there's a passive intercession. The fact is that Jesus Christ's very presence in the throne room of God as the representative of his people is an intercessor. The Father sees us through his son. He sees us as Jesus has saved us. Christ dwells within us. We are in union with Christ. And as we're joined to Jesus Christ, every one of us who believes in him. So God views us in Jesus. And Jesus is interceding for us, just being before the throne. But also there is an active, an active intercession. And that is, as I've said already, he prays for us. And he beseeches God on our behalf. He takes up all that we do and cleanses it so that we might be able to approach the throne room of God. Christ is interceding for us this morning. Why? Because his word is being preached. He's praying for you to hear his word. I might pray for you to hear his word. Pastor Dusenberry has already asked us, has prayed that God would give you listening ears and understanding hearts, that you would not be hard-hearted about it. But it's not up to us. Christ is praying for you. And that you would hear the scriptures. And you'll hear him praying for you when you hear the scriptures and apply them to yourself. Something said. It touches the quick of your heart. Why is that? Is it because the preacher was eloquent and you're particularly sensitive? No, it's because Christ is praying for you. And Christ wanted you to hear that thing that you might remedy whatever was lacking in your own life. Any situation in your home, any situation with your children, any situation for children with your parents. He wanted you to hear that that you might love them more and more be more devoted to the things they teach you Jesus Christ is praying for us because he's interceding. He's speaking on our behalf. And this intercession has certain characteristics. It's personal. Look what we said here. Who interceding for us, who is, who indeed, Paul isn't saying where he might be. You know, um, might be uh doing something else, uh might be concerned about some other aspect of his work. No, no, he says, who indeed The man who was crucified, the Son of God who died, he indeed is interceding for us. He's interceding for us as the church. He loves the church. It's his body. He loves the church. And he's interceding for the church constantly. When you see the church looking pretty miserable as it is in the world today, you say, well, can can Jesus be praying for his body? Why isn't he doing more things? Why isn't he bringing revival? and and and sweeping the world uh into the church. Why is he not doing so? I don't know. But this I know, he's constantly praying for us. Praise for our worship. Praise for the way in which we listen to the word. Praise for the preaching. Provides preachers. You are a pastor. Where do you come from? Well he came from South Carolina. In fact, I bought this shirt in South Carolina and I wore it in his honor today But you know, how is he in Laurel, Maryland, preaching the word of God to Christ Reformed? Because Christ prays for his church. He brings it into being. Every single congregation. And when people deny him That is when they're apostatized and turned away from the truth. He prays for his church. He really is concerned for us. When you come to worship each Lord's day and you hear the word of God preached and you open the scriptures, all of it is because Jesus Christ has interceded for you. He prays for you as an individual. Whatever your situation as an individual, he's praying for you Your faith should not falter. You should stand firm. The Apostle Paul is very aware of being prayed for. That's why he can say this. Pray for us. He doesn't say pray for you. He's interceding for us. He's one of them. He's with the Romans. He's praying for them. He's praying for him too at the same time. He's concerned. That he should know the grace of God and be aware that it's all of Jesus Christ for his work It wasn't because he was an adventurous fellow. I mean, he'd have clocked up some frequent flyer miles if he lived in our own time. Everywhere, preaching, evangelizing. Why? Because Christ had called him and Christ was praying for him Now at no point do we find that he had a congregation of seventeen thousand people. If he hadn't any number, there was always a handful of really violent people. You go with him to Ephesus. And there the uh silversmiths find out about him and uh they cry, Great is the God of the Ephesians, great is Diana, the God of the Ephesians, and they just want to kill him. He carries on preaching. But why? Because he's confident that Christ prays for him. It's an individual concern. He's an ecclesiastical concern. It's a daily concern. Christ has a daily concern. You go from here today and you say, well, that's it. No, it isn't. Every wheel turn of your car, every stoplight you stop at, and every junction you make correctly will be because Christ is praying for you. We tend to think that he's only praying for us in emergencies. You know, he's our triple A. He'll help us out in a difficult time. No, he isn't. He's praying for us. And he's praying that the grace of God should be upon us. But he isn't only praying for you and for the church, he's praying to God to fulfill his purposes. He is the man as well as he as God in heaven. And he wants the Father to fulfill his purpose. He wants him to bring about the consummation of time. And that will come as a result of Christ's prayer on our behalf. He's been praying for that since his ascension into heaven. He was praying for that before he ever became flesh. And now that he's flesh and understands us better than we understand ourselves, he's praying for that last day, that it might come. And that the Father in heaven might be glorified, and that he should have all majesty and power conferred upon him. No, my friends, Jesus is praying for us and intercession for us. It's not a small matter. It's a constant thing in everything we do. Whatever you do in the next day, week, month, year, remember that Christ is interceding for us. And it's an intercession that never ceases. It never ceases. He doesn't say, well, I'm not going to intercede for that lot. I've had enough of them. They've been really difficult and uh I uh and and they're not listening to me anyway. I mean they've gone to sleep in the sermons and uh they they're really busy doing other things and uh they're not thinking about me so so I'm not gonna pray for them anymore. No, no, it's a ceaseless intercession for his people, for his church. You're joined to Christ. You've been united to him. And he's praying for you. And you will never be out of his sight. And in the day that you die and go into heaven, you go there not because of any merit of your own, you go there because you are in Christ who is praying for you. This is something of such great moment, is it not? That Jesus Christ is praying for his people Well you say, why then do I go through all these dark times? Why why is it that I I I I feel such a failure? Why is it? My friend, you are a sinner yet. And your sin pervades and bugs you all the while. And your sin will always make you feel a failure. It's not his purpose to make you feel success, unless you're doing something sinful. And you shouldn't be doing that. Sin is always going to make you a failure in the sight of God. Now, in the sight of the world, you might very well feel a great success. Uh there's been this terrible case in New England. Um since I lived in New England when I came to America for the first time, I uh I have a sort of emotional involvement with New England. And this man, uh this um linebacker, I think he is, uh huge young man, twenty-two years of age, uh, with a $40 million contract. felt that he was above all law and all restraints and he could do as he wanted and for many people and particularly for his friends he was a success But it was all from sin. And he had nobody to pray for him. And he has no one to intercede for. He wants his friends to speak for him. He's got a lawyer who will try to make out that he didn't shoot or kill or do any damage to anyone. But you know, ultimately whether he's acquitted or found guilty. The truth is that he is still a miserable man because he has no savior and no hope. You have a savior. You have hope. And no matter how dark sin will wield its sword upon you. You have an intercessor who beseeches God on your behalf, and that you are not without hope or without comfort or without friend. Let's make some application and then we'll close. The first thing is this. That Christ's intercession is certain to be heard. Christ's intercession is certain to be heard. How do I know that? Well, because of the cross Jesus Christ has died for you. He's pleased the Father in fulfilling what he wanted done. And so the Lord Jesus Christ is welcomed into heaven. And God is pleased to have him at his right hand. We're told that, are we not? Who is at the right hand of God? And a father will listen to his son who's sitting next to him. He can pray for us. He will be heard. And your session and his session will be heard there. He's defeated the devil. We have comfort of his presence. The Lord Jesus Christ's intercession is certain to be heard. The second thing is this, that knowing he intercedes for us proves his interest and his presence in our daily lives. You know, um I I've had some dealings um over the years and and and some knowledgeable dealings simply because my son-in-law is a lawyer. Lawyer jokes are out in our family. We never make lawyer jokes. Uh in my in fact he met my daughter in law school and so she is a lawyer. She's qualified to be a lawyer. So we don't we don't make any liar jokes. But you know, if you want a lawyer you've got to first of all be able to afford to pay for one. And uh it depends whether they're doing pro bono work or whether it's a regular rate. And and a regular rate. As I understand it, my son-in-law's never told me what he charges, but it doesn't sound as though it's small. You've got to go and seek a lawyer, somebody who is an expert in your particular case. It's pointless going to uh a lawyer who's great at defending murderers simply because you've broken the speed limit. There's no point. They they probably know nothing about breaking the speed limit apart from breaking it themselves. They know nothing about it. You can't go to a lawyer who's an expert on on labor relations. To do defense of a law or a murderer. Lawyers specialize. But the Lord Jesus Christ intercedes for us. And he's only specialized in one thing. Saving sinners. Identifying with them. Dying for them. rising from the grave for them. You don't have to go and say, Well, you know, can you help me? You know, I've got problems in my in in my relationships with my children. Do you think that Jesus can help me? Nonsense to ask the question. He knows how to deal with your issues and to straighten out your own thinking and to help your children to understand what it means to follow after Christ. Maybe there are problems in your home. I know that that is something that happens to every church and every family. Well, is Jesus an expert on these things? Oh yes. He knows that you're both sinners. And he knows you both need the grace of God. And his intercession for us and multitude of other issues, I'm not going to highlight or mention them. But he knows full well how to pray for you and exactly what you need through the ministry of the word through the counsel of of spiritual men. He will know exactly what you need and he'll pray for you because he intercedes for sinners. And the fact he intercedes proves his interest in you. It's not our interest in him. It's his interest in us. Lawyers don't stand outside their offices and say, I wonder does that person need a lawyer? I wonder does this person need a lawyer. They don't look in the catalogs and say, uh, I I I come to help you for this, that apart from speeding fines. uh which I've had plenty of. And um but but otherwise they they they're not looking for business in that way. The Lord Jesus Christ is interested in you He loves you. He wants you to be the best he would have you be. And he knoweth our frame that we are as dust. our daily failings. And he's interested to help us. Let him be interested in helping you. Beseech him to help you. Every day go to him and call upon him to help you, recognizing your own failures but your absolute dependence. upon his love and upon his mercy. He's interceding for you. He's taking your needs before the throne of God. Don't be slow in giving him more work. Don't be slow in saying I don't I've got nothing to I don't want to trouble you God and I mean you're you're only the almighty, eternal, everlasting and infinite God who rules the whole world and and my burdens would be too great for you. I I remember a story about a a Welsh um little Welsh lady in the days when they had their their conveyances were ponies and traps or carts. And uh she she's walking home and uh the local farmer comes by and he's in his pony and trap and and he stops to help her. And and she gets into the car, she's grateful for the ride, it's a tiring day. And and and she says he says to her, Well why don't you put your basket down on the floor? No oh no, she said. That's too much of a load for this horse, so I'll hold on to the basket. Really? Really? She's in the cart, she's got the basket. But it's too much of a load to put it on the floor. Aren't you and I sometimes like that in our dealings with the Lord God? You know, we've got difficulties. But but but as long as you look after me, I mean I I mean all the other problems I've got, I I I'll solve those myself. I'm not going to let you have to try trouble with those. I'll deal with those. No, you won't. You give all to God. He knows our frame and he's intimately concerned. Intimately concerned. His your well-being is his delight. The third thing I want to say is this. that having such a spokesman in the throne room of God should encourage you to pray. You should be praying people. We all should be praying, people. I'm not going to say just you. I am too. I need to be more in prayer. The apostle says, pray without ceasing. Well, why can you do that? Well, because you've got a spokesman. We must always be praying. Our first port of call in the morning should be to pray. And our last port of like the Puritans would say, bolting the door with Jesus. Always pray. Why? Because we've got a spokesman. We've got an infinite, eternal, and glorious spokesman. The Son of God is our spokesman. And he is prepared to speak on our behalf, whatever our circumstances. Oh my friends, how blessed we are to have such a one on our side. But let me ask you, is he on your side? Hey you are Christian. Some of you young people maybe you've never become members of the church. You've never said that you want to be examined with regard to your faith. You you maybe you're uncertain, maybe you're um uh confused, maybe or um a little fearful of of meeting with a minister and the elders there that are I mean people in this church right Sure your elders are very fearsome men. And they be enough to put the fear of of of eternity in your soul. And I saw them last night performing on this stage. In fact, I was very much afraid that your pastor was practicing for this morning service. And I'm really frightened about that. But you you may be as as children and young people you you may be saying, well I I I I don't know enough. I I don't want to commit my life to Christ. Why not? Why not? You've heard these last uh three sermons and this sermon now, how delectably beautiful the Lord Jesus Christ is. How much he loves you, he's given himself for you, he's died on the cross for you. How dare you stand away? Come to him. Well, what good will it do me? He'll pray for you He's praying for you now to come to Christ. He's praying for you to come to him. He's saying unto me, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Some of you older people who maybe have never committed yourselves to Christ. Why don't you? Is it because you're too old now? Look, now is the time to get right with God. I'm 71. I've been a diabetic for 51 years. It's gradually wearing me away. I have prostate cancer. I have terrible vertigo, and I have a partially blocked artery at the back of my heart. What else can I do but pray? What else can I do? I'm prime candidate to drop dead in front of you. And if you're older like me, why stay away when this is the day of grace? Why not come to him? Well you say, uh I'm not old like you. Um I'm I'm I'm comparatively young and and I've still got a lot of life to live and now is the time, my friend. Now is the time to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, why would I do that? Well, to have a spokesman in glory, to have someone on your side who can never leave you or forsake you. Who can defend you against every trial and trouble and take you into his presence? You must never, ever fear to come to Christ Because Christ will speak for you. Oh, I'm such a sinner. He won't speak for me. Oh, yes, he will. He'll intercede for you daily, hourly, minutely. Come to Jesus Christ and live. And the last thing I want to say is this. And the last thing I will say to you. An unknown future should not frighten us from being faithful. No matter what the future holds for us this day. Who knows? I don't know. You don't know. Nobody knows. Lots of talking heads on TV will tell you that they know and they know less than we know. Which is tragic. But we do know this, that whatever lies ahead of us The Lord Jesus Christ is there praying for us. Whether you live another six days, six hours, six minutes, six years, six years. The Lord Jesus Christ is in every minute of that journey. And he's praying for you, interceding for you, that when you sin, he doesn't let the wrath of God fall on your head as you deserve. He's praying for you so that when you meet with difficulties that you will not be totally and utterly confused, but will open a way, a way of escape. That you would see a way clear to overcome the difficulties that you face. The Lord Jesus Christ is for us. If Christ be for us, says the Apostle Paul, who can be against us? He said that in this passage, did he not? If God be for me, well how do I know? Because Jesus Christ has died for me. And it's a personal intercession for you. The Apostle Paul could say to the Galatians, he loved me. Boy, are those great words. He, he, he loved, loved me. The Son of God loved me. I rejoice in the love of my wife. And I think she rejoices in my love for her. Maybe your spouse loves you, and maybe you love her. And that's wonderful. Your children, you love your parents, and your parents love you. But it's nothing. Nothing to compare with Jesus Christ's love for you. His love involves his death. His love involves his resurrection and his love involves his intercession for us, praying for us by the hour, by the minute. Is Christ this morning praying for you? Let's pray. Blessed Lord Jesus. We are so grateful this morning that you are on our side. We're so grateful that you are praying for us. And as we come now to the sacrament, we pray that you would make the bread and the wine real to us as the offering of your own body on our behalf. We pray, O Lord, that as we eat and drink, that we may do it to the glory of your name, that your Holy Spirit would come upon us and make us realize how privileged we are to belong to you. And that we would realize that you pray for us as we partake of the elements. Bless us. Now we pray. We ask this for Jesus' sake. Amen.