So uh we're gonna be reading from Corinthians. The the Corinth is uh on the isthmus between two larger parts of Greece. It was a trade capital. And uh it was a wealthy trade city known for its political connections. If you were born there, I think you were a Roman citizen. It was known for its sexual immorality and its diversity of religions. Perhaps it sounds like a city you know. In the Corinthian church, some had the gift of speaking in tongues, a marvelous gift, which was speaking in languages that they hadn't learned. And those who had the gift of speaking in tongues were beginning to think that they were better than their brothers who didn't have that gift. And perhaps even though this letter was written thousands of years ago to a city thousands of miles away, there is still some application for us today. Let me pray and then I will read, I will stand and we'll read God's word. Dear Lord, I thank you for your word. I pray that you would give light, give understanding. Give us your gospel. I pray that Christ would be lifted up. That all men might be drawn to him. I pray that you would feed us from your word what we need to hear and what our our souls are longing for. Feed us, Lord, from your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Please stand for the reading of God's word. First Corinthians 12, 12 through 31 For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. For the body does not consist of one member, but of many. The foot should say, because I'm not a hand, I don't belong to the body. That would not make it any less a part of the body. And if the ear should say, because I'm not an eye, I don't belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? As it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose. If all were a single member, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, yet one body The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. And on those parts of the body that we think less honorable, we bestow the greater honor, and on our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it, that there may be no division in the body. But that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together. If one member is honored, all rejoice together. Now you all are the body of Christ and individually members of it. And God has appointed in the church first apostles second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? Do all possess the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret But earnestly desire the higher gifts, and I will show you a still more excellent way. Please be seated So I'm I I I'm taken here because I know that you guys are been studying the Holy Spirit and are about to um be studying the gifts of the Spirit. But as I was going here, I was greatly blessed because in my ministry I am dealing with some folks who young adults who um don't really want to get together with some other young adults in the church because they are different, awkward um have different giftings than them. And so this has greatly equipped me in my ministry there. And in the Less than 24 hours that I've been at home since returning from Chattanooga from a missions trip, I've heard several times I didn't feel like I belonged somewhere. Or so-and-so felt excluded. And so I know that this is God's providence that we should be led here for our feeding tonight. So kids, um have you ever not wanted to play with someone? Have you have you ever wanted kind of to play with a couple people, maybe the boys but not the girl? Or the girls, but not the boy. Or the boys and girls, but not that boy. Okay? Have you ever felt that way sometimes? You're playing a game and you kind of wish that so-and-so wouldn't play. Okay? You kind of wanted to exclude somebody. Have you ever been there? I've been there. Or older folks. Have you ever been working on a project at work and just kind of secretly prayed a little prayer that so-and-so wouldn't be on your team? Or if you were in a business, you were just kind of hoping that you would have customers today, but not that customer. That you wouldn't have to deal with them. Well, it's one thing for that to happen out in the world with a soccer game or with a business, but um In the church, we don't have any authority, any business thinking that way about God's people. Why? Because if they're in Christ, they are part of his body, and we are part of their body Our text before us paints a beautiful picture about what life in the body of Christ is like, what the church is supposed to look like, each one connected and doing his or her own task. And we know we were made for community. And yet here's the kicker about community. The more that you get to know other people that you're in community with The greater the temptation there is to get jealous, to get ashamed, to get judgmental, to withdraw. We know that a diverse community is a beautiful thing, and yet as we try to do it, it can be painful. Our text before us addresses two different kinds of pains that the Christian might experience as he or she tries to fit in to the Christian community. Number one, feeling like you don't belong because you don't have a certain gift. Or number two, feeling like others don't fit in because they don't have a certain gift First let's take a look at the distinct community of Christ followers, the church. First Corinthians 12, 12. For just as the body is one and has many members, and all are mem the members of the body, though many are one body, so it is with Christ. Paul is saying that just as a human or animal body has many different parts to it, Christ, Christ has many different parts to him. And Paul is implying that we Christians that make up the church are different parts of the body of Christ. I would think that he would say, so it is with the church. But he says, so it is with Christ. Because as we're in the church, we are part of the body of Christ. This is amazing. We are Christ's body. There's two amazing things here. Number one, that we who are wretchedly sinful can be called the body of Christ And number two, that we who are so vastly different from one another and so independent of one another can be said to be one body. And as Paul is talking about the body of Christ, of course this applies to the international worldwide Christian Church Throughout all ages, but Paul is particularly speaking to a local body of Christ, the local church. He addresses it to the Corinthians. It's not to every Christian everywhere There are some broader letters, this this is to a church. And so this applies to the local church. Verse 13, for in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. Christians are baptized into the body of Christ. When one becomes convinced that Jesus is our only hope, the only hope of redeeming all things, the only hope of saving us from our own sin, the only hope of bringing together righteousness and justice, humility and power When one becomes convinced that Jesus is a rightful king and ruler, we submit ourselves to him by submitting to baptism. Remember what the cry was of Jesus and the apostles as they went about in Judea. It was, repent and be baptized. Becoming a Christian in our culture is synonymous with praying a prayer, becoming convinced of a philosophy, or going to church. But becoming a Christian is about repenting and being baptized. I was on this uh ri this uh missions trip and I was talking with a girl the final night and she was asking all sorts of questions that let me know the Holy Spirit was messing with her and um and she said kind of How do I know I can be saved? And I said, just this. I said, repent and be baptized. And she said, oh, I don't know if I can do that. She wanted something easier. She knew that baptism was serious business. She says, I know friends who've been baptized and they live differently. And they they can't do certain things, and they have to do certain things, and that's what it's about. It's about publicly stating that you have died to self and are alive to Christ. I'm hoping we can pray for her. Her name is Jasmine. But at least she had a correct understanding of how serious baptism was. We come before it's baptism is us coming before others to show others that we believe that we need the cleansing sacrifice of Christ to wash us clean. And children, if you have this faith, tell your parents, tell the elders, repent and be baptized. If you're already baptized, come before the elders to confess your faith and be admitted to the table. So, we're baptized into one body, and we know from verse 12 that this is Jesus' body. So, through baptism, by faith we become part of Christ's body. How is it possible? That sinners should be able to not only commune with God, but become members of his body. It's possible because of Jesus' work on the cross Listen as the author of Hebrews explains it in chapter 10, verses 19 through 22. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus. But the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith. With our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Jesus has accomplished salvation for us by offering a pure sacrifice as our great high priest. So this sacrifice is applied to us by baptism, the washing, the author of Hebrews spoke of, and then by the power of the Holy Spirit, God comes to dwell in us. And when one becomes a Christian, one becomes united to God and he indwells us, Colossians 1. 27. We become a living, breathing, holy of holies, a tabernacle, a temple, a place for the presence of God on earth. And this is done in community with other believers. I think there's a confusion in American Christianity because we're so highly individual, and because we have no second-person plural, unless you go to the South, and it's y'all. We're confused because when we hear the scriptures say you are the temple of God, we think I am the temple of God. But the you there is a second person plural. Y'all are the temple of God. Communally, we do that. Jesus is no longer walking physically around this world, but you are. So he indwells you and makes you part of him by his Holy Spirit. Now, this doesn't mean that you get to determine what God does apart from his will. It doesn't mean that when you sin, you make God the sin since he dwells in you. God is holy and cannot so much as look on sin. But it does throw uh into stark relief the foolishness and wrongness of sin when we have become the temple of God. Paul talks about this in chapter six of Corinthians, when he says, Do you not know that y'all's bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Never. Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For as it is written, the two will become one flesh But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him. Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you, Y'all, have from God? Y'all are not Y'all's own. For y'all, we're bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. So as a Christian, you become one spirit with God. And how could God mingle his spirit with ours? He is holy, holy, holy, righteous and pure, and we're sinful and weak. This is only possible through Christ's finished work on the cross. Now God sees us as righteous and pure, and thereby we have unity with the Father. Hallelujah. Grace so amazing There's no other religion like this. There's no other myth like this. Either you have a Muslim God who is so transcendent that he would never, he would He would rise to think of, a Muslim would rise to think of God joining himself with a human. Or you have a Hindu God where you can have unity with God. But only because everything exists in unity. And therefore there's no special personal relationship, nor is there any fundamental distinction between good and evil. Only by the power of Christ's sacrificial death can anyone ever hope to think of a personal union with a holy God. There's none like you, Lord. And you might say, Nick, you're kind of hitting hard on the gospel here. You know that this is a church and we know the gospel. I know. I know. But believers need the gospel too. Because here's the thing, if if we're struggling with our unity in Christ, if there's sometimes a temptation for us to, in our hearts, exclude someone, or if we ourselves are feeling excluded. What we need is the gospel. Because here's the gospel is that God who was holy wanted to be with you. And with you a sinner. And if he wants to be with you a sinner, how silly it is, how crazy it is that we would not want, we would think ourselves too great to be with one other believer. It's crazy. It's insane. And if we're the one that's feeling left out, what does it matter what other people think if other people think that we should be left out? If other people are excluding us? If the Lord Himself includes us, but they think does it matter so much? And being united with Christ, again, it's not just this kind of personal relationship with God that we talk of as an American. That's highly individual. It's like when you start dating someone. You're not only looking at being united in relationship with this special someone, you also are looking at being united in relationship with all their close friends and family. I had to take a close look at at Judy and Marty here when I was dating. I was like, I'm going to get connected to them. I'm going to have to live the rest of my life with these people. And I love them, and I'm so glad that I am connected to them. But that's what it's like with Christ. You're not just, you're not just like, you know, this is what people will say. It's like, I I like Jesus. I just don't like his fan club. Have you heard that before? Kind of I like Jesus, I just have a problem with the church. My next door neighbor is that way. But if you want to be connected with Christ, you are by me What the scripture tells us connected with, covenanted with his people. And therefore there's a certain way that we must interact with them And do you know who Christ's friends and relations are? Do you know who he connects himself with? Inevitably it's going to be people on the other side of the aisle. Democrats and Republicans in union with Christ. Intellectuals and jocks in union with Christ. Country folk and city folk in union with Christ. American citizens and illegal immigrants, those who love contemporary music and those who like hymns, Pedobaptists, Cratobaptists, Presbyterian and Congregational, Ravens fans and Steelers fans. Reformed and fundamentalists. Union with Christ means union with them. But as we look at the biblical examples of who is united together in Christ, Jew and Greek, slave and free, let's take a look at that for a second. All of those contemporary examples that I offered fall far short of the great gulf that is represented between these two examples. Let's look at Jews and Greeks. You can just get a little bit of insight into the Hebrew mindset when you understand that they called everybody else Greeks. Okay? Was everybody else Greeks? No, that's what they called him, though, Goiem. They're not all Greeks, but they don't even bother to figure out the names of all these other people. To them, it's just Greeks. It's all Greek to me. You know, so for them it was two types of people. There's Hebrews and everybody else. Okay? And so there's just a huge goal for them there And it's amazing that these two groups could be joined together in the New Testament church, and if they could do it, all other groups can. Jews had a very specific diet, a diet to make them distinct. They had a regular Sabbath. They met in a synagogue. They read from a holy text. They're in the habit of thinking about themselves as a chosen race, and every other race is below them. They dress distinctively from others. They talk distinctively from others. They had at least some familiarity with the story of redemption, and most other cultures had none. And they sometimes look down on others for not being chosen. So then you've got the Greeks, the the Gentiles, who were by no means a monolithic group, though that's what they were called. They were they were by definition everybody else. And um The Gentiles in Corinth had a pantheon of gods. They didn't even have a rest day one and seven. They didn't have the same work week. They had lots of festivals and random holidays, but not a regular Sabbath. And the society that they came out of had allegiance to many different deities, and they they had a kind regard for Rome, and they prided themselves on their Roman citizenry, unlike the Jews. And they esteemed the gains and entertainment. And pederastery and polyamory was approved of, at least by the aristocracy. And pleasure, philosophy, and profit were paramount for them. And the gospel called people out of both of these societies, Jewish and Gentile, into a relationship with Christ and into a relationship with one another in the church. And if these people can do church, we can do church. Slave and free. As Jesus builds his church, he unites slave and free. The slaves don't particularly want to be united with their masters because they want to hate them and tear them down because of their position over them. And the masters don't necessarily want to be united with the slaves because they'd rather consider slaves less human. Than themselves, so they could more readily justify their rule over them and abuse over them. But the gospel called people out of both of these groups to love one another and be on the same footing with one another in the church. Christianity didn't justify rising up against masters just because they're masters. And Christianity didn't justify treating slaves cruelly and inhumanely just because they're slaves. It calls slaves and free in that situation. to come and be equal partakers of the Spirit of God. So if slaves and free, as they are, if Jews and Gentiles as they are can be united together, not merely hypothetically, but really, how much more should we be able to experience that unity in Christ? If all that separates us is media or philosophy or age or style. Here's what's true. We are the body of Christ, all of us, no matter how different we are. And if we have truly repented and believed and been baptized, we have become part of the body of Christ And here's what we should do. Care for one another. It's right there in our text, verses 12, 24, and 25. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the parts that lacked it That there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. So my main point is that we should care for one another because we are the body of Christ. We should care for one another because we are the body of Christ. Let's take a look at how Paul communicates this truth to his original Corinthian audience. He uses this metaphor of a body. Biologically speaking, the lowest levels of life are the ones that have one type of cell, right? Blue-green algae cells. Pretty much all look the same and they have the same function because every cell is very similar. There's no specialization, no higher-level functioning like hearing, seeing, or thinking. Bacteria do fine in a group, they can do fine on their own. On the other hand, humans and animals have highly specialized organs and systems. A neuron cell is specifically constructed so as to thrive at communicating information between cells, but it would stink as a muscle cell. And because body cells are so specialized, they work wonders in concert, but alone they die. And Paul is telling us that Christians function like those highly specialized body cells. Not only do we as Christians wither if left alone, we also sink if put to the wrong purpose within the body. Christians can even feel like we don't belong at all in the body if we look different from those around us. Sometimes a Christian could look around at himself or herself in the church and see lots of people with the gift of wisdom and intellect. And say, I don't seem to have that. I'm not sure if I belong here. Or maybe a Christian could look around and say, you know, I don't see anyone else with the gift of administration. Maybe I don't belong here. Or I don't see any other college students here, or I don't see any other Koreans here, or I don't see any other older folks here. But Paul seems to be saying that's how God has made the church. Look at verse 18. But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose. So having you in the midst of people unlike you is as God chose. The application for you today, Christian, is this: even when you feel like you don't belong, remain And care for one another because the church is the body of Christ. God purposely placed you where you are, even and especially when you feel like you don't belong. Look at verse 15. If the foot should say, because I'm not a hand, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body. Just because you have different passions, scruples, gifts, abilities, and those around you in the local church doesn't mean you don't belong. There's an old story of a poor old man who was coming to the Presbyterian church, and every week he came in the same ratty and tattered suit. graying, frayed, stained. And so the deacons got together and they they knew this this old man liked to get dressed up for church. And they said, you know what, we should get him a suit. Let's it wouldn't be that hard. Let's just gather together and uh and go to the retirement home 'cause they have cheap suits there. Uh And we'll buy one of those and we'll we'll get him that. And so they did that. They gave him the suit and they c they were anxiously awaiting the next Sunday when this old man was going to come in and his new crisp suit that they had gotten for him. And so Sunday morning rolls around and he never comes. And the next Sunday rolls around and he never comes He doesn't come and they call and they they ask him, hey, where are you? We can't we we we we were looking forward to seeing you and he says you know um Oh, uh actually I've been going to the Episcopal Church down the road now that I have a nice new suit. Uh uh now I I can belong there. It's a silly story, but it's just as silly to walk away from a church that loves you. And unfortunately we have seen that all too often in the Christian church, uh youth who has been raised in the church that that loves them to walk away. Because they feel like I would fit better at a cooler church. Or um or w we have people that we have cared for and invested in heavily in our church and they walk away to go to another church where People don't quite know all their business quite as much. But remember, if you have a problem with the people God has placed you with in your local church, You may not really have a problem with people, you may have a problem with the Lord. You may be thinking that you know better than God. Now I thought I got to offer a qualification to this about staying and leaving church business. In as much as the church is proclaiming Christ as Lord and maintaining the Word and sacraments, they are the true church. But inasmuch as Christ's lordship, Christ's suffering, Christ's all-sufficiency becomes a question mark instead of a period, that church ceases to be the body of Christ in the true sense and instead constitutes a synagogue of Satan. Myself and many of you have had to leave churches where Christ became a question mark, where creation, the fall, sin, the atonement became optional. Where folks call themselves Christians without believing in the virgin birth, the miracles of Jesus, or the physical resurrection. And that is another gospel that is not the Jesus of the Bible Therefore, it's entirely appropriate in such situations to exercise what Francis Schaeffer called discipline in reverse. And you can you can talk to Glenn about the story of him seeing that happen before his very eyes in the denomination of people become becoming ordained who did not believe. in the deity of Christ, in the singularity and all sufficiency of Christ. Now there are various other reasons for leaving a church besides apostasy, but what I want you to hear today is that just because you have different gifts, and passions from your current church, it doesn't mean that you should leave and go find a church that exhibits your gifts and passions. 1216, if the ear should say, because I'm not an I, I do not belong to the body, that would not make it any less a part of the body. So sometimes we can be tempted to leave because we feel like we don't belong, but other times we're tempted to kick others out, if not in reality in our hearts, because we feel like they don't belong. Verse 21, I have no need of you. I have no need of you. It would be foolish for different parts of the physical body to say to one another, I have no need of you. And Paul is saying that in the same way it's foolish for different parts of the spiritual body to say, I have no need of you. I don't know if you've ever had such a headache that you just kind of wanted to take your head off of your body. Or for me, it's been sinus infections. I just want to rip all sinuses and nasal passages out of my body. But that would be foolish. Okay, so also it is foolish to try to do that spiritually. We can be tempted to commit spiritual amputation. Because some member is causing such a racket or causing pain throughout the whole system that it's tempting to think that it would be solved if we just got rid of them Sometimes the pain can be become of because of one member's sin, but many times it just comes because of different gifting and passions and personality. For instance, there can be one member who has a gift of organization is so zealous about it that about everything being done in good order, it's tempting for others who do not have that gift to get very annoyed at the organizers' constant attempts at organization and order. But we don't need to tell them, I have no need of you, the Lord has placed them in our body for a reason. Then the scripture says an interesting thing. It says the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable. Biologically speaking, that doesn't make a lot of sense. It seems like the weaker parts should just die off. But we know that the weaker parts, the heart, the liver, are needful and need to be protected by stronger things like bones and muscles. What's not so understandable is how this works with the body of Christ. What are the weaker parts? Wouldn't the weaker brother be the most dispensable part of the body of Christ? But not so, it seems, with Christianity and the body of Christ. Paul is arguing that the weak amongst us are the most indispensable. Who is the weak? Look at verse 22 through 24. There's a syllogism there between 22 and 24. Weaker, less honorable, unpresentable. There are parts of the church body that are given less honor than others. There are parts of the body of Christ that are presented to all less often. Who are they? They're the ones among us serving quietly, behind the scenes, faithfully, yet without very much recognition. These parts of the body of Christ are indispensable. I'm trying to think of what would be the least you could do, the least you could contribute, the way that you would feel most not belonging to the body of Christ. I'm thinking of a paraplegic, I'm thinking of someone who can't move their arms and legs. What can they do? What could they do for the body of Christ? Johnny Erickson Tata, right? What has she done for the body of Christ? A great deal. At the very least, it it allows, it gives the people in the body of Christ someone to serve. Do people in the body of Christ need practice serving other humans? Absolutely. That they love? Absolutely. What can they do? What if if you couldn't move your arms and legs, what would you do? What could be your contribution to the spiritual body? Could you still pray? How much does the church need prayer? Can we ever pray too much? No. Indispensable, indispensable to the body of Christ. So, because we're the body of Christ, let us care for one another. I've explained what the body of Christ is, the church. I've explained that we need to care for one another. Even when we feel like we don't belong or when we feel like others don't belong. Now I want to talk about how we care for one another. And the list could be endless, but the scripture before us highlights two things. That there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. If one number suffers, all suffer together. If one number honors, all rejoice together. So how do we care for one another? By suffering with one another, and by rejoicing with one another. Suffering with one another. It sounds depressing and counterintuitive. Like if somebody's suffering, like kind of like let's like close off the suffering and just kind of like contain it and make it as small. as possible, but not so here. When when my friend is hurt with a football injury, I grieve with them. I pray for him. When my friend's friend is murdered, I grieve with him and go with him and be with him and pray for him. When my brother in Christ is still suffering the effects of having lost his mom, I I grieve with him and sit with him and long for the redemption of all things with him. When my sister in Christ loses her brother, I suffer with her, her sorrow, and suffer with her loss. And try to do little things that honor his memory. When we're united to Christ, we're united to one another, and so let us grieve and suffer with one another. And I have seen you do this, Christ reformed, and do so more and more, rejoicing with one another What what has the Lord been doing in your life lately? Has he provided you a job? Has he brought back your son from backsliding? Has he softened your heart of anger? Has he heard your prayer for a friend? Has he given you special grace? Has he given you a child? Has he given you a spouse? Hallelujah. Let the body of Christ know that. We want to rejoice with one another. Apart from Christ, we're tempted to humbug, to grump, to get annoyed when others win. When uh there was an article on The Onion about My friend keeps meeting all of her life goals in a totally insensitive manner. It's just like, do you have a friend who's successful in everything you do? You're tempted to just hate that person. But not so in the body of Christ. We rejoice with that person. We're free to rejoice with that person because we know that our identity is not wrapped up in what we do. In Christ we have all our wants supplied. Our sins have been forgiven. We couldn't be loved any more by the God of the universe, so we're free to rejoice with those who rejoice. Rejoicing with one another is the hardest when we ourselves are still waiting on the Lord. It is beautiful when you rejoice with a brother who's found a job when you're still waiting for one. It is full of faith when you rejoice with a sister who has been given a child when you're still waiting for one. It bespeaks our deep connection with the The body of Christ, when you shout for joy with a Christian whose family member has finally repented and accepted Christ as their Savior, even when you're still waiting for your family members to turn to Christ. But to rejoice with one another and to suffer with one another, we must know one another. We must be praying for one another regularly, even as I saw that you were doing tonight and evening worship. Do not hide your life from the body. Let us rejoice with you. Let us suffer with you. Do not hesitate to share with the brothers and sisters what's really going on in your life. For our lives are now knit together for better and for worse by the blood of the Lamb who gives us the gospel of reconciliation. So in conclusion, if you're feeling excluded from the body of Christ, If if you are tempted to exclude some who have a different personality or philosophy or style than you, know that God has formed together the body of Christ purposely. For our benefit, that we might be stretched, that we might know that all the gifts that we have are not all the gifts that someone needs. Because we have been given a great gospel of grace. God considered us worthy to be part of his body, and so we should consider others. part of his body and love them in such a way. Let me pray for us. Dear Lord, I thank you for your gospel, which brought me to yourself, sinner though I am, and have included me in your body. I can I can talk and I can be friendly and thank you, Lord, for using that for your kingdom. And I pray that you would Show those who are thinking that they're not much used to the body of Christ or feeling excluded from the body of Christ, what a blessing they are to the body of Christ. And how they are part of the body of Christ, no matter what anybody else says or implies. But you have brought them near by your shed blood on the cross. I pray that you would comfort them with us, give them boldness to interact with the body of Christ as if this is their home. I pray for Christ Reformed as they're in this new building. I pray that many people would come. uh from the surrounding neighborhoods, people unlike them, and that they would feel like they could belong here as the part of the body of Christ. And the and those who are at Christ Reformed would would welcome them. And And consider it as your sovereign leading that they be part of the body here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen