Is the last Sunday, it appears, that we will be going through and finishing the book of 1 Peter. Uh it is my hope today uh that uh and it is my plan, I should say, that I'm going to be crisscrossing If you will, I'll begin with our passage, but I'll be crisscrossing between the exposition of our passage. as well as sort of a a summary and a review to put all the things together that well most of the things that Peter has brought out in this epistle altogether. I think that there are going to be times as we get into it that we're going to be right into the passage and there's going to be times when I'm going to zoom out and sort of get the 500-mile view to put everything together for us. If you haven't turned your Bibles open to 1 Peter, please do so now. And I'd like to ask you to please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word. It is from 1 Peter chapter 5, verses 12 to 14. Hear now the word of God. By Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it. She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings. And so does Mark, my son Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to all. Peace to all of you who are in Christ. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And as you are seated, join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, grant us grace now, we pray, so that we may understand what our Heavenly Father has for us in His Word. Help us to see, hear, and understand. And we pray that it not end with our minds comprehending the ways of God as found in the Word. but change our hearts, our souls, to accept the change, accept and change to God's ways, so that we may reflect our loving Savior. More and more into his likeness, forever loving our Father and seeking out his kingdom first, and loving our neighbor well. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The church or the churches that Peter is writing to are obviously undergoing suffering. Suffering of some sort which is really not entirely clear. Peter doesn't tell us exactly what they are, and he doesn't tell us really what the severity of the suffering is. Peter's been, I think, quite ambiguous about that question. But what has been clear is that the church or the region of churches in the area, the Asian area, is undergoing some persecution. For their faith. His response is not that uh the kind of response that we want to hear, is it We want to hear is when whenever someone is harming us, for our faith is something like let them have it. Treat them the way you think that they should be treated. In that very moment, for a matter of fact. An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. Get out of there. If you don't like it, check out. Teaching has been instead, be like Christ. Treat them the way that Christ has treated you. When you were sinners and had no hope in yourselves to save yourselves, Christ suffered in your place. and die in your place, so that you can have life and be restored to our Heavenly Father. Return good for evil. Don't be seditious. Don't slander when you're being slandered. Instead, he gave us biblical truth about the future vindication, pointed out what happened in the past and how God protected, judged. and vindicated Noah, and so shall he vindicate you. He pointed us that in the midst of all the suffering that we have, that we should rejoice in Christ. to find our peace in Christ. Now, as we enter into our text this morning, He begins by naming Sylvanus. He is also known as Silas in the scripture He is uh Silas or Sylvanus is not unknown to Scripture. He was a well-respected brother during the Apostolic Age. He worked with the Apostle Paul and Timothy and that believed the second missionary journey. In fact, if you were to go through the book of Acts, as we have been studying on Sunday mornings, starting with chapter 15 and verse 22, and read all the way to 18 and 5. you will discover that Silas's name is mentioned no less than twelve times. He was so respect so well respected That in the Acts chapter 15 and verse 22, for example, he was called upon to deliver the letter containing the Presbytery meetings, decisions in Antioch. Now read that for us. As then it seemed good to the apostles and to the elders, with the whole church, to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Barsabas, and there we find him Silas, leading men among the brethren. Sylvanus is identified as the secretary of this letter. It was commonplace in Peter's time to have a secretary to write up a letter Paul also used an, here's a big word, amenuensis to write his letters. This would not be the first time that Peter is sort of using an amenuensis It is well attested that Mark's gospel is really Peter's telling of the events in the Lord's life and the sharing of the gospel itself. Here in 1 Peter, he was called upon by Peter to be his amenuensis. This word, this was uh the the word that was used from the Greek meaning obviously secretary. A dictionary definition of this word is the following a literary or artistic assistant, in particular one who takes dict dictation or copies manuscripts So it's okay to say that Silas or Sylvanus, whichever version you like of his name, is the writer of this letter, but the author and the commissioner of this letter is the Apostle Peter himself. So why is it believed that it is Peter now who has picked up the pen and finishes things up? Well, I think for beginners, it's a bit more personal in what he conveys. Additionally, it's harder to explain Sylvanus' writing of himself and how highly he is regarded by the apostle. So I believe that up until this point it had been Sylvanus who had been writing and dictating what Peter wanted to write. And at this juncture, as he ends the letter, which I'll go into in just a moment, he picks up the pen and writes the following three verses. Perhaps Peter himself recognized that this just, you know, he takes the pen and and writes what what we have in the last verses. Why? Because I would argue that as 1 Peter 5. 13 reads, Um to him be the dominion for ever and ever. Amen Doesn't it sound like it ended? Sounds like he ended his thoughts. And it was now time for the what is customary final greetings. And Peter wasn't going to have Sylvaniaus write things that may have caused him to I I don't know, blush So then, having established that it was Peter who authorized the letter and Sylvanus functioned as the amenuensis, we move on to what Peter um that Peter is giving witness to, and that is to the true grace of God as is found in Jesus. Not only because he was a witness of the transfiguration or the resurrection, but he was living in that forgiveness found in God's grace. That is what he was giving witness to. He was a recipient of that grace. He was a witness of that grace. Not only is he bearing witness, but he's also exhorting us to stand firm in that very same grace. Everything that we have is by grace. Every blessing that we receive, the strength we gain to withstand the darts of the evil one, all of it is by grace. We are saved by it, and we are sustained by it. And it is in this grace that we must be grounded. It is not by any work of our own. Our salvation begins and ends in God's continual grace. And so we must not go outside of that grace in order to be sustained We all know that it is God's grace, but the truth is that there are times when we turn to other things to sustain us during our trials and temptations. Well, some of those things that we rely upon is ourselves. Thinking that we have the power to overcome We can become prideful, and this is a common and big problem that we experience. After turning to God and experiencing victory over sin, we can think. Perhaps the next time that we encounter that temptation, something along the lines of, I got this, been there, done that, I got this. I can handle this now by myself. You know, I think the devil loves it when we think that way Another is when we think we're doing the right thing, like turning to the proper authorities to get justice. We think, okay, now I will get justice or be protected. The problem here is that you look at the servant and not to the one who is in charge of the servant. God. God Himself. The point is that we place our hopes in the wrong place, in the wrong person. Another is when we have financial concerns, we think that we can hide or place our security in our savings. or in our stock portfolio, or in our 401k plan, or whatever it might be that we are looking to for our financial safety Only just a couple of examples that I've given of what we can place our hopes in. And when doing so, we are not standing firm in our faith. When we are not firm, we can stumble. We can become prideful. This should give us insight into what Peter just said only a couple of verses ago. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God. So how do we stand firm? I think, of course, it's by being in the Word of God. It's by being in His presence in prayer, asking for others to pray for us and our sanctification. It is by worshiping God regularly, because when you do, you will have access to the sacraments, regularly going before God, confessing your sins. You know, some of us have a tendency when we don't address things in a timely way Just let it sit. And over a period of time, we came to a place where we're embarrassed to address it. So we avoid doing what we know, what we need to do. Confessing sin helps us to maintain a proper and healthy relationship with God. Coming to worship and other church ministry events like Bible studies helps us to maintain an accountability. Sometimes Sometimes we give ourselves license to sin. Maybe you have heard the monikers underneath those pieces of paper. Who is this going to hurt? Nobody got hurt last time. No one will notice. And the justifying statements can go on. So these are things that you must do to stand firm in your faith. always be and look to be in the presence of excuse me presence of God So in his closing greetings, which we are under right now, Peter is sending his salutations from Babylon. Babylon should not be taken to mean literally Babylon, the city, but rather it is a symbolic gesture or meaning of the world power that stands opposed to God's kingdom and the gospel. Now, in Peter's time, it is argued that Babel was Rome. And I think that's correct Even John the Apostle also refers it to Babel as Rome in the book of Revelation. Now, I want to point out that Babylon is also known as the place of captivity. at a time of the exile in Israel history. Now, I don't believe that Peter is referring it now to Babylon as that very place where they're experiencing exile. Instead, I think he's making reference to it not only as the place that is opposed to God's ways Allah, the tower found in Genesis. It is the place in Peter's time. that has had a history of already persecuting Christians for their faith Now the chosen has to be understood as the church that is in Rome. They send greetings They like Peter, Peter's future readers stand as living proof that they are alive and well and partners in the gospel ministry. They themselves, having been persecuted, should give them encouragement. Mark, the author of the second gospel, also is mentioned as sending his salutations. Now we've already said that the close association of John, Mark, and Peter the Apostle is well established in and out of the Bible. Just like Slovanius, Mark also compiled and wrote, as we know, for Peter. Now let's go ahead and for a moment take the 500-mile view and spend a couple of minutes on that The book itself began by Peter identifying himself as the author and as one of the apostles of Christ. The very same Peter, who was part of the inner circle. He began the letter by greeting them with grace and peace. Wishing that they may receive them in abundance. He now ends the letter in similar fashion, in grace and peace. It has been a book that helps the newly formed communities in Christ, the various churches to gain insight. as to how they are to see themselves as they find themselves in an increasingly hostile culture. That has not changed for any community of churches since Peter's time. Very helpful for us. Now, as they grow closer to God, they naturally Stop participating in sinful lifestyles. They no longer wish to participate in sinful activities, but instead they wish to pursue holiness, that it should be us. Peter writes that as they wish to grow closer to their Heavenly Father, that those, their buddies that used to participate in those sinful lifestyles along with them, either don't understand. And or at some point making fun of them or seek evil of them. Peter first uh 1 Peter 4:4, it states With respect to this, they, those former buddies, if you will, are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. It's no different today, is it? As you pursue to live a life of obedience to our Heavenly Father People whom are your friends with, not just acquaintances, but perhaps even family also, who are not believers, don't understand or approve and may exercise some form of coercion to get you to come back to their sinful lifestyle that you used to have. And so Peter wanted for us to see ourselves as we truly are and how God sees us. He is writing at a major turning point in the history of redemption. It is at the beginning of the long-awaited and prophesied new covenant. The coming of the kingdom and the anointed one who would bring salvation to the elect of God. Jesus, as the Messiah, has come, and through his crosswork has brought about salvation, and is now seated at the right hand of God the Father, ruling over all. As things evolve from the old ways to the new, Peter wants the people of God to understand ourselves in light of the already. arrival of the kingdom of God, and not yet, which will come about at the return of Christ and at the judgment that it will bring with it. We are a new race of people. A nation that is made up of people from every race. Not just Jews, but Jews and Gentiles. It is a community of people who have a familial connection through our Heavenly Father. We are a holy nation of priests who now give sacrifices to God. That is worship directly. We no longer have a mediator whom we give our sacrifices to so that they can be prepared for worship. There is no longer a physical temple where people go to worship in a specific part of the world. The temple, the temple of God, is now global. It is the church. The church made of believers are now not inanimate stones that make up the construction of the temple where God used to reside. It is now made up of stones, living stones. You and I. The New Testament Church, the elect combined together, all across the world in time and space, make up the temple of God. That is also a major difference in the new covenant. God is no longer among His people, residing in a local physical building. He now resides within his people. The Holy Spirit now resides within each believer. These are just a few of the glorious distinctions that Peter points out in this letter for us to see ourselves as God sees us. But one of the major distinctions is that we should see ourselves as our father in the faith was when God called him to serve and follow him. Our father in the faith that I have in mind is Abraham. He was a sojourner. As a sojourner, Abraham, really not only him, but all of the patriarchs were sojourners. They were a people who were living in a land that was not their own. It was not their home. As sojourners, we are to see ourselves living in a land among a people who are not from our home. And that one day we shall be in our home. And as guests, living far from home. Peter provides us with what invariably are very much needed instructions as to how we are to live amongst those that are not fellow believers in Christ. He gave us instructions, if you recall, for common institutions and society, how we are to interact with governments, our employers, and also with any institution of marriage. We are to be obedient guests, reminded that we reflect our Heavenly Father just as long as we are not being asked to sin. But invariably, as Peter got to the heart of the consequences of being a sojourner, he had to deal with what was obviously occurring throughout the empire. Persecution for believing in Christ. The suffering Christians received for their faith and how they were to respond to that suffering. Well, as we studied, it was very simple. We were exhorted to follow the example of none other than Christ himself. When Christ was persecuted for following his Father's ways, for being obedient to God, he was persecuted. Instead of returning evil for evil, he did good. Every Christian knows this in a very real and personal way. We as sinners led lives of sin, thumbing our noses at God. But God, instead of giving us evil in return, chose to give us something that we don't deserve. He gave us grace, unmerited favor. He sent his son to die in our place, to receive the punishment that we deserve for our sins. God gave us good in return for evil. And in that process, he won us over by his sacrificial love, did he not? We then, as Peter points out, God just may use our suffering in our obedience to him as a means to draw, convince people unto himself. That is why we should be prepared to offer an argument or explanation for our faith as opportunities arise. Now, as hard as it may be to swallow this difficult teaching that frankly is so unnatural to humanity, returning good for evil. Not taking justice into your own hands. Peter did point out and wanted us to remember that God is not asking us to be doormats just for the sake of being doormats. Our sojourning will end one day, whether it is our death or when Jesus returns. One way or another, one day or another, God will vindicate us. He is the one that will attain justice for being persecuted for our faith. We can look forward to a time when we will be satisfied with God's justice. and be rewarded for our obedience with a reward that will be imperishable And is being protected even now in a place that doesn't rust, nor can it be stolen. And so, as sojourners, we ought to live out our lives with the reality that we should not anchor our hopes in things of this world. Have you done that? Are you doing that? Are you anchoring your hopes in things of this world? But instead, as Peter tells us, we should stand firm in our faith. Knowing that our faith is firmly upon the King of Kings. The Lord Jesus himself whose spirit resides in us and is capable of completing the task that he began in us when he saved us. And in verse 14, he says, Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace be to you all who are in Christ. Greeting each other in a genuine love in Christ is what Peter exhorts. That is what we're to aspire to. Loving one another in earnest love. Peace, frankly, is what believers need Peace, especially, was what the believers needed back then. Peace from troubles and a peace of mind. Peter says that all who are in Christ may experience it in this life and not in the one to come alone. We can experience it now. And so let us go ahead and close with that thought of whatever it is that you're experiencing that is rocking your peace with God. You can experience that in and through Christ. Do not anchor your hopes in the things of this world. but look beyond them to our true home, which one day we will go to. Or if we're in that last generation, it will come to us with great glory and rejoicing. Let us close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we we thank you for this wonderful reality. Help us, Heavenly Father, to be reminded that we are indeed sojourners. That this is not all that there is, and that we are we have a home, and that home is elsewhere. And in that home, you are our Father. You are the one that has built that great mansion. that have sufficient space for all of your children. We pray, Father, that that we would not be distracted by things of this world. But rather that we would serve you with great love. And that great love that we have for you would just bubble over into our love for each other as we support one another. in our sanctification and our growth and most importantly of our worship for you. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders to please come forward, who will be assisting with the elements this morning.