And thank you, Jenny, for my glasses. In 1862, the African Methodist Episcopal Church published a rhyme. in their publication, The Christian Recorder. In the article they stated that it was an old adage, suggesting that this rhyme was something that had been around for quite some time. I think there's a very high likelihood that most of you have heard this rhyme. Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. I think we've all heard this at some point in our childhood I certainly did. For me it was an elementary school. And this rhyme was and is still offered today to counter the efforts of bullies in the playground. or other such places that bullies practice their trade. As a child, I took it on face value, but as I invariably cross paths with accomplished bullies. It became evident to me that both from my observations of others' responses as well as mine, it simply wasn't an effective bulwark against verbal attacks. Over the years, when people have come to me for counseling, it has become blatantly clear that those who live by this motto are either not applying it properly in their life or it's simply just not true. Yes, the first part may be true, but the second part seems to be grossly in error. It is words cobbled together in the form of a sentiment that comes from our mouths by the use of our tongues that can cause all sorts of pain. And this pain can go beyond the pain anyone can experience from an excruciatingly painful broken bone. Additionally, this type of pain is different because at some point bones mend, don't they? And they stop hurting But the words hurled at us by the tongue can last. Well, frankly, they can be with us until we go to the grave. In our passage today, James has something to say about our tongues, which seems to invalidate this rhyme uh this very well known rhyme. Would you please rise as we read and hear God's Word today, which comes to us from the book of James, chapter 3, verses 1 through 12. Hear now the word of God. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. Look at the ships also Though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by very small rudder, wherever the will of the pilot directs. So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire! And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell For every kind of beast and bird and of reptile and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind. But no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and curses. My brothers, these things ought not to be so Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water? Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Join me as we pray to the Holy Spirit for his illumination. Holy Spirit, attend to us now as we continue to worship by the Word of God. Make us attentive and eager to hear and learn what our Heavenly Father has prepared for us this day. Help us to understand, help us to see how this passage applies to our walks with the Son of God. And prevent us from forgetting what we learned this day. But we ask that instead you would change us so that we may conform to the will of our Heavenly Father. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. We have just uh ended a section on the importance and place of works as it relates to the faith and justification. It is natural then that a different type of works take center stage. Words. Jesus himself stated in Matthew chapter 27, sorry, chapter 12 in verse 37 For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. This is an eschatological judgment that not only outward words or deeds that uh that are made here that will vindicate our claim of faith in Christ, but it also speaks of our speech. The way that we use our tongues. You may recall, we read that a hallmark of A genuine religion or genuine faith is that of a bridled or a controlled tongue. Chapter 3 now returns and is devoted entirely to the theme of the tongue. Broken down our passage this morning into four sections, and you have that for you in the bulletin. Let's focus on the first one where James cautions us to be careful because the tongue is the instrument by which God uses to administer his gift of teaching. James calls us to be careful because the tongue is the instrument by which God uses to administer his gift of teaching. James says that not many of you should rush to be teachers, for that on the day of judgment, including himself, we, in the role of teacher, will be judged with great strictness. Now, on the initial reading of this passage, it seems that the people that James has in mind are the leaders of the church, as teaching normally is reserved for the leaders. However, we must remember that James is speaking not to teachers specifically, but to anyone who wishes or is considering to become a teacher. I think that he initially is speaking of the office as a teacher as he includes himself in that sentence, but he expands it to the tongue of all believers. We can tell this is the case because in in chapter 4, verse 1, as well as in verse 11, it indicates that the problem that he's addressing is not confined specifically to leaders, but it's a problem that is for everyone within the church. Therefore, we can conclude that James is picking up his teaching on speech with the most visible Pervasive and prestigious gift in the church teaching Now, in Jewish tradition, the rabbis did most of the teaching and preaching in synagogues. They received an education and were officially recognized ministers of the Word of God. But there were other unofficial teachers who had opportunities to teach. Such a member in the community was recognized by the local synagogue administrator It was his job to line up itinerant preachers for the local synagogue on the Sabbath day. One such itinerant preacher of the word was Jesus. If you recall, Jesus was invited to teach at certain synagogues. The early church was no different Let's be clear though. Not anyone was invited to speak and to teach. It was someone who had been known to the church and demonstrated biblical knowledge and gifting in this particular area. There were many who wanted to be teachers, rabbis, in the Jewish society, and it appears also this is the case in the early church. Why? Well, it was because it was of high honor and position received within the community. I think James is reflecting the Lord's concerns as to why one becomes a teacher of the Word. In Matthew chapter 23, verses six and seven, the Lord railed against bad motives. I'll read that for us. They love the place of honor at banquets, and the chief seats in the synagogues, and respectful greetings in the marketplaces, and being called rabbi by men. They pursued becoming a teacher of God's Word for bad motives. They wanted to elevate their status in society on the coattails of God's reputation They want to honor an attention without concern for the accountability and responsibility of properly conveying and teaching the Word of God to God's people. Paul tells a student, a student rather, and child in the faith, Timothy, about a sincere desire for being a teacher, and warns him of teachers within the church with improper motivations who would do harm to God's people. This is found for us in 1 Timothy chapter 1, verses 5 through 7. He says to Timothy, but the goal of our instruction is love. from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. And then he says, For some men straying from these things have turned aside to fruitless discussion. wanting to be teachers of the law, even though they do not understand either what they are saying or of the matters about which they make confident assertions about. These are people that are self-serving and don't know what they are talking about. To be a teacher in the church was the equivalent of being a rabbi. It was different from being a prophet whose job was to deliver to the people of God, the community of God, the revelations of God that he received from him. The teacher had to explain and expound what those revelations were. Not only can you see its importance, but perhaps you can see why God would hold those who teach at a higher level. level of strictness. Not only is teaching important, but the scripture teaches us that it is a gift from God. Well, if it's a gift, let's face it, it is transmitted by delivering with none other than the tongue. And so James tells us that not many should be in rush to take on the role of a teacher. Because if you don't have control over your tongue, the instrument God uses to convey his gift. Would then be misappropriated and can do much damage. It was true then, and it is true today, is it not? Whether it's formal, as in what ministers and ruling elders do in the church during worship, or it's done informally as we disciple one another on the personal level. We really should take seriously the role of teaching. This means we need to know what we are teaching. Do it with a heart that is concerned for the glory of God. and not to do it to have status within the church. Now in verse 2, we see that James has more in mind than just motivation of the heart and proper knowledge of the word. He tells us, for we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. Well, we all make mistakes, don't we? We err in making wise decisions. We choose a poorer option. It's as if we're like little children sometimes who fall and then get up and try again. James is not necessarily talking about sin exclusively, although sin is included. Does James mean that a man who controls his mouth is a man who never stumbles? Is this hypothetical man perfect? 100% sanctified? Certainly not. He means perfect in the same sense that he used the word already in chapter 1 and verse 4. being mature in the faith, not lacking in nothing, to do what it is that God has called him to do. That of course is brought about by trials and testing of your faith in this life. The man who has control over his tongue is not spiritually perfect. But rather he is mature. He is no longer a child in the faith. The point is that even mature Christians stumble, and he says In many ways. Then the following assumption must also be true If a Christian is genuinely mature, the word he uses for perfect, then it would follow that not only does he have control of the mouth, but also over his body. So when mature Christians, in this case who are teachers, stumble, it can cause problems within the church Can it not? Certainly it can. What if a teacher stumbles in, say, sinful speech, like gossip, slander, or even foul language? He would be using the very instrument God uses to convey his gift of teaching in a harmful way. in an ungodly way that causeth harm to himself as well as those whom he is teaching, does it not? But he does point out something very interesting here. He says that if a teacher exercises proper control over the tongue, then he is able to bridle his whole body. A man who has control over his tongue is a man who has control over his impulses and passions. The tongue then becomes representative or a proxy for being self-controlled. A person who is impulsive and uncontrolled can cause much damage to others as well as to himself. This is a person that does not consider the impact of his words and actions on another person's feelings. For example, he does not consider the impact of a purchase on the household budget. This person can have an enormous debt accumulated over several years. Over impulsive, unrestrained purchases. Do you see then how the tongue is an important barometer for James, why it is that he uses it as a gauge for one who has a faith. A religion that will hopefully have value on the Day of Judgment So James has made the bold statement that our words have an enormous impact on our spiritual condition. Is it possible that James has exaggerated the impact of the tongue, which is so small in comparison to the rest of the body? James addresses this objection by providing proof for it by use of simile. He compares the tongue to a bit that controls a horse. By putting a tiny bit, no pun intended. In the horse's mouth, you could use it to control a large horse. So then, just as the tiny bit determines the direction of the horse, He asserts, so does the tongue. Can you see how your tongue, a small part of your body Can have such an outsized outcome and control in the direction of your life When you consider your life, I bet there have been times when you've said something like, Man, I wish I hadn't said that. I wish I could take it back. You know, the funny thing is that we have a tendency to treat the tongue as sort of like a free agent. You all know what a free agent is? They have a lot of them in sports. It's like the tongue has a mind of its own. We treat it that way. We say stuff like, I sure wish my tongue would cooperate more. It's as if it's uh independent of us. How about this one? I didn't mean to say it It's my tongue. It has a mind of its own. But the truth is that it's not an independent agent, is it? It doesn't have a mind of its own. It really is what? It's a reflection of our hearts, isn't it? How can your tongue determine, influence, the outcome of your life? How has it already influenced the outcome of your life? So he says in verse 4. Look at the ships also. Though they are so large and driven by strong winds, they're guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs. Ships in the ancient world were really impressive vessels, especially the trade ships that traveled throughout the Mediterranean. But even those large ships who had massive sails, they were directed by a very small rudder. And interestingly enough, that actually looks like a ton. This is James's second simile on how such a tiny fraction of a large entity Can direct or control the outcome of a destination of the entire thing. And in verse five, James concludes from his simile, That just like the bit and the rudder, both small control and direct the destination. He personifies the verse in the tongue in verse 5 as one that is so small, but yet boasts of how much power it possesses and can exercise. It's like it's like the part of the body that has like some sort of a Napoleon complex by itself. And so for for an example of of small things boasting, he points to a tiny little spark. And how we can cause a huge forest to burn down. But note, James has now shifted The previous illustrations demonstrated how a small thing controls and directs. But here, with the illustration of the small spark, We have an example of what? Destructiveness. Have you ever been destructive with your tongue? Do we even know how to be destructive with your tongue? Have you been destroyed by someone else's tongue? And here we are, right? We're back to sticks and stones. Words will never hurt us. I think we can all agree it's not true. And the tongue is afire, James says. A world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members. Staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell Now having left us with the image of a fire burning down a forest, he states that the tongue is fire. The tongue, by virtue of being the most difficult of all the parts of the body to control, becomes the conduit by which all the evil of the world around us comes to expression in In us. As Calvin puts it, a slender portion of the flesh contains the whole world of iniquity. James says, Staining the whole body. This staining should not be thought of as a stain when we get on our clothes. specifically. But rather it's it's it's it's corrupting our nature. When someone has stains it, it can ruin or corrupt the whole thing. The stating of the whole body, starting with the tongue, is talking about the entire being, the person, both body and soul. So then, we can see that James is saying that the tongue corrupts the whole of the person. But in reality, this is a reflection of what? An already corrupt heart. This may be an implicit, if not explicit, warning to those in the Christian community. who claim to be Christians, but are not demonstrating the fruits of a true profession And it is up to them and to us to consider, to reflect on this, and take appropriate action. In the end, we are to see that the tongue is only an ambassador for our souls. If one is claiming to have been changed by God, relying on his grace by faith, then one should begin to experience changes and desires within the soul. Now that James has established the destructive power that the tongue possesses, he turns his attention to the difficulty in controlling the tongue. James subs up all the creatures in the animal kingdom, air, sea, and land, and reflects that man Does have control, has tamed over all these creatures, but oddly enough, he can't tame his tongue. Whatever is man to do. Why is it such a difficult thing for man to tame the tongue? In addition to what we have already been told, James gives us yet two more reasons First, it is that he tells us that our tongues are a restless evil. We are to see that it's not it is not a single-minded entity. It is restless If you're restless, you're going in one direction or the other direction. You just can't sit down and focus. It is not single-minded. This is starting to remind you of something. The second reason is it's full of deadly snake-like poison. James's is an Old Testament description of evil men from Psalm 140 verses 1 through 3, which I'll read for us. The psalmist says, Rescue me, O Lord, from evil men. Preserve me from violent men who devise evil things in their hearts. They continually stir up wars. They sharpen their tongues as a serpent. The poison of a viper is under their lips. I think we're all prone to seeing how others hurt us, don't we? But not really see how our actions and our words hurt others. Seems to be so commonplace, isn't it? Now to help us to see this a little bit better, we now go down to our fourth point James helps us to see how duplicitous and deceptive our tongues can be, and what that reveals about us. With it, he says, we bless our Lord and Father, and with it, the very same tongue, we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. James brings his thoughts on the tongue between verses 9 and 12 to a conclusion. The tongue is the way that it is, because it is double-minded. Verses 18 and 4. 8 refer to that. This double-minded man is trying to do what? He's trying to please God and man. This type of person is trying to combine a faith in Jesus. Meanwhile, he is doing what? He's attacking the very own creation, the image-bearer of God. Should such a condition exist, this shouldn't be, James says It's so easy for us. Christian, it is so easy for us to live in two worlds, isn't it? We live in a church life on Sundays and the world's arena Monday through Saturday. With words, our tongues, we speak words, blessing God on Sunday. But with the very same tongue, we curse people who are made in his image. When we curse people with our tongues, we are breaking the sixth commandment. It's no less than murder. That's how the scripture sees it. When we bless and curse with the very same tongue, what an effect have we become? Hypocrites, right? Yes? Double-minded. We've become double-minded. Again, we see that James' teaching is being filtered through the lens of Christ. Jesus said that we should not curse others. Instead, we should bless those who curse you. Luke 628 From the same mouth come blessings and curses, my brothers. He says in verse 10, these things should not be James flatly states that the duplicity of the tongue is something that is to be sorrowed over. James hammers home his point that what is holy should not have a place with what is unholy. This should remind us, I think, in a way, about believers being unequally yoked with unbelievers. The sanctified tongue should not bless and curse James provides three illustrations for which the first two are really rhetorical questions and the third one is an answer. The idea is that one should consider how wrong it is to expect and accept I lost my place. I'll repeat that. The idea is that one should consider how wrong it is to expect and accept a thing to produce something of another kind. Springs were the life sources of Palestine. In fact, cities were founded because springs were present. Just as springs does not produce different types of water. And it be considered fit for consumption, neither should a tongue that does the same be considered spiritually healthy. Do you guys follow that? And then he says, Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water. The second illustration is very much like the first one, in that one should not expect a type of fruit from such a tree, not of its kind. This is rhetorical in nature and of course requires a negative answer. No, a fig tree cannot bear olives. It's insane to think so. Neither should a person expect figs from a grapevine. Last illustration is not rhetorical, but it is an answer for us in the negative. But this last illustration makes a very important point that I think that we must consider. James is making the point that our that out of something unhealthy Is never good by itself. So then, a person who is not right with God cannot consistently speak pure and helpful words. A duplicitous heart will only produce a duplicitous tongue. I think scripture provides another ample description of what James is teaching here. In Proverbs 27, 19, it states As water reflects a face, so a man's heart reflects the man. So if one claims to be a Christian and it only wishes a brother to keep warm and eat some food when he is homeless and hungry, then one must truly cu reconsider that person's profession. But if one is and has been genuinely changed and sees that what he is doing is wrong, Then he will be moved to repentance. That kind of behavior will be commensurate with a changed heart. Only a renewed heart can produce pure speech. And consistently, though not perfectly, pure speech is to be the product of a renewed heart. It is a tongue that is reflective of a single-minded soul that trusts in God wholeheartedly. And that's what James wants us to consider. If you've made a profession of faith, what does your life more reflect? A healthy spring Or an unfit for consumption salt water spring Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we ask for your wisdom to answer these questions that are posed before us. Help us, Holy Spirit, to reflect within our hearts. And recognize when we are using our tongues in a manner that does not build up. Change us from within. As the scripture tells us, help us to set a guard before our lips. But really the guard is before our hearts. Change us from within, we pray, Holy Spirit, so that the intents and motivations of our hearts. are for the desire to build up and not destroy. It's to lift up. Not at our, not at other people's expense. So we pray, Father, that we would also consider that if if we we see that this is all that there's ever been in my life. That you would use your Holy Spirit, that you would send your Holy Spirit to open their eyes to that reality And understand the gospel of Jesus Christ and believe the gospel of Jesus Christ, and to trust themselves in a single-minded way. As the only way to be in your presence with safety and confidence. And we