Good morning and Happy New Year. It's a delight to be with all of you this morning as we worship and uh let us continue in our worship of our great God by the uh by the study of the Word of God. In order to get a proper feel for today's passage, I I think it's helpful for us to understand exactly where we are in the narrative and what is going on in the life of our main character. from our passage, who is Jacob, the son of Isaac, who in turn is the son of none other than Abraham, the father of the faith. This passage comes on the heel of a frightened and anxious Jacob who is about to meet his brother Esau. who was the firstborn of his family, the very brother that he cheated out of his inheritance and blessing. Another word for cheating is stealing. Have you ever been cheated out of something? And how did that make you feel? Most often people feel sadness, anger, pain, and when it it's uh sometimes that uh it's a person that you know and that you trust. And perhaps even love. It's a betrayal that can lead to fury that dreams, that conjures up dreams of a day of revenge. Genesis 27, 41 captures well what Jacob's brother Esau felt when he discovered that he was cheated by his brother. It states. As he thought to himself, the days of mourning for my father are approaching. Then I will kill My brother Jacob. Immediately after, their mother Rebekah, who favored Jacob, sent him away to her brother Laban for fear of losing her son. So on the last occasion, they were together. The older brother was patiently planning to murder the younger in order to have his. Since that event, many years had passed. However, Jacob, also known as Jacob the The deceiver had not forgotten what he did to his brother and his brother's words. You could say Jacob was on the run, but because of his actions, his brother's words had been chasing him. Ever since. After many years had gone by, he and his family, his livestock, and all of his possessions were now heading back home. But just before we read about this really dramatic reunion, it is interrupted by the story of Jacob struggling with this mysterious Godman. In the end, we must realize that This passage in the grand scheme of things is not merely an interruption, but in reality, it is in preparation. For the encounter between the two brothers. Have you ever prayed to God to bless you in an endeavor and soon find yourself doing something apparently? Different. And you think to yourself, well, it's not what God wanted. It's not what God wants of my life Only to find yourself later on in life, perhaps years later, doing or getting exactly what you prayed for. I recall when I was a young teenager considering serving God for my livelihood. That didn't begin to appear as a possibility until about twenty-five years after. After that time. Until one has a clearer understanding of the doctrine of providence, one could say, as I did. Those 25 years were an interruption or a detour in life. Or as I had thought, also thought, now that was a colossal waste of time. As I reflect back now, after having been a minister of the gospel for over twenty years, everything I went through in God's plans had a purpose. It has prepared me to serve Him as well as his people. Do you sometimes feel as I did? What a waste of time that life experience was. What an incredibly painful time that was. What an incredibly stupid decisions I've made. What about now? And where are you in life? Are you thinking those things as well too? Today. Why can't I just get on with my goals in life? Why doesn't life get all these interruptions Why all these senseless detours in my career? Or have you seen how those experiences have been so helpful in your life Where you are now. This passage in Jacob's life is not a random detour in the narrative of Jacob trying to mend fences with his brother. You see, this detour would affect the way he would try to make peace. This detour, this encounter with God, would affect the way he would try to make. To make peace. Let's take a look at this passage now. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's Word, which is from Genesis chapter 32, verses 22 to 32. Hear now the word of God. The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabbak. He took them and sent them across the stream and everything else that he had. And Jacob was left alone. And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day. When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as it wrestled with him. Then he said, Let me go, for the day has broken. But Jacob said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. Then he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob. But Israel, for you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed. Then Jacob asked him, Please tell me your name. But he said, Why is it that you ask my name? And there he blessed them. So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered The sun rose upon him as he passed Henuel, limping because of his hip. Therefore, to this day the people of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket. Because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip on the sinew of the thigh. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer Holy Spirit, we beseech thee and ask that you would open our eyes to the beauty of the Word of God, that you would help us to taste the sweetness. At times, Hebrew narrative begins with a summary statement of that particular passage, followed by a more detailed report of the event. This is the case here in verse 22. While verse 22 provides us a summary statement, verse 23 begins with a detailed account. Otherwise, when you read these verses without this thought in mind, they seem to have Jacob and his family zigzagging back and forth senselessly back and forth from the waters of the Jabbek So the night before he was to meet his brother Esau, Jacob and Leah and Rachel and their female servants. Bilha and Zilpa, along with his eleven sons, Dinah included, as Benjamin was the twelfth son, but he had not been born yet, were crossing the Jabuk River. Having stolen his brother's inheritance by deceiving their father Isaac, Jacob had good grounds for being anxious, as he had an idea of what Esau had planned for him those many years ago. So it's therefore, so it is therefore no surprise that Jacob, filled with fear, as our text tells us, arose out from his sleep. Jacob, having sent his family and all of his possessions over to the other side, while he himself had not yet crossed, would find himself now alone. The fact that he sent everything that he owned ahead of him would mean that he had nothing to barter with or purchase. He had no material goods upon which to rely Sometimes I think it's actually a good place or position for us to be in. Having nothing worldly Or materially to depend upon forces us to rely upon God more readily, if not exclusively It is when we have worldly possessions or money that we tend to diminish the role or our reliance on God for our needs. We certainly can fall into this trap. Turning to them for our security in our time of need. They can give us a false sense of security. And ultimately, they can take the place of God for us Us. Jacob is all alone in the dark of night. How will Jacob respond to being exposed, unprotected, and insecure? How do you, or will you respond when you're feeling vulnerable? In the second part of verse 24, Or, out of the darkness, suddenly, without any warning or detail, we find Jacob in a fight. The narrative tells us that a man wrestles with Jacob until the crack of dawn. No pun intended. How did they encounter one another? Who started it? What started it? What did the man want from Jacob? Did Jacob start the fight? The narrative. Is silent regarding these questions. Later on, Jacob identifies this man as Elohim. We see that in verse 30. And they battled for what may have been for several hours in the dark of night. After the man saw, the narrative tells us, that he was not going to prevail against Jacob, he touched the socket of his thigh, which results in Jacob's socket becoming displayed. located. As this battle continued, it is unclear as to why the men wanted to leave before daybreak. But Jacob would not let him go, as I believe, he did not want to get Jacobed or deceived himself. If you recall, Jacob already experienced passing the night with someone and only able to see her true identity in the light of the morning, if you recall. Leah his wife. He did not want to get Jacob. Despite his injury, Jacob refuses to release the man. But just as the nighttime Sky is pregnant with the approaching day. Jacob's demands signals for us Jacob's realization of who this man is Is. Inferiors do not give out blessings. Jacob recognized this man to be a superior and thus wrestled with him for a blessing. What would have been immediately on his mind, do you think? Jacob was about to meet his brother, and his four hundred men. The very same brother that he swindled out of his inheritance by impersonating him before his father. Perhaps the blessing that Jacob had in mind was for the strength, the ability to overcome his brother, to try to soften him up and manipulate his emotions. the deceiver that he was. So the combatant asks Jacob for his name. We should not understand the inquiry as ignorance, but rather in making Jacob disclose his name Jacob makes a confession about himself. Jacob was the deceiver. A heel grabber. If anyone knew him well, it would be none other than his brother, the very same one that he was about to meet. To Jacob was made the promise. That the older will serve the younger. He did not wait upon God to fulfill his promise. He, like his grandfather Abraham, tried to make things and take things into his own hands and exercise human control. Just like Abraham, who did not wait upon the Lord to have a son through his wife, made one with his wife's servant. Jacob also tried by cunning and deceit to have what was conventionally, culturally, and traditionally his brothers. Jacob swindled his brother. He conned his father and stole from his father-in-law. This is what Jacob is confessing to. When he says his name. He did not wait upon the Lord to be elevated to the position of superior. He was going to do it his way on his own timetable. Do you find yourself leading a life similar to Jacob's at times? You turn to God in prayer and ask him for blessings. But you struggle with waiting for God to answer your prayers on his own timetable So you feel a need to take control of the situation and try to fulfill them on your own schedule, on your own strength Jacob's acknowledgement of his name was acknowledgement of his reputation. But the name he gained Now paves the way to a new beginning in his life. Like his grandfather Abraham, whose name was changed from Abram by God. Jacob's name is also changed. He is to be called Israel. No longer will his name have attached to it the stigma of a heel grabber, a deceiver. The idiom, you your name shall no longer, or it shall be said no more in Hebrew, indicates a spiritual transformation of sin. Some sort. The reason that his name is changed to Israel is that he has struggled with both God and man and has prevailed. A couple of things stand out regarding the statement. Certainly, we can see Jacob's past is filled with struggles, first with his brother Esau, his father Isaac, his father-in-law Laban, and he prevailed. However, here we are. We are given a glimpse, though, yet in the darkness of night, Jacob has been struggling with God. God, who has taken on the form of a man. This is known as a Christophany It tells him, this Godman tells him that because he has prevailed against man as well as he, he shall no longer be called Jacob, but instead Israel. The word Israel has multiple meanings, and the one that is most commonly used is God perseveres But another meaning that is found here is God fighter. Sarah means to fight, and El Means God. Therefore, Jacob takes on the name of being God's fighter. By the time the morning comes, he will no longer fight against God, he will fight for him. But it must be asked, how is it that a man can fight with God and prevail? This is a mystery that this text provides no immediate answer. But to this theme we're going to come back to. It's interesting to note that Jacob asks the very same question as the one whom he fought all night. asks him what is his name. But the God man responds to Jacob's question by a asking yet another question. Why is it that you ask me my name? But doesn't give Jacob an opportunity to answer. Answer. One can't help but wonder if the question is, why is it that you ask my name? is really another way of saying Jacob. Don't you realize who I am? What seems like a summary statement here. And there he blessed him. We see that the blessing was The bestowment of the new name of Israel and all that would come along with it. Where his father blessed him, being deceived not only Exactly who was in front of him, this time the God, man, does so knowing exactly who is in front of him. Jacob, Israel, will be the one who will give birth to twelve sons. Who will be, along with their father, as the chief cornerstone, foundation stones that will make up the nation of Israel. Although Jacob does not receive a direct answer from the man, it doesn't prevent him from naming the place Peniel, as it means the face of God. It is perfectly clear to Jacob and to us that the man whom he struggled with is none other than the prefiguring of the God man, the true Israel. This Godman would one day be the true and better Israel, the one that has no deceit in him. And who will become the chief cornerstone along with his twelve sons, through whom he will use to give birth to the Israel that will not apostate from God. The type, Jacob, you see, was struggling with the antitype, a Christophany, Israel versus the Israel that was to come. When Jacob says that he has seen God face to face, it does not mean literal visual perception. As the light was still dim. But it means that it was a person-to-person encounter with no intermediary. When Jacob proclaims that his life is preserved, we must not understand his statement to mean that he literally saw the face of God and by all rights should be dead. What he what he wanted was deliverance from his brother Esau. Little did he know that not only would he get salvation from his brother's wrath, but he would get salvation for his soul Finally, the long night ends, and the sun rises in its brightness. We see Jacob leaving Jabak with two things which he did not have when he arrived The first is a new name, which be a constant reminder of who he is to be in God's redemptive plan and a limp, reminding him that he met someone who overcame him No matter how much physical strength or cunning Jacob possessed on his part, it was not going to give him the advantage over this Godman. But at the same time he also overcame, but by faith We learn from Moses of a dietary prohibition exercised by Jacob's descendants, abstaining from eating the sciatic area or the meat from the sciatic area. It seems unclear, or I should say, what the function of this We really don't encounter any overt dietary restriction to be found regarding this enigmatic verse It has been suggested that, perhaps we are to understand from this last verse, that if Jacob's new name is to have a change in his behavior, so also his offspring are to change in their eating habits as well. But Scripture doesn't really validate this. Why would Moses, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, provide this information? Was it a literal meaning or was it a foreshadowing, a warning, perhaps, or a prophecy? That was yet to be experienced or by the people of God at some future date. I think that this is an ominous warning that was to affect the physical descendants of Jacob. Which would not be fulfilled for about two thousand years. Until the young rabbi from Galilee stated the following, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. When the physical descendants of Israel, that is Jacob, heard this, do you remember their response? They wanted to have nothing to do with Jesus Sadly, we see at the end of Jesus' life, the leadership of Jerusalem would have nothing to do with this new Israel. This king of the Jews, as they themselves said in John 19:15, We have no king but Caesar. The possessor of the thigh they would have nothing to do with, of whose flesh they would not consume, would be the thigh of none other than the one who will come riding on a horse, who is the true Israel. As Revelation 19:16 tells and reveals to us. And on his thigh, his name was written, King of Kings. Kings and Lord of Lords. They rejected and abstained from the thigh of whom they should have spiritually consumed upon What was true of those unrepentant leaders of Israel then? Is true today for everyone who does not find spiritual sustenance in the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, who is Jesus Christ. Let me ask you, are you now feeding upon the Lord Jesus by faith? Or are you doing like Jacob, trying to get your hands upon the blessings of God on your own abilities by your own works? Our passage clearly informs us that the blessings of God is attained not on and by our own abilities. As ironic as this sounds, are you ready to prevail over God by submitting humbly before Him in and by faith? Jacob turned to God for a blessing. Specifically, what he had in mind was protection, I think, from his brother Esau. But God would make it clear to Jacob that his enemy was not truly and finally Esau, but he was God himself. He would have to overcome God by receiving his blessing. God's promise of blessing, the older serving the younger. would not come by man's striving and conniving. It would only come by God's gracious gift We must understand that Jacob prevailed not by physically overcoming God. Hosea chapter 12 and verse 4 sheds a great deal of light on this passage. It reads, during his struggle, Jacob wept. And in so doing, he turned to God humbly. faith. Jacob recognized that his salvation would come only from God. And he would have to prevail over him, not in the manner that he was accustomed to, within the physical realm, by deceiving, by buying off, but rather in the spiritual. Jacob was able to overcome, to receive God's blessing by faith, by faith alone. Indeed, it is no different for us. Fallen man is locked in a battle with God, but we will not prevail or overcome God on our own intellect. Or by our personal means of piety, or enormous financial donations to charities, or to the church. His just and righteous condemnation awaits us all at our death, because in the end we are all sinful creatures. And where there's no way that we can pay off all those speeding tickets before the judge that we get every day. The only way we are to prevail against his wrath is by doing what Jacob did. Recognizing that in our own physicalness we have not the power to earn our way into heaven And number two, we must turn to God in faith for deliverance against our enemies, of whom God is the chief opponent. God is faithful and true. In the fullness of time, he sent his only unique son to die. On the cross in the place of everyone who would place their faith upon him. Do you trust Jesus and His cross for us? As being holy and entirely sufficient for your salvation. If you don't, confess and acknowledge that you are a sinner and by faith. Trust him now. And there is no other way to prevail over God. But in this victory, if you will, of Jacob over God, we see a foreshadow of things to come. It is through this triumph that Jacob receives salvation. As verse 30 tells us, my life has been delivered, Jacob states. It is through this victory that Jacob receives the promise of God. In some mysterious and yet unveiled way in redemptive history in the Book of Genesis, we are to see that salvation comes to mankind through the apparent defeat by God. This is precisely the story of the cross. For those whose spiritual eyes are opened and attentive, this is not a mystery any longer. We no longer live in the time of Genesis when it was written, but at a time when we can look back at the works of the cross by the God-man, the Lord Jesus Christ. The perfect Israel, the one in whom this struggle anticipates. And he too was looking for his blessing. Indeed, Jesus' overcoming was the ground on which Jacob found blessing from God and received his name. The one who prevails with God is the true Son of God. Here is provided the final explanation for one who can overcome God The wounded and pierced in the passage of the deepest night, Jesus rises from the dead. In the morning, and receives his promised blessing. In Christ, the weakness of God is stronger than man's strength We are to see that Jesus struggling throughout the night, first in the Garden of Gethsemane, then the Jewish leadership, and finally the Roman authorities, humbly. Submits to God's will and not his own. And upon the cross, the place of defeat Jesus prevails and receives his blessing. And it is revealed that he is the greatly anticipated Israel. whose twelve sons, whom he gave birth to, the new kim kingdom and nation of Israel, also known as the church and the bride Of Christ. Jesus extends an offer of the blessings of his victory to you today. Whether you're sitting in the sanctuary today Or you're at home watching the streaming video. But you must do, as Jacob, humble yourself in faith, and submit to Jesus as your own. Lord and as your Savior. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. For it reveals your Son, the Lord Jesus, through and through. And what a delight it is to discover him in every part of your word. But not only does it reveal your son, but it also reveals your plan for us to have fellowship with you. We thank you that you have chosen to save us. We thank you that you have opened our eyes to the truth and given us faith so that we can trust in your Son's finished work upon us. The cross. We are so thankful that we are the blessing for whom you have made for your son, his brother. We pray that you would help us to be more reflective of our Savior and you, our Heavenly Father, to serve you, to love you, and to love our neighbor.