Good morning. It's wonderful to be with God's people on the Lord's Day, and I'm honored to be here today. Just uh by way of introduction, let me explain to you in just a moment kind of what I do because I think it's important for you to know uh how chaplains work in the military. But let me first say I feel at home here today for a number of reasons. Number one, I'm a member of the same Presbytery as your pastor and elders. And that's good. I live uh we l we lived in Alexandria, Virginia for ten years, just recently moved to Marriott's, Maryland, which I've discovered most Marylandites don't know where that is. But it's uh northwest of Columbia. And uh also feel at home today because uh the name of the church. One of the churches I pastor was Highline Reformed Presbyterian Church So I always feel quite at home when I'm in a church that has Reformed Presbyterian in it. That's always comforting to me. And then thirdly, I feel at home for another reason, and that is that I grew up in the Assembly of God. And so um coming into the church I saw the the cornerstone there which said uh first assembly of God nineteen thirty-three and then this building was built in seventy-three and immediately all these course memories come flooding back for my re being reared in a Christian home. And in that church in Minneapolis, beautiful city, wonderful place to grow up. Where I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And I cherish and of course will be eternally grateful for the teaching I got. um in my home church in the Assembly of God. However, as you might expect, there were some other surprises along the way, not to mention the least of which was completely changing my theology by God's sovereign surprises and now I'm a Presbyterian. So there are other reasons. But I'm I'm grateful to be here and do feel at home and I'm grateful for that. My wife Nancy is in the front. Hopefully you'll get a chance to chat with her later if you're a homeschooling family. She is a Dynamite uh home school teacher for high schoolers. She teaches a dual enroll program for Bellhaven University in connection with a group called Potter School, you might have heard of. And uh so if you're interested in education for high schoolers, you can talk to my wife after afterwards. And we're grateful to be here and to be able to serve the Lord in those two capacities. W what I do full time is I catch credential, care, and cover chaplains. I recruit, I ensure their theological credentials are in order. I spend a lot of time traveling with the care part, and then in light of some of the challenges of our culture today, we spend quite a bit of time covering the backs of our chaplains as they serve in a pluralistic and very diverse environment. You can't be a chaplain in the military, VA, Bureau of Prisons, and in many, many, many hospitals. fire police departments, prisons, and other chaplain venues, unless you are endorsed by a recognized faith group. So I am the endorser for the PCA and six other denominations. Orthodox Presbyterian Church. You can ask me later what the other acronyms are for those folks. But so my job is to ensure that the chaplains for those seven, the men applying for the chaplaincy in those seven denominations are ecclesiastically fit for the job. It's a wonderfully satisfying job. And uh I tell people, like to tell people, when I came in in nineteen seventy-seven as a reserve chaplain, there were eleven of us. Now there are over three hundred chaplains in our school. circles. And that's very exciting to see God recruiting men to become chaplains in various ways. But that's what I do. And so in America there are about 200 endorsing bodies. I'm one of those. And so my job is fully engaged. with chaplains across America. And I want to tell you that your chaplains are doing incredible work around the world. Is Charlie Morrison here today? I don't think he's here today. But one of our retired chaplains who I've known for years, I guess has been worshiping with you recently. But you need to understand that, in spite of the challenges that you may read about or hear about in the culture, which are very, very, very serious, and they're very serious in the military too. Your chaplains are bold, winsome, aggressive, taking every advantage they can of God's Surprising way of bringing people to them to share the gospel. So you need to know that baptisms are happening all over the world. You need to know that Bible studies and mentoring and coaching of individuals and small groups is happening all over the world. Need to know that chaplain's wives are ministering to all sorts of other soldiers, airmen, sailors, marines, guardians who are females, but also the spouses of those who are there. And so while we're sitting here today and listening and hearing God's word in a moment, you need to understand that our chaplains are also out there preaching God's word faithfully wherever they are. However Our country culture is experiencing some pretty serious cultural storm clouds. And there are folks who will just assume and not be chaplains in the military. There are folks who don't think Christians ought to have any voice at all. Anywhere, not just the military. Some of you may have wrestled with that yourselves or maybe in where you work, and so you need to be praying for those, for chaplains who are engaged in leadership in those in that very pluralistic environment of the military. And also praying that you as a church might be able to have some impact on people God brings your way to prompt them to not only come to Jesus, but then to be boldly living for Jesus. And I think I'm speaking to the choir today, but I would just urge you to remember there are folk in some pretty serious environments that need your prayers. I have with me today, and I'll give to one of the elders, maybe Mark, we have a prayer journal every four months. I don't know if Skip has shared that with the congregation, but um If you want to know what chaplains do, a great tool for family devotions is this we call the guardian. And for a everyday a chaplain says what he needs prayer for. and what he's doing around the world. It's a very exciting way to see the breadth of a chaplain ministry. And some bookmarks there that to remind you to pray for chaplains. and a brochure or two. So if I might leave those with the elders here today and you can put them out wherever is convenient. I'd be grateful and you can grab one of those on your way out. We need your prayer. Would you take your Bibles please and turn to Proverbs 16? Proverbs 16 And just verses 1 through 9, we're going to be focusing particularly on verse 9, but let's read The verse says prior because there are some hints of the same verse in the prior verses there. So Proverb 16. 9 in your hard-copy version of God's word or your E version, whatever U version you're using this morning. Proverbs 16, 9. The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. Now all the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the Spirit. Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established. The Lord has made everything for its purpose, even the wicked, for the day of trouble Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Be assured you will not go unpunished By steadfast love and faithfulness, iniquity is atoned for, and by the fear of the Lord one turns away from evil. When a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies be at peace with him. And better is a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice. And then the focus of our time this morning. The heart of a man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. Could you pray with me, please? Heavenly Father, my prayer is simple this morning. I pray that my words would be your words, that your words would find their way into the hearts of the congregation. That your Holy Spirit would convict where necessary, encourage where required, stimulate us to action and thinking. Father, we pray all this in Jesus' mighty name. Amen. Amen. Thank you Let me ask you, I don't know the congregation today, right? So if you'll just pardon me for a moment, just to get a little flavor for who you are, I need to know how many of you like surprises. Just give me a quick hand. About eight of you, like so ten of you, that's right. Okay. Let me ask you, how many of you like nice surprises? Let me say it that way. All right. Because you all realize there are different kinds of surprises, aren't there? Uh my wife will tell you that if I, if it's a dark room in our house and I happen to hide myself behind a door and then jump out at her when she walks by, she does not like that kind of surprise But it is a surprise. If I bring home flowers though, unexpectedly, that's a nice surprise, and she's very grateful for it. And you maybe have surprises like that that happen in your home When you think about it, when you think about it, life is about surprises, isn't it? Because we do not know what's coming next, do we? We know the one who knows what's coming next, but we don't know what's coming next. And so in a real sense, we live in a world in a life of surprises. We don't know, you know. Tomorrow could bring a day of a surprise of some uh of uh somebody in the family who's suddenly gotten ill and you get that one of those surprise phone calls of somebody is ill and somebody's in the hospital, somebody had an accident. Maybe you get a surprise as a young person, you come home from school, and you got, you worked hard on a certain class, and you were surprised to find you got an A. And so the whole family is surprised to see that A when you come home. There are surprises that we don't know we don't know precisely what's going to be on the news when we turn it on in the morning if you are in that habit to see what's been happening the night before. Life for all of us is a life of surprises. And I like to say, if you're a Christian, then you're in for a life of real surprises because God is intimately involved in your life and he is going to surprise you whether you like it or not. And I'm you need to understand that your life before a sovereign God is really a life of sovereign surprises. Let me explain to you one thing just to kind of set the tone here. My first big surprise of my adult life I'm a Vietnam era person. Might be able to guess that. And I was headed to Vietnam. I had a low draft number. This is back then when the lottery was in place, the draft lottery. I had a low number. I knew I was going to Vietnam. I was single going to college, so I joined ROTC. thinking if I was going to go to Vietnam I might as well become an officer. And so I joined ROTC. Halfway through between the sophomore and junior year, although you have to have a physical and you have to apply for the next stage and so on and I did all that and all of a sudden one day I was called in and to stand before the commit commandant of the ROTC program and they said, Cadet Lee Wanna let you know you can't be in the military. What? I I I'm an ROTC. I'm I'm I've got plans to to go to Vietnam. I want to serve my country. I want to I want to do that. I want to become an officer. And he says, I'm sorry. The x-ray show that we took on you a couple weeks ago showed you had a congenital back defect on your fifth lumbar vertebrae. That's like lower back. I was dumbfounded. I was completely taken by surprise. Because you see, in my heart I had some plans. I wanted to serve my country, I wanted to follow my dad's footsteps, World War II, Navy, CB, I wanted to do that, you know, and so on. And all of a sudden that whole thing was taken away. That was my really first adult surprise. Because then you had to figure out, well, what do I do now? What do I do now? What do I major in? What am I going to do for career? And all that entered in. It was quite the surprise. Which leads me to that verse 9 in Proverbs 16 that we read. Let me read it again for you. The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. We already read earlier in that passage the plans of the heart belong to man. The Lord raised the spirit, commits your work to the Lord, your plans will be established, and so on. The Lord creates everything for his purpose, but I call this verse 9 my sovereign surprise verse. I use it all the time with young chaplains as they're coming into the military because I'm trying to encourage them to know that what they are in for is not a life of ease. They're in for a life of high adventure, many times to the very max you can think of for high adventure. And are they ready for a career in which there is no pattern to any particular day? Are you ready for God's sovereign surprises? Whether you're a chaplain or not, that's kind of the main question for you today, which we'll end with later. Are you ready? For God's sovereign surprises. Are you looking forward to God's sovereign surprises that can come in big ways or little ways? Do you believe in God's sovereign surprises? Those are some of the questions I want to talk about today as you look at this passage. And I see four. main things here out of this passage which I think are very helpful to me in your bulletin you have a little outline there and you can take notes if you like. Very simple outline. I don't think Solomon intended this to be a deep, deep theological treatise. The Proverbs are sayings to help people kind of live their life practically speaking. Nonetheless, out of every word of the Scripture can come all kinds of tangents. Out of the scripture can come all kinds of deeper thoughts. And I'm hoping you might be stimulated in thinking more about this verse than other verses related to God's sovereignty as a result of our being here today. But I see four things, as you see in your sermon notes there. And the first thing I want to just point out to you is that this verse simply talks about the heart. And what I want to say is that when it comes to making plans, you need to match your heart With God's. You need to match your heart with God's. When we think about man making a plan from the heart, or a woman making plans from the heart, We normally think of big things in life, like from the heart, a man decides to ask somebody to marry him. Or she asks somebody to marry her. I'm not sure how it works in your congregation. But Isn't that something, a big decision from the heart? That you think about and you weigh about it, if you're a Christian, you'll be praying about that. From your very being, your very soul, you make this decision. From your heart. And you hope it all works works out. There are other decisions that come from maybe thoughtful a thoughtful heart, like career decisions, or a new job, or a new place to live. You can think of other ways this might happen. Isn't it true? But we also from our heart make little decisions. Even from the heart that you make a decision to buy this car or that car, you know, because it involves money, your budget, you've got to think it through, you pray. All that's from our heart. Now the word heart in the Old Testament, if you did a word study on heart, you would find all kinds of synonyms trying to describe what the Bible means when it says heart. It could mean Soul could mean your inner being. It could mean the literal heart. It could mean it means your emotion. The heart is just a huge word in the Bible. And the Bible wants us to take our heart to heart. Take our heart seriously. And I'm suggesting to you that we need to match our heart with the Lord. I want to share with you. Just spend a little bit of time on this and just talk to you about some of the issues of the heart. For example, in the chapter before this, Proverbs 15, if you have your Bible, take a look at that with me. In Proverbs 15, we find some interesting words about the heart. And I mention these two because the heart can lead us to righteousness and goodness. And pleasing to God, or a heart unguarded, can lead us to exactly the opposite And there are many people in prison today and other places miserably living life because they have followed their heart in the wrong way. You'll see that in these verses. So in Proverbs 15, 13, we read. A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart, the spirit is crushed. There's a good contrast right there. A heart that's full of joy, a heart that's cheerful, it'll be obvious to them. A glad heart makes a cheerful face. Look in verse 14 The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly A heart that's the kind of heart that God appreciates and blesses is a heart that seeks knowledge. And there's a lot of verses related to that and the fear of the Lord, too. We find in Proverbs 15 verse 30, just ahead of our 16 passage, the light of the eyes rejoices the heart, and good news refreshes the bones. You see, already in this little passage, the heart is used in so many different ways. And it describes a heart that's happy and cheerful and joyful and full of knowledge, or a heart that can do the opposite as well. In Proverbs 16, 21, following our passage today, the wise of heart is called discerning. And sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness. We read in Proverbs 16, 23, the heart of the wise makes his speech judicious and adds persuasiveness to his lips. Did I just read that? I did just read that, didn't I? But you get the sorry, verse 30. Whoever winks his eyes plans dishonest things, he who pursues his lips. Brings evil to pass, and that's entirely the wrong verse. But anyway, you get the point. Just these two little verses, two chapters in the Bible, there are several things it says about the heart. And we're to be concerned about the heart. And I think you can agree with me that we want to match our heart with the Lord's. Now Jesus said, Love the Lord your God, quote in the Old Testament, with all your Heart and soul and mind. One of his main words of guidance in the scripture was that we are to be looking at our heart and loving him with all our heart. On the other hand, he also says that from the heart can come evil. And he matches Psalm 141 4, which says, Let not my heart be drawn to what is evil. As the psalmist praise that God would keep his heart from evil. So my friends, when it comes to appreciating God's sovereign surprises in life, it sort of all begins with us having an approach to life that says, Lord, I want when I've whatever plans I want to make, Lord I want my heart to match yours. And maybe someday you'll say of me, as you said of David, he had a heart after God's. The heart is critical. We could spend a whole nother two or three, four, or five sermons on the heart and what the Bible says about it. It's such a critical thing for us to consider. And so when you young people have an opportunity to obey your parents, part of what's going to be involved here is your heart situation. If your heart is warm to your parents that God has given you, and your heart is warm to pleasing God, guess what your heart will tell you? Your heart will say, you better say yes, ma'am, to her. Your heart will say, yes, sir, I'll do that. Or yeah, Mom, I'll do it right away. Or dad, I'll go do it right away. Or, or yes, okay, I'll be kinder to my brother or sister. Whatever your mom and dad are trying to encourage you. Your heart is part of what helps you respond to that in a pleasing way. And God gives you encouragement and guidance to help you guard your heart. So, sovereign surprises in our lives can begin with you making sure your heart is in tune with the Lord's And there are lots of other ways we could approach it, but that's my first concern. But the second concern out of this verse, I think, is just as important. For it says, the heart of man plans his way. Now, this is not a sermon this morning on the ten best leadership principles you can possibly imagine in life. Some of you have read books like that and probably are encouraged by them But I think what the Bible is saying to us is that it's obvious, Solomon is saying, that when you when the man from his heart a man or woman will make plans for life. That's what life is all about. You make plans as to what to do when you get up in the morning And sometimes those plans change because of God's sovereign surprises. Sometimes they change because you make a different decision. But we make plans. And I'd like to suggest to you that whatever age you are, whether you're very young or very old, there's still room for you to make plans. To impact God's kingdom, to impact the world. And I think the Bible, when you put the whole piece together here, the Bible encourages us to make plans, but he encouraged us to make plans that match the Word. That has good advice from brothers and sisters in Christ that are plans that please God, of course, but I hope you will also in that process learn to make big plans Now we are living in a time in this culture where Christians need to make some big plans. And if we don't, If we don't, my Doug Lee's opinion is that some of the things that we ought to be fighting against and praying for may overwhelm us. May overwhelm us. Are you making plans to impact where you live? If you we all live in a place that's not by accident, by the way. Could be Elkridge, Laurel, Marriott's, just north of Columbia, Maryland. Could be Alexandria, wherever it is, you're not there by accident, and neither are you in your job by accident Do you have plans? Have you thought about what plans might God might have for you in that environment? Your kids, some of you are homeschooled, many of you I guess. And some of you are going to another school. Do you think God has some plans for you to be in that school? Nancy and I have a. a very wonderful story of God's sovereign surprise of how we met in ninth grade. And she will she often tells a story as she was a Had seventh and eighth grader, very uh insecure junior higher, as she tells it. Nobody else knew that, but she thought she was very insecure, didn't think anybody would ever like her, especially any boys. And And uh but she learned that um from her youth up to to pray specifically for her needs in her life. And so when she was in eighth grade, she was feeling particularly down and prayed that God might bring a Christian guy into her life. This is eighth grade now, but she prayed that God would bring a a boy to the school. And through that experience, this is what she prayed. She had big plans and a big prayer because she prayed, and Lord, I pray we might go together and impact our high school for Jesus. That's what she prayed. And wouldn't you know, surprise? I moved to that school the next year We didn't date officially all that time, but we were known to appreciate each other and like each other, and we were both involved in a Christian group in a high school that had a big impact on people's lives, not by our good works, but by God's grace. She prayed a big prayer. What are you young girls and guys praying for your future? Do you have big plans to make a big impact on the world? Are you praying for somebody to come along in your life that loves God and whose heart matches him as much as you want your heart to match God's? Are you praying for your future husband or spouse, young people? Are you praying that whoever you marry you might have a big impact on wherever you live and whatever you do, whatever kind of a job it is? Are you are you praying that you'll God will use you and your gifts to change things? Are you? I think this is one of the many verses that drives us to get our heart matching with the Lord's. Of course that comes through Jesus. And then make plans and make them big. But I come to the third point here, very important third point, and that is you have to assume A surprise. If your heart's matched to the Lord's and you are making big plans, you need to understand that there's a little phrase in this verse that's very, very critical. And it's the one right in the middle of the verse. And that phrase is, but the Lord. You have to assume a but the Lord. is going to surprise you. You have to assume that he's going to interject in your plans a surprise. I told you about my college decision of the ROTC that kicked me out, essentially. And the military was absolutely not on my radar from that point on. How could I be in the military with a congenital back defect in my fifth lumbar vertebrae? And I was sad about that for a long time that I couldn't serve my country that way. But wouldn't you know? Nine years later, eleven years later, after a nice surprise of actually Nancy agreeing to marry me, after a wonderful honeymoon at a place in Switzerland called Le Brie Fellowship. After a sudden understanding that there were institutions called seminaries in which you could actually go and you could study full-time the Bible, we found ourselves at Covenant Seminary. But I didn't want to be a reverend, by the way. I didn't, I didn't I thought pastors were irrelevant. I didn't want to be a pastor. Reverend. But surprise. And the seminary, guess what I became? A reverend. A pastor. And I became a pastor of three churches over the next sixteen years. On the second one, I was looking for a way to be involved in the community. Now I had my plans, you understand. I was going to be a pastor, maybe stay, this was in Seattle, stay in Seattle a long time, because we really enjoyed it there. Uh most of our kids, uh all their friends and their younger years were spent in Seattle, and that was what a great place to stay. One of my friends said, if you want to be involved in the community, you ought to check the reserve chaplaincies, Army, Navy, Air Force Reserve Chaplaincies. You can stay in your church and you can be a reserved chaplain. I said, well, to my friend Steve, I said, Steve, I can't. I got a congenital defect in my fifth lumbar vertebrae. Well, wouldn't you know the National Guard had a unit near my church that needed a chaplain? And I thought on a whim I'll just apply anyway and surprise. They accepted me as a chaplain. Was not on my radar, and I was in uniform then for the next 31 years I had my plan, but they did not involve the military. But God has a way of surprising us. If we had time, if we had time, I think this is a great idea for a church retreat, by the way. If we had time and you all could share with me the sovereign surprises of your lives so far. That would be an incredible thing to hear. For you've all had sovereign surprises. But the but the Lord is right there. And here's my point. Young people, when you look in the Bible, you find all kinds of important people experienced a but the Lord. For example, here is Noah. Minding his own business in a very nasty world, doing whatever he did, probably a farmer so on, and God said, Noah, I want you to build an ark. But the Lord. Surprise, Noah. But the Lord. And the rest of the world was surprised later on, weren't they, when the whole earth was covered with that flood. How about David being selected for king as a shepherd boy? Surprise about the Lord. What about Abraham minding his own business in what is now Iraq, I guess, and Iran? Minding his own business and God said I want you to go up, I want you to go down south, and I want to make you the father of a multi- of a new mighty nation of my people. And their descendants will be like the stars of the heaven and the sand of the sea. But the Lord, Abraham, was surprised. What about Joseph? Just enjoying his new coat? Going out to visit his brothers and giving him some food and surprise. They were angry with him and jealous, and they stuck him in a pit and sold him into slavery. And Joseph's whole life is a life of what? Sovereign surprises. He had his plans, and every single one of them was changed along the way. Maybe you can think of other people in the Bible who've had sovereign surprises. Nancy likes to make sure that I mentioned, how about Mary? How about Mary? Sovereign surprise. What about the apostles? I didn't choose you. You didn't choose me. I chose you, Jesus said. Come, leave your nets. Leave your tax firm. Leave your medical practice. Come follow me, but the Lord. If you're a Christian that wants your heart to be matched to the Lord and you're trying earnestly to make plans, which you should be doing and making big plans, are you also ready For his surprises that come with a but the Lord, but the Lord. I will tell you that most of the surprises in our lives have been nothing but blessings. And most of his surprises are incredible blessings. But we moved to Alexandria, Virginia eleven years ago now with uh my oldest son. I got four kids, my oldest son, and they had a little second child. who was very ill with a disease called spinal muscular atrophy. The neurons don't cut to the muscles, so the body atrophies away. And that little Linnea died in our home in Alexandria. Now let me tell you, friends, Nancy's and my plans were not to outlive any of our grandkids. Our plan was to live hopefully a long, rich life, and then we'd die and our kids would go on and carry on uh things pleasing to the Lord, we hope, but we didn't expect to have a grandchild die. I would guess in a church like this, some of you have experienced health issues that have been very much a surprise. That's above the Lord as well. Now through that experience, God did some incredible things with my son and daughter-in-law, but their third child was born with the same disease. But we just celebrated our 10th birthday yesterday because of the incredible care of mom and dad and God's grace in that family. They also have a well child number one and a well child number four. So you mix it all together, it's just full of surprises, but they're not always the kind that you want, but God brings them to us, doesn't he? I want to just remind you of what our confession says on the section of providence. God, the creator of all things. Does uphold, direct, dispose, and govern all creatures, actions, and things. From the greatest to the least, by his most wise and holy providence, according to his infallible foreknowledge And the free and immutable counsel of his own will to the praise of the glory of his wisdom, power, justice, goodness, and mercy. Whatever surprise God brings to us, it's because of his unbelievable sovereign providence. And his desire to glorify himself with wisdom, power, justice, goodness, and mercy. And we could say more about that. I fear that many professing Christians really struggle with the butt the Lord's. And maybe you've met some folk like this who, as they get older, especially, if life has given them a little we say life, but if God has given them some prizes they don't like. Tragedy, family dysfunction, whatever what, and you have watched them talk about in bitterness how how life was tough and how crummy it is, and you know, if only this had happened and that had happened and so on Those are not the marks of a heart that's matching God's heart. And many of us fall into the trap of getting sour when God's sovereign surprises affect our lives. Far too many professing, we've met far too many professing Christians that have that kind of a spirit. And it's not in accord with what we're talking about today, is it? The last part of this is very simple. We are to revel in his plans. For in his heart, a man or woman plans his course. But the Lord comes along and does what he wants because of his providential sovereignty and directs our steps. I hope you can say praise the Lord to that, because He is engaged in our lives. And unlike Islam, which is very much impersonal, There's no God that directs lives this way. They think God directs their lives, but it's totally, according to, in a capricious, sometimes evil, you know, way. That's just one religion. But our God is a God, as I read, a God of providence and mercy, who's directing our steps to his end. And I have to confess, I don't always appreciate his sovereign surprises. You know, I'm not always glad when things come that way. I just had knee surgery. I wasn't too fond of having knee surgery, but I'm grateful for the doctor's wisdom and the fact that it's healing up You know, those kind of surprises can pop into your life. So, in your heart, a heart that you hope You're doing your part to match that with the Lord's, that you're guarding your heart. You young people, when you go and spend time with other kids your age and you're hanging around people and And then there might be temptations out there. You've got to ask the question, Lord, help me match my heart's decision to yours right now. In your heart you make plans. I'm hoping that whatever age you are, you are making big plans even now. To affect the world, to impact the world for Jesus. Maybe it's a new little Bible study in your community or neighborhood. Maybe it's another more time with a certain person that you know God's laying on your heart. Maybe it's Maybe you've got to spend a little more time with your children and so on, because you haven't mentored and coached like you should have with that child over the years because you're busy making a career and so on, whatever it is. Make big plans to please God and expand his kingdom. But remember, there's a but the Lord. And when we get to heaven, I believe, I have no verse to prove this, but I think when we get to heaven, heaven is going to be a lot of us talking together and discovering and finding out from Jesus Himself. And the Holy Spirit, why he did what he did in our lives. And oh, now I see why he brought that woman into my life, or or why I had this breakup over here, and why this happened over here and why that job. We're gonna find out. The butt the Lord's in heaven. And it's going to take an eternity, because think of all the stand of the sea and stars of the heaven. It's going to take time to do all that. But we're going to find out But I hope that you're also living your life knowing that He is directing your steps. So, dear Presbyterian brothers and sisters in Christ, I don't know how you approach each day. We can approach it with certainty and enjoying God's sovereignty, but I'm hoping you're approaching it more or less like maybe the Assomes of God folk did here sometimes in their worship. They're approaching each day with their hands in the air. Lord, I am ready for your surprise today. I don't know who's going to be nasty to me at work or commend me at work. I don't know who's going to cut me off in traffic. I don't know. What's going to happen? But Lord, I know that you're a God of sovereign surprises. Help me be ready for your surprises today. That's in contrast to a person who wakes up with arms crossed and gives the impression that doesn't particularly want God to interrupt his life that day. Whatever you're doing, I'm hoping that you're approaching the day with this spirit And that may involve other things too, like ensuring you're doing getting into the Word and and being simulated by by the Word of God and by trusting the Holy Spirit to give you guidance and wisdom during that day. But nonetheless, I think this kind of verse, along with many others, Prompts us to have a smile on our face and a heart of joy, as Proverbs said in Proverbs 15. I'm hoping that as you go on the next week here But you're thinking about what plans you need to make to impact the world for Jesus Who knows out of this church could come an incredible number of young missionaries that'll change foreign missions But more than that, maybe out of this congregation will come some young people who will decide that they've got to work really hard on certain issues here in the U. S. and they'll become just a dynamite for changing people's lives in other ways. Maybe you're planning on going this direction when it comes to a career, but like many young many men who find themselves being drawn to the word, change their careers completely and go to seminary and become a pastor at age 50. Who knows what surprises are out there? Are you making big plans? That's my question. God is the one that determines our steps. But he'll take your plans and he'll revise them with above the Lord. Maybe. I wasn't planning on being a minister. I wasn't planning on being in the army. I wasn't planning on preaching here today until a couple months ago. Surprises, they come in all shapes and sizes, but that's the adventure of the Christian life Now, to you young people today, I'm hoping you have come to Jesus. I'm hoping you are a young person who's given your life to Jesus. You've got a whole exciting world ahead of you. to make plans. And whatever age you are, it's a this is a good day to say Mom and Dad, how can I match my heart? How can I get my heart to be in tune with God's heart? How can I do that? Do you think my heart matches God's heart, mom and dad? Maybe you can ask questions like that at home. Or you could say to yourself in your quiet moments, help me God to please you today, as I play with my friends, as I go to school, as I study, whatever I do. You kids have a lot of surprises to experience, and hopefully you'll be ready for them. Our God is remarkable, isn't he? And the biggest surprise of all was that he would take care of our corruption, which we read about this morning, our original sin. That sin which just messes up everything. Everything. And we're seeing it in an unusual way, messing up our country today. Isn't it amazing that God surprised us by sending his only son to us? Now to us who've read about that he came, maybe it's not so much a surprise, but nonetheless, to the world and all of history, this is a huge surprise. And God did it for us, for his people. To surprise us with complete forgiveness of sin. To surprise us with continuing forgiveness as we repent and tackle our sin before Him. He gave us surprise a Holy Spirit to advise us and counsel us and even pray for us when we don't know how to pray. And he surprised us by being a God Himself who is intimately involved in our lives and sometimes throws a butt the Lord in there to shake us up. May you enjoy him more than ever as you think about verses like this in the scriptures and how powerful they are. Pray. Lord, I pray this congregation would Look for and appreciate the sovereign surprises you bring them each day. Or may they be a grateful congregation for your hand in their lives and in the lives of their church. Well, you may give them guidance and encouragement when your surprises don't seem so positive. Well it may as a congregation They live each day with their hands extended, saying, Lord, I'm ready for whatever you have for me today And now, Lord, as we transition to remembering this great surprise of sending Jesus to us in communion. May you refresh us with this means of grace. May through remembering Jesus and his work on the cross, his broken body, May these words from Proverbs just find find more. May we find more to them as you think about connecting them to Jesus. And all these things we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.