We're uh uh both uh blessed and privileged this morning to have one of our own, uh Pastor Andrew Cheatham of Covenant Orthodox Presbyterian Church in Cedar Falls, Iowa to come and minister the word of God to us. So brother, uh welcome. Glad to be back uh with you and I'd like to thank the session for allowing me to to bring God's word to you. Please stand with me for prayer as we seek God's guidance, as we look to his word. Let's uh let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. And Lord, just as you have set apart holy men of old and taught them by your Holy Spirit to record your truth, Lord, and just as you've preserved it throughout the ages, I pray that you would be with us now as we read your word. And that you'd be at work through your Holy Spirit now in our hearts, Lord. That you might teach us your truth, that you might reveal your character, that you might visit us in a very special way, Lord. That you might sanctify us by your word, which is truth. We pray that you would glorify yourself in this way now. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Please remain standing as we look to God's Word as we find it in Mark chapter 2. Mark chapter 2, we'll be reading verses 13 through 17 of Mark's Gospel. This is God's word. He, that is Jesus, went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them. And he as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, Follow me. And he rose and followed him. And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many who followed him. And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors, said to his disciples, Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners? And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. Thus ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. Amen And this section, uh this chapter of Mark's gospel, we've just, at the beginning of our passage that we read, we've just read about a group of men so eager to see Jesus. that they've climbed buildings, that they've cut through walls, all that they might get their friend before Jesus. But in our passage here this morning, we read of a man who wasn't looking for Jesus at all. And yet, by the will of God, Jesus found him, and by the power of the Holy Spirit, we see here the calling of Levi unto the faith. And perhaps you've been in a similar situation. Perhaps you've been driving around town and you've noticed there's more traffic than usual. Or perhaps you've seen a group of people. And wondered, I wonder what's going on over there. I wonder what's going on. Perhaps it's a it's a a sporting event at the University of Maryland or a political event downtown, and you think, boy, this traffic's really heavy. I wonder I wonder what's going on. Or perhaps you've uh driven past something and said, Well, is there a sale there? or what's going on? Why are there so many people there? Occasionally there are such events. And we think to ourselves, what are they doing? Why are there so many people that are crowded in that area? Should I go? Is it something that I would enjoy? What's going on there? In a sense, this is what happens to Levi. And he hasn't ventured out. He hasn't left his office desk. But as he's sitting at work, in the place where he works, right at his desk, he sees this crowd of people. This passage teaches us that sometimes men find God when they aren't even looking for him. And as we look at the teaching of Scripture as a whole, we see God finds men even when they're not looking for God. When Jesus comes to Levi, Levi's changed. He's a changed sinner. And yet, as we look about others who follow Jesus, who were actively out, had traveled a great distance to see Jesus, the scribes of the Pharisees, they remained unchanged as sinners. Well, as we look at our text, we see that, first of all, that believers are born of the Spirit and not of their own efforts to find God. We read in verse 13 that he that is Jesus went out again beside the sea, and as the crowds were coming to him, there were multitudes of people who were seeking after Jesus, following Jesus. But then we begin to read about someone in verse 14 who wasn't. He wasn't one of the throngs of the multitude. But as Jesus went along the seashore, he happened to pass by the place where there is a customs office. And Levi, sitting at the office of customs, had an encounter with Jesus, not even getting up from his chair, because we read that he was sitting. This is here a very different call narrative than we have throughout the Gospels, and that we've seen so far in the book of Mark. We read again of that group of people who who vigorously sought Jesus. And yet right after that we read of Levi. He was not fighting crowds, he was not overcoming obstacles. He was just sitting there minding his business. Levi the tax collector is sitting at his desk in his office, which was outside by the shores of Galilee. It was another normal day at the office, ostensibly. Perhaps he was going through the usual paperwork. Perhaps he was seeing to some of the people waiting to pass through and to pay their customs taxes. Perhaps it was a humdrum day at the office as sometimes we all experience. And perhaps as he was moving from one case to another, as he's getting ready to say next and get a new form out, he noticed just such a group of people as we discussed earlier. A crowd, a multitude. Perhaps he wondered, I wonder what those people are doing. I wonder what's going on. Is it a military procession? Is there something going on with a Roman army? Is it a a political person? But as the text goes on, Levi would have seen that it was a man, a man surrounded by people. He saw Jesus. The text tells us that Jesus was teaching the people. Now Mark doesn't go into a lot of the teaching of Jesus, but he does summarize it for us in the first chapter of Mark in verses 14 and 15. If you'll look back to verses 14 and 15 of chapter 1, we read: after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. That's Mark's summary of Jesus' preaching. And each time that we read in his gospel that Jesus was teaching, we should mentally insert this summary of Jesus' teaching. And perhaps as Levi, listen to the man as he heard what Jesus was saying. Something was stirred within him, such that his heart was moved. What he was saying was true and real, simply put. But the words spoke to Levi's heart, such that Levi began to feel the deepest longings of his heart, his greatest fears, and his fondest desires come together in what Jesus was saying to him. Such that when Jesus saw Levi and realized that he'd seen him, that he'd been listening, as he came up to the office of customs, he had nothing to declare. He wasn't there to pay any taxes. But he looked at Levi and he spoke to him. Simple words, follow me. And Levi rose and followed him. Now, in the previous account of the paralytic being healed, when the paralytic was set before Jesus and Jesus forgave him of his sins, and then he ended up healing the paralytic, performing a miracle. Compared to that, this calling of Levi seems like little. There was no miracle performed. No sign or wonder. And yet, as we read of the calling of Levi, as we realize what's going on in these few verses, we see that something supernatural has just happened. Because Levi, who was a tax collector, who was a sinner, was being called by the Savior. Levi, who sat at his office desk and didn't get up to follow Jesus, was being called, and he rose and he went. Levi was being born by the power of the Spirit. Even though he hadn't gone to a lot of effort, even though he really hadn't budged, moved a muscle, hadn't budged an inch. But Jesus came right to his office desk and called him. And he arose and followed Jesus because he knew that the key to dealing with all the bad things in his life. All the bad things he'd done in the past, the way to make it right in the present, and the way to really start living to the future. To love God and to live in the truth was to follow Jesus. And so he arose and he went. So when God works, to call a man by the power of the Holy Spirit, his work is effective. That call is irresistible. That when God works, when Jesus calls, We answer that call. We change by the power of God's Holy Spirit. Now there is a general call of the gospel Jesus taught the multitude, and yet we'll read in a little bit of the scribes and the Pharisees who heard the teaching of Jesus and yet they hardened their hearts against this teaching. Many reject the general call. Some ignore it. Some play with it as an interesting idea and then reject it after a time. But when God works in a man's heart by his Holy Spirit, That heart is changed forever. And in the language of Scripture, he takes out that heart of flesh, hardened in sin, worn, depraved. And he puts in a heart of flesh, a normal heart, so that we no longer suppress the truth and unrighteousness. But by the grace of God, he makes us alive and he gives us a faith. A hatred of our sin and an apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ Jesus. Here we have an example of true repentance as we see Levi going from sitting at the booth of the tax collectors. To rising and to following Jesus. Now, when we talk about tax collectors in the New Testament, oftentimes we uh we don't really have a sense of what we're What we're dealing with, oftentimes we might think, well, it's like an IRS agent today. And around April boy, we we sure that really resonates with us. We don't like those IRS agents. Or we might think of a used car salesman, someone who's known for not being reputable. But the reputation of tax collectors in this day and time went way beyond any of that. Such that they were immoral people, they were dishonest. And they were really thieves. We could think of it as the mafia or uh those uh who who steal, identity thieves. Or if we wanted to go to a historical example, think of the time during World War II, when the Nazis were advancing, when they were taking over France. They were beginning to organize and to ship ship carloads of people off to concentration camps and to put millions to death. There were some who resisted. There were some who fled. But then there were those who stayed and cooperated with the Nazis, who began began uh to help them and became a part of their operation. That's the reputation that the tax collectors had. They were complicit with the Roman government in helping the Romans to exhort taxes, heavy taxes at times, on the people of Israel, against God's people. And we find this man named Levi, named after one of the forefathers of Israel, the tribe that was given To be priests to the Lord God. Remember back when Moses came down from the mountaintop and their people were worshiping the golden calf. And there was kind of an uproar, and Moses said, Who is ever with the Lord, come with me? And the Bible tells us that the tribe of Levi came. And you remember what Moses said. He said, strap on your swords and put to death everyone who doesn't fear the Lord. And from then on, the Levites were Levites were charged to be priests to God. They were called to defend God's honor with life and limb. And yet, what do we read here? That Levi, he who had that name, the name of that rich heritage. was sitting as a Roman puppet to extort money from God's people. Levi was a sinner And yet God worked into his heart to where he turned, he arose, and he followed Jesus, not by his own volition, but by the power of the Spirit. Now, Levite's calling is not a model for us. We shouldn't have that attitude, well, well, if God's going to do it, he's going to do it apart from any means or from apart from any effort on my part. No, but we see that God works in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. He works uh in ways that that reward some Even despite their best efforts of straying from his ways. We see in the calling of Levi God's mercy and that principle that while we were still sinners, Christ died for the ungodly. It's not our searching for God that brings us to Him. But like the hymn writer said, I sought the Lord and afterward I knew. Afterward I knew it was Him seeking me. Here, as we read about the calling of Levi, we see that true children of God, true believers, are born of the Spirit and not of their own cleverness or wisdom. And that knowledge ought to humble us, especially us of the Reformed faith, who have such a wealth of theological knowledge, a wealth of knowledge in God's Word. A wealth of knowledge, knowing how much God loves us, how he works through the power of the Spirit. That shouldn't puff us up to say, yes, I know a lot about the Bible. No, we should be humbled by this knowledge, such that we say with the Apostle Paul that we are the chief of sinners. We realize our sin, that it's pressed home to us, how little we deserve God's favor, and how much we deserve his condemnation. But how great his mercy and grace is, that he seeks us out, that he loves us with an everlasting love, and therefore he draws us to himself in loving kindness. That we might be, as it were, trophies of his grace. That's what Levi is here, as he calls him away. He rises and follows him. But as we continue to read our text, we see not only that true believers are born of the Spirit, not necessarily their efforts to find God, but believers are brought into close fellowship with God and each other as forgiven sinners. And as we continue to read, we read about Jesus fellowshipping with Levi and other tax collectors and other sinners. But we see with that picture of fellowship him also not fellowshipping with a group of people. And we read that he reclined at the table with many tax collectors and sinners in verse 15. And then we read of the scribes of the Pharisees. The first half of the book of Mark is looking at who Jesus is. And the people are asking, often asking the question, who is this? Who teaches with authority? Who is this? That even the demons obey him. And then the scribes and the Pharisees begin to charm in. Who does this guy think he is? That's what they ask when Jesus forgives the paralytic of his sins. in the verses preceding our passage. And here, again, they accuse him. Say, why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners? Who does this guy think he is? Why is he eating with those people? Those people aren't good people. They're not reputable people. They're sinners. Why is he eating with them? And yet, the reason that the Pharisees and the scribes of the Pharisees are outside of the fellowship of Christ Because they don't see their own sin. They're not able to come into close fellowship as forgiven sinners because they don't see their sin in the first place. The Proverbs tells us that the adulterous woman wipes her mouth and says, I've done no wickedness. That's what the Pharisees are like here, though they're sinners. Though they've wandered from God, though they're in need of forgiveness, they say, why is he fellowshipping with those people? He should be fellowshipping with us. We've done no wickedness. Jesus elsewhere describes them as whitewashed tombs. They look good on the outside. In our day and time we could think of them as a as a high-powered businessman. And a finely tailored suit, a power tie, shiny shoes, driving uh the latest BMW, leather briefcase. Pearly white smile. And yet, if we look into our hearts, every single one of us has sinned and is in need of God's forgiving grace. Jesus gathers together with tax collectors and sinners because they realize their need of forgiveness. They realize their need of grace. And without that realization of sin, there is no fellowship with Christ Jesus. There is no fellowship with God. You know, we don't like to talk about sin in our culture. It's an unpopular subject. Psychologists say that we even sometimes ignore those sinful things about ourselves because we don't like to think that way about ourselves. And yet, using the analogy that Christ uses, sickness is a very unpopular subject. No one likes to talk about cancer, about death and dying. And yet if we ignore sickness, If you ignore cancer, for instance, it will eat you alive. Same way with sin. If we ignore sin If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sins. If we acknowledge that we have sinned, then we can find forgiveness in Christ Jesus, in his person, in his work. His work for sinners. So we get that beautiful picture of Levi and these other sinners who have come to repentance in Christ, dining with him at the table. There's no closer fellowship. That's a wonderful picture that we get. We get it in the Old Testament of Moses and the elders on the mountaintop as a foretaste of heaven, dining in the presence of the Lord. Here we have it, Jesus with the sinners reclining at the table, talking about things. And yet, what's the difference between the tax collectors and the sinners and the scribes of the Pharisees? It's not that one's a sinner and one's not a sinner because they're both sinners. But the difference is the one groups, the tax collectors, they see their sin. They hate their sin. And they're seeking to turn from their sins unto Jesus. While the scribes of the Pharisees remain in their sins. They don't see it. They don't hate it. In fact, they love themselves and everything that they do. And so Jesus, in speaking to the scribes of the Pharisees, the scribes of the Pharisees don't talk to Jesus directly, they talk to his disciples. They're talking about him behind his back. That's a sin in and of itself. But Jesus hears it and he answers them. And he says, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I've not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. Now, in saying this, Jesus is not calling the Pharisees righteous. In fact, it's a bit of stinging sarcasm, because that's how they see themselves, and yet they're not righteous at all. In Levi's own account in the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew chapter 9, he adds one line that Jesus says that's not in Luke or Mark's account And he says, go learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. It's a quote from the book of Hosea, Hosea 6, chapter 6, verse 6. And the theme of that great book. You remember the story of the prophet Hosea who goes and marries Gomer, an adulterous woman, who wanders off and And gives herself to many men until she lies destitute and is being auctioned off for a slave. And Hosea goes and buys her And brings her to himself and restores her and gives her his love and gives her a place of honor again as his wife. And Jesus said, You don't understand why I'm eating with these men because you don't understand the idea of God's mercy. You're still trying to earn your salvation through sacrifice, through being good, through doing good. Well it's not good enough. But if you want to understand why I'm eating with these men and not with you, go learn about the book of Hosea. Go learn the principle that God desires mercy, the forgiveness of sins, and not sacrifice. Let me ask you here this morning, as we read the words of the Savior, as we read his stated purpose, that he came to call sinners, but not the righteous. Let me ask you, do you see your sin? Do you if I were to say, raise your hand if you're a sinner, would you raise your hand? Do you see your sin and acknowledge that you are a sinner, that you've wandered from God's ways? to other ways, ways that are wrong. Now we not just oh I'm not perfect or oh yeah well you know I I'm I fall off the wagon every now and then. No, that you are a sinner. That you are under God's wrath and curse because of your sin. I tell you by the authority of Scripture that unless you see your sin, unless you own and acknowledge it, you can have no fellowship with Christ. And if you're still trying to be good enough or do good enough or look the right way or say the right things, then you don't understand why Jesus came. I would implore you with all my heart to look to the mercy and grace of God in Christ Jesus. To look to Him and to trust in Him in His work. For the forgiveness of sins. Covenant children, Levi grew up in an Israelite family. He probably knew a lot about the Bible. He had parents that might have been believers. He might have gone to church regulated, gone to the synagogue, heard God's word preached. But it wasn't until this moment, when he turned from his sin, when he rose and followed Jesus, that he was saved from his sins. And I would exhort each of you to look to Jesus and trust in him for the forgiveness of your sins. And those of us who have known the Savior, those of us who are looking in faith to the Lord Jesus Christ here this morning. Let us continue to do so. Continue to follow the Savior. Not in pride, patting ourselves on the back because we knew enough to follow the Savior, to call ourselves Christians, to come to church. But in humility, recognizing how much God has loved us. He's loved me so much that he came. He's going to dine with me one day in heaven? Me? Let God's great love for us humble us and let us love one another even as we've been loved. Because he first loved us while we were still sinners. God sent his son to be a sacrifice for our sins, to live a perfect life. When we've sinned, to die an atoning death, that our sin might be paid for and taken away, such that we might have life in Him. Those who are well have no need of a physician. But those who are sick, those who have a deadly disease, seek out treatment Go to special centers, the Mayo Clinic. Those who are sinners, who see the destructive nature of sin, who understand from God's word that the wages of sin is death. Look to the Lord Jesus Christ and hope and trust in him with all their might that they might be saved from their sins. And let us rejoice that God has provided such a great salvation, and that He doesn't wait for us to come to Him. He doesn't place that burden upon our backs, which is too great for us. But he comes. And just as he predestined before the foundation of the world, that he should draw people to himself. Just as Jeremiah says that he has loved us with an everlasting love, therefore he draws us to himself That word to be drawn unto God used is often used to to describe water being drawn from a well. That is a bag being let down and dead weight water being r uh brought up to the surface. And in the same way, God often draws us to himself, drags us to himself by his power and his spirit. And he does it that we might have fellowship with him. With him and with one another. And so if you're looking to the Lord Jesus Christ, if you like Levi have arisen to follow Jesus Let us love one another and rejoice in the fellowship that we have with God and each other in Christ Jesus, in expectation of that great day, when we like Levi and the other sinners. Are before the throne of heaven, feasting with the Lord Jesus Christ and the presence of God the Father and the Holy Spirit unto all eternity. That is our hope as a believer. Not that we'll be exalted. Not that we'll reach that point, or we can say that we've done it. But that God would be glorified. And his mercy, not our sacrifice. May the Lord help us as we look at this passage of the calling of Levi and the fellowship that sinners have in the gospel. To live new lives to the glory of God. Amen. Let us pray.