And Jesus is walking along the shore, which is made up of black basalt. And he has something else that no one, John the Baptist didn't do this, none of the prophets in the Old Testament did this. They'd be shaped and molded and trained with the necessary skills. You see, our individualism is actually a breeding ground. And the kingdom of God is at hand. But we were very puzzled. When he calls people to repent and believe. It's how we experience a new beginning, and actually it's how you experience a new beginning even after you have your first new beginning with God. uh went all the way to Alexandria, Egypt, and all the way uh north uh to Antioch in Syria. Now there's a lot more going on here than meets the eye on just a casual glance. And the rabbi would accept them as a student. It's not like deciding, well, I'd like to take up photography or pottery. In September, there'll be an opportunity for you to take a step in being made as Fishers of Men when Sunday school resumes. Who were the scholars and students of the Old Testament. But it's only because of a prior gift. No, it's to be in a community of people whose names are known to you and your name is known to them, who actually know the real you. And that's why small groups are so vital in our discipleship. I really sensed that I needed, instead of taking the rest of this chapter, just to slow down. Now, after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. And then it would stop like it was taking a deep breath and then would it blast again. Jesus came to Galilee proclaiming the good news about God. Now the word kingdom, when we hear that word, we think of things like, well, the United Kingdom, or the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, or perhaps Jordan We think of kingdoms as places and political entities, but in the kingdom of God is not a place. It's now and it's coming. And God's reigned good news for us. tornado warning sirens. and submitting to Jesus as our Lord and leader in our lives. Just know that there's not half a sermon left when we get down there. And in this way, he's revealing who he is. And these men are fishing, which is a major industry on this lake. in the water. They spoke Greek in addition to Aramaic. Well, this, you know, you you just probably you might reach you'd miss some things, I'm sure you would. The prophets and John called people to follow God and his ways. No, it's something completely different than that. that we need to appreciate because they really help us understand the mission that's here. And the fullness of the kingdom is coming, and people must either enter the kingdom or perish. And so in the background of fishers of men is to see that sin and death are symbolized by the place where fish are to be found. They'll be fished out, that is rescued out of the clutches of the kingdom of darkness, out of the realm that is hostile to God. Now, you shouldn't picture this as if Jesus is a stranger who walks up to these men and they've never seen him before and he says these words to him. That these men had had contact with John the Baptist, and actually they had contact with Jesus. And in fact, in the synagogue, those last verses we read in our text, Jesus goes into Capernaum, and like many Jewish men, he's asked to speak, and he does, and they are astonished. Nobody had ever spoken like that. It's a gracious call that originates in the will of God. You see, this is a life-giving enabling call. But Jesus intentionally calls people together because he's forming a community of people around himself. Jesus is at the center of that community. Now, if you've ever camped with people for a week out in the woods, you get to know them in a way that you can't, being merely a guest in their homes. You see, you can only stifle the real you for so long. You see, Jesus is calling us away from the place where loyalty to ourselves and our preferences trumps everything else. So as I was preparing, uh, I plan my sermons and then I prepare them and then in the midst of preparing uh this week We're going to start in verse 14 and read through verse 22. We're acknowledging that this is in fact the living God speaking to us through the Gospel of Mark. casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat, with the hired servants, and followed him. The sirens that warn of the weather sound every week to be sure that they actually uh work And uh once you're clued in to what they're doing, you recognize they're making a proclamation about the weather. And we'll see as Jesus teaches and communicates about this kingdom through his parables, that the kingdom is both present and future. and proclaim that an army was coming and destruction was certain, and here are the terms of peace. His disciples and Jesus acts of teaching, healing, and deliverance. And when that comes into our lives, we have a profound awareness of our spiritual poverty and our rebellion against the king. And repentance is admitting that we've tried to be our own king. So with authority, Jesus calls his first disciples. Beside the Sea of Galilee. Simon Andrew, they're casting their nets. They're not impoverished men. And it's with great simplicity that Jesus tells us that he says to them, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. They hear that and they obey instantly without reservation. They didn't walk away from their livelihoods. And Mark portrays this with such simplicity because he wants us to see the essential nature of discipleship here. Discipleship in the Jewish world normally started with the student taking initiative. And Jesus turns this utterly upside down. This call is a summons to embrace the mission that Jesus has and will require total dedication of them. Jesus is inviting them in to his mission. And it has kind of an ominous tone. sending for many fishers, declares the Lord, and they shall catch them. For my eyes are in all their ways, they are not hidden from me, nor is their iniquity concealed from my eyes. Of their detestable idols, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations. So if we put all this together, what we see is these disciples are being called the herald the good news. There's something else to see here, and it underlines once again the authoritative word of Jesus. Jesus doesn't reason with Simon or James. The scribes taught by quoting other rabbis in a very rapid-fire manner, something like this. this, but Rabbi Eliezer says this and so on. Truly, truly, I say to you, or you've heard it said of old that you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be judged, but I say to you, Jesus simply calls out to Lazarus to come out. to see yourself, to trust in Christ and what He's done. And so we don't like to, it doesn't come natural to us to actually factor into our plans or our lives the needs and concerns of other people. Jesus is calling us out of our radical individualism, out of this rugged individualism that so often in, I think, in the American imagination defines who we are as a people. And going on a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets. A few years ago, many of you know we moved to South Dakota. And usually those terms in the ancient world were unconditional surrender, and then various things were imposed on those who surrendered. What this means is that Jesus is asking that these men rescue people from the coming climactic just judgment, lest all be lost. that Atlanta was a place where there would be tornadoes. means heralding. low hills on the other. These men, Simon, also known to us probably better as Peter and Andrew and James and John, they are not day laborers. By that I don't mean that their families did this for a couple generations. It would have broken all of the social ties and expectations that rested on them, which were far weightier for them than for us. And there's something else that's here, and it would have been obvious to people in the first century, but it's not so obvious to us. them. Water, and especially the sea, in the Old Testament is a symbol of evil and chaos. To herald this good news of hope and deliverance, as well as the warning that the king is coming, that ignoring or rejecting the king will have terrible consequences. By the way he teaches. And so to be a Christ follower is not to be a nameless number or someone who's nameless and faceless in the crowd. Although sometimes God arranges for people to get married or sends them children, and they begin to see a little bit of just how utterly selfish they are for our world and our lives. The way these men are called is the way that everyone is called. He's intentionally simply because he doesn't want us to miss the power of this authoritative word that Jesus speaks. It was 1 a. And that's what Jesus is doing, he proclaims that the kingdom of God is at hand. Now, like most things in the Gospels, there is an Old Testament layer. That's not true. It takes over in marriage, in friendships, in life. Shape. And Jesus calls four people at once. And this was true then, and it's still true today, but it's really very, very hard for us because we are deeply individualistic. And because we don't live together in a small village, just a few houses down from each other, we need a structure to actually help this to take place. And they are called to leave their nets and learn a new trade, which in some ways will be like their old one. But all of us need to be made into fishers of men. And this word that summons someone to be a disciple is a word that gives life. Jesus speaks with authority. All disciples are called to share in Jesus' mission. in in Jesus' time there. Now he summons them and immediately they follow. And then the fisherman would jump out of the boat and he would uh s swim down, uh, grab up those weights, and then he would drag the net with the fish in it uh back to the uh shore. They went home some. Well please, if you would, would you open your Bibles and turn to Mark chapter 1? And one of the first century historians said that the water was pure, sweet, and filled with a variety of fish. Just puzzled. No, they are shrewd, successful businessmen who are making a living in a competitive international market. His teaching is different than that of the scribes of Jesus' day. Now that's a picturesque lake. m. Repent and believe in the gospel. Now, you see, being a disciple is not like taking an elective course The next day we learned that a tornado had destroyed a neighborhood just a few miles away from where we lived. Jesus is heralding this ancient is heralding the kingdom of God. And if you stood up on those mountains, you would see that the lake is is shaped like a harp. The community looked to them to understand the meaning of the Old Testament, to render judgments about it. Kind of the way you might seek out private lessons for an instrument or to play tennis or golf. It's small. And it says, I will make you. But they spent, well, the better part of three years on an extended camping trip in the morning, and Nancy and I were both awakened by a siren. His presence and power and authority are good news as he's broken into ordinary life because it means new beginnings. They would go into enemy territory ahead of an army. It is with personal authority that Jesus teaches, and it is with this authority that he summons. Now these nets were circular. They will all share life together. They not only knew the trade of fishing, they understood how markets work. Let me read from Jeremiah 16. And fish were the staple of the Roman world. No one simply chooses Jesus. It just spawns selfishness in us. Mark wants us to see this, not just because it happened this way. Repentance is a change of mind and attitude and direction in how we live. Now, it's really hard, I think, for most of us. It's like a seed. They spoke, in other words, with derived authority and derivative authority. And so when Mark writes Jesus came proclaiming, he's using, well, in the original language here, a word that He chooses whom he calls They were probably had done this for centuries. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And there in the little town of Yankton on Wednesdays at noon. And that authority is revealed in our text this morning in two ways. That was very risky. We thought that was Oklahoma and Kansas. Jesus is by the lake. And it won't be easy work. He calls and he summons. It's seven miles wide and thirteen miles long. And afterward I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt for them from every mountain and every hill, and out of the clefts of the rocks. The revelation of who he is actually occupies the first half of Mark's gospel. He doesn't seek to persuade them. And that's what happens in the life of everyone who is a disciple. Repenting and believing are gifts, the ability to turn to God. Now we're just going to mostly, almost exclusively, look at that first. And the sons of Zebedee do as well It's an authoritative summons So it's our custom to stand, and you're welcome to join us. It's not deciding I'm going to take a hike on the weekend or planning a vacation or choosing a cruise. And it's really hard for most of us to do that for an entire week. And this seemed to go on forever. There are no less than 16 ports. Follow me. We need the example, encouragement, support, accountability, and even correction that we can find there. You see, Jesus is more than a prophet. He calls us to what is a radically counter-cultural lifestyle in America. Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon. They were about 20 feet in diameter and they had weights out on the end, and they would drop down like a parachute. All disciples are called to herald, not all in the same way. In fact, much of the next three years, you shouldn't imagine it's every minute of every day, that they never went home. It grows invisibly. They have to be made, fishers of men. And we need to unpack this Rabbi Hillel says this, Rabbi Gamayel says And so we're only going to look at a few of these verses. And so this metaphor is always used in the Old Testament in the context of judgment. So Jesus demonstrates his authority in what he does. And faith is accepting the terms that the king offers. But Mark says this very simply So it's a hard surface to walk on. That's how we enter the kingdom of God First of all, this was utterly radical because people in the ancient world didn't do this sort of thing. The gospel is the good news that God's kingdom has broken into the world. He would find a rabbi and he would say, Rabbi, teach me the Old Testament. And so the fish that came from Capernaum, where these fishermen The word fisher of men, that phrase and that image is used five times in the Old Testament. Those were the men All disciples are called to this. He calls them to follow him And This is given to us. He summons four commercial fishermen They stuck with what they knew. Behold, I am And they're going to go into enemy territory and announce that the king has come. He comes to them at the lake because he is fishing for disciples. He doesn't implore Perhaps one of the most beautiful pictures of this is the raising of Lazarus from the dead. And I've come to think it makes us actually very blind to it. Just the very shortness of the text would make you think. But first I will doubly repay their iniquity and their sin, because they have polluted my land with carcasses. They are summoned by this authoritative, life-giving word. And when Jesus calls There's multiple layers, and there's a couple of them here In fact, that's why it's called the Sea of Galilee, because of its People are hard to catch. It wailed in what was a strange pattern. Maybe it was only fifteen minutes or thirty minutes. But it is coming. It is the reign and rule of God. It's going to take several years. And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. The lake is confined by mountains on one side and And Jesus shocked people because he spoke with direct authority Yes, we act. It's repentance and faith. It's an uneven surface. His authority is revealed in this. So when you look at that outline, if you're using it, And they were in a family business. And one day it will arrive in all its fullness and glory and power. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word. And in the ancient world, uh a herald was a lot like those They are summoned out of death into life. Jesus calls They knew what it meant. It's a difficult surface actually to pull a boat up onto. This is just unthinkable. It's very hard for us to see that. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. No, that's not true, and the other gospels tell us. And eventually we got back to sleep. It would blast. He is the Lord and King. It had never occurred to us. People didn't do this sort of thing. You may take your seat.