For a while now, and especially this past week since I have reached full retirement age for Social Security When people ask me what they should pray for me, I say that I might finish well. But as we begin, I want to encourage you that you don't have to be full retirement age for that to be a prayer for you too. That's really the calling for every Christian. That we would finish the race that Christ has given us, the race of faith. Well, now let me explain what I mean by this, and I'll use uh some of the writings of George and uh Donald Sweeting. They say this. The phrase finishing well means different things to different people. For some, finishing well means ending life with a long, cushy retirement. For those who believe, he who dies, dies with the most toys wins. Finishing, well, means having lots of stuff. For still others, it means ending with a pain-free death. But when we use the phrase finishing well, we mean following Christ. to the very end of our lives. Finishing his assignments for us, and hearing his well done, good and faithful servant, Matthew 25, 21. His master, or the Lord, told him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a little, I'll set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. Now, as we consider this tonight, what it is for you to finish well, I want to be very careful. I want to make sure that you understand that what I mean is not that you could earn your salvation. For as the Sweetings also said, we finish well by the grace of God. That's also how we start the race. That's how we keep in the race. And that's what it takes for us to end, as John Newton put in his famous hymns, 'Tis grace has brought me safe thus far, and grace will lead me home. So it's very appropriate for every Christian to pray, Lord, give me the grace to finish well. Now, you may have heard some Christians say something like this, talking about the Christian life, or particularly the Christian race. Just let go and let God, and that you will finish well But as we're going to look at the scriptures tonight, you will look and see that the scripture calls you to finish well. God will be involved with his people. God will keep his people. God will strengthen you. But you are the one in the race. You are the one running. And therefore, you need to be involved personally and particularly in it. For as you will see in the scriptures this evening that God compares our lives to a Christian race, and you're called to run faithfully to the end. Now we'll be looking tonight at the book of Hebrews. And as we turn and begin to think about Hebrews, we're going to be looking at chapter 12. But chapter 10 says this. talking about that church that he was writing to, that area of Hellenistic Jews that were undergoing persecution for their faith And he was said, you started well, but you need to end well. And look at this word that he's going to talk about what we need in the race to end well. Hebrews 10, 32 to 36 says, Recall the former days when after you were enlightened you endured a hard struggle with sufferings, sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction. Sometimes being partners with those who so treated, for you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property. Since you knew that you yourselves had a better position, possession, and an abiding one. Therefore, don't throw away your confidence, which has great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. Now, the particular thing I wanted you to hear and see in there is that word endurance. In the Christian race, to finish well To finish it, you have to endure to the end. You have to make it to the end. You have to endure to the end And the question is, how will I, how will you who are in Christ endure to the end? So as we read the scripture for tonight in Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 to 3, I want you to look at and notice particularly the continued repetition of the word endurance. Because that is really the key that we're going to be talking about of finishing well, that we have to get to the end, that we must endure. So stand together with me, please, as we look at God's word, as we hear it together, and as it's read. Hebrews chapter 12 and verses 1 to 3 Here in chapter 12, it's looking back, of course, finishing chapter 11, where we see and had that roll call of what we call the roll call of faith of so many who finished well. Not an easy race, and even at the end we find out that many of them died as a result of their faith. So it's not an easy race, but it's one that they endured by faith, and that's what these readers, uh the hearers of uh this letter to the Hebrews, but you who have become engrafted into the Hebrew faith. uh fulfilled in Christ what you're called to to. So let us now look to and hear God's word for us this evening. Hebrews 12 verses 1 to 3. Therefore Since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder. And perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. Let us pray. Our Father and God, we thank you this evening as we come to your word. And even as we start a new year, and for many of us it's been more and more years until that we have had And we begin to think about, will we endure? How will we endure? Some get excited about a new year, and some might say, oh no, another year. So Lord, we pray that you would set our own hearts aright, encourage your people, because we find ourselves, even as this scripture talks about at times becoming. Weary. And we would confess, even at times, losing heart. And how we rejoice that your word speaks to your people. that we would be strengthened in our Savior, for we pray in His name. Amen. Please receive it. Well, if you're going to run in a race and finish it, you must have endurance. And so the very first verse, Hebrews chapter 12, verses verse 1, it says, run your race with endurance. Therefore, since you have such a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance. And the sin which so easily entangles us and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Hebrews 11 talks about that those surrounding witnesses, so many since the beginning that have run the Christian race and are before us. And it's reminding us that you can run this race and by faith run it well. But you or Christians have entered into that same race. You're in a contest. The Christian life is not one where we just let go and let God, as we've talked about otherwise, I'll just let go and everything will be fine. No, you are called depending upon God in the race that He has given you over your course of your life to run it for His glory and your good. Your race ends only at your death and going to be with Jesus unless he returns face First for you. The word for race here is an interesting word. It's the word in Greek, and I want you to listen for an English word, how it describes a race. Um for me, someone who hates running, I get it right away. The word is agon. Agony. It's talking about this race isn't going to be a stroll. That walking with Christ in this world, this high side of heaven, is filled with agony if you are going to be his. and run the race with him. It speaks of a difficult contest, a hard struggle, and a painful battle. This race requires your self-discipline. strenuous determination and continuous perseverance. 1 Corinthians 9, 25. Everyone who competes runs in the games, exercises self-control in all things. They then do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. It's part of our calling by faith. and walking with Christ as we go to be with him and receive internal life, that we go by the course of running this race of faith. And the Lord has per a particular course for each of you. For some, the truth is that the race is full of a lot less agon than others. Or at times they have less agony than you have. And sometimes looking around at the other person, which we're good at doing, Lord, give me their race. There's not much agony in it. Lord, there's too many hills. Lord, there's too many valleys. Lord, I don't like my race. Give me their race. It was an interesting time for my wife and I one time at a congregation we had where we were counseling two different couples in one week. And as we came in the first night, the couple were there, and as we got to know them and said, the one wife said, Oh, I wish I had So and so in the church. He's such a godly man. You've given me such agony, Lord, in giving me, let's call him George, right? Well, little did she know that Thelma and George were meeting with us the next night. And Thelma said, Oh Lord, if only you'd given me bill! You know, we look at each other's race and think, man, if I only had it their way, then I'd be okay. But the Lord has particularly given you your race and the agony and the bumps and the difficulties to conform you to Christ. And we believe that. That's what he says in Romans 8. 28. And we know that to God make us like Jesus, it says, we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Your race, even though filled with agony Has been ministered to you through the cross of Christ. Not to hurt you. Not to take God's screws and turn them down on you. But God knows that the agony that you have in the race is what you need. So that you would be conformed to Christ and not run by your own strength, but call out to Him, bearing His name. And even tell the world, the only way I can run in the agony of a broken and sinful world this side of heaven is because of Christ. You're called in this race to lay aside everything that would encumber you in that run. Particularly, it talks about the weight of our sins. To take off those things that we hold on to. What it's talking about is the ancient games where the runners ran naked. And it wasn't for some sexual voyeurism. It was because when you run naked, there's nothing to impede your running. And so it was talking about we have to take anything that's impeding us in this life, weighing us down and holding us back. We have to strip it off. Now, for these Jewish Christians, the Hellenists, Greek Christians, what they were was they were tempted to go back and put on the weight of the law. To go back to the Jewish festivals that they had given up. They were called now instead, they were tended to Go back and put on all those traditions that the way they had to eat and the way they had to worship and sacrifice. And they're saying, no, don't go back and put on those weights. Well, we hardly even understand that from our culture, but we understand putting on many other weights. It's interesting, John Calvin long ago, talked about what are these weights that hold us back in running the Christian race? And he said this. There are various burdens which delay and impede our spiritual course, such as the love of this present life. the pleasures of the world, the lust of the flesh, worldly cares, riches also, and honors and other things of this kind. He's really speaking to us about the book of James, who talks about those love of those things that we understand. And he's saying it's not that these things are wrong in themselves. But they weigh us down when our love, care, and commitment to them become inordinate, drawing us away from our love and service of Jesus. Lig and Duncan talked about when you're weighed down, it doesn't matter whether you're weighed down by something good or bad. If you were to try to run a race with 50 pounds of lead strapped to your back, how would you run that race? Not very well. Alright? And so some of you might have horrible sins holding you back. Right? Just wait that we know that we should shut off and get rid of. And we should. We shouldn't encourage each other and laying aside particular sins that hold us back. But what if it was a 50-pound bag of gold? Would it make any difference? No, it'd still impede you. And sometimes what things that impede us could be a love of our children. The love of a husband or wife. The love of having a good name at work. None of those things are bad or sinful in themselves, but when they take over our following after Christ. Then they become the same impediments as lead. And so we have to ask ourselves, we have to ask God, oh God, show me. Even the good things in life that take your place, that impede me in following after you. The King James Version, when it translates this scripture, it says, laying aside the sin which so easily besets us. I think that's where we get that whole phrase that we've talked about, besetting sins. You know those sins, don't you? Do you know what besetting sins are? There are areas in your life that you love more than God, that you're unwilling to give to Him and turn from and repent of because you love them or they make you feel good. You want them, you desire them for whatever reason it is. And what he's talking about with the besetting sin is there are those sins, it's like a whack-mo goal at cheat at Chuck E. Cheese. You ever seen that whack-a-mole game? It's that game where this little they have six or seven or eight holes and this little plastic mole sticks his head up and you hit it with a hammer and knock that Mole down, right? Well you knock that that sin down, that mole, right? And then someplace up one pops up, right? And so you say, Well I got this one. So you hit that one, and next thing you look back, this one's popped up again And you just go crazy after whack and you go, why, why, why, whichever, why, why, why, why, why? And that's the trouble with sin so often, right? It's like a whack-a-mole game. You've dealt with it and you thought it's gone, but like a dandelion that you pull out and you don't get by the root, it comes up again. And so the Christian life in dealing with it is sometimes full of agony because we keep dealing and sometimes with the very same things. In fact, the not always awful things, as we've talked about, even A. W. Pink said this, more die from overeating than over-drinking. The habit of gossiping may more to do it damage the spiritual life than excessive smoking of tobacco. Great spiritual discernment is needed for us here. Not so much as asking what is wrong with this or that, as much as asking, does this thing, activity, thought, or person Help me run the race and follow after Christ. Ooh, I'm tired just talking about endurance. And thinking about my own besetting sins. But thankfully, God gives us verse 2, and he says, you can run the race with endurance. But notice how you run it. By looking to Jesus who endured the cross for you. Hebrews 12, 2. Fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith. Who for the joy set before him endured the cross? You see, you need to endure your race, but he's already endured the ultimate race for you. He endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of God. While you're running the race, the important thing is not to be looking at your feet Not to be looking at your neighbor who's in the race, the other runners, not even to be looking in the crowds and the people watching you, but looking to Jesus. Now some of you know who that if you mow the grass especially on a big area. That's just kind of practical, right? But any of you mowed grass in a big area? Right? You tried to stay in the lines? If you look at the previous line you did, if any of them get out of line, then you're out of line. The first one goes down and goes, well then if you follow and look down at your feet, they all go like that. You have to look at the end. You have to look at the end of the field and follow that point. And it's only when you follow the endpoint at the end of the field that you get straight lines. Otherwise it becomes. And that's what it is here. Not looking at your feet, not looking at your neighbor, not looking at the crowd, but looking to Jesus who's already endured the race for you. He endured it. How did he look? He looked to an end goal. He looked to the end goal of saving you. He looked the end goal of the cross being finished. He looked to the end goal of being resurrected and reigning in heaven. You see what it says there? Who for the joy set before him endured the cross. Despising the shame, and has now sat at the right hand of God because he was looking to that end goal. And we are to set our eyes on our Savior, that we would become like him. In 1981, on a hot day in Omaha, Nebraska, the crowd there was excited at a 10,000-meter run because Bill Rogers showed up. Now, because it's 1981, some of you are going, Bill Rogers? Who's Bill Rogers? Well, Bill Rogers had won four Boston Marathons And four New York marathons. And so that he would come and participate in their six-mile run, they thought, wow, Bill Rogers! And of course that day Bill Rogers not only came, he participated, and he run. He went, he He won. He won when he ran. When he ran. He was the guy who came in first. No one was surprised. But there was another fellow who showed up that day who had brain surgery ten years earlier, Bill Broadhurst. When Bill ran, he had one leg that was stiff. And he had to throw out his stiff leg first and then pivot on it and bring his good leg around. For some reason, even though Bill Rogers had finished, the crowd waited for Bill Broadhurst. The run his six miles took him six and a half hours. The last steps were excruciating. But he looked down in amongst the crowd. He saw that the marathon runner, the winner had waited for him, and was cheering him on in his race. And as he limped across the finish line. But Rogers gave his award to Bill Broadhurst. Brothers and sisters, as we limp across the finish line. The Lord Jesus will be there, giving us his victor's crown. Because he has already endured the race. And we endured the race because we were looking at the finish line at him. This year, 2017. When you are growing weary and about to lose heart in your walk, when you race with the Lord, consider Jesus' death on the cross for you. Look at the last verse we're looking at tonight. 12 and 3. For consider him as you seek to endure yourself and your race. For consider Jesus who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you may not grow weary and lose heart. Hallelujah! Isn't it wondrous that God writes the Bible like this for us? Because I get weary. In my race with the Lord, I lose heart. In my race with the Lord, when I'm out there thinking I'm great and Look at me, Ron, and how and I forget the Lord and I pick up all the other weights from the things I'm loving more than him, and I'm sinking, and I'm about thinking, I gotta quit. How can I follow on with Christ? I'm growing weary and I'm losing heart. Am I really a Christian? If I am, how come I'm living this way? How come I haven't killed all those besetting sins? How come there's still problems in my life if he loves me? I'm getting weary. I lose heart. And I think, well, I gotta look at the race and for consider him. Look to Jesus who has endured such hostilities against sinners against himself that you might not grow weary and lose heart. How are you doing in the race even this year? How are you doing when you find it difficult to trust in God's promises? When you suffer loss for following Christ. When you think, or at least feel, that God has turned his back on you. When in the midst of your trial there may be no end in sight. When is this going to end? When losing a loved one or a friend who was always there to encourage you. Beloved, you fill in the blank for you. Right? What made it even be tonight that you're you're just struggling? Lord, can I continue? It's exactly at that time that you must resist the temptation to tell yourself, just try harder. Don't stop. Do more. Dig deep. Find your inner strength. Channel. The little train. I think I can. I think I can. I know I can. I know I can Doesn't say that, does it? Instead, you and I are to look to Jesus who endured the cross to save you and me. Consider what he went through in your place in taking God's wrath, that you know and can be assured of God's love. Nick Napier gives us this counsel. Christianity is no self-help center. The answer to your growth. is to grow in grace and God's appointed means of grace, not by your ability to stop some outward actions. So what is the primary way we grow in grace? And die to sin through Christ that's focusing on his appointed means, his word, his sacraments Praying and fellowship along with other godly believers. Going to brothers and sisters and say, pray with me. I'm growing weary. I'm losing heart. Don't wall yourself off in your sin and struggle with it, but use what God has given you. His body who loves you and will come aside in his name to help you. It's not to be introspective and navel nasal gazing that will draw us closer to Christ. It is through looking outward to the one who is the object and grounds of our faith, keeping our eyes on Christ, the author and finisher of our faith. It's by hating and repenting of the sin you're dealing with and looking to your sinless Savior, by reflecting on His holiness. And being enabled by his Holy Spirit through his means of grace to follow after him. Let us look to our Lord. Our Father and God, how I confess that instead of looking at you, the one who is omniscient, knowing all of my difficulties and problems. The one who is Omnipresent, promising never to leave or forsake, but a very present help in trouble. The one who is omnipotent, able to help and strengthen to endure the race. I often look so many other places. Would you enable our flock, O God? Would you enable us? Would you Remind us over and over again of this blessed word we've looked at tonight, this great privilege we have of fixing our eyes on you. The one who has already endured and run the race for us. That is indeed we finish the cross, the finish line. Having been strengthened and enabled and helped by you and your people and your spirit, that you would give us the victor's crown because of Christ. Amen.