Thank you, brother. If you haven't opened your Bibles, would you do so now to First Corinthians chapter two, where we'll be looking at verses one through five this morning. Would you please rise now for the reading and the hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Which comes to us from the book of First Corinthians chapter 2. And I, when I came to you, brothers. Did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech and wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling. And my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now, we pray. Open our eyes to the truth of God's word. Help us to see. where there is any deficit in us in obedience to the word of God. And grant us the grace to repent. And to turn to you for the power to not repeat our sins over and over again. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In uh his commentary on the book of First Corinthians, Dr. Rosner Points out something that's uh very uh helpful and intriguing for us to have a good sense of knowledge about um uh from the ancient world. I'll go ahead and quote it to us. It says that he points out that in the ancient world, a public speaker's initial visit to a city was important. And establishing his success and reputation going forward from there. I think this is important background information for us this morning as we start to get into the details of the text. Orators would compete for adulation and offer entertainment at banquets when they arrived for the first time in a city. And then he concludes by saying that competitive showmanship was the order of the day when someone new came into your city. As we shall see, Paul now turns attention upon himself in these passages. Not to bring adoration or professional acceptance but to contrast himself with the orators of the day in order to bring attention to Christ If you recall in our study last week, in effect, what Paul did was he insulted the church the church in Corinth by saying, you yourselves were not the in-crowd, if you recall. That is the wise of the age. This was, of course, in the context of saying that God chose to save the foolish in order to shame the wise of the age. In similar fashion, here in chapter 2 and verse 1, he picks up that theme by bringing attention to himself, and let's be clear, he does so not in a positive way. Paul has been arguing that the gospel message is not forged in human wisdom, but that it is built upon the wisdom of God. After all, who would find victory in death? And that death upon a tree, bringing a curse upon himself by God. But through all of this, Christ becomes the bridge to having fellowship with God. 2-1, verse 2-1, then seems to be continuing the argumentation for which he stated in 117, chapter 1, and verse 17, where he said. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, and not words of eloquent wisdom, and then he says. Lest the cross of Christ be emptied of power. And so this is a continuation And I think finality, if you will, to this argumentation, line of argumentation. He is concerned that the cross of Christ, its power be emptied. Let's take a look at this then. Alright, so he is pointing out that when he first came to them, he did not use lofty. Great oratory and fancy argumentation to win them over to himself. But rather it was anything but that He's reminding them that he was no more impressive as a speaker than the testimony that he bore of a failed Messiah. Both he and his message were foolish by human standards. Before we move on, there is a textual variant in this verse in that The word that we have translated as testimony in verse 1, some of you, depending upon the versions you may have, will have noticed that the word that was inserted there is mystery. It seems that the translators are divided in exactly which word to use, whether it's testimony or whether it's mystery But mystery in the New Testament is normally to be understood as something that God has divinely revealed. It's not something that is not known. Mystery is known as something that God has revealed through the truth of the Scripture. And testimony is something that someone proclaims about having experienced or witnessed in their life. Well, whatever the case is, I think, Paul is referring to the resurrected Christ and his crosswork leading unto salvation, the gospel itself. He further elaborates in verse 2. 4. When he arrived in Corinth and throughout his stay, His proclamation, his preaching, was nothing but the promotion of Jesus Christ. And the message of him being crucified. These are not words of human wisdom. Imagine running around in the city proclaiming a message of failure. Failure by human standards, and expecting humans to believe him. Imagine going around town to a people who follow success achievement and personal glory, and promoting a fellow who was publicly executed as a deliverer king. From God. This was nothing but an oxymoron. People would have said What kind of foolishness is this that you want me to believe? Thankfully, we as Christians have it easier today, don't we? I mean, we don't live in a society that cherishes and follows people with success, achievement, and personal glory. Paul was not dumb. He was educated. He was educated quite well. He was raised in one of the most cultured areas of the empire at that time. He had knowledge about many topics of which he could have waxed eloquence. We're not saying that he was a simpleton. What Paul is saying is that when he was with them, he didn't touch on areas of personal expertise. Well, he was with them in order to gain acceptance. But rather, he was there to proclaim Christ. And when he was with them, that's all he did. Why is he saying this? It is because he wants them to reflect upon themselves and recognize that they came to be Christians, not because Paul was a great orator. or that he was entertaining them at banquets, or presented bulletproof arguments to Christ. In fact, all he did was he revealed the mystery of God's salvation through defeat and death. If they believe this, as they did, they themselves are living testimony to the foolishness of men and the wisdom of God. And not only that, but their living testimony also to the power of God, who had to do something to them. So that they may see, so that they may understand. And finally, to place their faith, to believe in the Messiah, and to trust him for redemption. From their sins. When an orator was coming into town to win people over and get their support, for whatever purpose may have been, he would come in pomp. Portray confidence. Share of his successes. Allow his reputation to precede him Through his supporters. However, Paul in verse 3 continues with, and. And by the way, as if to say. When I came to you, I came in weakness and in fear and much trembling. Unlike the great orders of the day, I was nothing like them. The point I was nothing like the ways of the world. Even my entree into Corinth. But yet you were saved. I came in non-standard ways, but yet you believed. What does this say about me as well as you? We are not like the wise of the world, and yet because we believe, we stand as living proof of God's power which is working in us. He is saying that just as the message was weak in the eyes of fallen men, the messenger came in weakness. And you are witnesses of that. Perhaps he is saying that he realized That he needed to come in humility, not in the pridefulness associated with the, come, look at me, at the greatness I have achieved. Which is so common to the speakers of that day. I say needed, because Paul realized that it was not him who was converting people. It would have to be the work of the Holy Spirit. I believe that he says that much in that when he came, he came in fear and much trembling before the Lord. He wanted the Corinthians to know this, because he is stating that his hope was not in his own cleverness or creativity in convincing them. But it was in the hope and trust that God would use him as an instrument for God's glory. This again was the exact opposite to the sophists or the great orators of the time. Who would come in hopes of accomplishing their goals based upon what? Their own ability And he continues to point out in verse 4 that even his speech was not eloquent. Perhaps even his presentation was not elegant as the professional orators. Another translator has this verse as saying, My message and my preaching were not wise and persuasive words. In the use of these choice words, Paul is making a sharp contrast between himself and the sophists of his day. When they came into town, the goal was persuasion by use of practiced arguments and expert and smooth presentations. But Paul's hope was in the manifestation of God's power by the Spirit in the lives of the Corinthian people. So interestingly enough, when we see here, what we see here is that Paul is bringing out the fact that the people of Corinth Would have wanted to see demonstration of oratory skill and power to convince them. But in contrast, what Paul offered them was the evidence of God's Spirit. Powerfully working in them to convince them of the gospel message. Verse 5 puts everything together for us. It begins with so that. This is the immediate conclusion to his argument, which really began back in chapter one. Both the message and the messenger do not meet normal expectations. The foolishness of the gospel and the form of the messenger Paul not being anything like the contemporary speakers of his day. They are exact opposites. He has presented an argument that says basically, despite all odds. Yet you are saved. It's as if Paul is saying, But look You are saved. When you consider the foolishness of the message and the inadequacy of the messenger, this is so because your faith needs to rest upon. Not upon me. Or the way that I present the message. But your faith needs to rest upon the power of God Who has worked in you so that you can see and believe Your salvation should not rest upon the ability, upon anyone's ability, to convince you to believe in the message of the gospel. But because of the power of God that is working in you. And so here we go. This is significant because it has become a long-standing debate within Christendom in America. Which has, along with the missions work that she has done, exported itself to other parts of the world. What must one do? What can one do to increase the likelihood of converts to Christianity? Mind you, this is an intramural debate. One thing that we have all in common As a starting point is that we must be clear in the proclamation of the gospel. But at the heart of the debate, which we will return to again and again throughout the book of 1 Corinthians, is the proper understanding of anthropology. The proper understanding of anthropology. Anthropology is the study of man, the nature of man. The Bible describes us as spiritually dead. Unable to discern spiritual things due to our sinful nature, undesirous of seeking out the true God, as he has revealed himself in the Holy Scriptures. Now there are those that believe that there is this small island of life or small island of righteousness that remains within human beings. That we must appeal to it, they say, in whatever form or fashion that we can. For as they would argue Well, we must be gentle as doves and as wise as serpents. So they go about the task to entertain. to emotionally entice. What I mean by that is to entice by music For example, to get a person into the mood to commit. The idea is that if we shake the tree hard enough, something will drop. This, by the way, has become a major cause for the transitioning as one of the major goals of worship To that of evangelism in worship. So let me ask you if this is the case, and it is the case, some of you may have come from this type of background. The question is, who is doing the saving? Where is the convincing power coming from? This has some very dangerous implications or potential outcomes Churches are not immune to controversy. It hasn't taken long for our study in 1 Corinthians in the first century to point this out. It's no different today. The controversies, there are controversies that arise from political differences. doctrinal divides, personality issues laden with pride concerns, moral lapses on those in leadership, especially by the pastor. I'm getting around to the question. What happens to you when you see a church, or specifically a pastor that that led you to Christ, perhaps, that goes through a controversy? Let me sharpen the question. What happens to your faith when things like a church split happen? Okay, so if your faith is in the pastor or in the leadership or the size of the church Or the great worship music, or the great programs, you may become disillusioned, might you not? I have known people over the years who have left the church because of sinful behavior, not on their part. They know they should be part of a church, but the pains of the past are still present, and they wanted to work through them. And I guarantee you that there are multiples more that I have not met, because they're gone. This is for the birds. This is 100% certified Oscar Meyer product. However, Paul is telling us here in verse 5, so that your faith, so that your faith, your faith in Christ. It not is not resting upon the combination of a smoke machine Maybe a disco ball. And the excellence of the worship team and the worship band. The coolness of the preacher. The way he says stuff. The cool clothes he wears, the funny jokes he tells, the unbelievably great stories of his family life that we can all relate to. But instead, it should be resting upon the power of God. Your faith, Christian, needs to reside in the power of God. You did not have this island of righteousness, this little itty bitty corner of your soul that had enough life. To see and accept Christ, if it only it can be convinced by some really persuasive way No. The Bible says that we were dead And we needed to be resurrected from that death to see what has been proclaimed to you as true and your desperate need for it. But this only happens when you are, as Paul has been referring to it, a couple of times now, called, called by God. That God called you effectually. The Holy Spirit resurrected you from the dead, made you born again, also known as born from above a spiritual rebirth from death to life, so that you can place your faith upon the Son of God. And when you see that this was the power of God, no matter how bad the situation was in your church. Your faith is solid. It's unshakable. Because it was not the creative inventiveness of man. Rather, you know that this is legit because it was the power of God that saved you. Let's face it, folks. The message of the gospel is foolish. When you think about it, obviously from a human perspective, it was a failed coup. He was silent at his trial. He suffered profoundly. He died at the hands of the Romans. He was outmaneuvered by the local Jewish leadership. He had the upper hand on them. The people or the crowds were with him. But he just wasn't smart enough to keep them with him. He died on a tree. The sign of a curse and rejection by God. From a human perspective, the message just doesn't have all that it needs to be believable. It's foolishness to believe it. And yet here we are. Believing and rejoicing in Christ. It would seem that God would have to do something powerful, powerfully miraculous In the life of all those who are saved, in order to overcome this foolishness, to see it as it truly is: the wisdom and the power from God. So in verses 118 to 2. 5, but they are as an explanation of what Paul said in verse 17, his concern. Lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power if you think I was the one that got you saved. If we see this, this calling, God's choosing, as what it is, it has, I think, significant implications in our lives. If there's one thing that I have noticed that we fear as Christians, Is personally proclaiming the good news to others. Now, I'm not saying that it's a type of fear or awe that we have in God It's different. Sometimes it's it's a fear that we don't get it right. That's what I've been told. I'm just so nervous. about telling other people about Jesus. I don't want to get it wrong because then it'll ruin it for the rest of our lives. Now, I gotta tell you, I find that argument a little strange. So that so they stand a better chance of being saved if you don't tell them about Jesus, right? I think more often than not, what's uh what's really happening here is it's because of a fear of men. What I mean is that there are going to be times when people will answer you by saying, thank you, but no thank you. It's not for me. And we take that as rejection. Personal rejection. And frankly, who likes rejection? Who enjoys a dosage of that in the morning and maybe even at night, right before we go to sleep? I suspect not many of us like that. But there's something wrong with that conclusion. You see, they are not really rejecting you. What they're really rejecting is the offer of the gospel. What they're doing is continuing to reject God. We understand that salvation is the power of God It is the work of the spirit. And at that point, we can relax. The pressure is off. We're not the one that's doing the saving. It's the Holy Spirit that is doing the saving. And this means that at this point We can go lovingly to proclaim words that can bring life because it is Well, it's the power of God. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed For opening our eyes to the reality that it was not anybody's cleverness Or a wonderful personality that called us into the kingdom of God. It was the proclamation of the gospel. But by the power of your spirit, you applied that calling unto our lives Regenerated us, granted us your grace, so that we may believe. And in believing by faith and faith alone, we were saved. And for that we are thankful. Help us, we pray, Heavenly Father, to be like John the Baptist Get out of the way. Help us to proclaim Christ. Answer people's questions And then get out of the way. Not to take the rejection personally. But to place hope in your spirit, to work through them, just like you have with us. And we ask this all for your glory, And in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask those who will be assisting with the communion this morning to please come forward