Well it's good to be back with you again this morning. We do pray for your pastor Skip and his wife Bonnie during their travels. We do pray that it would be a refreshing time for them. And I must say, as we were driving here this morning I felt a special sense of solidarity with him, what with this delightful English weather that we're Having here, but of course, however gray and rainy it may be outside, surely this is Trump By the meaning of this day, it is the Lord's day. It is the day that we remember the resurrection of our Savior and we rejoice in Him The Lord does minister to his people through his word, and we turn now to hear his word. This is the second of the two weeks that we'll be spending in Acts chapter 10. And you'll find that our passage this morning on page 1309, 1309, in the Bibles that are provided for you, if you're using one of those, 1309, Acts chapter 10. And I'm going to begin reading for us this morning, beginning at verse 23. Although, as we did last week, so too again this week we'll be focusing in on the words of Peter's sermon, beginning at verse 34. But I'll begin reading at verse 23 to set the stage. For that, Peter going on this occasion to preach the truth of the gospel to An assembly of Gentiles brought together by one Cornelius in Caesarea. So I'll begin reading at verse 23. Stand now for the reading of God's word. And so he that is Peter invited them in and gave them lodging. And on the next day he arose and went away with them, and some of the brethren from Joppa accompanied him. And on the following day he entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was waiting for them and had called together his relatives and close friends. And when it came about that Peter entered, Cornelius met him and fell at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter raised him up, saying, Stand up, I too am just a man. And as he talked with him, he entered and found many people assembled, and he said to them, You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a man who is a Jew to associate with a foreigner or to visit him. And yet God has shown me that I should not call any man unholy or unclean. That is why I came without even raising any objection when I was sent for. And so I ask, for what reason you have sent for me? And Cornelius said, Four days ago to this hour, I was praying in my house during the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in shining garments. And he said, Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms have been remembered before God. Send therefore to Joppa and invite Simon, who is also called Peter, to come to you. He is staying at the house of Simon the Tanner by the sea. And so I sent to you immediately, and you have been kind enough to come. Now then we are all here present before God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord. And opening his mouth, Peter said, I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality. But in every nation, the man who fears him and does what is right is welcome to him. The word which he sent to the sons of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all. You yourselves know the thing which took place throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee after the baptism which John proclaimed. You know Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all the things he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. And they also put him to death by hanging him on a cross God raised him up on the third day and granted that he should become visible, not to all the people, but to witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God. That is, to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. And he ordered us to preach to the people, and solemnly to testify that this is the one who has been appointed by God as judge of the living and the dead. Of him all the prophets bear witness that through his name everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let's join in prayer together. Our great God and Father, we are grateful to you for your word. These scriptures given By you to us a gift that we might know Christ and believe in Him. And we pray that you would bless us now to that end. That as we reflect upon these very words. We might grow in faith and in obedience to the praise of your glory. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, as I said, the second of our two weeks with this remarkable episode in the Acts of the Apostles, Acts chapter ten. We began with it last week. You remember it is the story of an apostolic breakthrough. It is the breakthrough of the gospel to the Gentiles as never before The story of Peter going and preaching the gospel to this man, Cornelius, who was a Gentile, who was even a Roman centurion, Peter Preaching the gospel to him and to a bunch of other Gentiles whom Cornelius had gathered for the occasion. Peter preached to them. And the Holy Spirit richly blessed that preaching, much to the amazement of the other Jews who were with Peter at the time. And so last week, when we studied this story, we focused in on The last couple verses in Peter's sermon. Remember that what Peter does in the sermon as a whole, and we just heard it again, Peter lays out for them the basic facts about Jesus of Nazareth. He gives them the basic details of Jesus' earthly ministry, that ministry finally culminating in his death, and then in his resurrection, and then in all of those appearances that he made. after his resurrection. Peter said he appeared to us. He even ate and drank with us because we were the ones who'd been chosen. to be his witnesses. And then you remember Peter goes on and says he gave us orders about what our witness was to involve, what our preaching was to include. And as we considered last week That preaching boiled down to two things in particular judgment and forgiveness Judgment and forgiveness. And as we considered last week, Peter's point is that Jesus Christ is the one in whom both of those things are to be found. Final judgment on the last day. And yet forgiveness even this day, even now, in this church age. So that's what we uh considered last time. This week we Take a second look at Peter's sermon. And what we're going to focus on this week isn't so much the work of Christ as we did last week. This week we're going to focus in on the way that God has taken the work of Christ. and has made it known. Because another thing that Peter has to say in this sermon is that that is most definitely something that God has done. That is Another part in the divine plan. God taking the work of Christ and making it known. And so bearing witness in the world. to the truth of his own incarnate Son, the Son of God, who is Jesus. So let's take another look at the sermon. You remember one of the things that we noticed about Peter's sermon is that he stresses over and over again in a number of different ways the fact that in all that Jesus did and said during his earthly ministry, God was with him. In all that he said and did, God, that is the Father, was with him. So for example, verse 36, the preaching. That Jesus did during his earthly ministry. Finally, Peter says, that was God preaching to his people through Jesus. That was a word that God, that is the Father, had sent to them. Verse 36. Or another example, verse 38. God anointed Jesus with the Holy Spirit and with power. at his baptism in such a way that Jesus then went about doing good and healing people in that power because God was with him. Verse 38 and then of verse 40. Even his resurrection here is described in these terms, along with those appearances that Jesus made after his resurrection, Peter says, God raised him up. And God made him visible, that is, made him appear to us after his resurrection. You see how Peter is hammering this point home. In all that Jesus did and said, God. Was with him. In other words, Jesus wasn't some kind of renegade who was out there acting on his own. No, his ministry and all that his ministry involved, it was God's. ministry. To put it another way in terms of the doctrine of the Trinity, what Peter's saying is this, that the ministry of the Divine Son The divine incarnate son was also the ministry of his divine father, who had sent him to do that work. It was all part of the Father's plan. But then notice this, the Father's plan didn't stop with the death and resurrection of Jesus. His plan kept going on from there. Verse 41, Peter says, Jesus appeared not to all the people. But to witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God. Witnesses chosen beforehand by God, that is, to us. Peter says, who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead, and he ordered us to preach to the people and solemnly to testify. That this is the one who has been appointed by God as judge of the living and the dead. You see what Peter's saying there? The whole idea That after the resurrection of Jesus there would be this band of apostles going around and bearing witness to him, telling the world about him. You see, that was God's idea. That was part of the Father's plan as well. The apostolic witness to Christ. That was finally the Father's witness. to his incarnate son. In the same way that Jesus wasn't acting on his own, so too the apostles weren't either. They were chosen by God for the work that they did, preaching and writing and so on. Their apostolic witness was finally God's witness. The preaching of the apostles about Jesus amounted to the Father saying to the world, Behold my Son. Behold the truth of who he is and what he has done and what he will do That, Peter says, is the right way to understand the apostolic witness. And then notice this as well. Peter says, this isn't the first time That God has done this sort of thing. This isn't brand new. This isn't the very beginning of the Father's witness. Because what does he say in verse 43? Of him, that is, of Jesus. All the prophets bear witness. Of him, all the prophets bear witness that through his name everyone who believes in him Receives forgiveness of sins. Peter's saying, look, the prophets of the old covenant, they were looking forward to Jesus. In a sense, they were bearing witness to him and to the forgiveness that's to be found. In him, well, if there's one thing that we know about those old covenant prophets. In fact and we might say that it's the most important thing about them. This is what made them prophets, is that they spoke the word of God and not their own. So that we can say the same thing about the witness of the prophets of the old covenant. As they look forward to Christ, that was the Father's witness too. What Peter's saying here is that this was true in the past. Just as it is true in the present, that is to say, Peter's present. The Father, God, bearing witness to his Son. He did it through the prophets back then, Peter says. And he's doing it through us, through the apostles now. That is part of what Peter proclaimed that day. To Cornelius and to those other Gentiles who were with him on that occasion. That's part of what Peter proclaimed, the father bearing witness. through the prophets of old and through the apostles now. Well if that is what Peter preached that day. The million-dollar question becomes, what are we today supposed to learn from all of that? And the answer is what we're supposed to learn from all of that is a lesson about how we ought to think about the Bible. The Bible as we have it today, Old and New Testaments, both. How so? Well, just take those two parts. First of all, where do we find today the witness of the apostles to Jesus Christ? Well, the answer is we find that witness in the writings of the New Testament. That's precisely what the New Testament is: it is the record of the apostolic witness to Jesus Christ. It's in the New Testament documents that we find their witness embodied and recorded And so too. What about the prophets of the Old Covenant? The other part. Where do we find their witness? Well, we find it in the Old Testament. In fact, as we'll see in a moment, the whole of the Old Testament can be understood in these terms. It's a collection of writings that bear witness to Jesus. By looking forward to him, by setting the stage for him, in a way that um even the men who wrote those writings, those Old Testament writings, didn't fully understand at the time. So you see how this all comes together. The Old Testament and the New Testament, the whole collection of writings. That is our Bible today. Those writings bear witness to Jesus, and the point is that that witness is God's witness. It is the Father saying to the world, Behold my Son, whom I love, with whom I am well pleased. And brothers and sisters, that's our doctrine, our lesson today. I think it's printed for you in your bulletin, is it not, on the back page? Yes, the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments. Are the Father's witness to the person and work of his incarnate Son. That is the lesson that we glean from Peter's sermon today. Now, as we did last week, so too again this week, I want us to take some time to reflect upon this lesson that we have gleaned from our text. I want to uh unpack it a bit for us this morning before I conclude with a few words of exhortation. And as we did um last week, we'll reflect upon our doctrine in two different ways. First of all, I want us to think about it a bit more closely in terms of the witness itself. What is it? How is it that the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments bear witness to Christ? How does that witness work? So we'll reflect upon that first of all, and then second of all, we'll reflect upon how it matters that that witness is that of the Father. To his divine incarnate Son. So those are the two different ways in which we'll reflect upon our doctrine this morning. And then, as I said, I'll conclude with a few words of exhortation. First of all, then what about the witness itself? How do the scriptures bear witness to the person and work of our Savior. Well, there are a few things to say here. The first is this when we say that the scriptures are a witness or a testimony to Christ We're not saying that that's all that they are. As if it were the case that the only category of truths That someone might learn from the Bible are those truths that have to do with who Jesus is and what he did and does. The fact is, there are lots of other truths. That are rightly learned from the Bible as well. Truths about God and about creation and about man and sin and judgment and the church and the world, all sorts of things, different. categories of truths that are rightly learned from the Bible. In other words, our scriptures aren't only a witness To the person and work of Christ. We can be clear about that. And yet still we've got to say that he is at the center of the whole thing. The message about Jesus is the central message of the Bible. It is the message that brings all of the other messages, all of those other truths. It's the revelation of Christ in Scripture, old and new, that is the hub that connects all of the other things that are revealed there as well. And so, what's the content of the Scriptures' witness about Jesus? What exactly do they teach about him? Well, they teach all sorts of things. They teach about who he is. That he is the God-man, the incarnate Son of God. And they teach us about what he did during his earthly ministry, the kinds of things that Peter preached to Cornelius and all the rest. Jesus preaching and doing good and healing people. The scriptures also teach us about his death and about what that death means that he died for his people. to bear the Father's wrath in their place. The scriptures teach us about his resurrection, that the grave couldn't hold him. And that Jesus conquered death so that his people might live. And they go on to teach more about him, about his ascension into heaven And about his pouring out the Spirit on Pentecost Day. And they teach us about his ongoing ministry to us in the here and now. They teach us about his future work. That work of judgment and redemption that I'll carry out on the last day. The point is, all of those things are part of what the scriptures teach us about who Jesus is. There are other things, of course, but those are the highlights. The scriptures bear witness to Jesus. Now I think it's fair to say that it's a bit more obvious how the New Testament scriptures do that. Than it is how the Old Testament scriptures bear witness to Jesus. It's pretty obvious how the writings of the New Testament bear witness to him. They do so by telling us plainly about him. Because after all, the New Testament writings were written after his life and death and resurrection. And so the New Testament writers were looking back. on a history that was clear to them and that was glorious in its clarity. From their point of view, the fullness of time had already come. And it was glorious, and they knew it, because they saw it. Some of them saw it, even saw him with their own two eyes. And so having witnessed it, they bore witness to it. They preached and they wrote about Jesus. And we've got that witness, as I said, in our New Testament. So there's the relatively obvious part. But what about the Old Testament? The Old Testament scriptures bearing witness To the incarnate Son. I think it's fair to say that that part isn't quite so obvious. How on earth is it that a body of writings that were written long before he came could bear witness to him, which is what our doctrine claims. Well, just to be clear, that's not just the claim of our statement Printed in your bulletin. It's very clearly the claim of the New Testament itself about the Old Testament. We're not making this up here, as Dave Barry likes to say. John 5 Jesus himself says about the Old Testament. He says, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is these that bear witness Jesus speaking in John 5. Then it becomes clear in Luke 24, a passage that we heard just a bit ago in this service of worship. Jesus walking along, talking with a few of his disciples after his resurrection. They don't realize yet that it's him. And basically he rebukes them for not believing in his resurrection. He said to them, O foolish men, And slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? In other words, he says, Look, fellas, this is what the prophets of old had been writing about all along. And it wasn't just the prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, and all the rest, because then Jesus goes on to say Or I say I should say um Luke goes on to say, beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. In all the scriptures, and then a few verses later in Luke 24, Jesus mentions the law of Moses and the prophets. And the Psalms, all of them as containing things that were written about him. The whole of the Old Testament bears witness to him somehow. We're not making this up. This is the type of teaching of the New Testament itself about those ancient writings. They bear witness to Christ somehow. And so what about that somehow? How is it that the Old Testament scriptures bear witness to him? Well, to be sure there are a plenty of specific passages, certain verses in the Old Testament that clearly resonate with what the New Testament teaches about Christ. So Psalm 22 comes to mind. They pierced my hands and my feet, it says. They look, they stare at me, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. And of course we read that and we say, aha! That's about Jesus. Those things were to be true of him. Another example, Isaiah 53. He was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed. for our iniquities, by his scourging we are healed. Another verse that we read and say, I see Jesus there. So yes, there are specific verses, passages like those in the Old Testament that clearly bear witness to crime. But brothers and sisters, the witness of the Old Testament to Jesus is much bigger than that Bigger than just a few isolated, selected verses here and there that clearly have to do with him. In a sense, the whole story of the Old Testament Which is Israel's story, sets the stage for Jesus and looks forward to him. Not just a few details and passages here and there, but the whole grand drama. That is the Old Testament looks forward to the coming of Christ. So, for example, the sacrificial system of the Old Testament looks forward to him because in time he would come, the true sacrifice. Israel's exodus out of Egypt looked forward to him because his death was the real passing through the waters, was it not? Another example, the kingship of Israel looks forward to him because he, Jesus, would come and be the real king. The same thing with the institutions of prophecy and priesthood. He is. The real prophet and priest. Israel's exile into Babylon looked forward to him, bore witness to him because his death was the real exile The very election of Israel to be the people of God in the first place looks forward to him and bears witness to him because he is The truly chosen one of God, chosen by God to serve him in the sight of all the nations. You see the whole drama, That is the Old Testament bears witness to our Savior, which is why there are so many instances in the New Testament where it says something like This happened in order to fulfill the scriptures, in other words, in order to fulfill the Old Testament, even though nobody can really find a specific passage in the Old Testament that really seems to fit that particular instance. Because you see, it's not just about a passage here or a passage there. It's about the whole thing. The whole story. of the Old Testament setting the stage for Christ, looking forward to him, bearing witness to him. Of course the New Testament bears witness to him But you see, brothers and sisters, the Old Testament does as well in its own way, in the way of types and shadows, promises and expectations. The whole of our Bible. Bears witness to Jesus. Now consider that that witness To Jesus is the Father's witness. Here are a second reflection this morning. This witness to Jesus, from Genesis to Revelation, Old Testament and New, it is the witness of the Father. To his incarnate Son, his person and work. Now, of course, when we say that, we're not saying that that's the only way to look at the scriptures. As if that were the only perspective from which we can view them. No, the scriptures are the word of God, the word of our triune. God, who is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And so the scriptures are the word of the Son, the testimony of the Son and that of the Spirit, just as much as they are that of the Father. But you see, that's the glory, that's the wonder of the doctrine of the Trinity. The Word of God is the word of the Father and of the Son. And of the Holy Spirit, and that doctrine opens things up. It frees us to understand the word of the one true God from all of these different perspectives today. We're focusing in on one of those, the fact that the scriptures are the word of the Father, and we're doing so because that's the perspective that flows most naturally from what Peter has to say in our Passage. So that's where we're aiming our focus. The scriptures are the Father's witness to the Son. And think about what that means. That has implications for how we think about the Bible. Let me note three of them. First of all, the scriptures are born of the Father's love. For his son. The Bible, as we have it, it is an expression of the delight that the Father has in his son and in what his son has done. For sinners. As I said, it's as if the whole of the Bible from start to finish amounts to the Father saying, Behold my Son, whom I love. Whom I love, with him I am well pleased. The scriptures are the father boasting about his son to the world, bragging about him The Father saying, do you see the wonder of who he is? Do you see how amazing is the work that he has done accomplished. The Father doesn't want his son to be revealed to the world in the incarnation and then accomplish a great work of salvation, only then for all of that to be forgotten in the mists of history. Or distorted by the passing of time, the beauty of that revelation slowly fading and disappearing into obscurity. No, not at all. The Father loves the Son, and therefore he had it all written down, so that all the world might know it and never forget it. The Old Testament looking forward to him, the New Testament looking back upon him, because the Father loves his son, and he loves what his son has done. Second, it means that the witness of the scriptures is true, because the Father is true. No worry here about someone bearing false witness to Christ, because bearing false witness is something that God, who is true, who is truth itself, will not and cannot do. The witness is true. And so the scriptures were written and then they were translated, and they continue to be translated and published all over the world. And the scriptures come into the hands of countless thousands and millions of people throughout history. Millions who weren't themselves witnesses to Jesus when he was here, and yet not a one of them has to worry when they read this book. Did it really happen like this? Is this really true? Yes, it is true. And you can be certain, you can bank on it, because the one bearing witness Is God the Father, and the Father is true. Now, of course, there are countless millions, sadly, into whose hands these writings come, and who have read them, and they've come to the conclusion this isn't true. I don't believe this because the Spirit has not opened their eyes to believe. Their unbelief, in other words, isn't because the witness of the Father is false. It's rather because they themselves are false, the ones who have read and yet have not believed. There's nothing wrong with the Father's witness. He is true, and so is the witness that he bears. And a third, for the same reason, the witness to Jesus that the scriptures bear. It comes with the Father's authority. We've said that it comes with the Father's love. It comes with his truthfulness. Thirdly, consider that it comes with his authority. And of course, that's the authority not only to proclaim certain things, to announce certain truths, it is also the authority to summon. The authority to call sinners to repent and to believe the witness and to follow after the one who's revealed there. That's the nature of a witness. Think about it, when somebody bears witness to something, the whole idea is that some action, some response rightly hangs in the balance. That's why it's so important in the Bible, in human relations, that you not bear false witness against another person. Why? Because when you bear witness, something's going to happen to somebody. Some action is going to be called for. There are going to be ramifications. Witnesses have consequences. Well, how much more true is that of the Father's witness to his son? It isn't just the announcement of some facts about Jesus, though it is that, but it's more. It's also a call to the one who reads the scriptures that he deny himself and pick up his cross and follow after Jesus. And that call Comes with the Father's authority. Behold my son and listen to him. Look upon him. Believe in him. So does the Father call the one who reads. You know what the Apostle John says in John 20 about the fact that he even bothered to write a gospel account. He puts it this way. John 20, 30 and 31. Many other signs Jesus also performed in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these have been written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. You see, that's the nature of the witness In a sense, it's as if that one verse hangs over the whole of the scriptures, every page. If you want, envision it as a kind of watermark that lingers in the background of every page, and you know it's there, and you can see it if you look for it. And it reminds you on every page how to read. The Father says, I have written these things through men like John. That you might believe in my Son, that He is the Christ, and that by believing you might have life in His name. To be sure, there are lots of different truths and claims in the Bible The whole council of God in all of its richness. And as the people of God, we've got to embrace that council. But at the heart of all of those truths is the Father's witness, the Father's call. Here is my son. Believe on him, follow him, and find life in his name. So those reflections upon our doctrine this morning. Let me conclude with a few words of application for us. First of all, a word about how the Bible isn't supposed to be treated. And then second of all, a word about how it is to be treated, to be read by us. First, how the Bible isn't supposed to be read. Brothers and sisters, there is some judgment here in our doctrine. There is judgment pronounced. Against all those in the world who claim to believe these writings and who make use of these writings, and yet who have nothing to do with Christ. to whom these writings bear witness. For example, there is judgment pronounced here against the so-called Bible scholars Who have devoted their lives to the study of these writings, and yet who use their position of authority to study and to teach as a way of tearing down. Precisely those doctrines that are at the heart of the Father's witness, that Jesus is the fully divine Son of God. And that he died to bear God's wrath. And that he rose again. And that he's coming again in judgment. There are scholars out there. who study the scriptures and yet who deny those very doctrines and who train their students to think the same way. Some Bible scholars are like that. Obviously not all of them. Don't misunderstand me here. This isn't some an anti-intellectualist rant about the intrinsic evils of scholarship or some such thing as that. Not at all. Bible scholarship is a good thing. I believe in it. You ought to as well. It's vitally important to the life of the church. And there are lots of folks who are out there serving the Lord in this capacity and serving him faithfully. But the point is there are some. There are sadly many scholars and teachers at some of our universities who are studying and teaching these writings and yet who are opposing Christ. In the way that they do. Can you just imagine what the Father would say to them? For that matter, what he will say to them in the end, if they do not repent, is this what you would do with my witness to my son There is judgment here. There's also judgment in our doctrine against those who are of the Jewish religion. Let's be frank here. What Jesus said in John 5 still goes. You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is these that bear witness of me. If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote. of me. It wasn't popular to say it then, and it's certainly not popular to say it now, but it is still true. Those who are of the Jewish religion, and for that matter, other religions that claim the Old Testament. They claim these writings, at least one part of them. The Old Testament, if not the New, and yet they deny the very Son of God, to whom these writings are the Father's witness. There's even uh judgment here against the politicians who like to scatter their speeches with phrases and passages from the Word of God simply because their pollsters have told them that it sells. And that it will be good for the party. And yet then they step down from the podium and go back to lies that they are living in utter defiance of God and of God. Isn't true of every politician and speechwriter who works Bible words into a speech? Many of them no doubt do it because they mean it. And they mean it in their own way out of real love and admiration for the Savior. This kind of corruption isn't true of all of them that do this, but it is true of some of them. And the temptation at least exists. For all of them to misuse the scriptures like that. The point is that it is the temptation to make a mockery of the sacred writings and of what those writings are for. So those words about how not to treat the Bible, and I I speak in each case in terms of groups out there, take those warnings to heart. The warnings aren't just for the folks out there, because we ourselves can fall victim to the same temptations, and when we do so, we aren't really victims, are we? When we misuse the scriptures. In such a way as to leave Christ out. And so, more positively then, a final word about how the scriptures ought to be read. Those are some ways in which the scriptures are abused. How are they rightly used? How do we read them aright? Well, the answer is that we read them rightly by reading them with Christ very much in mind. By reading them with Christ, very much in mind. The scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, they are the Father's witness. To his son. And what that means is that we've got to come to the scriptures with a mindfulness of Christ and not in some way that's abstracted from him As if the scriptures amount to nothing more than a collection of isolated statements of religious truth. They are not that We've got to come to the scriptures mindful that they are the kind of witness that we've considered. Again, that doesn't mean that the truths about Jesus are the only things that we find there. But what it does mean is that whatever we read and learn from Scripture only really makes sense. In the light of Christ. And we've got to be able to see those connections. For example, the duties that we read in the Bible. Those duties belong to us as the body of Christ. And as a people in the world who are called to bear his image in the way that we think and live. Even the truths about judgment in Scripture. They point us to Christ because they remind us of a judgment that He bore on our behalf and a judgment that he will exact one day. It all comes back to him Wherever you're reading, whatever you're reading, it all comes back to him who is the hub. And it also means that the things that are about him Those truths about who Jesus is and what he did and does and will do, those are truths, brothers and sisters, that we simply can't be neglecting. And I urge you to examine your own heart and mind if you find that the doctrines of the person and work of Christ have never quite made it to the front burner in terms of your own growth and study. Something's wrong. And there is an imbalance that you ought to fix. And along with that, one word of exhortation is this that we ought to delight in the Old Testament. To take it seriously as Christians, because the Old Testament is part of the Father's witness to his son. The Old Testament sets the stage for Jesus. It looks forward to him. The whole of Israel's history is aiming for him and summed up in him. And so we ought to delight in the Bible from start to finish. Brothers and sisters, learn to know and to cherish your Bible in this way. It is the Father's witness to his Son. It comes with his love His truthfulness, his authority. The Bible is the Father saying to you, to you, Behold my Son, believe on him. And find life. May God grant that it be so. Let's pray together. Our Father in heaven, we bow before you and thank you for the Bible, this book, in both of its parts, Old and New Testaments, and we delight in it. For it is indeed your witness to your Son and our Savior. And as we rejoice in Him, we rejoice in these writings that bear witness to Him. We praise you and worship you that you are love and you love your son and that you are true So that your witness is true, and that you are the king over all creation, so that this witness, this witness which calls us, comes with your authority. Father, teach us by the Spirit to receive this witness aright. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.