Uh this morning we are concluding uh the book of Ruth. And uh if you haven't uh done so yet, would you be so kind to open your Bibles up to Ruth chapter 4? as we will be doing the balance of the verses that are there. And it will be from verses 13 to 22. Would you please rise now as we read and hear of God's Word, which is from Ruth chapter 4, 13 to 22. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. When he made love to her, the Lord enabled her to conceive, and she gave birth to a son. The women said to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a guardian redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age. For your daughter-in-law, who loves you and who is better to you than seven sons, has given him birth Then Naomi took the child in her arms and cared for him. The women living there said, Naomi has a son. And they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. This, then, is the family line of Perez. Perez was the father of Hezron, Hezron the father of Ram, Ram the father of Aminadab, Aminadab the father of Nashan. Nashan, the father of Salmon, Salman the father of Boaz, Boaz the father of Obed, Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David. This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us. We pray. Open our spiritual eyes and our spiritual ears so that we may see and hear. The delights of God's Word. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would convict our souls in places where we need conviction, and that you would also grant us the grace. So that we may be able to conform to the will of God in our lives, so that we may give glory to Him more and more through your work. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So this is the last sermon on Ruth, chapter 4, the book of Ruth, and we are going to be moving into verse number 13 So it seems then that after the witness bearing of the elders and the townfolk present to Boaz's transaction to be the kinsman redeemer to Naomi and to his Commitment to the leverett marriage to Ruth, we rapidly go to the fact that they are married. In fact, it's so fast that it seems that we it's like almost like we go right past it. Interesting to me that that we don't really get much fanfare here. about the marriage leading up to the wedding day, the ceremony, and all the associated pageantry You would think that with all of this suddenness provided to us by our author, that maybe he has something else in mind. for the climax of the story, something other than the budding romance between Ruth and Boaz I mean you would think that, you know, with all of this buildup, especially with the last two chapters, we would get a little bit more than So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. I think this lack of emphasis, I think I'm going to return to at some future time. Now, we are informed, furthermore, that they consummated the marriage, and God willed that she would become pregnant, and she gave birth to a son. Now, if you've been paying careful attention to the entire storyline of the book of Ruth, As we have been noting, God's fingerprints and the doctrine of providence, the teaching of providence, are present every step of the way, every verse of the book. But he, unlike other books of the Bible, God that is, does not speak directly, doesn't send a prophet to deliver a fresh word from him. He's in the background. His will and grand plan is working out in everyone's life. But here Although still silent, we have him being attributed with intervening, or at least the appearance of suddenly intervening. as if he hasn't been doing so up until now, by granting Ruth the conception of her child. It seems that there's a long and consistent history that relates the belief that Ruth was barren. And that caused, you would think, one to wonder how things would work out. Given she didn't have a child. after attempting to do so with her now deceased husband. Now we can see the issue here Right? Is Naomi gonna have an heir? She was barren, and she is barren, and what's gonna happen? If she is infertile, the efforts of the kinsman redeemer, the Leverett marriage laws, will amount to disaster. For Naomi. If Ruth does not conceive and give birth to a son Now, we're really not left in the dark. Our author immediately tells us that God, who has been in the background, now immediately comes to the foreground and gives her a child. But it is God who intervenes as is seemingly the pattern. In biblical history, to point out that he is, it is he who is guiding the events. of redemptive history to get to the ultimate kinsman redeemer. Let's take a moment at the and take a look at the miraculousness How we get from the the type of an improbable birth requiring God's intervention to the antitype of the impossible birth Very briefly, if you recall, it is Sarah who is past the age of childbearing. Who requires God to intervene? It is God here who intervenes in Ruth's life to conceive. It is God who intervenes to give Hannah a child who would be the one that would appoint and anoint the king of Israel. Samuel, who would identify young King David. It is God who intervenes in Elizabeth's life. To give birth to the one that would one day similarly say, Behold, the Lamb of God, the one who takes away the sins of the world. You guys seeing a pattern here? So God enabled her to conceive, and she bore a son. Finally, it would be Mary, a virgin, who would miraculously become pregnant And give birth to that very same Lamb of God. But in her case, he didn't enable her, but caused her to conceive. In the presence, in the process of Ruth conceiving, we have several things, I think, coming to fulfillment in this book and conclusion in this book. In the lines of prayers being answered. Just like God was involved with the patriarchal mothers of Rebekah and Leah in conceiving Mind you, the very same names that were part of the prayer of the people, if you recall, who would have The very same people who would have suspected that Ruth was barren prayed for God to make her like them. As one who sought out and received the favor of God. Prayer answered. Just like Naomi had prayed for Ruth to find rest. Which included a marriage, a home, and a family. God answered that prayer. Finally, a son was born who filled the needs for an heir for Naomi. Answer for error. And on that note, Boaz and Ruth Exit the stage. And center stage is now the town ladies. You know, the neighbor ladies, the town ladies. Every every town has neighbor ladies, right? Where you live, don't you have neighbor ladies nearby? Are are you are you not part of a neighbor ladies group? Maybe like an association neighbor ladies or something of that nature. And it's these very same lab neighbor ladies who are now coming into the scene. And they say to the to Naomi that she has a child that would be her heir. Well, it would be really Elimelex and Naomi's heir, right? Their child. And after a long absence, we see that Naomi is re-entering into the spotlight. Now normally the naming of a child comes after its birth, but here we don't get the name until a couple of verses later, verse 17. The neighbor ladies The very same neighbor ladies. The very ones that received Naomi when she returned. Returned from Moab, that is. They come in appropriately praising the Lord for the blessings of the birth of this child. I think this phrase has special meaning. If indeed Ruth was unable to conceive, this is truly a miracle baby. Additionally, as they point out, this child is to be the one who would be her guardian, the son who would have provided for her in her old age. The one that would give her security. And they proclaim for this miracle baby that he may become famous. Please note that there's a subtle difference here. When the elders wished for Boaz's son to be famous. More famous than Pares, you'll see in verse 411, throughout Bethlehem. Right? There's a subtle difference here Here the ladies have not only repeated this prayer, but now have seemingly extended it. To go beyond Bethlehem, they wish that his dynastic fame would go throughout the entirety of Israel. Very subtle, but yet very important. You would think maybe that the author is perhaps uh prepping us for something. Maybe These very ladies, the neighbor ladies, who would have been there on the day that Naomi declared her emptiness, are now here in her days of fullness. They can bear testimony to how God has turned things around for Naomi and her life. They properly give credit to the fact that it was God who was responsible for the remarkable change from tragedy to joy. This child was the one to care for her in her declining years. He was in a way the deliverer, the savior in her old age. The neighbor ladies in verse 15 list the benefits of this Redeemer child. He will renew your life. This is sort of a play on words. The child will renew your spirit, refresh your soul, take away the death that you are feeling. He will additionally be the provider for you in the declining years of your life. You will not be left out in the cold, thrown to the streets because you don't have any children to provide for you. Their next pronouncement gives us insight into what they mean by you have a son. They, despite having now married, Boas, call Ruth your daughter-in-law. Thus, she having this continued relationship, they can say that Naomi has a son. Through her daughter-in-law, Ruth. The women notate the remarkable, sacrificial love demonstrated by Ruth her care and willingness to seek out an heir for Naomi to escape her family name from being expunged from the roles and annals of Israel's history. This was not the way that the patriarchal mothers behaved with one another, nor with their handmaids. In fact, it was just the opposite This was a unique relationship of love. It was a love of a converted outsider who put to shame the typical mother-daughter-in-law relationships. In Israeli society, seven was the perfect number of sons. To have that many, it just about guaranteed that one of them would survive and carry on the family name As well as provide for their mother in the old age. In an agrarian society that preferred boys over girls, to make a statement like Ruth being Better than seven sons is unbelievably high honor. Mind you, they're not saying she is like seven sons. She's better than seven sons. Imagine the public-popular opinion you would have to overcome if you were concerned about her ethnicity. Whether it be in her generation or even possibly a future generation. Surely, this type of accolade would have shut down anyone wanting to cut or cast shade over her or her children. I'm just saying, in some subsequent following generation, if anyone was to ever do that. You know, like Ruth in the in the in the family line. She said Mo Bitus. You are talking about Ruth, right? Did you not hear the neighbor ladies? You don't want to repeat that in front of them. Whether it's that generation or any future generation that this has been marked down for. It would have been very, very difficult to do so. So let's move down to verse 16. Now we don't know if this is at another location or it's at Naomi's home or even if it's at a different time. We we just can't tell from the text. If it is all in the same scene as the first couple of verses that we've been looking at, then we would assume that the neighbors brought the baby to her home And now we see this very sweet and momentous scene unfold. Naomi now has rest. She has a son who will be an heir. She has a son that will care for her in her old age. And she will care for him as he grows up. He is basically her son both legally and practically. Just as a side note Some translations have in the place of took him in her arms and cared for him as nursed him. This is sort of King James language The Hebrew notion of this word associated with breast is gentleness, primarily maternal and general care for infants. To imagine Naomi taking the child and holding him against her breast communicates a loving, warm, and tender embrace. One that brings on peace and removes chaos, that kind of rest See, this is to be contrasted by how we saw her early in the story when she lost everything in Moab. And how she wanted to be described when she entered Bethlehem. Y'all remember? Call me bitter. Call me Mara. God has moved Naomi, literally also, from a very difficult and tragic set of circumstances to where she is now with the birth of a son for her. I think that as we move in the storyline, her response to all of this is reflective of a person who has come to accepting God's calling in her life, accepting his plans, even with unanswered bitterness that she expressed That arose from tragedy, but yet continues to trust him and serve him wherever it is that he has placed her. She chose to obey God. Even in her pain, she chose to love her daughter-in-law And counseled her so that Ruth would have peace. Rest. Perhaps that's a hard lesson for us all, all of us to really contemplate. Not everything is a one-to-one correlation. Sometimes for his reasons and not yet so apparent reasons. God brings about tragedy in our lives. And even then, especially then, our faith is tested, is it not? You know, I think if um if Naomi were here today and I got a chance to do sort of like a post-book interview. You know, uh we could uh take that interview and divide it up and make it into like maybe seven or eight podcasts. I think that's what they do these days, and get her reflections on the book and um and her life, right? How would she answer questions, do you think, about her faith in God in those very difficult times? That's a question I would ask her. I think you might hear things like frustration, doubt, confusion. Pain. Sometimes wanting to just scream, this is not fair. I think we might have gotten all of these realistic and honest answers that I think many of us would often give similar responses to, right, if we were in the same circumstances. For the next podcast, I would ask, Naomi, what piece of advice would you offer in those situations to others? I can imagine, right? She would fix the mic, maybe take a sip of water, clear her throat. My life experience has shown that you just don't know what God has planned for you. How long those dark nights will last, or how painful following him may be It's impossible, or it's possible, that he will change the circumstances in your life. So much so that you may experience some measure of earthly happiness. I'm still quoting her. But what I would say is that your satisfaction and joy in life should be anchored in your relationship. the fact that you have a relationship with God. I don't know about you, but that's exactly where I would end the podcast. And so we have the women of the town, the neighbor ladies, seeing what they saw, proclaiming with joy To Naomi, that a son has been born. So when they proclaim this, they're certainly not saying that she gave birth to a son. No, it's it is Boaz's son. But a fine point is being made here for the readers. A woman who lost her sons and everything with that now thematically has a son. Her childlessness, thematically, has now come to an end. Now, what comes next is a little bit complex to sort out. Really what I have in mind here is who exactly is the referent to the they? Is the they in the verse the neighbors, you know, the neighbor ladies who are naming the child? Or is the they, the neighbors, declaring that the parents named him Obed? Or perhaps it is now the author who is speaking, now moving us away from that scene to letting us know That the they could be Ruth and Boaz, or that maybe even Naomi was part of the process and perhaps recommended the name. It is not entirely clear what we have in mind here. But what is clear is that whoever named him named him Obed. Which means one who works, one who serves, as in one who serves God. Some have suggested that it may have meant one who served Naomi to be an heir and to provide for her. But I think that what suddenly, again more suddenly and really surprisingly happens, tips the scales, perhaps in another direction for definition. Our author suddenly introduces a backward look from his perspective to a forward look from Naomi's perspective. This son who was born to Naomi ends up being the grandfather to such a one who plays an important and dynastic role within all of Israel. And it's possible that the name chosen was to have a dual meaning, that he was a servant of Yahweh. One who would play a role to serve God's purposes for bringing about the anointed one of Israel. And in this case, we see that the well-wishers at the gate and the neighbor ladies turn out to be prophetic. And finally, the book of Ruth ends with a genealogy. Mind you, not complete, but it's from pre-Moses. It starts with Judah and the clan going down to Egypt. And it ends. with uh ten family names in David, the king of Israel. Now it's not entirely clear why our author has chosen the names that he has. But I might postulate that just like if you recall the reason why Judah did go to Egypt, Because of the chaos that existed and the famine that was present in the land That caused Peres to leave the land and go to Egypt, to a time when God brought peace in the lifetime of David for Israel. Parallel is made in a microcosmic way in Naomi's life. From famine and chaos to God bringing about peace in her life. And all of this is happening with the ringing of the statement. A son was born in Bethlehem. And continue to ring in the air, perhaps waiting for the son to be born in Bethlehem To bring about peace for his people, Israel. I've got a couple of concluding remarks before we close off the book of Ruth. The first is that about the kinsman redeemer, Adam was God's vice regent He gave him, God gave him the task of upkeeping the land, which was the world, taming it and ruling it, caring for it. This would have been our inheritance if Adam had passed the time of testing. We would have inherited the land, but he failed, and plunged us into the bondage of sin. But a kinsman redeemer, someone like Adam, in this case God, God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, took on human flesh. He became like us, our brother, a person qualified to be a kinsman redeemer. As a fellow human, willing to take on that responsibility of a kinsman redeemer, and also able to redeem, and he did, on the cross. He paid the price to redeem us, so that we may be free from the slavery to sin. And although we are but sojourners on this land, on this earth, we will one day live on the land That is our inheritance in the new heavens and the new earth. And as our kinsman redeemer, whose right it is to be also the Avenger. Has already defeated the murderer, Lucifer. But will one day do away with him for an eternity, who will no longer be able to harm us in any way. Now there's a second thing I want to bring up. So often I hear this illustration of God's divine decree and our part in it. To help explain and to offer comfort to Christians when they are undergoing difficult times and even pain and suffering. Maybe you've heard of this. What I have in mind is sort of the illustration of the puzzle. And how God is putting the picture together that we can't see, but he can from his perspective. The point is that we are only seeing a tiny portion of the puzzle and what the puzzle it is. Let me tell you, this illustration is not a 250-piece puzzle. It's more like one million pieces. And it's not one-dimensional. This divine plan of God has also the dimension of time as well. Let me just say briefly that we'd like us to perhaps change our paradigm. It's not that God is the one that is putting together the puzzle. Yeah, the puzzle pieces as time progresses. Although he is doing that, don't get me wrong, it is more properly that God is the puzzle maker He is the one that chose the canvas, what we call creation. He is the one that planned to fill it with what the puzzle looks like. You and I and everything around us. As God says in the book of Isaiah, I know the end from the beginning. Knowing is not just prescient knowledge, it is forethought and planning. Now, I've taken the time to bring this up because I wish to make a couple of points. As it is so glaringly juts out from the book of Ruth. We have a tendency to think that we are the center of the earth. All things rotate around us like the planets do around the sun. We never seem to make ourselves a planet. We always seem to make ourselves the sun. The quicker we realize that this is not the case, the better. God is not here to serve us. We are here as God's servants. And not only to serve him, but to love him with all that we've got. But when we see that we are not the center of the earth, That will free us. It's going to free us up to be servants to others. This will free us up to love our neighbor. Even the neighbor ladies. It'll free us up to be selfless. This is so evident in Naomi's life This is so evident in Ruth's life. And Boaz's as well. These are redeemed believers in God. They trusted in God's promises for salvation, and they were obedient. Yeah? Their lives were difficult. Boy were they difficult when you think about it, but they understood God's sovereignty. In all things, and had a healthy understanding of providence. I think it's impossible to detect that even with all the difficulties that they experienced in life. But they said, I will follow the Lord if only He gave me a Son. If he didn't take away my husband, if he didn't take away my sons, only then would I follow God. We can't find that. If he would just stop the famine already, we don't get that They didn't know how God, the puzzle maker, was maneuvering their lives so that he would accomplish his pleasure. They were simply obedient, loving believers who didn't even know what would come out of the grief that they experienced. Let's face it, we all face tragedy in life, don't we? Suffering. At some points in our lives we do. Whether it's physical suffering, emotional suffering, financial suffering, there's just so many different types of sufferings. You may be facing some sort of suffering even today, which is challenging your faith We need to remember that you're experiencing what you're experiencing, whether it is in plenty or in want. Because it's part of God's plan. And just like Naomi or Ruth didn't know And who knows if they ever did know. It certainly seems unlikely that Naomi saw God's plan unfold in David's life. You just don't know. I don't know exhaustively why we experience. What we experience and the reasons for it. Frankly, I can't possibly know What God will do with those same tragic experiences in this life. A hundred years from now, two hundred years from now? Three hundred years from now? I simply don't know. So even in the midst of difficulties, remember, Christian, that God is working out His plan in your life. So then what are we what are we supposed to do? You may ask. Well, you should be like Ruth and Naomi and Boaz. Live lives of obedience to God. Have faith in God and love for Him And your neighbor. God's going to work out the rest. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this delight of a book. In Ruth's life, in Naomi's life, in Boaz's life. That reminds us of your sovereignty, reminds us of your providence. Reminds us. Well hopefully it reminds us of how great you are, how powerful you are, how wise you are It's just inconceivable. And so, Father, we we ask that you would help us. That includes suffering and pain, that you would remind us that you are a God who loves us, who does care about us. But it's not about us. It's about you and your wonderful plan. And grant us the grace we pray To submit to your plan, to be obedient to you, to love you back, even in those difficult times, especially in those difficult times. And to help us to love our neighbor. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.