Lord Willing on this September fifteenth, my bride, Marg and I will celebrate our 45th wedding anniversary. And one of the things that has helped and encouraged us In our relationship over the years has been a little phrase that we've sought to put into practice. It's called the four Ps. The four P stand for present your partner perfect in public. Some of you are married. It might be helpful because you might not be doing that. And some of you who'd like to be married, it's a good phrase to know. Present your partner perfect in public. Four P's. When we practice the four P's, we're able to avoid many a pothole. in our journey together. But when we choose not to present our partner perfect in public, if she would say What a bozo I married. It may be true, but it's not helpful for our relationship. But when we choose not to present our partner perfect in public, we face many a bump in the road of our own making. My plan this morning is to have us look at the first chapter of the book of Ezra and consider four P's. that God performs for his church. There you will see his love for his people demonstrated in the use of his promise Providence, power, and provision on their behalf. Lord willing, we'll see God's promise, providence, power, and provision. Not just see it on the behalf of Ezra. And the people of Israel, the church of the Old Testament. But Lord willing, you will see it in your lives today, the church of today. But before we look at God's four P's, you need to understand. understand the historical context of this passage. By God's grace, his chosen people, Israel, the church of the Old Testament, had become very prosperous, a nation of their own. But in their prosperity, they intermarried with the pagan nations around them, and they began to follow after their idols. And they forgot their God who had taken them out of captivity in Egypt. For 400 years they were slaves. God had graciously taken them out of that. And made them prosperous, giving them all that they needed as they worshiped him. But they soon forgot him God gave them numerous dire warnings of their need to repent through many prophets coming with talking of his judgment, but they refused to listen, so that God sent mighty nations to defeat them, to destroy their capital city of Jerusalem, their temple where they worship God. And to lead them once again away into captivity. Yet because of God's abiding covenant love and God's faithfulness for his people He left them even in their captivity with a specific promise that their enemies would one day release them from captivity. And not just one day, but he even names the day. So let us stand together and we'll read before we go to Ezra, we're going to read from Jeremiah 29, verses 10 and 11. And there we'll see God encouraging his people even in their captivity and rebellion. So let us stand and I'll pray and then we'll read this prophecy that'll help us understand where we're going this morning. Father and God, your word is a wondrous thing that you have kept for your people over the years. And we thank you for so many examples of your great, gracious working with your people in the past, in the midst of their sin, that we might be encouraged today. We thank you that even when we're not faithful, you always are. And today we have displayed before another wonderful working of that. That we might have hope in our relationship with you, with our own failings and our own travails, our own trials, knowing that while we struggle, you are good. So encourage your people, build up your church, strengthen us today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to be reading from Jeremiah chapter 29, verses 10 and 11, and the prophet Jeremiah came telling of the impending doom, the awful captivity that they would have as they were carried away by the Babylonians. Their temple destroyed, their city walls left in ruins, and their buildings of the city all torn down. And they would be led away over a thousand miles away in chains, pushed by guards, taken from all their family, all that they knew, all that was familiar with them. Because of the rebellion towards him, God loved them enough to judge them and discipline his children. But he doesn't leave them like that. He leaves them with hope and promise. And we'll see that fulfilled today. But let's look at this promise in God's word. Jeremiah 29, verses 10 and 11, as the people were about to be carried away. For thus says the Lord. When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you, and I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans that I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for your welfare and not for evil, to give you A future and a hope. Amen. May be seated If God allows, we'll be working through the first chapter of the book of Ezra today And we'll just be reading uh the it's not a long chapter, but we'll be reading it and unfolding it uh piece by piece so that you will see the four P's today that God uses for his people. In the old testament But I believe uses for his church today of God's promise, providence, power, and provision. Not just seeing how he did it then. but how he's committed to do and work that way with you, his church today. First we'll look in Ezra chapter 1 and we'll read uh verse 1 and just the first part we're going to see God's promise to his people. in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled It's now 68 years since they've been in captivity. They've lost left their home. They were brought in chains to Babylon. And now they have a home in Babylon, 68 years later. And God's in the process of a 70-year process promise to now bring them back. He was they were led away by Nebuchadnezzar and now uh Cyrus is the king of Persia and Babylon, and he is the one who is uh stirred up by God, uh, the by the prophet Jeremiah. That prophecy that we had just read now is what he's been talking about in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. Isn't that wondrous? Two hundred years before it ever happened, God names Cyrus. It's a wondrous thing that happens. He not only says 70 years, but if you look at Isaiah chapter 44, 28, it says this. The where Isaiah two hundred years before it happened said this. Thus says the Lord who says Osiris He is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purposes, saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built, and the temple, and your foundation shall be laid. A wondrous thing. God has things in control. God has, as it says in Ephesians 1. 11, everything that happens in this world is after. the counsel of his will. There is nothing that's happening in your lives right now that isn't a part of God's will. Sometimes it seems horrible. If you're going to be carried into captivity and your family leaving all you have and all that you know is destroyed. And you leave it for 70 years, you say, oh God, what are you doing? You must not care for me. My family is in ruins. My home is in ruins. My hometown is in ruins. My job is gone. And you think God does not care. He's not in control. But here you see that God's promise is that He names the date before He's doing in His lives of His people. He always knows what's going on. As the late R. C. Sprohl said, if there's one maverick molecule in this world, then God isn't God. And so as you look at this scripture today and just see the prophecies alone, they should be enough to encourage you in your situation, because as these people were going away, everything had to look bleak. Everything they know is lost. It was all changing. There was no foundation. But our foundation cannot be in this world. It has to be in the living God. And that's what he was teaching his people. And that's what he needs to teach each of us today. Because things will change. People will die. Family relationships will break. Jobs will be lost. Bank accounts will be lost, but God who loves his people never takes away that covenant love. And he had prepared for that. plans for that because he loves his people, even though the devil and the world would whisper the whole time around, I hate you. God must not care for you. Where is he? He knew exactly what he was doing. So he would raise up a nation and a people. that would trust in him and not in themselves and not in their families and not in their bank accounts and not in their jobs or their education or anything else We need to see history as God's story, his story. Dr. Phil N Phil Newton is helpful. He says this. We might say that history is the reciting of the rise and fall of peoples and nations. But what I propose is that history is something more than the rise and fall of civilizations and the stories of cultures and the recounting of wars. History is the story of God's governance over the nations. to accomplish his eternal purpose and to show forth his eternal glory. History is truly the Lord's story of his redemptive work. and display of his judgment and preservation of his people in every generation. The most important lesson to come out of these opening verses of Ezra is the sheer faithfulness of God in keeping his promises. Beloved, we can't keep our promises. We don't keep our promises. As much as we might try to keep. You might be the best promise keeper in the world, and you'll say, I'll be there, but you can't stop a flat tire You can't stop a drunken person coming and hitting you car. You can't stop a deer from going out in front of you. But God can overrule all those things and he keeps his promises. Here we need to say is God was faithful to his promises and did not forget his people. Do you feel forgotten this morning? Are you in a situation when you say, Does God care? How could he be working in captivity and losing everything? We understand that he has a plan and a future and a hope for his people if we will believe in him. That's hard, beloved. I have no doubt that these people, as they left, were struggling and wondering, is there a God? Does he care? Why has he done this to me? And yet he was always at work. For his glory and their good. Even today, if you want to just to see how God hands work and he even has put it in history, you can go to the London Museum And the London Museum, the archaeologist in the 18th century dug up something that's called the Cyrus Cylinder. And along the whole length of the Cyrus Cylinder, it's written Sideways and cuneiform is the history of a lot of things that Cyrus did. And one of the things that is written on the Cyrus cuneiform is this May all the gods whom I have resettled in their sacred cities. Ask daily of Bel and Nebo, the gods of Babylon, for a long life for me. So that's what Ezra did. I mean, uh that's what uh Cyrus did is he resettled uh his captive people back in their places. And here we have that written that he asked Israel to pray for him. But here's the reality you need to take just from this half a verse. This half a verse where you see God making a promise 200 years ahead of it for a hope for his people. This is what you need to take away, and it's from Numbers 29, 13. God is not a man that he should lie, or the son of man that he should change his mind. Has he said it and he will not do it? Or has he it spoken and he will not fulfill it? Beloved, I don't bring this up lightly because I bring it up in this sense of people being carried away to captivity. But we know Romans 8. 28 is that God is at work all things together for good for those whom he loves. Does it say beloved God works only some things? No, all things. Captivities And some of you might feel captive and broken and crushed today as all of you things you know are gone and you have a choice today. Well I believe the living God, even though I can't see it. Well I live by faith and not by sight. Well, I put my hope in the living God who has promised that he loves me and he's working. I can't see it. I can't feel it. I don't know what's around the corner. But he has a plan and he loves me and he is going to use these things. He knows what I need to conform me to Christ. I know we all look at the new car that someone else got and we wonder, why didn't I get that car? That's our temptation. We look at someone else's life and say, Why is it my life like them? I can only tell you, I wish I could tell you names and situations, but one time as a pastor, my wife and I were counseling a couple. They came into our study at the church and we counseled them in their marriage and the wife said, Oh, I wish that my husband was like George. And the next night the other couple came in and uh and it was George and his wife, and and and Steve and Sally were in the first day, and she says, oh, I wish my husband were like Steve. You know, we look at the other's life and we we think we know, and yet we know that God has a plan for our hope and care and love because of Christ in his church. He loved his bride, and we'll see that even here. That was just first God's promise, and he has a promise that he loves you. He's made that promise and he's fulfilled it with the seal of the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ for you. You're a sinner, you deserve hell and judgment, and he's laid out the life of his son and covered you with his blood. Because he loves you. That's the seal you need to remember. You need to look back to the cross as a promise. Well, now we go on to God's providence. Ezra chapter one, uh the first second part of uh verse one and then the verse four. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and also put it in writing Thus says Cyrus, King of Persia, the Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever is among you of all his people may go up may of his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah. and rebuild the house of the Lord of the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. And let each survivor in that place wherever he sojourns be assisted by the men in this place with silver and gold. with goods and with beasts, besides the free will offerings for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. Alright! God not only says they can go back, but as he changes and fulfills his promise, he provides all that they need, even from their pagan neighbors A pagan king and their pagan neighbors will pray for their temple to be rebuilt so they can worship their God. How could they ever even imagine that in the midst of going towards captivity and being away? But God was never silent or slow. He had a plan and a purpose for them because he loves them. It says in Proverbs 21, 1, the king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. Well the King God is in charge not only the King's heart, he's in charge of President Trump's heart, he's in pr charge of uh Vladimir Putin's heart as the two meet together, whether they have peace or war or just decide to ignore each other or take off their shirts and beat their chest. whatever leaders do in the world, but he does the same thing with you and me. He's in charge of the way your wife works towards you and your husband towards he's in charge of all of our hearts and God is turning them. But he does. Run to him. Don't try to manipulate your spouse. Don't try to manipulate your children. Go to God. And pff go on your knees to him and ask for him to make those changes. Now love them and treat them the way you're called to do, but you don't have to play with manipulations because God is working out his plan. And this is no fluke. For God to provide here. This is an E. But the first time they left Israel, God provided for them as they left. They plundered the Egyptians. As they were there for 400 years, they're getting paid back for all their work. The Egyptians said, We're never going to pay you. All you have to do is work. And even in the second first captivity, Exodus 12. 35 and 36. The people of Israel had also done as Moses told them, for they had asked the Egyptians for silver and gold and jewelry and for plunder the Egyptians. Whether it's the nations and God working with NATO or China or Russia or Africa God is in charge. But he's also thankful, look at how specifically he's working in the lives of his church, his bride, his people with these four P's. He's pro in his providence here. He is working his will. He's freeing the captives. This is a picture of what would happen in his story later. Do you remember Jesus' first sermon in Luke 4. 18? Jesus says this, the Spirit is the Lord upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives recovering of sight to the blind and to set to liberty those who are oppressed. Now we, and we can read that, and so many people that are of a culture today would read it, oh, Jesus came to do these great social Movements to free the poor and to help the oppressed. No. He was talking spiritually. You see, there's a third captivity. Our captivity to sin in Satan, and that's what Jesus was saying. Yeah, these other captivities only point to another captivity, and that is our captivity to sin, and that's what Jesus came to take care of in his providence. What I want you to see here as God works with these nations is to see a macro working of the nation's own life. As a nation has such things happen this week. Can you imagine? I mean, if you wa if you watch The Talking Heads on whatever news show you watch. Right? I don't care. You can watch the one I don't like and I'll go, Pfft, can't believe you watch that one and you'll watch the one I like and go, Pfft, can't believe you watch it But whether it's the NATO obligations and President Trump forcing the other nations to pay up or his support was the best one you could ever have. I can't believe the court's gonna be tilted this way now. Or whether you're going, oh no, the court's tilted that way. What are we gonna do? Nations r meet Vladimir Putin of Russia and our president this week. Uh I saw one of the talking heads say Vladimir Putin, he worked for the KGB. He's so smart, he'll just run right over that little boy Trump. Right? You know, you could be worried one way or the other, right? And we should pray about these things. We should seek to be involved in our government and have a place as we can, but our governments don't do all this. You see, there's one who is working for redemption. It's his story. So be involved in these things. Pray about these things, but rest in the one who is working a bigger story from Genesis to Revelation, the story of redemption. And if you're gone that story of redemption, you are his beloved bride, and he's working even in captivities. for you today. Our times with individuals that we need to see God at work in his providence. In our own families, our neighbors, our colleagues at work, and those we meet in the course of our lives. Now we're going to go see God's power over his people. Just look at one verse. Then rose up the heads of the fathers, houses of Judah and Benjamin, and the priest and the Levites. Everyone whose spirit God had rebuild the house of the Lord that is in Jerusalem. You see, not everybody would go back. There were so many that now had been in Babylon for 70 years, they'd become Mionites. They had given up their Jewish tradition worship of God. They were comfortable with the world. But God stirred the hearts of some to be true. He always has a remnant that will follow him. And they had to go back. to do this and they wouldn't on their own. It was a thousand mile trip through deserts and over mountains by foot, six months. And when they got back, they would find a city with no walls, no protection. They would find all the houses destroyed, and the place that they were going back to rebuild to worship their God was in ruins. Who would want to go back to that when you have a place now where it's easy, at least you're comfortable, your children know what's there. You're familiar with it. 70 years, everybody but grandma and pop, grandpa Moses had forgotten, you know, what it was like. They'd heard stories. But you can get comfortable, you know, it's a story about the guy who hits his head on the wall. Why does he keep doing that? Because he knows what it feels like. If you stop hitting your head on the wall, you're not sure exactly what it's going to feel like. So I just keep hitting my head on the wall. And you can stay in those situations, where you can stay in a place of unbelief where we can just say, oh, woe is me. This is so hard. Everything is against me. Or believe that God has a promise, even and working in our difficulties and our captivities. And here he does the same thing, not just Look at verse 1. What did he do with Cyrus? What made this change? God stirred up the spirit of Cyrus to release him. Do you see that? God changed his heart. But he doesn't just do that with kings. Oh, kings are important, so God will move them in the chest piece in this plant. No. God loves the individuals, and he was bringing his church, his people back to face those hard difficulties of going back. to rebuild the temple, to go back home, and it says they wouldn't do it except God had done what? Do you see it? Then rose up the heads of the father's houses of Judah and Benjamin and the priests and Levites and everyone whose the Spirit of God had stirred up to go to rebuild the house of the Lord that's in Jerusalem. Beloved, are you reminded that anything we do good isn't because you and I say, I'm going to go out and obey God today? I've tried that You ever tried that? I'm gonna have a day without sin. Right? You start doing, oh I got my devotions. Ooh, I prayed. Two out of three ain't bad. Go to breakfast, there's your wife. Something's wrong, you go and you bite her head off. It didn't last very long, did it? You see, God has to be in that and you just say, oh God, unless you help me, I am undone. Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13 talks about that. It says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Brothers and sisters, we're to be involved. But, for it is God who works in you both to will and to work as good pleasure. To follow after our God, we have to say, God, would you stir my heart to do the hard things today? I don't want to. I want to stay in captivity. It might be bad, but it's easy. I don't want to go a thousand miles. I don't want to be gone six months. I don't like mountains or deserts. I don't want to go back to ruins. But God stirred their hearts to go into the hard places because He was with them. And beloved, for us to follow after our God, He's going to take us into hard places. If we're going to be obedient, then the only way we can do it is say, God, enable me, stir up my spirit, give me the strength. And that's what he promised to do. And that's what By the way, some of you need something to read in the summer. You know, you kind of do pretty good with your devotions during the year, you know, you put in the summer, you know, vacations, going away. Oh, read the Bible. Ezra is a great book. Not very long. You can get through it in the summer. And you'll just see God at work with people like you and me, frail people, failed people, people in captivity, people who are being disciplined. But God was still at work in their lives and is in yours if you will trust him. Then the last thing P will look at is God's provision for his people. He's been providing all along here, changing the heart of the king. moving the people to go back, providing for their needs. But amazingly, through three kings, Nebuchadnezzar, Darius, and Cyrus, God, they took from the temple all of the gold things they used, the pans and the sensors and the candlesticks and all the different things they used in their worship. The Babylonians took from Jerusalem back to their own treasuries. And we'll see that God says. When you go back to the temple, you don't even have to do all those things again. I have them sitting here waiting for you, and they'll send them back with you. So God provides for their worship. Let's look at this in verses six through nine. And all who were with them. Because you see what could have happened is any time during that time they could have melted down the silver and gold And just added it to their own treasury so they can buy whatever they wanted. Or they could have melted down the silver and gold and made idols after their own hearts. But God, for 70 years, just said, put this treasure over here because I'm going to need it later. It wasn't that They said, I don't want to do it. God said, you're going to keep it. You see, God is at work not just to move the king to let them go, but to move the kings to say, leave that stuff alone. It's really not yours. Ezra chapter 7, verse 6. And all who were about them aided them with the vessels of silver, with gold, with goods. with beasts and costly wares, besides all that was freely offered. Cyrus the king also brought out the vessels of the house of the Lord that Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem. and placed in the house of his God. Cyrus, the king of Persia, brought these out in the charge of Mirandith, the treasurer, who counted them out to Shesbazar, the prince of Judah. And this was the number of them, thirty basins of gold, a thousand basins of silver. 29 censors, 30 bowls of gold, 410 bowls of silver, thousand other vessels, and all the vessels of gold and silver were 5,400 All these did Sheth Bazar bring up when the exiles were brought out up from Babylonia to Jerusalem. Pretty amazing, isn't it? God kept those and he was ready to be worshipped and they would worship him because he had kept them. He provided, he doesn't just call us If God is going to call you to do something, he will provide. You know, if Nebuchadnezzar had just said to these people, okay. You can go back. There might have been one or two that had enough faith to go back. But he not only just says, changes the heart of a king, he goes back, but he says Everybody around you is going to give you all that you need, the food and the horses and everything else so you can go back. You're going to provide for your needs. But he says, and now when you set up this temple, you don't have to make new stuff to worship God and make the sacrifices and all that. Here it is You see, God had all the steps in order. They didn't see that. They didn't know that. But God was at work. And they had He gave them enough of these steps so that they could. Live by faith, but be encouraged with his work. Well, brothers and sisters, we've seen the second release from captivity. But it only pictures another wonderful release from captivity. You see, God is still at work in this world and with us, using the four P's of his promise, providence, power, and provision. For our final release of captivity. Because being a slave in Egypt or a slave in Babylon is nothing to being a slave to sin. And these are all pictures of the coming release of the Lord Jesus Christ, who freed us from the law. Who freed us from the standing by the Ten Commandments and saying, you will be judged by these because none of us follows the Ten Commandments perfectly, but when you're talking about just the letter but the spirit of us, none of us follow them ever. Very well. Even as believers now. So we were captive to the law and we would be judged and destroyed. But there was another one who came and perfectly fulfilled that law, even his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we were freed by that King, King Jesus, as he came and perfectly fulfilled the law, so that you and I are not judged by that law, held captive to sin and Satan. As Paul says in Romans 7, 6, but now through faith in Christ we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive. So that we serve in a new way of the Spirit, not in the old way of the written code. That we still have those laws, but we follow them now, not to be judged by them, but we follow King Jesus, who loves us. Who's released us? That now we say, oh Jesus, help me now. Strengthen me by your spirit. Stir me up by your spirit to follow you because you've given yourself for me. Or Galatians 3, 23 and 24. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law, our guardian, it was our guardian until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith. We were imprisoned by the law. I was talking to Cliff Hall at the picnic. Cliff's gonna wonder, did I get this right? Hope I got it right, Cliff. I got the sense of it And Cliff and Joan went to a wedding recently in Utah, and the pastor who was doing the wedding was from Canada. So Cliff had a chance to talk to them, uh talk to him a couple times, and he cliff said, you know I understand what's going on in Capita, Canada now. You're with your legislature and your leaders or There is a a lot of hassle to the church now. In fact, one Christian school was starting a law school and the the government said, well, we won't accept your people from your law school because you go by the word of God. And and that's against the things that our nation wants. And and Cliff said something like, Your hands are tied, what's it like? It's almost like Christians are being held captive. Right? And and we can say those same things in our own lives when things are going wrong. And the pastor's response was something like this. It will now be all the better to make the contrast between dark and light. For the gospel to go forth. God is at work to free a people for himself. It wasn't They're saying, oh, the government's done this. What's the church gonna do? He said, we serve King Jesus. He is the one who's freed us. And we'll go forth with him because of God's promise, God's providence, and God's power and provision. He believes that Do you? Do you believe God's at work today when you feel captive? Or the nation is changing and you feel under oppression? Do you believe that? Beloved, it's hard sometimes. We we better not doubt that because some of our brothers and sisters are going to come and just be overwhelmed or sometimes I'll come to you and that's the way I'll be because I forget these very things that God has promised. But they're there in scriptures in the past for us that we might believe them and know them today. And they're fulfilled in Christ. May God give you and me the biblical vision as we live this coming week for his glory. If we're captive The only thing that we would be captive to is King Jesus, our Lord and Savior. Let us pray. And Father and God, we thank you that history is His story, the story of from Genes to Revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ working redemption in his bride, the church, the people he loves. And would you encourage us today, by this accounting of your workings, to believe that you are still working with your people today? that you would give us a future and a hope. Not because of America or because of our job or our education or our breeding or who we've married or the children we bore or the associations we have. But because we belong to King Jesus, who has freed us from sin and Satan, we come and rejoicing that we are his, encourage your church and your people today. We pray. In Jesus name, tell me.