I think one thing should be made clear at the outset. I was not present at the dedication of Solomon's temple. I had a conflict that day. I'm grateful to my friend Daniel Howard for uh giving me a little assistance on the steps. Uh what a blessing. I prayed that the Lord would send just the right message. man. I met him last Sunday. He said, Daniel, I have a job for you. Where are you, Daniel? There he is. Thank you. Let us pray for God's illumination upon our meditation today. Oh, spirit of truth Come and hover over us, over the word and the ministry of it, over our hearts, as we look to you for guidance, for teaching. For reproof, correction, and righteousness. Teach us, O Lord, and lift up our hearts. And And we do thank you for this pulpit and the messenger who stands in it. And we pray for him and his family as they undertake this new phase of their church's life. Anoint them With the Holy Spirit. In great measure, we pray. And anoint this time together, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. It may be strange to put together in such juxtaposition the ministry of John the Baptist and the dedication. of this church. But I see a theme that ties them together, and I'd like to discuss that with you somewhat today The theme is this: that both of these, the Church of Christ and the Ministry of the Baptist Are to reflect the image of Christ to the world. They both have the same task So I looked under the guidance, I trust, of the Holy Spirit. What are some of the features? Of the similarity and the differences between the Baptist and Christ's Church, wherever it is found. I think if we can discover some of these features, it will help you as a church and me as a would-be pastor to Know and carry out the work of Christ as we are called to do. Let's think a little bit about the manner of John the Baptist's ministry. It was very different, wasn't it? Alone, fasting and praying in the desert. for 30 years with nothing to do otherwise but wait for the promised Messiah. and to prepare the heart for that, feeding on the locusts that had died in the crags of rocks, and the wild honey which a kind providence had put there for him It was a strange existence he had, far from humanity. But what that led to, I think, in John the Baptist was a profound humility. a kind of depth of humility that isn't seen in Scripture, apart perhaps from the prophet Elijah, in whose figure John the Baptist Seems to resonate. But this deep humility of his was a vital preparation for his ministry. It was essential. He was what was called a Nazarite, a person who had chosen vows for his life, usually temporarily. But in John's case, it seems to be his total life was given to the Nazarite Baal, which produced in him a concentration, a focus. On what he was called to do. It's an uncanny thing about humility that when it reaches its true point of depth in the soul It creates a focus on one's calling that can't be created any other way. Pride will spoil the focus and distract But not genuine humility. But John had that And it meant for him the depth of conscience because he In that humble state, received a sharp sensitivity in his conscience. He was better prepared to seek out and challenge the sins of the day. That aggravation of soul we call conscience. He felt keenly. He was, in a way, a man of sorrows before the true man of sorrows would appear. His manner, his humility is important to us as we think about the church. Think also about the message he brought, his purpose in the world. Was really to announce the coming of the king, to let as many know as possible that he was on his way. And to help them get ready for his coming. At the same time, what he wanted to do, it seems to me, was to create a people Who would be ready to recognize and receive the coming king? He had to create their hearts Make them ready to know Christ when he should appear and to respond to his message. Now, see comes. His message was really simple, twofold. Repent Be converted is what it means there. Change your ways. Change your life. In your present condition, you're in no shape to meet the king who comes. You need a drastic What we would call today a sea change in your life, a paradigm shift that you would be able to recognize him And respond to him. And the other part of his ministry, his message was The kingdom is at hand. The king is coming. He was to be a harbinger, a forerunner of the Savior's appearance, his advent. And that was important because there were huge obstacles in the way of the king and his reign. Obstacles like human pride, like dishonesty, like religious hypocrisy, all kinds of violence. The culture was not ready to hear a reformer, a changer, like the Savior, unless someone came. To lift up the low places and bring down the haughty and the proud, create a great leveling that would make a highway for our God to come. into the land. What a mission it was he had with that message. He wanted to minister In his coming to all kinds of people. The Pharisees and scribes had limited themselves to the learned, perhaps To the opulent, the wealthy. But John the Baptist cave is a humble and lowly man. He saw everyone as important in the eyes of God. So he had to lift up the poor and the fallen, the discouraged and those who had lost heart. He had to lift them up. And those who were high and mighty and lorded it over others, he brought them down. Those who were soldiers and thought themselves more powerful than others He also humbled them. All must be the same. And for that reason he chose three different titles For the king to come, so that everyone, wherever he was in the stations of life, would be able to relate to this Savior He called him the Son of God. What a universal title that was. And he called him the Lamb of God. So as to say that every man's a sinner and needs the sacrifice of the slain lamb, and here he comes And he called him the bridegroom. We're all interested in weddings. And The bridegroom was a unique ministry, a title that he gave to Jesus To attract people so that he could bring the people to Christ, that they would be drawn to him by that figure, so that everyone. Was interested in the message of John, and they came from every corner of the land to hear his words Now his method was different from others. His method was Interesting to us because he did not speak in generalities. Every preacher, including this one has to avoid that great hazard of being general when the folk want you to be specific And those of you who are seminarians and preachers of the Word will recognize what I mean when I say John the Baptist dude's particular application. That is, he singled out groups in his audience and spoke to them so directly that they squirmed in their places Nobody preaches such particular application. We're too busy and too hurried to take the time to do it. So we allow the particular application to be done by a counseling center somewhere instead of the pulpit where it needs to be done, it seems to me. But at least John the Baptist called certain groups vipers. They were sitting right there His fate in a certain sense was in their hands. The thing that was so different about his method, too, was that He didn't try to attract people to himself. Sometimes we pastors can do that maybe unconsciously at least at first, until we begin to get a certain joy about the hand club we have around us. Which leads more and more to our pride in being isolated from where people's real needs are. But not John the Baptist. He was as if to say, Don't come to me. I'm only the friend of the bridegroom. Go to the bridegroom. That's where the action is. He must increase. I must decrease. I'm only a voice. Now that's about as near to nothing as you can be, is to be just a voice. That's all I am is a voice. Don't come to me, don't flock around me Even his own beloved disciples, he shoved off to serve alongside the master when he came. And this sense of method was a very important way that he worked. You can see his hand, and we can emulate certain features of his life. And what we think of today as the church, What's wrong with us? Christ has come. The kingdom is not simply at hand. The kingdom is within you and within us. We live in the kingdom. We rejoice in the kingdom. We have much to preach. We have a message of repentance. And we can still say and believe with all our hearts the King is coming again. So while the Manner of John's asceticism is not honored in the New Testament. It's generally spoken of as being close to you. Useless. But John was an ascetic, to be sure. That's not the role. But we can take from his ministry a simple life. A detesting of luxury and fanfare and publicity so that we can live In a sense, a life detached unto God and yet attached to people in a deep and loving way. Now John's ministry, as the scripture readings we had point out clearly, was a transitory ministry It was a transition between the Old Testament and the New. And that's why Jesus says there, you rejoiced in his light for a season. It's not forever. John had that brief period of thirty years or so of ministry. And in that time the Lord Jesus said he was a burning and shining light. What a tribute. You who are pastors, would you not want Christ to speak of you that way? A burning? That is full of zeal and passion, not a ho-hum, haphazard servant of Christ. Anything goes But a burning light, and a shining light full of learning and teaching, full of illumination for your people, so that every Lord's day, when they sit before you, they are. Instructed, they go home with some new thought they never had before. Yet Jesus said he would pass away And of course, John's uncompromising stance against evil cost him his life. Because the day came when he Speaking to Herod, said of his desire to marry Herodias, his relative. He said You are not allowed to have her in public to a ruler So Don was like that amazing comet that goes across the sky, burning and beautiful, but it burns out, and he burnt out in prison. That's where he lost his head, as you remember. But now What our task as the church is, is to take from John the Baptist those features of his ministry, which are the essence of it. Old Testament. Teachings are so important because they have both a form and an essence. Ceremonial laws have that. Dunn's Ministry had the form, the outer form, which has passed away, but the heart of his message we can take and must take. For example, A lowliness of mind, a humility that John had. That will enable us to reach all kinds of people But too often we get stuck on our own programs and services and we get so routinized in the way we do things that we're inflexible to to meet the needs of those who are really hurting. It takes humility to be a church humble enough to reach every man. The city of Laurel may have more than its share of the homeless, the poor and the broken, the stranger. The handicapped. Somehow people have found their way here. And we want to be here. And we are here as churches to reach out and bless them. So we need the lowliness that John had. And I think we need also a fresh Glimpse of the cross. You remember the great hymn, lift high the cross? That's what we need to do. Because it was the death of Christ that was central in John's thinking about the Messiah. The first time he saw him, he was so struck with that face, utterly dedicated to its own suffering. That he said, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Have we put up all kinds of subjects and themes and illustrations and stories, all these somehow bypassing The death of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the remedy for human ills. That's the answer to society's hurt, is to preach Christ and Him crucified. And I think John the Baptist's message needs to be our message. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. We can also take this leaf from John's notebook: the strength to be courageous against evil. We've gotten timid and maybe even defeatist in our struggle against social evils. And all kinds of wickedness in our society. But not John. He denounced it. He called it what it was. And we need to do the same. We need courage to do that. For example, take our national sins. John, I think my idea may be different from yours, but why did John baptize Jesus? That's a an enigma that people have wrestled with for a long time. I've kind of come out among at this place, among other reasons, not the only reason. was that both John and Jesus were citizens of the land. They were there, part of Israel, part of Palestine. And so, in a certain sense, as citizens, they participated in the national sins of the country. That doesn't mean Jesus was a sinner at all. Don't anybody misunderstand me? Of course not. But he was baptized, I think, to identify. And to say that he was going to take on the national sins of Israel. And are we too righteous and high and mighty to do that? We can condemn sins from the pulpit and in pronouncements. But can we repent with our neighbors, though we have never participated In these sins, can we repent for them and with our neighbors? That takes courage to do that We're now engaged in a war. And in a war, both sides are under the judgment of God. That's not to put ourselves in the same brutal category as ISIS With its barbaric hostility, merciless and relentless murder. No, never. Yet In a war, the victim, as it were, also suffers. As we know the suffering and pain. We're seeing it now. So that in a sense The victim nation has sins to repent of, as well as the aggressor. What are our national sins? That God may be calling our attention to in this time of terrible war I have a book in my library called Best Sermons. And I like to take it down. And when the war started to appear on the horizon, I read again. The great sermon of John Murray called God and the War, that would have been the Second World War. God and the War And he has an amazing sentence, then, which I've never quite wrapped my arms around. He said, one well-tept Sabbath would end this war. What? But you see, what Murray was saying was that there were national sins, one of which he was calling Sabbath desecration, one well-kept Sabbath. Would end the war. That's his sentence, not mine. Now you'll you'll have trouble now wrapping your minds around that one But you see, that's what I'm saying. Part of humility, part of playing out the ministry of John the Baptist in our contemporary world is to be able. To repent, identify with the sins of our nation, which are many. We don't participate. We refuse to do that But we do repent for them and with them. What else can we learn, briefly, from John the Baptist's ministry? Well, I think we need a whole new dependence and love of the Holy Spirit Because he said, the one who's coming after me, he will baptize you with the Spirit and with fire. He knew that the carnal sins of his land could not be washed away with the waters of Jordan. Oh, baptism had its place there. But it something deeper, something more powerful, something incendiary had to happen if the people were to change from their wicked ways. We need a new baptism of the Holy Spirit upon our churches, upon our ministries, upon our families. Please God, come, Spirit. Burn like the fire, cleanse like the water, refresh like the wind, but come, Holy Spirit, come. And I think John leads us to a fresh grasp of what it means to pray. Sometimes prayer in our churches can be perfunctory and rote and hardly expecting answers. Not long ago, Betty Jane and I met in a restaurant in Laurel, a young man from Nigeria, who had come to the U. S. as a refugee. Both parents, the only family he had, were killed by the Boko Haram there in the bombing of a bus. And here he was in America. And we met him and got to know him and loved him. But the feature of his life that so challenged me was his prayer life. What have you been doing, Opi? I spent the day in prayer. The whole day? Yes, the whole day And where have you been? We haven't seen you for seven days, Opi. Where have you been? I've been fasting and praying for seven days for my country. I'll tell you, my prayer life looked awfully shabby and paltry compared to that. But that wasn't the way John prayed. He prayed with an intensity and a depth. He prayed till his sinewy body was. Wet with sweat in the desert, seeking the coming of Christ, he prayed in the arrival of the Messiah. He brought him into the world by prayer. And we can hasten Christ's return, too, by our praying, if we will do so. So we need that, brothers. And somehow we need to go back and ask God for a a new conscience, a refreshed conscience One that is sensitive, not seared over by the worldliness and the sins of the age. I saw a video recently that brought this home to me. It was a video of a meeting, a reconciliation meeting between The Swiss Reformed churches and the Anabaptists of America, which would be the Amish, the Mennonites And evangelical Baptists, that group of plain people, of followers of Freelick and others in Switzerland Over 400 years ago, there had been awful persecution by the state church of these Anabaptist people and their leaders They had even drowned some of the leaders as a punishment for not baptizing their children. It's hard to conceive of that. But it was their own admission. We saw the video of this meeting in which These wonderful speeches of love and forgiveness and of confession of sin were made by these leaders of both churches. It was incredible. It was within the last ten years that this took place. There was the Lord's Supper together. There were tears of repentance. and forgiveness. There was the washing of one another's feet. I thought, ah The corporate conscience is being cleansed. There is such a thing as a body that has a conscience. And that body had its conscience so pinching it for its collective ancient sins that it had to be cleansed. And a church has a conscience. Your church has a conscience. Is it clear? Or are there those who have been burned May be treated poorly, not shown the love of Christ. Sometimes it seems that the megachurches are really made up of friends who've gotten rebuffed or didn't feel the love in some other churches. I don't know if that's true. But it seems that way sometimes. Have you examined your church's conscience? Before the Lord. The bloom that ought to exist on every congregation doesn't always come and thrive for this very reason Because we haven't cleansed our corporate conscience. Now let me leave you with a picture. In many devotional Christian books, not so much in recent publishing, but in earlier publishing, at the frontispiece there was a picture of Christ. And on one side was the disciple whom Jesus loved, John the Evangelist. And on the other side was John the Baptist. That was like an insignia on Christian books. You don't see it much. I have it. You may have it too. But I'm wondering with you today, friends, if we have studied and learned what John the Apostle has to give us, and it is so rich and so wonderful, no wonder we have majored on it. But have we neglected the ministry of John the Baptist and its austerity, in its keen sense of sin In its utter lowliness and humility. Perhaps it's time to rediscover what John the Baptist has to say to the church in this age. May we pray together? Our loving Heavenly Father, we thank you that in the sacred pages of the Scripture You have kept the words and ministry of John the Baptist for us, that we may study them and glean from them. How can the church reflect? The image of Christ to the world. Thank you for preserving his life, his ministry, his words for us. Lord, may we follow in his train through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.