Acknowledging in particular that this is a day of rest and that I could enjoy some rest from your introductions. It's wonderful to be with you all and I've been grateful for the warm hospitality that I've enjoyed throughout. Well, let's get oriented. That's where we started. And uh before we begin again today, let's reveal a little bit of what we've been about. We've insisted that the scripture teaches this surprising proposition that conflicts are a means of grace in the life of God's people. We noted, however, that it would be easy to have too much of a good thing and become overwhelmed. And so we continued our study of the place of conflict in the Christian life by considering the preemptive strike of the gift of a gracious disposition that is ours in Christ. From Colossians 3. 13, we learned that with respect to most matters that make for conflict, believers are called to bear with one another in love. Critical to this calling is to understand that in Christ we are chosen, holy, and beloved. We are called by our Savior to forbearance in love. And we've been granted in Christ that divine love, which gives us the glorious ability to overlook an offense. To overlook an offense to the glory of God. God doesn't intervene in all the circumstances of our lives, and neither should we. He is patient that we might be led to repentance This shows us that all discipline in the life of the church bel begins with self-discipline. When we hear the word declared, our heart responds, and then in love we begin ordering our lives according to that word. Thus Paul can insist with Timothy that he ought to go to the gymnasium for godliness. That Paul himself disciplined his body and kept it under control, lest after preaching to others he himself. Would be disqualified. But then we saw there was more to understand if our faithfulness to the Lord was to be complete with respect to this matter. There comes a time when forbearing with the offending brother must end. What is that time? When the behavior is seriously dishonoring to God. The sinner in Paul's word is caught and in need of being restored. He's in a devilish snare, as Paul will say to Timothy. Or when that behavior may bring some serious harm to himself or others. We also noted two special cases, when for whatever reason. You can't forbear. A wall become has become has been built up between you and another, and there needs to be some work to tear that wall down. Or if in particular you hold an office of accountability, parent, officer of the church, or magistrate. But we noted that the Bible's careful to instruct us in this work of going to the brother, to show his fault and seek repentance. There's a preparation required for going. We need to nurture within our hearts that caring love that goes for the good of another and not our own good. We need to have our hearts sensitive to the sin in our own lives and our need for grace To be ready to forgive as the Lord forgives us, and to be careful to get the log out of our own eye. And we notice that this showing or reproving was not for the sake of criticism or condemnation, but rather it was to work to correct, work to correct by persuading And in this work of persuasion, we need to be ready to put the scripture to good use, to apply it carefully, its principles to the facts of the case. And then to think out how that text applies to the circumstances so that we might be used of the Lord by the power of the Spirit to bring one under conviction. All of this, according to our Lord's command, is to be done in private. It's to bring repentance. That repentance, which we then insisted, was a necessary part of the transaction of forgiveness. But this is implied by the saying that we're to forgive as the Lord forgave us, the Lord does not forgive us apart from repentance. It's implied in Matthew 18 when we're told we're to go and reprove a brother, and if he listens to you, you've won your brother. There's the appropriate response And it's given in the express statement in Luke 17, 1 through 5. If he repents, forgive him. Our duty is to work for this repentance And the possibility, the opportunity to forgive another. We're to long to bring about the conditions for forgiveness, to find an exercise, to find an occasion for this exercise Exercise of grace. That repentance includes confession, a heartfelt acknowledgement of the wrong and sorrow of the harm done, and restitution where it's possible. And if there's no repentance, well of course, such serious sin only has one of two outcomes, either repentance, restoration. And forgiveness or hardening and death. If there's no repentance, if there's sufficient evidence, you're to go to the church to bring the person before the elders The point is that without repentance we cannot forgive. On the contrary, if he refuses to listen even to the church, well then let him be unto you as a Gentile or tackle. Lacking the evidence of witnesses, however, in the Lord's providence there can be no further help. One must seek grace to forbear and to pray for the erring one's repentance. We cannot ever seek revenge. But in love, even for one who has become your enemy, continue to seek their best. There's more. At times the Lord's bless the Lord blesses our efforts. And the one who has sinned has been brought to repentance, and we then are called to forgive. To see this again, we turn to our Colossus passage this morning. But before I read it, let me pray for us. Our Father, we pray with the psalmist that you would open our eyes, that we would behold the wondrous things of your word. That beholding we might come under conviction, that believing we might hide your word in our heart. And that hidden there, it would bear its choicest fruits that would be evident before a watching world to your glory and our good we ask it. Amen. Amen. This is the Word of God. Colossians 3, verses 12 through 14. Put on, then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience Bearing with one another, and if anyone has a complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you must also forgive And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. If anyone has a complaint against another Paul here, raising the idea of a complaint against another, then moves beyond forbearance. Raising the issue, he goes directly to the outcome, as we noticed before, forgiveness. without mentioning what have would have been the well-known intervening step as established by our Lord in Matthew 18. The patience that will is willing to overlook a fault in hope that it might become an occasion for repentance, is now superseded by the calling to go for the same purpose. And if there is the appropriate response, we find Forgive each other. That's our calling. The model for it is our Lord's forgiveness, as the Lord has forgiven you, so you must forgive. And so we conclude from our text this morning this simple proposition. There comes a time when forbearance with an offending believer must end, and we must heed the call of Christ to go to our brother, to show him his fault. And to seek repentance and and seeking repentance, grant him forgiveness and be reconciled. It's the last that's the focus of our attention this morning. Morning, that we are to be a people who upon repentance, grant forgiveness and reconciliation. There are four parts to this that I want to consider this morning. The first is to consider the nature of this forgiveness. The second is to think together about the norm of forgiveness. The third is the necessity of this forgiveness, and finally, the nurture of forgiveness. You'll notice the clever alliteration in my points. This has become habitual with me, so much so that one of our elders in his uh departing address to the congregation moving on to a New place said that over the years the most important uh point in my ministry for him was to realize that all biblical truth could be contained in the literative statements. But since I hope you'll remember these things, allegedly it's a mnemonic device. So Nature, norm, necessity, and nurture. The first, the nature of forgiveness. Forgiving one another. What forgiveness does not mean in the first instance It doesn't mean that somehow you've become insensible of the act that was an offense. Nor does it mean that you withhold from the offender the knowledge that he has done wrong. On the contrary, we're told to go to him and try to win him. Can the forgiving of a person lead to a sense that his crime has been approved? No, we go prepared to forgive that person, and yet seek to bring the uh conviction upon his uh conscience that his behavior is not approved Fisher, in his wonderful commentary on our shorter catechism, put it this way. Suppose forgiveness emboldens the offender to do like injuries in the future. This fear should not be an excuse for omitting the present duty of forgiving, because we leave the outcomes to the Lord Note here that with respect to crimes before the state, against the common good, punishment may be necessary, though forgiveness before the Lord has been granted. That's what Paul teaches us. Romans 13. So if you're like me and you at some time uh fall afoul of the traffic laws and one of your deacons pulls up in a police car. You expect him to forgive you as a brother in Christ, but you don't expect him to avoid giving you a ticket if you're guilty. That's not what forgiveness is about. Forgiveness, what does it mean? Well, in Colossians 1 13, Paul uses a term that has a broad range of meanings. It can mean to give something to someone. It means that uh uh uh conveyance of some kind of favor, but it often means forgive. And in this last sense, it means a canceling of a debt. You can see this explicitly in the translation of the ASV in Luke 7. 42. There were those who could not pay. And we read, he cancelled the debt of both. Jesus questions, which will love him more? And Simon answered, The one I suppose, who's had cancelled the larger debt. And Jesus said to him, You've judged So forgiveness is the canceling of a debt. You see this beautifully exemplified in Genesis chapter 50. As we've gone to this place earlier, it's good to go to it again in the conclusion. The story of Joseph's reunion with his brothers. This is the first time the English word forgive appears in our Bibles. When Joseph and his brothers saw their father was dead, excuse me, when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be now that Joseph will hate us, and will pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, Your father gave us this command before he died. Say to Joseph, Please forgive the transgressions of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. Their crime, recall, was terrible Murderous intent. They separated the boy from his father and his prosperity. They sold him into slavery, far distant from home, put in the way of grave temptation with respect to his soul. and his body in miseries cast into prison under the constant threat of death. And yet what have you seen Joseph? He wept before them and he spoke to them. His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold, we are your servants. But Joseph said, Do not fear. Am I in the place of God? As for you, you meant evil against me. You see, he doesn't deny the truth of it. But God meant it for good to bring about many people that should be kept alive as they are today. So do not fear. I will provide for you and your little ones. Thus he comforted, and spoke kindly to him If we reflect on this passage, we can see that in general, forgiveness includes taking no account of the sin which has been committed, and the acceptance of the sinner into fellowship. Joseph here expresses extraordinary patience, and he's had a readiness throughout the incident to be reconciled. He's compassionate. He feels with his brothers in their misery. He's open, inviting, tender-hearted toward the one who will acknowledge his fault. To have sinned against another is in fact to be in a pitiable condition And to have the ability to relieve one of the miseries of their own sin is a great and gracious gift. He's self-conscious of his own need before God. The sin has been acknowledged, but he's confident in God's overruling care. And he has no wish for evil for these. On the contrary, he acts in love toward them, forgiving them, comforting them, speaking kindly to them, making provision for them. That is the nature of forgiveness, beautifully exemplified in the life of Joseph. Now, second, the norm of forgiveness Verse 13, as the Lord has forgiven you. The psalmist loves to delight in the forgiving character of the Lord and be reminded of that in order to guide him in his own life in the world. In Psalm 103 at verse 2 we read, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity. Who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, and who satisfies you with good, so that your youth is renewed like the evil. Eagles. Divine forgiveness, the model for all human forgiveness. It's the Lord who's merciful and gracious slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, he will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. And Jesus holds forth this wonderful, merciful God in Luke 6. 36. When he instructs his disciples as to their way in the world, be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. Paul takes up this same teaching in Ephesians 4. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ has forgiven you. Ken Sandy, as typically is the case in his work, helps us here with some very interesting qualifications, descriptions of what this forgiveness fully amounts to. In the first place, he rightly insists that forgiveness means you're committed not to think about this matter as a debt. It doesn't mean you're not to think about this matter at all, as if somehow you could blot it out of your mind. But it's the way you think about it. about it, the change changes. Such that the person who had created a debt through their behavior now is utterly relieved of that debt. This is the beautiful strength of the psalmist declaration in 103. As far as the high as far as high as the heavens are above the earth. So great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. And recall, with God forgiveness doesn't mean that he's forgotten the thing ever happened. God can't forget everything. He knows perfectly well it happened. But the character of that knowledge in him has shifted, now no longer requiring a debt to be paid from us, but absolving us utterly from the penal consequences of our crimes. It means we won't think about the matter as a debt. It means, second, we won't bring it up and use it against a person or communicate it to others for the same purpose Not bring it up and use it against the person in a hurtful way, or to try and demean them before others. Psalm 103. 10. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. Now here we want to make a distinction that's important. We're saying we won't bring it up again as a debt, but it doesn't mean that matter never comes up again at all. Here, perhaps, uh a football analogy might help. When you've done something wrong on the field, there are two people. One is in a zebra suit He points out your errors in order to penalize you. The coach, on the other hand, he's there not to point out your errors, to penalize you. But to bring them up so that you'll see where you went wrong to help show you how you can do better again And the one who forgives is not saying I'll never bring this up again, but only that I'll never bring it up again as something to penalize you, to do harm to you in some way or another. But I might well bring it up again in order to help you recall the circumstances of the past, in order to help you be prepared again to face them better in the future. So it isn't an utter uh absoltion of the thing from the relationship, but now it becomes a positive part of the relationship rather than a negative part of the relationship. And thus the third category. I won't let this spoil our relationship. This is the beautiful work of love in Colossians 3. It brings about a harmony. Paul calls it a perfect harmony in the life of the believer. It means I won't let this incident stand between us to hinder the growth of our relationship. Rather, letting the incident and the forgiveness become the ground of a new depth of relationship And every one of you that knows the reality of this in your own lives knows the remarkable analogy between your physiology and your spiritual life Physiologists tell us that if you break a bone and it's knit together properly, it's typically stronger than it was before it was broken. And this is true in the spiritual realm. If you have a break in a relationship because of sin, and you go through the process faithfully of repentance and forgiveness, It's typically the case that the resulting relationship is stronger than it was before the threatened break. That's the characteristic of grace. It knits us together in perfect harmony. In sum, we are, in the words of an older writer, we're to not only lay aside all resentment against the one who has sinned against us but to wish and to do them all the offices of kindness that lie within our power, as if they had never done us any injury. And we must preserve in this forgiveness that we offer toward one who sins and repents Recall the striking words of our Savior in Luke 17. He said, Pay attention to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times a day and turns to you seven times a day saying, I repent, you must forgive him. Now Peter loved to engage our Lord in his provocative statements, and Peter comes up to him afterward and says, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times. And Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but I say seventy times seven. Now, the scholars tell us that in fact this question was a focus of rabbinical discussions. They recommended that forgiveness ought not to be offered more than three or four times. Thus, Peter's proposal was quite generous, offering up to seven. Perhaps seven was chosen by Peter because at the time it was thought to be a kind of perfect number. Rooted, I expect, in the seven-day pattern of creation. But Jesus' reply here does away with all limits and calculations. Now there's some question as to what Jesus actually said here, how to render it. It could be, as in our text, 70 times 7. In other words, you have a calculation of 490 times. To forget. And so as you approach 490, you begin to feel a little relief. It's possible to translate the Greek in this way, but only just possible. It may mean 77 times. If that's the case, Jesus may well be making an allusion to Genesis 424. Since the Greek text of Matthew here is the same as the Greek text of the translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. That text reads, of course, describing this monster of the line of Cain, Lammoch. He says to his wives, wives, hear my voice, you wives of Lammock. Listen into what I say. I've killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me. If Cain's revenge is seventyfold, then Lamech's is seventy-seven. Here, this horrible glorying in revenge, a revenge that by this figure of speech is described as limitless In this case, the point would be that Jesus is contrasting the great work of the one who had crushed the head of the seed of the serpent He's contrasting that with the line of the seed of the serpent. Lameck's unlimited vindictiveness. He's contrasting that with the unlimited forgiveness of those who are the disciples of the second Adam. But in any case, as the New Testament scholar R. T. France notes, to be concerned as to whether the figure is 77 or 490 is to return the whole matter to the pedantic calculation, which Jesus is rejecting. And so we don't have to work too hard about what is actually the proper translation. The nature of forgiveness, the necessity of forgiveness. And the norm of forgiveness, as God has forgiven us. Now the necessity of forgiveness. You must forgive, says. Jesus. This isn't an option. When the person repents, you must forgive. Matthew 6. 14. For if you forgive others of your trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others of their trespasses, Trespasses, neither will your Father forgive you of your trespasses. Here the necessity is not rooted merely in an imperative statement. The imperative is sustained by a very solemn warning. If you forgive, you shall be forgiven. If you refuse to forgive, you will not be forgiven. And why is that so? It's because the failure of a person who is forgiven to offer forgiveness to other outrages the justice of God. There's scarcely a topic with respect to which our Lord speaks more often than the necessity of the calling to forgive. Consider in particular Matthew 18, verses 21 and following. Perhaps one of the most solemn of our Savior's parables. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven can be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children all that he had and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, Have patience with me, and I will pay everything. And out of pity for him, the master of the servant released him and forgave him. Now we need to attend to this carefully to feel the force of it. The talent was the highest unit of currency at that time. 10,000, the highest Greek numeral. Today, in today's money, the amount that's used in the parable is probably near to a billion dollars. In terms of the literary point that Jesus is making, however, it's probably more nearly the equivalent of saying a trillion-zillion dollars. He isn't interested in the details. He wants us to feel the force of it. This slave is probably an administrator of some kind. Great kings had slaves who had nevertheless high administrative positions, probably an administrator of a colonial region, perhaps the accounting was for taxes that he was supposed to have collected and failed. In any case, Jesus is clearly using hyperbole. The king has compassion. With respect to one who simply could not have ever paid back such a debt. He has compassion and he grants forgiveness from the debt altogether. And it's quite remarkable. But then the story goes on and becomes darker. When the servant went out He found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. And seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. And he refused. And he went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt Well again, some of the details. A hundred denarii. One or two denariis was the daily wage for a worker in that period. This was a large debt. But one talent equaled six thousand denari Thus, by way of comparison, the first slave's debt was about 60 million denarii. Or to put the matter another way, the second slave's debt was one six hundred thousandth. of the first or about sixty million days wages. That's the comparison in view And the contrast shows the ludicrous impropriety of the forgiven sinners standing on his own rights. Now, this is all observed by others. When the fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed. And they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then the master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant. I forgave you all the debt because you had pleaded with me. Should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had upon you? And in his anger the master delivered him over to the jailers until he should pay all his debt, which of course, according to the force of the parable, would be never, never. The servant's attitude is appalling. Notice the other servants see it, and there's a natural fitness to the judgment. This is terrible. How can a person who has received such a benefit not be willing? to communicate that benefit to another person. Even the natural man here, Jesus isn't expecting any specific virtue on the part of these servants. They're simply horrified at it. The other slaves see plainly the outrageous character of the behavior. Thus, rightly, we are taught to sing in the lovely song called Forgive Our Sins as We Forgive. How can your pardon reach and bless the unforgiven heart that broods and dwells, unforgiving heart, that broods and dwells and will not let old bitterness depress? part. What follows in the parable is the just wrath of the king, not against one who didn't earn forgiveness. but against one forgiven who acted with such forgiveness unacknowledged in his relationships with others And Jesus concludes in verse 35 with these solemn words. So will my heavenly Father do to every one of you if you do not forgive from the the heart. Ominous words indeed. Well might the disciples cry out for more faith. Now here I have to pause for a moment. I haven't typically, when I've addressed this before, felt compelled to do so. But not too long ago, a very a young reformed pastor. explained to me that he thought this parable taught that you could actually lose your forgiveness, as this unjust servant does in the parable. I was so shocked I was almost speechless. But it takes more than that to make me speechless. But it has m made me feel obliged to at least bring the matter up. I'd have thought folk would have immediately recognized That to interpret the matter thus is to violate the very nature of a parable. Parables, in the main, are not allegories where you look to one-to-one correspondences between each part of the parable. Typically they have one point to make and one point only. And so in the parable of the unjust judge, you don't think of your heavenly father as this bitter old judge who won't listen to anybody unless he's badgered to death. That's not the point of the parable. So to hear, this is not an allegory. It's not as if this is teaching that you can actually lose your forgiveness. But it is reminding us of something quite important. The Bible does use solemn warnings about the outcomes of certain behaviors, those warnings intended to keep us from those behaviors. But as Robert Dabney reminds us in a beautiful illustration, because you've been given a warning doesn't mean that the one who has warned you is in fact going to let you do the foolish thing that you've been warned against. The mother speaks to the child in the kitchen, says to the child, don't put your hand on that stove. If you do, you'll surely be burnt. But does that mean if the child reaches out to put the hand there, the mother's going to stand by and watch and let her be burned? No, she's going to intervene and keep her from doing so. And so too with respect to our Heavenly Father. He has warned us solemnly, should you fail to forgive, you will not be forgiven. But if you were ever tempted to fall into that pattern, is your Heavenly Father going to let you do it? No, by His grace He's going to intervene and turn your heart from such folly. But He's going to begin that work of keeping you from doing so. such things by the warning itself, heeded and embraced by faith to guide your behavior. These solemn warnings are one of his means But he will use any means at his disposal to ever keep his people from falling from his forgiving love. The point is that forgiveness is a necessary expression of a living faith. And thus faith is needed to self-forgive. The New Geneva Study Bible has a wonderful note on this text. Simple statement. An unforgiving heart is an unforgiven heart. The corollary is that when people forgive from the heart, there the Heavenly Father has forgiven. Where forgiveness to others is not a disposition of the heart, no forgiveness given from the Father has been granted. The nurture of forgiveness. What resources do we have for this calling? Well, that's what Paul's getting at in verse 14. Put on love. Divine love shed abroad in our hearts. The love that led the Lord to forgive us is now at work in our hearts that we might forgive others. Back to my hymn, forgive our sins as we forgive. You taught us, Lord, to pray, but you alone can give us grace to live the words we say. Thy divine forgiveness is granted to repentance. Repentance and faith are the fruit of the new heart given by the regenerating power of the Holy Spirit The new heart is thus disposed to grant forgiveness to others. That is, sensible of the wonder of the forgiveness that I have received The heart that the Lord has granted me has a certain reflexive act to grant forgiveness to others. And the greater the sensibility of having been forgiven, the greater the love stirred. For God and for others. That's certainly what Jesus is getting at. When he speaks about the money lender who had two debtors One owned 500 denari and another 50. When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. And Jesus raises the question, which of them will he love more? And Simon gets it. The one, I suppose, for whom he'd canceled the larger debt. And Jesus said, you have judged rightly. And you see, the believer who grasps more and more the enormity of the debt that has been canceled in his case Will be stirred to love the more and more the Father was forgiven, and be stirred to love and seek to be a means of the communication of that love to others. And so we have a calling to nurture that loving forgiveness in our hearts. And we do that, as I've just intimated. by a constant recourse to the significance of the cross in my own case. I rightly. Count the gravity of my sin in relationship to the greatness of the one sinned. We do that in our own civil lives, don't we? It's one thing to murder. It's another thing to murder the president. It's a more horrifying crime. Why? Because of the greatness of the office in question and the harm done by harming the person in that office to the whole nation. The greater the person, the greater the crime against them. And so we meditate on the greatness of the crime of rebellion against the Lord God of heaven and earth. So our hymn has us reflect how small the debts men owe to us, how great our debt to you. We have offended infinite dignity and honor, and we ourselves have so little of the same. We have offended infinite holiness. And we have so much impurity. We have offended infinite obligation. Only little is ever owed to us from others by way of confession. Comparison. We need to have constant recourse to the meaning of the cross in our own lives. And second, it means we have to be regular in the disciplines of godliness. Focused upon the instruments that the Lord has given us. Consider our Lord's model prayer in Matthew 6. He would have us pray regularly. Forgive us our debts, as we have also forgiven our debts. A regular part of the piety of God's people is to have that sensibility, that standard set before us. We are taught to offer ourselves to God a norm for our own forgiveness. That's a pretty bold and brash business. Forgive us, Father, according to what standard? As we forgive others. But that's precisely the way our Lord wants to have us think about the matter. Forgive as we forgive. How extraordinary. But the point is this that every time we confess our own sins, And that should be often in the life of faith. We are nurtured in and in and through our desire forgiveness from God. In the capacity to forgive others. This is as crucial to the spiritual life as daily bread is to our physical lives. And just in that model prayer, as we pray, Lord, give us our daily bread, we realize that essential to spiritual health is, Lord, forgive as we forgive. Jesus' point is to nurture among his people a readiness to forgive as a primary sensibility of his disciples in the this world where they will be sinned against regularly. That's the beauty of our Savior's calling. Now just a word or two of application here First of all, let me say to the elders of this church, it has been the pattern of the sessions that I've served Realizing this truth, to look at the willingness to grant for forgiveness as one of the key diagnostics to see the reality of spiritual life And so on our session at New Hope, when we interview new members, at the beginning of the orientation class, they're all told some of the questions they'll be asked at the session meeting where they're interviewed for membership. And one of them is this. Is there anyone in your life to whom you owe forgiveness that you refused to forgive? And we ask a person to meditate on that throughout the time of the orientation class. And then when they come before the session, that's one of the things that we address to them. Is there anyone? of that character. And it's remarkable in this that it brings folk to a place of very wholesome self-examination. and consideration of the relationship between their own understanding of the wonder of forgiveness and what it means to be forgiven. Given. And it's been a very wholesome thing for our session and for the life of our congregation. And I'd encourage you to consider this as part of the significance of what Jesus has taught us on the matter. For all of us who profess faith in Christ, look at the outcome of this pattern, a most wonderful expression of that love which binds everything together. in perfect harmony. By going and showing you've gained your brother, God has been glorified. A life has been preserved. The purity of the church has been advanced, sweet fellowship restored, and witness has been publicly born to the power of the gospel in this world. Brotherly discipline, a form of evangelism. Surely we should pray. Lord, cleanse the deaths within our souls, and bid resentments cease. Then reconciled to God and man, our lives will spread your peace. This is your calling, beloved. If anyone has a complaint against another, go. Show him his fault. As he repents, forgive him, and be reconciled. Forgive as the Lord has forgiven you. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. Let us pray together Our Father, this is such a high calling that we tremble before it. But we are comforted with this confidence that what you require of us, you are pleased to work in us, in your great grace. And thus we exalt in this calling. And we aspire to see you at work within us, that we might so live. We know our weakness. Increase our faith. But help us in faith. To be those who are so moved by the marvel of what is ours in Christ Jesus, that we are fully desirous of granting the same. We ask this in his name and for his glory. Amen. To