Well, we are rapidly coming upon Easter Sunday, where the church celebrates the resurrection of our Lord. In fact, next Sunday is Palm Sunday, as many of you know, where the Lord entered the city of Jerusalem with a triumphant procession. This will be followed by Good Friday service marking the crucifixion of Christ. And as last week we studied from Philippians chapter 2. Where we saw that the Son of God, although God Himself took on the form of a lowly servant. This demonstrated the heart of our Savior One who did not strive for status, but was immensely humble. He gave up selflessly so that we may receive. As a picture of humility recedes into last week, We pridefully move on to this week. Now, the picture that arises from our passage today is that of shepherding. So this morning I wish to begin by spending some time on the motif of the shepherd from the Bible And then second, I'd like to spend a little time on shepherding in Christ's day in the first century. And then thirdly, the context of our passage within the Gospel of John. And then fourthly focus on Jesus' use of the motif on himself and finally how that applies to us as we get closer and closer to Easter Sunday. So let's take a look at the first notion here, of that of the notion or the motif of the shepherd in Scripture. The biblical motif of God being the shepherd of Israel is well known even to the casual observer of the Bible. Shepherding symbolizes God's protective his his guiding and his nurturing relationship with his people who are portrayed as dependent sheep You know, we we typically hear about the shepherding motif where we see that in God Himself, but we don't get too much of the the sheep motif on a regular basis. And of course that is making reference to none other than ourselves. As Israel began to grow from its humble beginnings of the patriarchs of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, over time, it needed and was given priests. For example, to be under-shepherds of Israel. However, as time progressed, it became evident that their desire was not to protect and nurture and guide. So God sent prophets to call them to repent, but the prophets were treated poorly. They were beaten and treated roughly, along with how the sheep were. Well, we can see a lot of this in the book of Ezekiel. As a matter of fact, if you have your Bibles, I would encourage you to turn it to the 34th chapter of Ezekiel. uh this chapter really encapsulates so much of the the the notion of uh the shepherd and and the false teachers, if you will. So I'm going to go ahead and read through a couple of these passages to put it all together for us as it's preparatory for our passage this morning. Verses 1 through 6 of Ezekiel chapter 34 speaks about God's judgment on the shepherds of his people. Beginning with verse 1. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to those shepherds, This is what the Lord God says. Woe, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding themselves, should the shepherds not feed the flock? You eat the fat and clothe yourself with the wool. You slaughter the fat sheep without feeding the flock Those who are sickly you have not strengthened, the diseased you have not healed, the broken you have not bound up, the scattered you have not brought back, nor have you searched for the lost But with force and with violence you have dominated them. They scattered for a lack of a shepherd, and they became food for every animal of the field and scattered My flock strayed through all the mountains and on every high hill. My flock was scattered over all the surface of the earth, and there was no one to search or seek for them. In verses 9 and 10, we hear God's message to these poor shepherds. Therefore, You shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. This is what the Lord God says. Behold, I am against the shepherds. And I will demand my sheep from them, and make them stop tending sheep, so the shepherds will not feed themselves anymore, but I will save my sheep from their mouth. So that they will not be food for them. He promises in verses 11 to 14 that he is the good shepherd. will take away their authority, these poor shepherds, and shepherd them himself directly. Verse 11. For the Lord God says this, behold, note, I myself Will search for my sheep and look after them, as a shepherd cares for his flock, on a day when he is among his scattered sheep. So I will care for my sheep and will rescue them from all the places where they were scattered on a cloudy and gloomy day. I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and bring them to their own land, and I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the streams, and in all the inhabited places of the land. I will feed them in a good pasture. And it is elaborated furthermore that he will do this. with someone from the line of David with whom there will be a new covenant of peace. It's told us in verses 23, 24, and 25a. He says, then I will appoint over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he will feed them. He will feed them himself and be their shepherd, and I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I, the Lord, have spoken, and I will make a covenant of peace. with them. So we're we're through we went through this really in a very quick uh tour, if you will, this motif of a shepherd and what's been going on. And we see that God considers himself as the shepherd of Israel, and the sheep are his within the uh the country of Israel. Now he gave the the task of caring, tending, protecting, nurturing the under-shepherds, but as we have just seen, that they were not up to the task. Mind you, this is a general statement. They instead were doing what? Taking advantage of the sheep. God promised to remove them and call out his sheep from among them and send a shepherd who would do the job Selflessly. From the lowest layperson to the highest theologian, everyone knew that when the definite article The in the shepherd was used. It was making reference to God and had messianic overtones. Now, let's move to Christ's and shepherding in Christ's day. Israel, as you probably know, was largely, as most places in the area, an agrarian culture. where there were farmers and shepherds tending to their land and their animals. Shepherding was commonplace in Christ's time. In Jesus' time there were two types of sheepfold The first type was located near cities, where a large area was devoted to keep sheep in a communal fashion. The shepherd would hire a porter to watch a sheep during the night. The gatekeeper would let only the shepherd, which he recognized by the gate, and no other person through. Now the other kind was in rural areas where they built four walls, and there was a hole in one of them that was dug through. And it was made to serve as a door wherein which sheep would go in and out. When the shepherd took them in, he would sleep in front of the door, acting like a gate. No sheep would go in or out without the permission of the shepherd. This will give you at least an idea of how shepherding was conducted at the time, is because the Lord Jesus uses a lot of this imagery here. Now I'm thankful to Dr. D. A. Carson for this and other information from his commentary on the Gospel of John for this morning. It is remarkable, I think, also that the shepherd is able to, perhaps some of you have seen this, now I gotta tell you, I am not a farmer. I've never been a sheep farmer either. But apparently shepherds can train their sheep to recognize their their voice, their sound, and the sheep respond to that um to their sh to their shepherd immediately. Okay, so now moving on to our third, and that's the context of our passage this morning, and it is within the Gospel of John. I promise we'll eventually get there. Our passage is uh obviously from Tom, uh from John chapter 10, uh, and of course, as you have already guessed, it's uh it's always labeled as the Good Shepherd Chapter. However, the chapter right before it contains the story of Jesus giving sight to a man who was born blind. After he's been given sight. So the under-shepherds of Israel hear about this, and they come to investigate this undeniable miracle. That's really interesting. It's an undeniable miracle. Everyone in town knew that this man was born blind, and now he had sight. It's not something that they could have dismissed. So they questioned him. And at the end of the conversation, we read the following things. And this is from John chapter 9, verses 24 to 34. So for the second time, they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner, making reference to Jesus. So this blind man who now has sight says, whether he's a sinner, I do not know. One thing that I do know Is that though I was blind, now I see. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And he answered them, I have already told you. And wait, but you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? Jab, jab, right? And they reviled him, not missing it, again, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. And the man answered. Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. And they answered him. You were born in utter sin. And would you teach us? And then we read right there, and they cast him out. He could not enter the synagogues, he could not go into the temples, he was like a gentile, and that was his punishment. And that was the way they handle it. They basically cast him out. This is not the proper way of handling someone in your care They handled him very roughly, did they not? Does this kind of care remind you of something that we just read, of God's indictment? Back in chapter 34 of Ezekiel. You bet. Absolutely. See, in verse 35 Same chapter. John tells us that Jesus heard that they cast this man out. And so after comforting the man, This precious sheep from whom the Lord Jesus called out with his voice from Israel. He now, Jesus now turns his attention to the under-shepherds. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's word for our passage this morning? which is from John chapter ten. I will be reading um fr from uh verses ten uh to um I'm sorry verse uh verses ten I'm sorry verses one to twenty one so that we have context. Hear now the word of God. Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way. That man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his sheep all his own, he goes before them. And the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them. But they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you. I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not listen to them I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He who is hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep. Sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. And the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason, the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me But I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father. There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. Many of them said, he has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said There are not the words, these are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we thank you for giving us Sight. You have shown us from your word that we are like that blind man. Unless you give us sight. No one can see Christ aright. We ask now that you would continue to show us the great shepherd of Israel, the Lord Jesus, and teach us what he proclaims so that we may graze upon the rich. And nutritious food that is the Holy Scriptures for our souls. And we ask this in the name of Christ. Amen. So let me take a moment here to stitch these seemingly separate instances together. Some critics of the gospel, this particular gospel, assert That verses 19 and 21, which we read last, are out of place. Well they really uh what they would say is what they really should do is to go somewhere in chapter nine, perhaps at the end of verse 34, or even after verse 41. But I think this is wrong. John, our author, is helping us to see something here by interweaving these two narratives into one. It was not difficult to notice that when the Undershepherds were dispatched to investigate the miraculous healing of this blind man, they really didn't provide competent care for him, did they? In fact, they were kind of harsh. John provides the incident, beginning in chapter 10, 1, really as a response. Jesus responding to the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the priests, the leadership, shall we say, the under-shepherds of Israel. The treatment of the blind man really is an example. It's a microcosm of the macrocosm. Of how poorly the Undershepherds of Israel were performing. It seems that things really hadn't changed much from the time of Ezekiel, had it? So after Jesus speaks of the thieves and robbers in verses 1 through 5, we are told in verse 6, this figure of speech Jesus used with them. But they did not understand what he was saying to them. Now They may have not gotten it at this point in his ministry. But I think that after several battles in the temple, it was clear what he was accusing them of. And it didn't sit well with them. And they did something about it. But that's for another day. But before we move on, let's point out a couple of things here. Jesus is the Good Shepherd. As the Good Shepherd, he comes to Jerusalem to call out his own. As the Messiah, they whom he calls out are his messianic flock. They are his elect. The blind man who heard his voice recognized it and followed the master. Those whom he calls out are the elect. among the covenant community of God. And as such, they have already been his. And this is why they recognize the voice of the shepherd. So when he calls them out, he calls them out by name, if you will. And they, we, respond to the shepherd. His majesty speaks to his own directly in every generation. Through his word, the Bible. That is why when we read it, it affects us Christians the way that it does. To the Christian, reading the Bible has an authoritative effect on us. It simply makes sense to us whatever it tells us to do. When previously, before our salvation, we would have problems with what the Bible teaches us So when he calls us out, we hear him. And the word of God is self-attesting. It gives us the power. It actually has the power to convict us of our sins when we're reading through the scriptures. This is because we are his sheep. And when our great shepherd speaks, we obey and follow. Now I'm going to go back to that a little bit later. Since they, the shepherds, didn't get it, beginning in verse seven. Jesus takes another crack at it. Verses 7 through 9 explains the whole gate. And verses 11 to 18 is about the shepherd. This entire story, as we've mentioned, is set up against Ezekiel 34, so I would think that these people would know what he's making reference to. That's in front, if you recall in chapter 34 of Ezekiel, is where the false shepherds were rebuked And the true shepherd is predicted to come and provide God's people with genuine care and leadership. Before them now, this is really interesting, before them now was the promised shepherd of Israel. God himself incarnated right before them. Do you think that they got it? Do you think that you would have gotten it? Well, see, that's a very tricky word now, isn't it? Gotten it. It's one thing to understand. It's another thing to believe. I would venture to guess that highly educated, well-educated theologians at the time Would have guessed, would have figured out what he's making reference to, as they ultimately did, but they didn't believe. You see How many times have you heard the gospel? How many times did you hear the gospel of Christ before you believed it? The first time? Was it on your own ability? You see, the truth of the matter is that none of us would believe the gospel unless God opens our blind eyes. And then by our eyes being opened to the truthfulness of the gospel, then we can believe. But none of this really happens because we're dead. We're dead in our trespasses. We're dead people walking. Something has to happen to us before we can actually see Understand and believe. We have to be regenerated. We have to be resurrected, if you will, right? We have to go from dead to living so we can understand spiritual things. So this requires for us to be born again or to be born from above. So that we can place our faith in Christ. It's not the opposite way around. Okay? All right. So Well, I I think that we have sort of an answer to my earlier question, don't we? They really wouldn't have been able to understand what he's saying and believe what he's saying unless the Holy Spirit opened their eyes. Jesus said that his sheep would know the voice of their master. They certainly were not responding the way the blind man was. Now were they? Who heard the voice of his master and responded and followed. In verse 10, he contrasts. Them, right? The people who he's talking to, the shepherds. He contrasts them to himself. The false shepherds come in to do what, he says. They come in to steal. They come in to kill, and they come in to destroy. But Jesus says, in contrast, to them, he comes to give them life. You ever think that Jesus is weak? That he doesn't he doesn't deal with or handle or speak up or put people in their proper place? that that he he does it in a rude manner if he needs to do it. No. No, Jesus is not weak. He looks at these people right in their face and tells them exactly what is going on. He's telling them, you guys are thieves, you guys are murderers, right? You guys are stealing from the very people that I put you in charge of. Ouch. Right? If you didn't believe him, how would you respond? Hmm. Well we'll we'll we'll see what happens in the next couple of weeks And so he says that the Good Shepherd comes to lay down his life. It's interesting. The Good Shepherd comes to lay down his life. So when the Lord says life, firstly it is suggested, or it it means being fat. Right? He's come here to to to make us fat. Contented. Flourishing sheep, not sheep that are terrorized by wolves who look to fatten up on them Secondly, Jesus gives life, that is eternal life, at the cost of his own. When Jesus is saying that a a shepherd gives his life, he is saying that in general a good shepherd is prepared to defend his sheep, that is, put his life at risk. But not that he's looking to do so. By literally dying, a shepherd could be putting the rest of the sheep at danger, right? But here we see that he's going beyond the general behavior of a good shepherd. For Jesus is the good shepherd. Jesus is laying down his life. He does so because it is the will of the Father. However, the Son is not doing it reluctantly. Hebrews 13, 20 tells us Jesus is the great shepherd of the sheep. The word for there is the sheep implies that his sheep are in mortal danger. and need saving that will require the death of the shepherd. Do you guys catch that What he's saying here is that his sheep are in mortal danger and they need saving. A type of saving that will require the death of the shepherd. That's something to think about The sheep are in mortal danger. What does God do about that? What does the good shepherd do? He comes down to protect them and give up his own life in order that the sheep would have life. Don't you see? This is in direct contrast to the shepherds of Israel, right? Throughout the centuries, they've been using the sheep for their own comfort. Verses 12 to 15, Jesus is contrasting the shepherd with the hired hand. The hired hand has no concern for the sheep. only for himself. This should not seem to imply that the higher hand is necessarily wicked, but he's not motivated to sacrifice himself for the sheep. He doesn't care for the sheep. He does not love someone else's sheep. The wolf refers to false prophets or others who have been taking advantage of God's people. The spiritual leaders were called to be on guard against those people and on guard for the sheep entrusted to them. In verse 14, we are told that the Lord is the good shepherd. This is profound in itself You see, when he's saying that, what is he making himself equivalent to? God He is saying he is God. Because the Good Shepherd of Israel is Yahweh. I am the definite article, Good Shepherd. And he says that he knows his sheep and they know him, and this is paralleled with the familiarity of God the Father with God the Son, in that same measure. That's how I know them, that's how intimately I know them. And in verse 16, he says that he has sheep, a sheepfold elsewhere. And he will call them, and they will be integrated, with the fold he currently has. In Israel. The other sheep, it is well known, that he's making reference to are the Gentiles. Gentiles like you and myself. This is important because it tells us that Christ, as the Good Shepherd of Israel, He came and he called out his own sheep from within the flock. But he reveals that he has other sheep outside of Israel that he is going to call and unite his flock together. Both, in this case, ethnic Jews and Gentiles into one community The Israel of God that is the new community within the new covenant era. Jesus said that He is the way To God the Father. There is only one way for salvation. It is through Him. The Father loved the Son for His willingness to die. In order to secure the salvation of his sheep. His was a voluntary offering for sin. And yet it was in obedience to the Father Jesus is making it clear that no one can take his life away from him. He clearly is in control. His arrest was not some villain getting caught. He willingly gave himself up. Now don't you think about that? He willingly gave himself up There should be no doubt in our minds about Christ's resolution to save us, all of his sheep, from mortal danger He went to die willingly so that you may have life. If you're doubting the veracity, the truthfulness of Christ's love for you, know that he had plenty of opportunity Plenty of opportunity to take the Amtrak out of Jerusalem. Right? He could have put up a fight when he was being arrested. Do you remember that? Instead, he healed the soldier's ear He knew he had to die, or you, you Christian, would have had no hope He had to die. He really loves you. We know this is true because he proved it. With every opportunity to walk away, he gladly went and gave up his life for you because he loves you. And he continues to love you, to love you and I with a deep love and a deep passion that he sings over you day and night. It's unbelievable. Yeah, he loves us. And what great love is this? It is the type of love that can only come from God. May you take great comfort in knowing that our Savior is the Good Shepherd He continues to feed us. He continues to nourish us. And he continues to protect us and guide us in ways that he sees fit. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you that you are the great shepherd, along with your son. And the Holy Spirit. You continue to provide for us. You continue to love us. Even when we doubt. Even when we decide that we can balance our lives with a love for something else. You continue to love us. You call us to repentance. And you show us the beauty. Of your sacrifice, who is Christ, over and over again, and you win us back Grant us your grace, we pray, to not be focused on things of this world, but rather to Drink deeply of Christ's love for us. And we ask this for your glory. And in Jesus' name. Amen.