Our lesson this morning from Scripture is Revelation chapter six. Revelation chapter six I'm glad we're able to meet this morning. I I really hate to cancel worship services. And uh so I thank you for showing up and joining with me in a worship service. This morning to lift up and honor our God and Savior Jesus Christ. Revelation chapter 6: hear the word of God as it comes from the pen of the Apostle John. inspired by the Holy Spirit in this vision of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I watched when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say with a voice like thunder, Come. And I looked, and behold, a white horse. And its rider had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he came out conquering and to conquer. When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, Come, and out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that men should slay one another, and he was given a great sword. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come, and I looked, and behold, a black horse, and its rider had a pair of scales in his hand. And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius, and three quarts of barley for a denarius, and do not harm the oil and wine. When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, Come, and I looked, and behold, a pale horse, and its rider's name was Death, and Hades followed him. And they were given authority over a fourth of the earth, to kill with the sword and with famine and with pestilence and by wild beasts of the earth. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete. who were to be killed as they themselves had been. When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth The full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then the kings of the earth, and the great ones, and the generals, and the rich, and the powerful, and everyone slave and free. hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? Join me in prayer as we come to the study of God's Word this morning. Father, we thank you once again for your word. And we pray that you would be with us as we study it these portions of your word that are often handled in various ways, that we May understand what you by your Spirit intended for us, that we may be encouraged and strengthened in following Jesus Christ. We ask it for your Glory in Jesus' name. I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world, you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. Those words of our Lord Jesus Christ. from John chapter 16, verse 33. In many ways, that's kind of a brief summary of a lot of what's going on in the book of Revelation. We see throughout Revelation the tribulation and persecution of Christians and the demonic forces that drive that persecution. At the same time, the Lord Jesus Christ, exalted at the throne of the Father, with the cross of his suffering never far away, is calling his redeemed people to To be faithful, and assuring them of his provision for them. You can have peace in the midst of chaos. Now in Revelation, we see judgment. Christ is endowed with all power and authority, and we see his purpose in bringing that authority and power to bear in judgment. Upon his and our enemies. As you seek to live out a faithful Christian life in this world, you need to be realistic enough to understand That this element of persecution will not be something that you wholly escape. A faithful witness will draw Anger, mistrust from the world round about This world is, though, God's creation, but sin has made it A place of wickedness and violence where God and His Word are often hated. Christ has provided eternal salvation for all who come to Him, and that is your hope. That is where your faith rests. And what the book of Revelation tells us and reaffirms to us is that God will finally settle all accounts And the wickedness which has come to bear upon God and his people will not rest unrequited. But God will vindicate his faithful and bring at last his faithful to that eternal home which he has prepared. Now notice first of all our three points this morning. Number one, the opening of the first four seals reveals a world under judgment. The opening of the first seal reveals a white horse with a rider conquering and to conquer. And this is the most difficult of the three to interpret because you can see it on the one hand, it's a white horse in chapter 19. We see Jesus Christ upon a white horse And yet, it's in the context of three other horses who are instruments of judgment, pictures of judgment. Many take this to be Christ and to be in contrast with the other three. I am going to suggest that it is a picture of Satan Mimicking, as he often does, the work and character of God So the judgment which is executed by the rider upon the white horse would be deception. And that is the key thing that Satan is about in our world. Deceiving and leading astray those who would follow Jesus Christ. He leads people to believe lies to their hurt. Jesus pointed out that he is a liar from the beginning. Paul warns in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. Deception is one of the key ministries of Satan. One of the things about the millennium, however you interpret that, and I'm not going to give you any answers to that question this morning. But however you interpret it, one of the keys to the blessedness of it is that Satan's deception is suppressed. And if this is indeed a picture of Satan, it would be in his deceptive role, providing counterfeits. Of the things of God. But when we come to the second seal, there is no interpretive problem The opening of the second seal reveals a red horse which takes peace from the earth. In this fallen world We have not outgrown our need as fallen people for war and violence, have we? We still crave it. Not maybe not all of you, but in our world, as we look around the world, Uh as someone who's spent a little time reading history and studying history, you remember if you studied World War I that this was to be the war to end all wars. And only a generation later, this awful catastrophe of World War II engaged the world. Hundreds of thousands of lives lost. In the battles and the wars. The judgment of this horseman is still running in our world. There is hardly a nation in this world, if you think about it for a moment, that isn't engaged in some sort of armed conflict. conflict this very day. We are. We have soldiers, young men, brothers and sisters. We pray for a young man in our congregation named Bull Bergdahl that you may have heard of, who's being held captive in uh Afghanistan. Bo is a member of an Orthodox Presbyterian congregation out in Idaho, known to one of our families when they lived in Idaho and were a part of that congregation. And today, young men, Americans and women are going out on missions Risking improvised explosive devices in war I heard coming up this morning on the radio, I listened to WTOP, which keeps me apprised of weather and Such things as that. Interview with Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel. Is Benjamin feeling comfortable in the world in which he lives, at peace with all of his neighbors? I don't think so. I don't think so at all. He's ready to go to war. He's preparing his war machine. And Iran is probably preparing some instruments of warfare. Everywhere you go around the world there is war and conflict. And we have Kind of as an overarching theme, this undeclared informal war driven by terrorist organizations around the world. Many of which have a particular hatred of those who bear witness of Jesus Christ and throughout the world this day, brothers and sisters of ours who love the Lord Jesus Christ Are walking about in fear, some in prisons, for their witness of Jesus Christ and nothing else. The opening of the third seal reveals a black horse which pictures poverty and famine. The writer has a pair of scales which seems to picture the merchant doing business, an economic system, but an economic system that is not doing its people good, an economic system that is out of kilter, out of whack. And is not working properly to utilize the resources of God's creation for the good of God's creatures. The economy is terrible. And it's illustrated in the passage by the fact that a court of wheat, a court of wheat What you would need to be sustained for a day costs one day's wages. Now let me ask you, fathers, what about the family? How are you going to divide it up? Those are the kinds of questions that people in famine and hunger ask day by day. And this is the kind of economy that's pictured to us The scales of commerce and agribusiness become instruments of judgment. Baith basic life is exceedingly hard. The opening of the fourth seal reveals a pale horse whose rider is named Death and Hades. But there is an element added, that of disease and plague. And in our day we see elements of that too, for we are those who continually want to believe. That we have now achieved mastery over disease. Ah, we have penicillin. That will cure everything Oh, we have this or that new drug that will cure everything. And every time we find there's some new mutation coming. And our pretended mastery over all of these things fades away and dissipates, and we face new challenges Now I'm not saying that we shouldn't pursue with medical science and all of the other things, that we shouldn't pursue cures for all those things. We should be doing those things. But by the same token, you see, what you have to notice here is that God's sovereign work Is not subject to our work. He works in a sovereign way, and he rules over all. Now, in that fourth seal, in the opening of that fourth seal, there's something of a caveat. This devastating horseman is only given authority, did you notice, over one-fourth of the earth? It's not a total thing. It's a partial thing. And in our world, and what we understand today is that the real harshness of persecution seems to move around from place Place to place and time to time. And that's the kind of thing that seems to be pictured here. It is not final judgment, it is not final obliteration, but it is partial. Now, summarizing the lessons of these four horsemen, first of all, God is sovereign over the advance of these judgments. And it sounds horrible in some ways to say that, for these are awful things, and yet what is spoken in the passage that it is God, who directs these things. Notice the passive voice which is used each time. The power to destroy is given by the sovereign authority of the one who sits upon the throne and the Lamb. Notice secondly that the judgments are only partial, not total. We see that explicitly in the final judgment, where the horseman has authority, as I said, over only one-fourth of the earth. But in the other others as well, those do not kill everybody. They kill some, but others live. What I want to drive home to you. That you've probably already picked up is that all these things are going on now in the world in which we live These judgments are all present in the world in which we live today Hear the words of Jesus. For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray. And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, that first one, deception. Wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning of birth pains. Jesus said that in his day, and it continues until the Lord Jesus comes again. In the world you shall have tribulation, Jesus said, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. In parts of our world now, as you know, people are under severe economic oppression. There is hardly a nation on the earth which has not in some sort of conflict. Military conflict, civil wars. Famine and disease are realities all over this planet. And each time we see these things going on, we should be reminded. And what I want to clue you to, each time you see those things going on, you need to be reminded that God has business with a sinful and false. God has not forgotten the sin and the rebellion of our world He is engaged with it in an ongoing warfare Luke chapter 13 is a very interesting teaching of Jesus, and I tend to think somewhat of an overlooked one. There were some present at that time who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And he answered them, Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered this way? No, I tell you But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or those 18, and see what people are doing, are bringing up these instances of good people suffering evil. Theodicy, it's called in theological study. And he goes on to another one. Ah, the eighteen on whom the tower of Siloam fell and killed them. Do you think they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. You see, each of these natural disasters, each of these wars, each of these things that seem out of our control in terms of controlling or limiting evil. All of these things are happening and reminding us that unless you repent, you too will come. Under judgment. Each natural disaster, each war, each economic crisis is a warning. And what Jesus is saying at that moment is repent. Because this will overtake you if you do not repent and find shelter in the cross of Jesus Christ. Second main point, in the midst of persecution, God maintains his love to his people. God has not forgotten to love his people and to care for them. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. There is probably for us No harder thing to contemplate than that innocent people bearing witness of Jesus Christ should be slain for doing that very Good thing. Warning people of the coming judgment. Telling people of the good news of Jesus Christ. Telling them how to have eternal life through Jesus Christ. No higher, better thing to be doing in the world. And that's kind of the ultimate thing that wrangles us, isn't it? That these people should suffer. But these are those who have suffered. And they're under the altar. Some people believe that the altar here is. Reminiscent, and it probably certainly is to some degree of the altars of the Old Testament worship system. But I really think the major point here is the altar of sacrifice, Upon which Jesus Christ gave his life. For it is under the blood of Christ that we have forgiveness. It is under the blood of Christ that we have an eternal home secured for us. It is through him that all of these things come to us. And one thing you'll discover as you read through the book of Revelation is you never get too far from the cross of Jesus Christ The cross of Christ and the sacrifice of Christ we are reminded of again and again, sometimes in very subtle ways, but we never get very far from it. The writer to the Hebrews, chapter 9. But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation. He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing eternal redemption. It's that offering that is in view. It is that offering that secures the eternal life and the resurrection of those saints who have died bearing witness for Jesus Christ. Crown him, ye martyrs of your God, who from his altar call. That haven't you? It's in the second verse of crown him with many crowns. I'm sorry, I'll hail the power of Jesus' name. Picked up from this passage. Ye martyrs of your God who from his altar call. All through the letters to the churches in Revelation, Christians are urged to be faithful, even in the midst of persecution And they will receive God's blessing. We now see them pictured in the blessedness of heavenly protection. They have not been lost, but God has brought them home. But they have a question. Those who have gone home before us have a question. They have a burden. They have a concern about those that remain behind. Sovereign Lord, holy, and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? God's answer in verse 11 reveals several things. First, God gives each a white robe to wear. That white robe is in the book of Revelation. A picture of the righteousness of Jesus Christ, the cleansing that He offers, the newness of life that belongs to those who are in Christ that are trusting Him. And they are given that robe to wear. In chapter 7, one of the elders tells us about these, those in the white robes. These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. That's the only way to get clean. The only way to have the white robe is through Jesus Christ. Secondly, these are told to wait a little longer. And immediately we learn the reason for the delay until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete. who were to be killed as they themselves had been. These are still in warfare. And two thousand years later, roughly, here we are, still in warfare, still awaiting the coming of Jesus Christ. Christ. But do you understand that these martyrs who have gone on before are pleading for you and are pleading for us? And that God has not forgotten his people, and were called to be faithful. Take heart, I have overcome the world. It's remarkable how, in the process of opening these seven seals, the judgments are twice interrupted By words of comfort and encouragement to the faithful. As the Spirit opens these visions to John There are pictures of great judgment, but then always there are these little apostrophes. Don't forget that God has not forgotten him his own. Don't forget that God is bringing his own to an eternal home. Don't forget that Jesus will never forget or leave behind one of his loved ones. And in that knowledge and in that faith and that assurance, you can stand and having done all, stand and be faithful in the midst of the tribulation All the saints under the altar see that Christ has overcome. And God has his cause in hand. I love William Cooper's old hymn. His purposes will ripen fast. Unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste. Remember it? But sweet will be the flower. We're called to go through tribulation, but be of good cheer, Jesus said. The sweetness of that flower is that you will not be lost, that he will bring you. To his eternal home. The sixth deal brings the judgments of the seals to a devastating climax. Revealing the wrath of God against his and our enemies, we notice immediately that the picture is one of awful destruction. The very creation which provides the needs of God's human creatures now comes crashing down in judgment upon those who have sought to destroy God's loved ones. God engages, if you will, the very creation in judgment against his enemies and ours. And I've used that language, if you know the catechism, you will understand why I use that language, his enemies enemies and ours. It's question twenty-six in the shorter catechism. How doth Christ execute the office of a king? Christ executeth the office of a king in subduing us to himself. in ruling and defending us and in restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. And if there's any way that Jesus is presented in the book of Revelation, it is as the Conquering King, the one who is Lord, the one who reigns. We can see it writ small, if you will, in the Old Testament. In Solomon's prayer at the dedication of the temple, God points to a pattern which would characterize the history of Israel. God comes in judgment. When I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or command the locusts to devour the land, or send pestilence among my people, if my people who are called by my name humble themselves, themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and heal their land. You see, each of these things, remember what Jesus said when these disasters come, repent. Because unless you two Unless you too fail to repent, those judgments will come upon you. It's a call to repentance. Same thing in the prayer of Solomon in the history of Old Testament Israel. It's a call to repentance when the famine comes, when the neighboring nations come against you with their armies, it's time to repent. Call the prayer meeting. Get the folks together and pour out your hearts and plead with God for his mercy. And you know that's what's happened historically in times of revival in the Church of Jesus Christ. People see what an awful condition they're in. And I think in our day I'm kind of waiting for the church in our day to come to the position. The understanding that I think is so evident in so many ways that we are as a church weak. We have no grip upon the culture of which we're part The culture's going one day away, and we're trying to hold on over here. And I'm waiting for the time when the church begins to be deeply burdened. For the awful situation that we are in, and humbles itself and begins to pray These enemies of God and his saints hide in the rocks and caves. Do they repent? No. It's amazing. Here come these awful judgments, and they are so hardened they will not repent. And in that very hardening, you see, the judgments of God are justified. For they refuse him the honor that is due to his name. They refuse to bow before his power and authority in the universe, in his creation, remember. And they turn to their own ways. They wish any escape from the awful, awful wrath of God. They hide in the rocks and the caves And call upon the rocks and the mountains to fall on them, they would prefer to die under the rocks of the mountains than to repent and humble themselves before a merciful and gracious God. God. And God will give them the justice they richly deserve. That is a difficult thing for us to say, for it is not our place to exercise that. It should burden our hearts because some of those that will be lost are people that we care about. Sometimes they're family members who have never yielded to the call of Jesus Christ. Sometimes they are people we care about in our workplace It's an awful thing. And again, it calls us to prayer. Remember what Solomon put forward as a solution when the judgment of God came against Israel, that they should humble themselves in repentance and pray. Does that happen here? No. There is no repentance, no worship of God. They prefer death to repentance and worship of the true God. And we see that refusal. Spelled out in the parallel sixth section of the Trumpet Judgments and the Bull Judgments of chapters 9 and 16. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands, nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood. Which cannot see or hear or walk, nor did they repent of their murders, or their sorceries, or their sexual immorality, or their thefts What we must understand is that many people's hearts are hardened and they will not repent. These will think it heroic to kill a faithful witness of Jesus Christ. Even when confronted by the power of God, they will refuse to repent and prefer death to repentance. The Old Testament pattern behind this, to some degree, are the plagues of Egypt and Pharaoh, who ultimately, you see, refused to repent. He saw the mighty things of God, he saw the mighty work of God in the hand of Moses. And still his heart was hardened. And it's interesting in that passage if you've ever read it. Some places it says God hardened Pharaoh's heart, other says places his f Pharaoh hardened his heart. An interactive kind of relationship between God coming in judgment and the wickedness of Pharaoh's own heart as they work together to seal his judgment. Paul warns you today. For he says, In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold now. Is the day of salvation. But sadly, we remember there are people in this world now who will never repent. Your love for them in the name of Jesus Christ will offend them ultimately. But you can be gracious Because these things are in God's mighty hand, and he has not forgotten, and he will not slip up on his arithmetic. As Luther put it in his great hymn, reflecting Psalm 46, their doom is sure. And when that happens, remember some other words of Jesus. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of Of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. In the world, you will have tribulation. I say it again: the words of Jesus, I have overcome the world I'm 68-year-old, semi-retired, just can't quite get fully retired. Guy who has all sorts of interests and have had a good life And I reflect upon my youth and reflect upon how the spiritual climate that I have experienced at various times in my life. And it seems to me logical that at this point in my life, somewhere within a decade to two decades of the time that I will go home, That I ought to be more sensitive to heaven, more sensitive to eternal things. And something that really uh concerns me is that The more I am that way, the more I find myself out of tune with so much of the world. And as a youngster, first coming to Christ. And as a teen and going into my early adult years, the sense of heaven seemed fresher. People were teaching that in those days. It wasn't just all about health and wealth and how to make a good living and how to be happy. We were talking more about things, eternal things, and less about the things of this world. It's a challenge for us, and I think it's that kind of challenge that the book of Revelation would extend to you. In the world you shall have tribulation, but take heart. I have overcome The world, your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Would you bow with me? Father, we do thank you once again for your word. We thank you for your promises. We thank you for this picture of the Lord Jesus who has not forgotten his own, who has not forgotten those who have been faithful in witness. But ever lives to make intercession for them. And so, Father, we pray that you would help us as we wend our way through A fallen world and a culture that seems to become more secular each year, and the church seems to be, and its witness to Jesus Christ, more marginalized each year. Father, give us wisdom in those times. And then, Father, I pray for a revival that you would stir our hearts that we may be burdened about those things And cry out to you that you may send your spirit and reviving power upon your church That again we may see large numbers come into the gospel net, coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord that we may see the church exercising a greater impact upon the culture, not because we're playing power games with uh pollsters and all sorts of things. But because we're touching lives with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We ask your blessing to these these ends, and we ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.