If you have your Bibles with you, would you go ahead and open it up to 2 Peter, where we will continue our study of it this morning. Throughout its history, the church has had challenges from false teachers who have led the sheep astray from the truth with heretical teachings. This has caused the church to gather together and develop formal teachings that define the biblical views on a variety of different topics such as the doctrine of God, Christ, the doctrine of the Trinity, and this also includes the doctrine of the Church Oftentimes you'll hear the Latin word that comes through us, the doctrine of ecclesiology, which is the doctrine of the church. One of the earliest formulations or definitions of the church was one that you may be familiar with, which is found in the Nicene Creed. One, holy. Catholic, Catholic in meaning universal, and apostolic church. During the Reformation The fourth was especially sharpened to mean the faithful teachings of the apostles as found in the Holy Scripture with an emphasis especially on the teaching of the gospel. as the foundation stones upon which the new temple of God was built upon, derived from the crosswork of Christ. The apostles were ones sent out by Christ, directed by the Holy Spirit to deliver and proclaim the kingdom of God. to the newly emerging church, which now was made up of not only Jews, but both Jews and Gentiles alike. One of the things that they had to persistently, the apostles persistently deal with, was these false teachings, these false teachers that jeopardized the true gospel. Paul was dealing, if you recall, with the Judaizers. They wanted to smuggle the law back into the gospel. And on the other hand, James. had to deal with those that were ignoring the good works that naturally came from a genuine conversion. One thing that these false teachers had in common was their attack upon the apostles and ultimately the Word of God. If it didn't fit into their system, they would cut out parts that were inconvenient. Or they would water it down by ignoring what the Old Testament scriptures had to teach by pointing to the fact that the New Testament had come and now they had license to ignore the Old Testament. Or they would attack the apostles. What they taught as wrong, or that they were making stuff up. In order to get people to follow them, these false teachers, ultimately they had to discredit the apostles in some way, or even the word of God. Peter, it seems, was not immune to any of this. Up until now. Peter has taken the time to teach the apostolic beliefs regarding the one. calling and the election of God unto salvation to the qualities that come naturally to a Christian and the importance of putting them into daily practice. that by doing so, it will lead you to the assurance of salvation. And the assurance of a warm embrace when the kingdom of God comes. Similar to a victorious Olympic athlete returning to his city with much fanfare. So as we get into our passage this morning, we will discover that Peter has some housekeeping to do. Much like Paul when he had to deal with the Judaizers in the city of Galatia, to which now let us turn our attention to in our passage for this morning. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word, which is from 2 Peter 1, verses 16 to 21. Hear now the word of God. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths When we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. And we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed, to which you will do well to pay attention, as a lamp shining in a dark place Until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts, knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And as you do, please join me in prayer for the illumination by the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we continue in our worship with the study of the Word of God. Open our minds to understand the truth of God's Word And grant us the grace to conform our lives to it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. It seems that Peter has been attacked. We don't have really all the specifics spelled out for us as it relates to the attacks Prior to verse 16, he has been taking shots across the bow, if you will, in teaching the apostolic faith against these false teachers. By the emphasis or the highlights of his teaching, we can discern some of the opposition of these false teachers. But now, starting with verse 16, he is beginning to take them head on. What does he say? We, we, as in the apostles, we did not follow cleverly devised myths. He and his fellow apostles, we, are being accused of what? Making up cleverly devised myths. This is what he's addressing. Something, they say, that the apostles have done is make up on their very own. Now, in the same breath, I think Peter is also saying that those that are attacking him are the ones that are perpetrating these cleverly devised myths. as if we are not the ones that are doing this. So it seems that in Peter's case, he's being accused of making stuff up or passing on stuff that was made up. The false teachers, as we have pointed out previously, were those that were the forerunners of the Gnostic heretics that came to full bloom about a century later Those that claimed that they had special knowledge that the apostles did not have that was given to them by God. So Peter has to deal with them, and he does so by establishing, or really, in this case, re-establishing his apostolic authority. As the one who was sent by Jesus himself. After all, that is the definition of the word apostle, one who was sent out and taught by the Lord. Before we continue, it's important to underscore this point. The point being that he is arguing, Peter is arguing. For the authenticity of his authority. So this passage is about Peter arguing for the authenticity of his authority. And if he is successful, which I will hope you will find successful, by de facto the correctness And the reliability of the apostolic teaching is established. And therefore, these false teachers should be ignored So what are these myths that Peter's being accused of? Well, again, it's uncertain, really. But his immediate teaching in the previous verses does give us a clue that they have something to do with the present power of the risen Lord to equip. Christians for living holy lives. And two, the grand future that awaits us at the Parocia The parocia meaning the revelation or the return at the return of Christ. The point is that as it relates to the accusations of the myths, Peter is not exaggerating or speculating from his own imagination. They are both the present reality and future reality of Jesus, as he himself has taught. Confirmed by God the Father, and the transmission of the Word of God that is guaranteed by the Holy Spirit. What Peter points to is his being an eyewitness to the revealed glory of Jesus Upon the Mount of Transfiguration. As we read through it, perhaps you immediately identified it as such. He refers to it in verses seventeen and eighteen, doesn't he? With emphasis to God the Father. speaking to them. He did so by identifying Jesus as his beloved son, with whom he was well pleased. No. One of the teachings that these heretics taught was that they denied the future aspect of salvation by pointing to the past. They would have thought something like there is no future resurrection for the believer. They would say that it has already taken place at our baptism. And they would have said that the future coming of Jesus was already experienced by the coming of his Spirit, the Holy Spirit. The transfiguration itself, as found in the three gospels, was really not something that was focused upon the resurrection of Christ. But it was about the parocia, the revealing, the revelation, the return of Christ, the revealing of Christ. It was understood as that when they saw Jesus, it was a foretase. Of what Christ would look like at his parocia, at his return. This is kind of important. As the incarnate God, In his fullness of glory and majesty. It was a pretaste of what was to come. Now, I hope you can see that this is an effective argument for those that would deny the physical return of Christ. And that is the first reason that I think Peter is referring to the transfiguration. To argue that there is a future resurrection and that there is a return of Christ to bring the kingdom of God in its fullness. And Peter was an eyewitness to this. Why does he mention this? It is because he is not following or relating a made-up story. He was there. He bears eyewitness evidence. And he is not alone. I think Peter's use of the we, as in the apostles being there, as I witness, is really uh, I think, turning up the tables, isn't it? The false teachers, the Gnostics, taught that they had special knowledge given to them by God Here, Peter is saying, in effect, that they were privy to this special knowledge on the mount. Kind of interesting how he's turned the tables on them. Now, verse 18, not only were they eyewitnesses, To this endorsement and approval, the revealing of Christ to his disciples. But they were ear witnesses to God, proclaiming his acceptance of his son, his approval of his son, and identification as such. So the purpose then of referring to the transfiguration is that Peter is emphasizing his authoritative knowledge of Christ. And in the process, we're buffing against the claims of cleverly devised myths. He is also making a connection between the Old Testament and the Apostolic Message. over and against the false teachers, and arguing from the incarnate life of Jesus as positive proof Of a future return and coming glory, which the false teachers, as Dr. Michael Green points out in his commentary The false teachers laughed at that, that he would be returning one day. Having established this, Peter now moves to make another point. From personal testimony, he now turns to prophetic word. In verse 19, when Peter refers to the prophetic word, what he means here is the completed writings of the Old Testament scriptures. He uses this to support his teachings in verses 3 through 11. He uses the word more, more certain, more conferred. Now, some people take that word to mean that the scripture confirms the apostolic witness, and some to mean the apostolic witness fulfills and authenticates the scriptures. Some commentators take it to mean that the voice in the Transfiguration makes even more certain the Old Testament prophecies about the coming of the Messiah. Which is where I fall on. You see, Jews in the first century, since the days of prophecy had ceased We would think around Malachi as the last prophet, where revelation had ceased until Jesus came. believed very strongly in the prophecy of the word. And as you read through the New Testament The apostles were always pointing to the scriptures as proof of Christ as the Messiah. We see that immediately in the book of Acts, don't we? Even Stephen lost his life. By referring to the scriptures that they all pointed to Jesus. They always looked, the apostles always looked to the Old Testament as evidence. Whenever scripture was quoted, the words, it is written, is the final, and unquestionable evidence in all matters. Seems here that what Peter is saying is, if you doubt what I have been saying Go to the scriptures, and you will see if it is true or not. As it relates to the scripture, Peter is using a metaphor of it being like a torch or a light that illumines a dark room. It's possible that there's a double entendre here. Two meanings for the same thing, where morning star is the same reference made to Christ. We see that in Revelation chapter 22 and verse 16 as referring to him as the morning star. I'll read it for us. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star. And I think the whole meaning behind all of this is the following. He's saying, take heed. to the prophetic scriptures until the full light of the parousia dawn. Take heed to the prophetic scriptures until the full light of the Parousia dawn. The point and the goal is that we place Christ in our hearts first. and foremost as the morning star who brings light into our lives by the gospel. His return should not only make us look forward to his return, but just as importantly, the gospel should transform us. The gospel should transform us. Not only does it save us, but it should transform us. This is the very thing that he's been teaching, isn't it? In verses 3 through 11. That if you have the knowledge of Christ, then these qualities are already yours. If you place Christ first and the dawning of the morning star that he's coming again, Then as you are focused upon the gospel, you will be transformed, transformed into more and more, into the image of God More holiness and more piety. But this is something Peter says that we must do more and more. The main emphasis of Peter's reference to light is so that we, as sojourners in this land God has granted us a lamp. The scriptures. If we read it, pay attention to it. Study it. Immerse ourselves in it. We can walk safely through this life. Spiritually safely in this life. If we ignore it, put it aside. Darkness is always around us. And the darkness is always prepared to engulf us. This is why we need the Word of God to shine light for our path. As the scripture tells us, your word is a light unto my feet and to my path. Now, as we move to the prophetic word, his mention of it, we have to remember that Peter is not talking about interpretation. As we mentioned here, his major concern is what? That of authentication and authoritativeness. We have to remember that his main concern is about the apostolic teaching, about grace holiness, heaven, and the parocia, the return of Christ. So his point will be that the same God, whom the apostles heard speak, is the same. Same God who spoke to the prophets of the Old Testament. What he says in verses 20 and 21 are the conclusion to what he has preceded before. That helps us to understand why it's there and what its function is. We can rely upon the scriptures of the Old Testament because we know that God spoke. If we were to insert a therefore for our purposes today, the therefore is that we can rely on the account of the transfiguration. By the apostles. Why? Because God spoke The apostles did not interpret or make up what they saw or thought what they saw. When you look at the Old Testament, this is exactly what the false prophets did. They spoke of visions from their own creativity. Their own yarn that they spun. We see this in two passages. First is Jeremiah 23, 16. Thus the Lord says, thus the Lord of hosts, do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling you with vain hopes. Does that sound like anybody today? Or people today wanting you to hear or telling you what you want to hear so you can follow them? It continues. They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the Lord. The second passage is from Ezekiel chapter 13 and verse 3. Thus says the Lord God: Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing. A true prophecy, Peter teaches us, came from God And men as they were, the prophets were carried away or carried along by the Holy Spirit, attesting to the message's accuracy. Peter's main concern is the divine origin of prophecy, not its proper interpretation in this text. If interpretation was his concern, then verse 21 would have been, would not have been relevant to his argument. Let's put all this together now. So now as we reflect on this passage, it seems that Peter is refuting two charges The first is that the apostles were spreading myths about Jesus, his power, and his coming, the Parousia. He then calls upon the Old Testament as an unimpeachable witness to his readers that were committed. wholeheartedly to his readers as Jesus was that in fact the scripture is absolutely true because it comes from God But these false prophets answer this by rejecting the authority of Scripture, in the process, denying its divine origin. And say that the prophets simply produced their own ideas. The problem that these false teachers now have is that if they're going to deny the apostles' teaching, which is derived from the Old Testament, they are now going to have to deal with the Christians who rely upon the Holy Scriptures as true. They've got a problem on their hands, don't they? And just as we can rely upon the Old Testament as reliable, because the words are from God the Father and delivered by the Holy Spirit, we can now trust the apostles. have taught us that they have received it from God the Son, the incarnate God Himself. And this is all assured by the very same Holy Spirit. Peter's not really concerned here to discuss the nature of inspiration, other than that it comes from God. And is assured by God. He only mentions that men cooperated with God. Now, the nature of the inspiration is another teaching for another time. But he says that he uses a sort of a seafaring illustration. He says that as a sail would be unfurled and filled up with wind that causes the ship to go in a particular direction, God the Holy Spirit similarly guided these prophets How then should we today look at these teachings? First, false teachers did not end in Peter's time. False teachers did not disappear when the last apostle died. Perhaps I can say they outlived the apostles, sadly. They continue to be with us. And we know that they will be with us until the end when the Lord Jesus does return. How should we then, as Christians, protect ourselves from these false teachers? We need to be knowledgeable. We need to be knowledgeable about the Word of God. When we hear of something strange, we should ask what the scripture teaches. The Apostle Paul was happy. When he went to Berea, he said we should be like them, like the Bereans, checking things against God's word. We really have two major examples that still are around us. I mean, there's other examples, but two major examples of false teachings that still plague the church. The first one are the Mormons. right, who added special knowledge to the scriptures. And we also have the Jehovah's Witnesses who have conveniently Changed certain passages to fit their meaning. Additionally, they teach that their publications are on equal ground with the scriptures. It is important to look at the the church's ecumenical councils, I think is important. And the confessions They help us to learn what the Bible teaches and what God expects of us. They are a great help to us, individually and as well as the churches. We, as part of our worship of God, every Sunday confess what we believe. Those are designed for us to learn and to protect and also to glorify God with the truth. We don't just say it for the sake of saying it. Those are there for you to learn and to grow and to be able to discern and distinguish between what the scripture teaches. And false teaching. Scripture tells us that we have everything that we need for faith and life. We have the gospel. We have been told how it will end and is all good news. It should not Give birth to anxiety. You should only give birth to comfort and joy. We know how it ends. We win. More properly, Jesus wins. We already know. We should take great comfort. We should not fear the last day. We should be looking forward to that last day. Where we will no longer sin, commit sin, gone. Right? Praise the Lord. I'm looking forward to that. So we should not be looking for what? Continued revelation from God. The canon is closed. God speaks to us today. Yes. It is through his word. If you want to hear his voice, read the word of God. Second thing is for us to realize from this passage what a great gift we have in the Word. I wish I knew more of God, I hear. I wish I knew more of his plans, I hear. I wish I had wisdom for life. You know, wanting these things are important and they're good things. But you don't have to wish. We don't have to wish. It's right there. God has given us his word. You just need to read it. You just need to study it. And you will know. You will possess wisdom in life. You will know how it ends. We have a lamp in the darkness of life. It is the written word, and God speaks to us through it. It trains us in righteousness. It gives us counsel on how to live well, wisdom. We all need to pick it up and listen to our Heavenly Father. Speak to us. For when you read the scripture, it's like he's right there and he is speaking to us. Wow. Yeah, we don't have to go anywhere, right? Just open up your word, your Bible. Our society, our secular society, has all sorts of counselors, right? Counselors for money, counselors on relationships, and there are TED Talks Frankly, for just about anything. Right? What are those TED talks? Well, they're on wisdom, right? There's a lot of that's what they're teaching Now, I understand if unbelievers gobble that stuff up because they're living in the dark and they're looking and groping for light. Because they don't want to fall on their noses anymore. Or don't want to worry about falling backwards and injuring themselves again. They are groping for wisdom in the darkness. But brother, sister, we have the light. Why would you go to the darkness for wisdom when we have the light? Have you thought about that? Have you asked yourself that very same question? Why would I go to darkness? For wisdom when I have the light. Seek out God's word and his ways For that is the surest and the safest ways in this life. Trust God's word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed for your word. For it is true. For it gives life. It gives light. We pray that you would help us as a people, as a congregation, as individuals as well, to turn to your word, to trust your word. For there you speak to us the wonderful words of life, the wonderful words of your love. To us. There you demonstrate how much you love us To the killing of your own son. What love is this? Help us to not be foolish, Heavenly Father. Let us turn to your word. Listen to you speak to us in it. Let us look forward to the morning star, to the day when he shall return. And in the mid meantime, help us to focus on the gospel. Help us to put into effect all the natural qualities that we as Christians possess because of your salvation. Help us to glorify you. Help us, oh Lord. How I don't even know how to say this. Help us to enjoy you. It's as if we Need to find ways to enjoy you. You are enjoyable. We ask this all. In Jesus' name. Amen.