This morning we're going to be looking at Titus chapter 2. Titus, of course, is a letter that Paul had written. To Titus, instructing him and teaching him how the church should be set up, how the church should work, how the church should function And all this to the glory of God, all this based and reflecting the sound doctrines of the gospel of Christ. We're going to look this morning particularly at verses 11 through 14. So then take our minds and focus our minds and our hearts. And all of our attention upon God's Word. Titus 2, 11 through 14. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age Waiting for our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. And to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. This is the word of God. Would you pray with me? Father, we ask in in these few minutes that you would send your Holy Spirit And that we might through him understand your word, for you have spoken. So Father, we ask that you would teach us, train us, correct us, and build us up All in your word, that we might delight in it, that we might obey it, and that above all things that we would glorify you and glorify our Savior in it In his name we pray. Amen. What happened? Or look there. Did you see that? Those are all words and phrases that we hear quite often. Oftentimes they come from our lips, oftentimes others are saying it to us. And we certainly live in a culture where images are front and center, you know, via television or internet or all sorts of other technologies. And indeed, some of the things that we see are truly awe-inspiring. I remember the first time that Kathy and I rode light rail from Dublin down to Greystones, the town where we lived, The light rail wanders through the city, makes it out into the suburbs. You get to the next to the last stop, which is a little town called Bray, Seaside Town. And then you start going up a hill, an incline. You go into a short tunnel. And all of a sudden, when you emerge from this tunnel, You're on the side, literally on the cliff of this of this point, this promontory called Brayhead, and the train goes along Brayhead. All you see up one side of the train is is the hill going up. Out the other side you see the Irish Sea. You know, as as as far as you can see, there's water. And of course in Ireland sometimes that's not Very far, but nonetheless, you know, the sea goes for many miles. You see the waves crashing up on the rocks below, and it is an awe-inspiring sight. I remember when we first saw that was like, Wow, isn't this amazing? I The creative power of God to create such a sight is just magnificent. And every time I rode that light rail between Greystones and Dublin and back, I was still taken aback every time, seeing the site as you rode along Brayhead and looked out across the sea. But interestingly enough, there were many people on the train, you know commuter train after all. And they would be buried in their newspapers, buried in their books. You usually didn't have phone reception there, so they weren't buried in those. But they had lost their sense of all. The incredible had become ordinary. This passage this morning that we're looking at starts with these few words: the grace of God has appeared. And we can be tempted to rush by that small statement. That God's grace has appeared. After all, we do celebrate Christmas each year, don't we? And, you know, even though we you know we celebrate it and there are gifts and there are there are feasts, we understand that that's not the point of Christmas. But that rather Christmas is all about the coming of the promised Savior, the coming of the promised Messiah himself, Jesus. But don't rush by these words Let's stop and think about it for a minute. Grace has appeared. The word is the same word that we would translate, epiphany. It means that it appeared suddenly. It appeared visibly. It's the same word, if you will, the contrast, the same word is used by Paul when we see him on the boat. Heading out in Acts 27, and you know the story. You know, he was on his way to Italy, the ship is sailing from Crete. And instead of harboring for the winter, they sailed on anyway. A violent storm came up. It tossed the ship at will across the Aegean Sea. You know, the crew's desperate at this point. You know, they're trying to avoid shipwreck and drowning. They toss the freight over, and then they toss even the ship's tackle over. In verse 20, we read that neither sun nor stars had appeared for many days, and no small tempest lay on us. All hope of our being saved was at last abandoned. No sun, no stars appeared. There's that same word. Epiphany. In other words, what were the sailors looking for? In the midst of this storm, in the midst of this darkness, in the midst of their desperate situation, they were looking for something to shine through the clouds, something to shine through the darkness. Such that they might have hope, such that they might find their way, such that they might think, okay, the storm is going to end, and there might be some salvation for us. They were desperate to see any light break through that storm. The grace of God has appeared. It has broken through our darkness, the darkness that's even greater than that storm the sailors were facing, because it was the darkness of our sin. The darkness of our hopeless situation. Zechariah, John the Baptist father, says that In this prophecy at John's birth, he says, You, my child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways. To give knowledge of salvation to his people and the forgiveness of their sins because of the tender mercy of our God Whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high to give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death. It's that word again, Epiphany. And it means that the light of God, the grace of God, has burst forth upon our lives and has burst forth upon the scene. To dispel the darkness, to dispel the gloom, to dis dispel the disp the despair that we were in. See, we were sitting in the darkness of our own sin. We were blinded to the reality of God. We were blinded to the peril that we were in. Death, the reality of being separated from God, the curse of having to spend eternity apart from his goodness, from his glory, from his holiness, from his justice, from his truth, from his power, from his wisdom. From all of his goodness, from all of his attributes, and from him himself that was hanging over us like a dark shadow. In fact, 2 Corinthians 4 says that we were completely blind to it, says of those who were perishing, which is where we all were. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel in the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. We were in despair. The world was in despair. All mankind was in despair until this amazing, this wonderful, this magnificent event happened. That the grace of God burst forth upon the scene. Does that mean that God's grace didn't exist before? You know, at one point God was not gracious, and then all of a sudden he relented, he changed his mind and decided to be gracious? Of course not. God's eternal, he's infinite, he's unchangeable. Grace existed from all time, but it was always God's good and perfect plan to show his grace upon his people. And when the fullness of that time came, grace burst upon the scene. Because Jesus came. He came to rescue us. He came to rescue us from sin, from its penalty, from its power. Keep your finger here. Flip back a couple pages to 2 Timothy 1. We can see that even deeper. Look at verse 9. It's talking about God here. So it's God who saved us. and called us to a holy calling. So first of all, we know that this grace comes because of God alone. It is all his doing, all glory, all honor. Flow to him. It's all of him. It's God who saved us. And why did he do that? Keep reading. Not because of our works There is nothing in us that's meritorious. There's nothing in us that was deserving of God's grace to come down, therefore, God's grace is even more amazing. All of our works, the Bible tells us, are like filthy rags. We contributed nothing to our salvation. When we hear stories of a fireman who rushes into a burning building, And carries an unconscious person out on his back. He's got the fireman's carry, and he's saving this person who's completely unconscious, who's unable to save themselves. Do we praise the person who's unconscious? Do we say, wow, wasn't that bright of them to be in this burning building, to breathe smoke, and to go unconscious such that they might be saved? Of course not. We don't praise the person. We praise the fireman. You know, and the fireman doesn't know the first person, the first thing about that person, by the way. Fireman doesn't look and say, you know, oh yeah, I I know I know John Doe and I'm going to run and I'm going to save him because I know good things he's done in the past or good things he might do in the future. No, the fireman goes in, knowing nothing about that person at all. But you know, even that analogy doesn't go far enough. Because God knows. He knows our actions. He knows our words. He knows our deeds. He knows our sin. He knows that in fact we deserve death. We deserve to be left in that building. And nonetheless. God saves us. His grace burst upon the scene. Why? We keep reading 2 Timothy 1 Why did he save us? He called us not because of our own works, but because of his own purpose and because of his grace. His grace towards us. And what is that grace? That grace was given to us. It was manifested through the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ. Who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel That defines grace. It's God's unmerited favor towards sinners, towards you, towards me. Whereby he convicts you of your sin, whereby he causes you to turn from it and to turn towards Jesus Christ and to place all of your trust in his atoning sacrifice for you alone. See, grace burst upon the scene, but grace is personified. It's personified in Jesus Christ Himself. The coming of grace upon the scene and the coming of Jesus are one and the same. When Jesus came, so did the fullness of the grace of God. Listen to John 1, 14 through 17, a passage many of you are familiar with. The word became flesh. And dwelt among us. Jesus became flesh. He took to himself a true body, a reasonable soul. He dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, don't ever let grace become an abstract thought or just become a formula. And some of you know the acrostic, you know, G-R-A-C-E, God's Riches at Christ's Expense. Good acrostic, good formula. But don't let it just become a formula Grace has appeared, and it appeared in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus, who willingly came to earth Being born as a baby, being raised by parents, suffering all temptations of human life, yet without sin. And this same Jesus who did nothing wrong and yet was arrested Falsely accused, tried, convicted, died a horrible death upon the cross, not for anything he had done. But for your sin. And what's more, not just dying that horrible death, but bearing all of God's wrath, bearing all of his anger. Such that God's wrath would be completely propitiated, such that you could be justified. Such that you could have the righteousness of Christ credited to your account. Why would he do that? Because he is a God of grace. Because he's a God of love. Because he's a God who saves. There are many today who would say, I can't possibly believe in a God who would be angry. Because somebody sinned and sends somebody to hell. You know, they're missing the point altogether. The fact is that God, at the greatest possible cost, is a saving God. That God is greatest possible cost is a God of grace. The Father sending the Son to suffer and die. The Son willingly and freely going through that agony that we can only begin to imagine. Crying out upon the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It's because He loves. It's because He saves. It's because he's a God of mercy. And it's because he's a God of grace. And it's a grace, looking back at Titus II. that has appeared, that has burst forth on the scene, bringing salvation for all people Now, Paul's not telling us here that every person will be saved. He's not saying a universal salvation. Well, what's he talking about? Look back at the first few verses of Titus 2. Who's he addressing? Well let's look at Titus two, older men. Titus two verse three, older women. Verse four, young women. Verse six, younger men. Let's see, we've got Older men, older women, younger men, younger women, anybody who doesn't fit in one of those categories That's what he's talking about, is that this grace is not confined to one particular nation. This grace is not confined to one specific ethnicity on earth. But rather this grace has come, this grace is that has burst upon the scene is so abounding, it's so amazing that it has come to an untold multitude of people. Saving an untold number that he has purposed from the beginning of time to rescue from their sins. That he has decided from the beginning of time to to possess as his own people, to smile upon, to save by the blood and the death of Jesus Christ. If you are in Jesus this morning, if you've confessed your sin, if you've repented of your sin, if you have turned towards Him, then you know that grace. But if perhaps you haven't yet, note that today is still a day of grace. Are you seeing and understanding this for the first time? Know that God is no respecter of persons. It isn't because of what you've done or what you will do, not because of your age, not because of your class, not because of your status. It's because you need his grace And that grace is only found in Jesus Christ. Brian Chapel says: the unmerited favor of God is what Jesus is all about. But it's also who he is. We should thus see grace as a personal action by a personal God Who saved us from our helpless condition out of pure love? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Bible says, and you will be saved. And never cease to be amazed that that grace has appeared. But you know, grace, as amazing as it is, that it that has appeared and has brought salvation. It doesn't stop there. It continues. It goes much further. Grace also trains us. It's our teacher Grace saves you, but it also teaches you. Now, when we say that a certain person is our teacher, we can might mean one of two things. It may mean that we need a bunch of facts, a bunch of information, perhaps at work. You need to get a special certification in order to do the job that you have. Or if you're in school, you're learning facts and figures, sometimes in order to be able to pass a test. In Ireland, everybody who graduates from what they call secondary school, we would call it high school, has to take what are called leaving certifications or leaving certs. And this is more than just a morning's worth of SAT tests. This is a several-day battery of tests that measure all subjects, you know, sciences. Chemistry, physics, biology, English, Irish language, history, government, math, business, every field possible. It goes for several days. And these leading certs are much more important than our SATs because they define which university, and depending on your score on those, it'll tell you which university you can go to. And not only that, not just which university, but what field of study you're going to be entered in. So lots of teens that are smarter or their parents, they'll go and they'll get a teacher, somebody who will take them through a set of what they call grinds. Which is going through a whole battery of just practice tests, trying to get that information sorted out in people's heads. Now these are teachers who are trying to impart information, trying to get us over some sort of bar. But there's another type of teacher. Some of you, if you belong to a gym, you might have what's called a personal trainer. Now, is that personal trainer only interested in teaching you how to exercise? teaching you how to how to diet and and a healthy lifestyle. Now that that personal trainer is doing more than just giving a bunch of facts. That personal trainer, if they're any good, Are actually there to train you in a lifestyle that brings an enduring change into your life. It's not just to pass a test, but it's to bring a long-term change in your life. And how you live. And that's the sense of what Paul's getting at here when we read that grace also trains us. And we're being trained in two ways. They're opposite sides of the same coin. It's a negative and a positive, if you will, or a no and a yes. First, we're being trained to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. We're being trained to say no to these things Now, some Christians will say, you know, as soon as you say there are things that you've got to say no to, what's the charge that flies at you? You're being legalistic. See, you know, many people say you define your religion by the things that you can't do and the things that you have to do. And that defines your religion. Or some put it, religion is nothing more than saying, I don't smoke, I don't chew, I don't go who girls with with girls who do Well, think through this for a minute. Why are we being trained to say no to renounce ungodliness? Well, why is it that we so desperately needed the grace that saves us in the first place? It's because of our sin. It's because we had broken God's good and perfect commands. Because we said, look, I don't want anything to do with you, God. I know better. I want to be able to run my life. I don't want you to constrain me in any way. And therefore, because of that, we obtain the wages of sin. And the wages of sin is what? It's death. And Jesus came to save us from that. He came to take us from death to life, from being strangers to the covenant of promise. to being full citizens of the kingdom of heaven, from being his enemies to being his adopted and beloved children. From being condemned to justification and redemption and reconciliation Now, if that is what grace saved us from, if that's what the grace of God accomplished, how much of a salvation would it be if it did nothing to deliver us from what condemned us in the first place? That'd be a rather empty and a rather powerless salvation, wouldn't it? If we weren't somehow changed, if we weren't somehow transformed, to say no to those things that condemned us? But grace isn't empty. Grace also trains us. It saves us, but it does and it must transform us and train us to say no to ungodliness. And worldly passions. Ungodliness means literally against God. 1 Timothy 1:9. Listen to this. The law is not laid down just for the just. But for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane. In other words, ungodliness is anything contrary to God, to his commands, to his kingdom. Romans 1. 18 puts it this way: It says, The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness do what? They suppress the truth. So ungodliness suppresses, it denies the truth about who God is, about what he has declared in his word, and about what he tells us. We should do how we are to live, how we are to glorify Him. As we saw, as we all repeated earlier, what's our chief aim? To glorify God? And to enjoy him forever. So ungodliness would be anything contrary to that. Also, Grace is training us to say no to worldly passions. Or in 2 Timothy 2. 22, Paul calls them youthful passions. And then in 2 Timothy 3, we see a whole list if you want to see what these passions are. Lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good. Treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. You know, that's hard. Because so often today what we hear is that all things are permissible. You know, anything that you want is okay, with perhaps the one exception that if it harms somebody else or infringes upon somebody else. Our culture today cannot say no, increasingly. However, grace trains us to say no. For those who are being saved by grace, they're also being trained by grace to say no to ungodliness, to say no to worldly passion. To what the things that we would desire that are completely opposed to God. Francis Schaefer once was listening to a group of Christians from various countries, and they were sharing their list of how of taboos uh within the church. You know, things that the church says you can you you could do that you couldn't do. They were calling these their their legalistic lists and they wanted to get rid of these lists. He says at first I listened to them, and I rather agreed with the direction that they were going. In other words, we can't What we can't do is to use these these lists, use these taboos, in order to somehow earn God's merit, to somehow contribute to our salvation. So he said, I rather agree with the direction they were going, but as I listened further, it became quite clear to me that what they really wanted was merely to be able to do the things that the taboos were against. What they really wanted was a more lax Christian life. But we must see that in getting up such lists In feeling the limitation of the list mentality, we must not do this merely in order to live a looser life. It must be for something deeper. Well, it's something deeper comes from the other side of the coin. That's what grace teaches us to say yes to Which is to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives. Not just in the future, not just in heaven But in this present age. To do so right now. Now, don't misunderstand me We will, until we receive a new body in in heaven, or until Christ comes, whichever, you know, whether we die, whether Christ comes, whichever comes First, we will continue to struggle with sin in this life. But grace trains us, trains us to say no to ungodliness. It trains us to say yes to self-control. It teaches us to be self-controlled. It teaches us not to give in to whatever we want to do But to bring our desires, our passions, our hearts, our wishes, our hopes, our thoughts, and our actions more and more in line. With one who is being more and more conformed into the image of God in Christ Jesus. Look again, first part of Titus 2. What are older men called to be in verse 2? Self-controlled. Younger women in verse 5. Self-controlled. Younger men in verse 6. Self-controlled. Now, if you older women think that maybe you're off the hook there, well you're trained the younger women to be self-controlled, so how are you going to teach them to do that if in fact that doesn't apply to you also? You know, self-control. And you know, that's hard work. It doesn't say that we sit back. But self-control is often hard work. I've been trying to to shed about 30 pounds. I'm about halfway there. And that's hard work. There are days where I don't want to exercise. Where I don't want to go out and get the exercise I need to do in order to lose that weight. And there are evenings where I would love nothing more than to sit down with a sack of Oreos and a glass of milk. And what I've had to do is to say no to those things, but instead build in self-control to continue to do those things. Self-control is the ability to say no to sin and yes more and more to godliness. It's this inward growth in godliness. And just as self-control is an inward growth, we're also being trained by grace to say yes to uprightness. That would be what others see in us. In other words, the things that people people look at, having a good reputation at work or in your community, or within among your friends and your neighbors. Being known as a person who is gracious, being known as a person who is kind, not being known as one who's quarrelsome, who's argumentative. All the things that you know the Characters, character qualities that other people see, that can only happen because of the power of the Holy Spirit working within us, that grace is working to train us in. That's uprightness. And finally, Grace teaches us to live godly lives. And grace brings us to the point of Understanding that all of our lives are lived before the face of God. The same God who saved us by grace is training us by grace to understand that every moment, every action, Is live before him. It's the vertical dimension. And to live before him in complete dependence upon his grace and to live completely. For his glory. See, we're being trained to reflect and to grow in our reverence for God. And as grace strengthens us, it also teaches us to wait. Not a passive waiting, but an active and a living hope, an anticipation. Of what we will see. We have seen grace. Grace has appeared. But we will see yet. the glory of Jesus Christ when he returns. See, that's our hope. And it's not just a wish. No, it's an active, it's an absolute, it's a certain promise, knowing that Jesus Christ will one day come again. that we will see Jesus, our Savior and our King, the one who upholds all of creation, the entire universe by his power. and sustains us. And he is coming back. And when he comes, he will come with all power. He will come with all glory. He will come with brilliance beyond what we can imagine. Have no doubt upon that, about that, that Jesus Christ is returning. He will not be denied. He came, he conquered sin, he conquered Satan, he conquered death, and he will return. The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof. He has redeemed it, and all things are his, and he will return. He is coming to complete your redemption, to complete the good work that he has started To complete the change that he began. And at that point, we will no longer need to be trained in these things because we'll be able to enjoy him and worship him and adore him and glorify him perfectly. Jesus appeared, the grace of God personified, to redeem us from our sin. He came and appeared to purify for himself a people. That's you and me. And he came and he made us a possession. All those are the indicatives of grace. It's where you are right now. You are in him. You have been purified by him. You have been redeemed by him. You are his people. But there's also an imperative that we would be zealous for good works, works that glorify Him. Let me ask you two things this morning. First of all, do you spend more time focused upon where the culture is going? Then upon your own growth and training by grace, your own growth in godliness You know, the old Puritans had it right. By God's grace, we're brought to repentance. By God's grace alone, we're brought to faith in Jesus alone But also by God's grace, we are also brought to new obedience. That pattern of repentance, faith, but also new obedience that we're being trained in But there are lots of what I would call angry Christians, and it seems like so much of their time is spent decrying what they see in culture. Now, don't misunderstand, I'm not saying that we don't speak into our culture. But that shouldn't also be the complete focus of our lives. Do we spend as much time looking at our own lives? And saying, how is grace training me? The same way that personal trainer would train you in the gym. How is grace training me? To grow in godliness, to grow in self-control, to grow in uprightness, and to grow and to say no to the things that are against that. Why is it amongst those who proclaim to be Christians in this country that divorce happens at about the same rate as in the country in general? Why is it that there are nearly as men addicted to pornography within the church in general as within the population at large? Why is it that our consumption, our spending on ourselves within the Christian church, so often just mirrors what we see in society? Brothers and sisters, this should not be the case. Are we concerned about our own lives as much, if not more, than what we see others doing? Now I'm not going to give you a list of do's and don'ts, but know this that grace should also train us to live our lives for a greater per purpose than just being freed from such lists. And grace, therefore, is is at work training us. And training us means that we have a lot to do with that also. We do so in complete dependence upon God. We do so in complete dependence upon God. On the Holy Spirit, knowing that He has sent His Holy Spirit to empower us and to train us. But it's also something that we need to pay attention to. to. Our lives, it says in Titus 2. 10, are to adorn the doctrine of God our Savior. And secondly, do you know that that same grace that saves you also trains you? You know, in recent years, there's been a lot of books written and messages spoken about how we really need to understand the grace of God in Christ Jesus. And that's good. Now, you know, listen closely, you've been very patient. Listen closely for just another minute, because this this is important. We need to understand the depth of the grace of God that saves us. More and more. You and I, we've only scratched the surface of the depth of our sin. And the depth, therefore, of that grace that's been shown To us. See, as we grow in Christ, the Holy Spirit makes us more and more aware, more and more sensitive to our sin. And therefore, we every day we come before God and we say, God, I only have one plea. I only have one thing that I cling to, which is the cross of Christ, which is the grace of God that you have poured out through your Son. That saves me from my sin. As often been said, the bad news is that you're far more sinful than you realize. The good news Is that you are far more loved. That grace abounds far more than you'll ever know. And it causes us to know that absolutely it's by God's grace that we're saved. That there's nothing that we do that earns or merits any of that grace. And that's right, and that's good, that we might know the depths of the grace that saves us more and more. But the problem is when when when we hear that that's all we need to do is to focus upon that. And as we do that, then our hearts will be changed and we'll love Christ more and more. And but we need to to be in that in that cycle of repentance day by day. We do, but we also also need to understand that grace goes beyond that. That grace trains us. See, it's not a matter of just letting go and letting God We don't confuse the grace that justifies you with the grace that sanctifies you. You're saved by his grace. But that same grace also trains you and calls you to go through the hard work of pursuing God To go through the hard work of saying no to ungodliness and yes to godliness. The gospel indicatives of who you are give rise to the gospel imperatives of how you are to live. Scripture calls us to put off the old sinful self, to put on the new self in Christ, being renewed in knowledge after the image of your creator. You're called to strive, to make every effort, to be diligent, to walk, to be trained, knowing that God also provides the Holy Spirit by grace to train you. It's the same grace that saves us, that trains us to say no to sin now, and yes to godly lives now. See, grace is at work when a sinner repents and turns to Christ alone. But grace is also at work. In the husband and wife who are struggling, and who turned to turn to Christ and say I will love my wife. I will love my husband for the glory of Christ. Grace is at work with the business person. Who is tempted to take shortcuts or to do things that he knows are wrong and doesn't do that, even at the loss of a contract, even possibly at the loss of a contract? of a job to the glory of God. Grace is at work when young people make the decision Not to just follow their peers, but to say no to things that they know are wrong, things that would dishonor Christ. Even at the point of bringing ridicule and shame upon themselves, alter the glory of God. Grace is at work when older believers in the church that refuse to think, you know, I put my time in the nursery when my kids were young. But rather continue to serve so that a tired mom and dad can come and enjoy the privilege of worship. Grace is at work in all these ways, and in countless other ways in our lives, not for our honor. But because we know that we are saved in Christ, that we're secure in Christ, and that Christ one day will return. And as we wait, and as we're being trained by grace, we become passionate, zealous for works that glorify Christ That we might adorn Him and demonstrate to a world that desperately needs to know of His grace. That indeed He is the one true God. He is the one true Savior. Let's pray. Father, we are again astounded at the fact that your grace has burst upon the scene. That we were in a hopeless, completely desperate situation because of Sin, because of our sin. And yet, your grace bursts through that Jesus came to this earth, that he lived a life of complete obedience. That he died, that he paid the penalty for our sins, and he rose again from the dead, that we might know that we have been completely justified. Because of his work alone. And that we now stand not on any of our works, not on any of our righteousness, but upon his righteousness alone. But, Father, we're even more amazed that you don't leave us that way. You don't leave us just saved, but that you also work to train us, you also work to transform us. And Father, help us also to depend upon you to do that. Father, we ask that our hearts would more and more be turned towards you. And Father, as we come to those hard times when that grace is at work training us, that you would also strengthen us. And Father, we ask that as that happens, that we would continue to be transformed more and more. But also that we would glorify our Savior, who is deserving alone of all glory, honor, and power. We don't ask this for our glory, but we ask this for his glory. The Savior, the one who is gracious. In his name. Amen.