The psalmist prays in verse 18 of Psalm 119, Open my eyes that I may behold wondrous things. out of thy law. And of course, God's law, his word is full of wondrous things. And we've been blessed and privileged as Pastor How Martin has opened that law and shown us some of those wonderful things in the past several sessions. He'll continue that this morning. And so he began with Jeremiah 6. 16, that text spoken by God's mouthpiece, Jeremiah, to Apostate Judah as a warning and an encouragement as well. So I'll read that as our text, at least as a starting point for Pastor Martin this morning. So please stand for prayer and for the reading of God's Word. Again, our gracious Father, we praise you and thank you for your word and the wondrous things it contains. The wondrous things that it reveals about you as the infinite, eternal, and unchangeable God, about us as men made in your image and fallen in sin And especially the wonderful things it reveals about our blessed Savior and your grace to us through Him. And so our prayer this morning is that of the psalmist. that you would open our eyes that we might behold wondrous things out of your law, and beholding them, that we might not merely understand. But believe and obey through the power and for the glory of Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we pray. Amen. Hear now the word of God as we find it in Jeremiah 6, 16. Thus says the Lord. Stand by the roads and look, and ask for the ancient paths where the good way is, and walk in it. And you shall find rest for your souls. Brothers and sisters, this is the very word of God. Please be seated. Well, before we turn to the scriptures this morning On behalf of my wife and myself, not as a matter of gentlemanly courtesy, but as an expression of true Christian affection and gratitude. I want to say publicly how thankful I am for the privilege that's been afforded me to be with you for these hours together. As my wife and I were wrestling with the whole question of whether she would accompany me, uh, she has the persuasion, which I share with her 100% That one of the blessings of this stage in life is not to do nothing and to look upon the so-called semi-retirement period as a time of self-indulgence. But she believes her calling as a mother and a grandmother is a calling from God And with a daughter living two point four miles from us with five daughters, like Tevia and his wife, Lord you gave me five daughters. Well, God has given to Mary Joe and to Brian five daughters, and those daughters ages uh what ten or eleven now down to not quite one year are very precious to us and my wife is given to her role as a grandmother and as a mother helper uh to mary jo who as my stepdaughter has Has become as precious to me as though she were the daughter of my own loins, and so As we wrestled Should She or Should She Not Come, we'll be going together to the annual pastors conference back at. uh Trinity and New Jersey leaving to drive there a week from this coming Friday. We wondered is it wise for her to be away uh so soon again And before God, we felt this time was vital for both of us. And on her behalf, I want to express gratitude as well. These hours have been a source of great encouragement and refreshment to her own soul as she has had the opportunity of interacting with some of you and especially. uh she and your dear pastor's wife have established a friendship through the many hours uh traveling here in the car, sharing lunch together, and the hours we will share returning. So we, that is, my wife and I, leave here with you this afternoon, refreshed in the inner man, thankful for your fellowship full of gratitude to God to know that there is another lampstand in the state of Maryland with people determined, determined. to have their life and worship shaped and formed by the word of God and not by the silliness of our current culture. And so thank you for enriching our hearts and our fellowship together, and we trust we will have an increasing place in your prayers in the days to come. Now, as your pastor has reminded you, in case you were on another planet for the past two days, the basic text that has formed the framework For our study together is that text found in Jeremiah 6 and verse 16, in which the majestic, glorious God of heaven and earth speaks. through his young prophet, telling them that they are to stand, they are to look. They are to ask and they are to walk. And with that text as the basis of our thinking together, We've been wrestling with this whole matter of asking for and walking in the old paths. And as we began to open up that theme, having established what I trust was a brief but responsible exposition of the text itself, With its four imperatives and with its wonderful gracious promise, we began to consider together those old paths. And the first was the old path. of a Holy Spirit wrought conversion to God. And we parked in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 Looking at the entire chapter beginning at verse 3, but with particular attention to verses 9 and 10, in which God describes that old path. of a conversion which only the Holy Spirit can effect in the heart of a self-willed, self-centered, self-satisfied, self-justifying sinner. A conversion to God described by the apostle with these words, they themselves report of us what manner of entering in we had unto you how that you turned towards God from your idols to serve the living and the true God and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. That conversion involves this decisive turning, this decisive submitting and this decisive reorienting of the entirety of life to the age to come and that age which will be brought to its consummation at the return of the Lord Jesus. Then we began to consider the second of the old paths. And it's the old path that I described as the path of gospel holiness. That is a holiness that is produced only by the intrusion of the power of the gospel and is shaped and molded by gospel motives. and gospel dynamics. And we had time only to establish yesterday the first line of concern with respect to this old path of gospel holiness. the absolute necessity for gospel holiness. Why must we be holy men and women? Why must we be holy boys and girls? And I considered with you four lines of biblical evidence demonstrating the absolute necessity for this gospel holiness. Number one, it is necessary if we would escape hell and end up in heaven, for without holiness no man shall see the Lord. Secondly, we saw that gospel holiness is essential if we would authenticate to ourselves and to others the genuineness of our faith. And then thirdly, gospel holiness is essential If we as the people of God are to be what we are called to be, we are called to be salt and light salt and light by the framing of lifestyles that are lived out in direct contrast to the lifestyle of the worldly And then fourthly, we considered gospel holiness is vital and essential because it is a central purpose in God's scheme of redemption. We dare not be indifferent to anything that is central to the heart of God. And when God set his heart upon Saving a people out of the great mass of the damic humanity, sovereignly, freely. Out of his own love and good pleasure, he set his heart upon a people that they should be rescued out of the mass of Adam's race. His great purpose from the outset was to restore in them his own moral image Therefore Paul said, whom he foreknew, he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Or Ephesians 1 in verse 4, according as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blemish before him. in love having predestined us unto adoption as sons. How can we be indifferent to something that was central to the heart of God as long as God conceived of saving a people And there never was a time that God has been, that he has not been committed to save a people. As long as God has been God, God has had his heart upon rescuing a people. And central to that work of rescue is not just to fireproof them. It is to transform them into the very likeness of his own beloved Son that looking upon those whom he redeems, He will see his own image after its configuration in the God man Christ Jesus. in this great vast multitude whom no man can number, out of every kindred, tribe, and tongue and nation, in whom the family-likeness of Jesus will be perfected. Central to God's purpose of redemption in election and foreordination is gospel holiness. but then central in the actual procurement of that salvation, in the death of our Lord Jesus is the matter of gospel holiness. He gave himself for our sins that he might redeem us from all, and it was and purify to himself a people his own possession, zealous of good works, When our Lord Jesus hung on that cross, soaked in his own blood, his face dripping with the spittle and the vile treatment of men, his body contused and bruised and broken. Why was he there? To make you and to make me holy people. He gave himself for his broad anticipating the day when he would present that bride to himself without spot, without wrinkle, or any such thing. Central to redemption in the purpose of God is gospel holiness. Central in the procurement of that redemption. gospel holiness and when the Holy Spirit actually comes and does his renewing work, what is his purpose? His coming according to Romans 8, 5-9, is to deliver us from a lifestyle shaped and framed by the flesh and to bring us into a lifestyle shaped and framed by the Holy Spirit. That spirit who is himself essentially holy comes to indwell us to make us a holy people. And wherever he is present in his regenerating, indwelling presence and grace, their gospel holiness is a passion in the heart of the one. in whom he dwells. So I hope you are persuaded with respect to this first area of concern, this matter of the necessity For gospel holiness. Now we come this morning, as time permits, to take up two other lines of truth. If we don't get to the third, I hope to be able to thoroughly cover the second and that is what I am calling the nature or the essential elements of gospel holiness We've seen the necessity for it. It must be present. But what is it? What are its essential elements or essential components? Now, you kids, you're cheated of a lot of things that we preachers can't use as illustrations because Things that so changed in the last 30 years that things that everyone knew about, a lot of you don't know about Thirty years ago, if you wanted to play a record, you had what was called a stereo or a hi-fi. uh set. And in that were certain components. You had to have a turntable. That's where you put the record. Or perhaps a cassette deck where you stuck one of those little things the size of a cigarette pack. into it and it played music. You had to have a cassette deck or a turntable, and then you had to have a tuner or an amplifier, and then you had to have speakers. So you have three major components to your stereo or your hi-fi set. You had your speakers, your amplifier, and you had your turntable. And if you didn't have any one of those, you didn't have a hi-fi or a stereo set. You couldn't listen to your music. Well, when we consider this matter of gospel holiness, what are its essential components? What are the things without which it does not exist? That's my concern in opening up this second heading, that sitting here this morning with our Bibles open before us, we will in the presence of God see. Do I have the whole hi-fi set? Do I have the whole thing? by the grace of God, what are the essential components, not extras that you may function with or without But things without which gospel holiness does not exist. Number one. If you have gospel holiness, this is true of you. If I have any gospel holiness, this is true of me. Number one, a radical cleavage with the dominion of sin. A radical cleavage with the dominion of sin. When I use the word radical, I'm using it in its proper sense When you deal with something in a radical way, you go to the root of it. When I use the word cleavage, I'm talking of cleavage, not as that which a woman should not display in her dress. But I'm talking of that which the butcher does when he takes that instrument in his chopping up a piece of meat. The first essential element of gospel holiness is a radical, that is, a cleavage with sin that goes to the very heart of our native relationship to sin. According to the scriptures, by nature, we are all the slaves of sin. Jesus said, whosoever commits sin is the bond slave of sin. Three times in Romans chapter 6, verses 15 to 23. Paul speaks of the Romans and he says, you were the slaves of sin. And when we are brought by repentance and faith into a saving union with Christ, Gospel holiness begins with nothing less than a radical that is something that touches the very roots of our relationship to sin. And it is a radical cleavage. There is a separation between us and sin as our master. There is this radical severance between our identity as slaves of sin who now become the slaves of God and of righteousness. And the Bible uses very vigorous language to demonstrate this. The first passage to which I refer you is Romans chapter 6. Paul has been teaching in this marvelous letter the great truth that our acceptance before God in the courtroom of heaven Rests down completely upon the perfect obedience of Jesus Christ and obedience unto death, even the death of the cross We are saved by the doing and the dying of another. Our performance has nothing to do to contribute with our acceptance before God. Now along comes a person and adds the devil's logic to that teaching and says, Well then, if we are saved by the doing and the dying of another and not by our own performance, Let's continue in sin. If God's grace is magnified by the greatness of my sin, let me sin some more, so I can magnify God's grace all the more. And Paul says in answer to that question these very simple words, what shall we say then? Romans 6. 1. Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ All of us who have been united, incorporated into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death. We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we've become united with him in a death like his We shall be certainly united with him in a resurrection like his These are not words of exhortation, words of entreaty, words of admonition. They are indicatives, and as you children are learning, An indicative statement is a statement of fact. I, Albert Martin, am standing on this little blue platform. That's an indicative. If I was standing here, an indicative The Pastor said, Pastor Martin, get up onto the platform, that would be an imperative. But when I say I am standing, that's a fact, a simple fact. Paul says we cannot continue in sin. Why? We are such as have died to sin. True gospel holiness begins. When in union with Jesus Christ, the virtue and power of his death upon the cross, is in a real sense infused into the depths of your very being and in union with Christ you die to sin. Sin is no longer your master. Sin is no longer your lord. Sin no longer calls the shots and rules the roost. You have died to sin. If I were to die this afternoon, I would be totally cut off from ever standing on this platform again. I would be cut off from walking up the stairs or taking the elevator to the third floor, to my room. When you die, the realm in which you died is no longer your dwelling place, the place of your activity, the place in which you function. Before we are true Christians, sin is our dwelling place. Sin is the sphere in which we function. Self-serving, self-will, self-indulgence, self-righteousness. Self-promotion. That's what we are. But if we've become united to Christ, Paul says, we have died to sin. It doesn't say sin has died to us. Nowhere does the Bible say sin has died to us. Sin is still very much alive to us, as we shall see subsequently, our remaining sin. Yes, but this passage tells us if we are real Christians, we have died to sin. And then there's another vivid image used by the same apostle, and that's found in Colossians chapter 3. There in Colossians chapter 3, the Apostle Paul says this, verse 9, do not lie to one another Seeing you have put off the old man with its practices, and have put on the new man which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. Paul says to the Colossians, don't lie to one another. Why? Because lying is inconsistent with who you are. And it's as though someone said, well, Paul, who am I now as a Christian? He said, you are a new man. You have put off the old man in a definitive, decisive repudiation of living, of self-centered self-willed, sinning life, you've put off the old man with his deeds, and you've put on the new man. which is Christ himself. And in union with Christ, you are a new creation in Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. and verse 17. And there is nothing more pathetic in all the world than to see someone trying to make progress in gospel holiness who doesn't have the stuff to do it because they've never experienced a radical cleavage with sin. They've never settled the issue. Will sin or Christ rule me? Will sin or Christ govern what I look at, what I desire? What I hear, what I say, where my feet take me, what I desire with my affections. And my longings and my yearnings, what do I dream about? Have I settled the issue? Sin will no longer be the object of all of those. things, but God in Jesus Christ will be the focal point of my life. That man died and is buried. I'm a new man in Jesus Christ. And there is no pursuit of gospel holiness that does not begin with this radical cleavage with the dominion of sin. And perhaps for some of you sitting here this morning, this is the very reason you've made so little, if any, progress. in what you've learned to call your besetting sins, your irritable disposition, your quick retorting tongue. your snappy sarcastic cutting ways with your wife, your husband, your children. Perhaps it's secret sexual sin, addiction, demasturbation. Addiction to pornography. Addiction to mental loss. And you've struggled and you've made vows time after time. Never again, never again, never again. But it is a pattern of your life. It could well be the problem is, my friend, you can never make any progress in gospel holiness. Because you've never died to sin. In union with Christ, you've never known. A radical cleavage with sin, a putting off of the old man and a putting on of the new. And this same apostle in Romans chapter 8 makes it very clear that there can be no progress in progressive sanctification in progressing in gospel holiness without this radical cleavage. Listen as I read from Romans chapter 8 and beginning with verse 5. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law, indeed it cannot Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact The Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who has not the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. You see Paul's argument. He says, if the Spirit of God dwells in you, you have been brought into the realm of living after the Spirit not living after the flesh. The dominion of the flesh has been broken. You are now one who is under the dominion and guidance and control and powerful influence of the Holy Spirit. And if this is not true of you, Paul says anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. And if Christ dwells in you by the Holy Spirit, it will be evident in terms of you have the stuff now. to make progress in gospel holiness. One other quick text, Galatians chapter 5 and verse 24 simply trying to demonstrate that the first and foundational essential element Of gospel holiness is a radical cleavage with sin in Romans chapter 5. I'm sorry, Galatians chapter 5. Paul has described two spheres of human experience, the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. He describes what the works of the flesh are. And it's not an exhaustive list because he ends up by saying that there are other such things. Then he describes the fruit of the Spirit, and then notice verse 24. Here's his concluding statement. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have indicative, not imperative Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and its desires. If there has been no crucifixion of the flesh with its passions and desires, you do not belong to Christ. Words can't be plainer, dear people. And I say I'm persuaded with all of my heart. that the absence of widespread gospel holiness in our evangelical and many of our Reformed churches Here's the reason right here there's been no radical cleavage with sin in vital union with Christ. But then there's a second essential element to gospel holiness, and it's this I'm calling it the continuous killing of remaining sin It all begins with this radical cleavage with the dominion of sin, but then it leads to a continuous Killing of remaining sin. And already you've anticipated the main text. I'm going to turn to Romans 8 and verse 13. Romans 8. And verse 13. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you continually put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. I can't give a thorough exposition of this text, but notice just these two things with me. The apostle tells us in this text, that you and I, if we are true Christians, are both responsible to and actively involved in putting sin to death. For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body I do not ask God, oh God, put to death the deeds of the body. I say, oh God, give me grace. by the Spirit to put to death the deeds of the body. You must do it. I must do it. God doesn't do it for us. God doesn't do it apart from us if you by the Spirit, you are active in this matter of putting sin to death. Because though sin no longer reigns in the true believer, alas, sin yet reigns, remains in him. It does not reign, but it remains. And one of the great mysteries of the Christian life is that the same Paul who could say, I have been crucified with Christ Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ lives in me. Galatians 2. 20. That's the same apostle who said in Romans 7, It is no longer I that do it, but sin that dwells in me. Sin dwells in me. Christ dwells in me. And there is a conflict, as Paul says in Galatians 5. 17, the flesh lusts against the spirit. the spirit against the flesh, and these two are contrary the one to the other, that you may not do the things that you would But in that conflict, I as a Christian united to Christ indwelt by the Spirit, I have been furnished with a gracious ability to be killing sin, and I am to be active in that work of killing sin. If you by the Spirit Put to death. If you by the Spirit are killing the deeds of the body, you will live. So I am active in this process of the continuous killing of remaining sin, and yet I am active in it by the grace and the power of the Holy Spirit. This is just Philippians 2, 12 and 13 in different words, where Paul said to the Philippians, now my dear Philippians. Much more now in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for It is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. He said, roll up your sleeves and give yourself with serious, concentrated earnestness to living a life of obedience to the revealed will of God. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling Being a Christian in a godless world with remaining sin is serious business. Do it with fear and trembling. But what's my hope I'll have any success? Paul says, I'll tell you what it is, for God is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. God so works in me that he gives me the will to work out with fear and trembling, and then he gives me the power to pursue what he gives me the will to do. So that when I've been enabled at the end of the day in a situation where in the past circumstances in the home that would have provoked angry retorts, selfish, self-pitying thoughts and attitudes and I can look back on the day and say, oh God, I was in that situation today, but By your grace, I actually spoke sweetly to my husband. By your grace, I actually didn't snap back and give him tit for tat. Do you reach around and pat yourself on the back if you've got an arm long enough to do it? Say, wonderful gal. Great job today No, no, what do you do? You lift up your heart and you say, oh God, thank you that you worked in me the will to be sweet to that buzzard. He was acting like a buzzard. And in the past I let him know I thought he was a buzzard. But Lord, though we acted the same, I didn't. You gave me the will to be sweet And you gave me the power to express that will in kind words. Thank you, Lord. You're at work in me to will and to work for your good pleasure. But it didn't come without you rolling up your sleeves, determining. Follow those words. Ask God to deal with the attitude in the heart. As we work out our salvation with fear and trembling, we do so in the confidence He is working in us, both to will and to work. for his good pleasure. So this matter of gospel holiness, not only does it begin with this radical cleavage with the dominion of sin, but it is involving this continuous killing of our remaining sin by the strength and power of the Holy Spirit. But now that means the killing at times will be very unpleasant Very unpleasant. And here I want you to turn to one of those unpleasant texts, Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. In this continual killing of sin, it can become unpleasant, bloody, brutal business. And Jesus himself Makes that abundantly clear. Matthew 5, verses 29 and 30 As our Lord is applying the whole matter of the seventh commandment concerning sexual purity, he says this, that I say to you, verse 28, Everyone who looks on a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart If your right eye causes you to sin, there's a man who says, yeah, I really got trouble with my eyes. In fact, for some reason, my right eye particularly seems to be the first one that gravitates to places where it shouldn't and lingers where it shouldn't. My right eye is causing me to stumble, that is, to break the seventh commandment. I'm looking long enough and discerningly enough. to have desires born in my heart. I'd like to have her stripped and in bed. That's what it means to look with an intent to lust. It is not simply looking and appreciating beauty and order and a creature whom God has made beautiful. We're to appreciate everything God's made beautiful, even beautiful women. And handsome men. We're to appreciate all God's gifts. So it doesn't say whoso looks upon a woman and discerns she's beautiful has broken the seventh commandment. No, whoever looks on a woman with lustful intent, the look is leading to illicit desires. And here's a man that's been practicing this from the time he came into puberty, or perhaps even learned how to do it. from his buddies before he came into puberty. And he says it's so much a part of me. I don't know how to get rid of it. Jesus said it may be as brutal and as bloody and painful as reaching in and gouging out your own eye. And notice what he says He says if your right eye causes you should tend to tear it out and don't leave it hanging on your cheek. So when another beautiful woman comes by, you can stick it back up in and look again. He says, Gouge it out, and what's the next verb? Gouge it out and throw it away. It's better that you lose one of your members than your whole body be thrown into hell Get victory over mental lust, or you'll go to hell when you die. Listen to me, man. Get victory over mental lust, or you'll go to hell when you die. Because you will go to hell as a willful violator of the seventh commandment. Jesus' words mean what they seem to mean. Then he goes on to say Your right hand causes you to sin. You've learned how to seduce with your words, and it's a short road for some of you, he says, to go from your words to what you touch. And what you take, your right hand causes you to sin. What are you to do? Cut it off. Throw it away Better to lose one of your members than your whole body. Go into hell. What's he talking about? He's talking about Killing sin, what the old writers called the mortification of sin. And if you're to be in the way of gospel holiness, man or woman, you must not only be certain You have experienced that radical cleavage with the dominion of sin in true biblical conversion, regeneration. But you must be prepared to be continuously killing remaining sin, no matter how painful And brutal, and apparently fanatical to some, the process may be Years ago, I said in a pastor's conference, and I'm talking many years ago, probably 30 Forty years ago, I was just a young man. Popular magazines were much more discreet in the amount of flesh they showed. But at the time I had a subscription to Time magazine. And I told my wife, I said, dear, when that comes in the mail, you go through and censor it and you tear out and clip out any pictures. of inordinately bared female flesh. And I shared that at a pastor's conference and word got back to me that one of the pastors said, that man is Sick. I was sick. But I want to tell you something. I stand before you as a seventy-seven year old year old man whose character has never been stained by moral deviation from the standard I don't know how many right hands I've had to cut. I don't know how many right eyes I've gouged and thrown away. I couldn't count them. But that's the word Christ gives. And he repeats this elsewhere in the Gospels. It's so critical. And the problem with some of you men is this, and I'm talking eyeball to eyeball to you. You fall in this area, your conscience troubles you, you go whimpering to Christ, you ask forgiveness. You say, I'll never do it again, I'll be better the next time, but you are not plucking and cutting and casting. It's that stinking computer in your study That is your right eye and your right hand. You have no need to have an unfiltered computer Some of you have no need to have a computer at home. It is not essential to fulfilling your job as a provider for your wife and your family. It's a luxury that becomes an avenue of mental lust. Stop whining. Stop whining. Stop whining and start hacking and cutting and casting. Get rid of the damned thing if you must do it. Cut it off. Pluck it out. Be done with it. Because that's what it is. It is a damned thing. It is under the damnation of God, and it will result in your damnation. If you do not in the strength of Christ gain the victory over it Killing sin is no pleasant experience. But it's essential. And that's why Paul uses the same terminology in Colossians 3. 5. He names a whole bunch of sins and he says, put them all to death. If you don't aim at the death of the sin, you'll never know victory over it. Don't leave it any breathing room. Don't leave it any breathing. For years I had to make a vow when I would travel by air, that I would not stop and pause. At the magazine kiosks in the airport, because they became the occasion more than once for my eyes to see things they never should see. And the only way I could pluck out and cast away was to make something close to a vow. God I shall never again pause and browse the literature magazine chaos in an airport. You say, you're sick. No, I'm healthy by the grace of God in the way of holiness. And I only make those confessions so you men know I'm not talking like someone who doesn't have the capacity to be mastered By those foul sins of mental lust, so easily and ubiquitously fed by the technology of our society. You ladies, you know what your primary sins are: cattiness, jealousy, envy, gossip. You know them. Are you killing them? Are you killing them? Are you aiming at their non-being when someone says, I hate you so much I could kill you? What they're saying is, I want your non-being. I want you out of the way. You and I must be in the business of killing sin, going after its non-being. That's what old John Owen meant when he said, you be killing sin, for sin will kill you. But somebody's gonna die You or your sin, which will it be? Gospel holiness. What is it? We've seen it's absolutely essential. It begins with the radical cleavage with the dominion of sin. It brings within its orbit the continuous killing of remaining sin, but then thirdly, And thank God for this positive element. You've been patient. I've been very negative. I've been very intense. But the subject matter warrants every bit of the intensity and the seriousness. But thank God that gospel holiness involves a third element or component, and it's this. It is the continuous cultivation of Christ-like. Graces, the continuous cultivation of Christlike graces We've seen from Romans 8. 29 that God's purpose in redemption is to restore the very image of his son in all of his redeemed. It's a beautiful thing to meditate on the fact that by the objective work of Christ external to us, his perfect life, his substitutionary death, his ongoing work of intercession by the work of Christ for us. We have a righteous title to heaven. We can stand before the court of Almighty God and know that we have a title to heaven that's not bogus. It hasn't been in some way placed there and doesn't belong there. It is a righteous right. Ponified, title to heaven, based upon the objective work of Christ for us. But what a terrible heaven it would be if God took to heaven only those for whom he provided a righteous title. But he didn't make them fit for heaven. Imagine having people who had a righteous title to heaven who still loved sin and darkness and self and had no love for God, no love for Christ, no appreciation of his glory and of the wonder of his being and of his ways and of his works. Heaven would be hell to such people, and it would turn heaven into hell for God. He wants to be surrounded with people who not only are there with a righteous title to be there. but who are like him, who reflect his image again. He made us in his image in Eden in our first father and that image has been marred and twisted. and distorted and it's grotesque and it's ugly. But in redemption he says, I'm going to restore the image And I'm going to surround myself with this vast multitude in whom the family likeness of my son is perfectly reproduced. And this whole matter of gospel holiness is in part This cultivation of Christ-like graces. That's why 1 John 2, 6 says. He that says he abides in him ought himself so to walk, even as he walked. Yes, Christ is supremely our substitute and savior, but he's also our example. That's why Peter could say For he has left us an example that we should follow his steps, who when he was reviled, reviled not Not again? When he suffered he threatened not, but committed his cause to him who judges righteously. Christ is our pattern and our example. And when we turn to passages like Galatians 5, 22 and 3, the fruit of the Spirit, 1 Corinthians 13, what does love look like? How does love act? All of those passages are really commentaries on the character of Jesus. They are detailed commentaries on what it is to be like Christ. And no little component in this matter of gospel holiness is consciously cultivating Christ-like graces And I use the term cultivate and conscious because that's what Peter does. He says, besides. Adding on your part all diligence. Add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge and to knowledge self-control. He says, you must add to this pursuit of likeness to Christ, spiritual diligence. That means husbands, you're ready to sit down with your wife and say, dear, when you read your Bible and you see how Jesus related to children And when you see how Jesus related to his enemies, and when you see how Jesus reacted even when his friends disappointed him, what do you see in the patterns of my life? That are not like Jesus. Dear, help me to know where I'm not like you Are you husbands ready to leave this conference? Go home and do that with your wife? If so, you're not serious about gospel. holiness because next to the Lord nobody knows you better than she does. And you wives, are you ready to sit down with your husbands and say, dear, Be faithful to me as you read your Bible and you see how the Lord Jesus lived, how he related to people, how he reacted to circumstances and situations. What do you see in me as your wife and as mother to your children, keeper of your home and and cook and bottle washer for the necessities of your life? What do you see in me that's not like Jesus? And then say, dear, will you work with me? I'm really going to work with you. on this and do it. I'm gonna tell um two old people that need to keep doing this. I'm one of them. I won't tell you who the other one is. By nature, my dear Dorothy is one of the most inquisitive creatures that ever walked God's earth. If she meets you within three minutes, she's going to ask you 30 questions. Part of her interest in people and how she gets to know people by asking questions because that way they can talk about themselves without feeling like they're full of people. themselves. If you walk into any situation and say, it's good to meet you, sir, uh for the next twenty minutes I'm gonna talk about myself. Your first reaction is who is this character thing I am that I want to know that much about him, he's gonna run off at the mouth for twenty minutes. But if you say Mr. Martin, it's good to meet you. You mind if I ask you a series of questions? And you start asking me questions? I end up talking about myself, but you ask me to do it, you see. Well, I'm just the opposite. I will observe the color of your glasses and remember them five years from now. I'll remember lots of details, observe it, but I don't ask questions. So I come home from a conference and I'll tell to my wife what I did, who I was with. Oh, you met so and so? Yes. Is he married? I said I didn't know But if he is married, does he have any children? I said I didn't ask. If he does have children, how old are they? How many boys? How many girls? All kinds of of things that she would have absorbed that's just on me. And you know what I have found in me? I have found an irritation when she starts asking me all those questions when she knows ahead of time I'm probably not going to be able to answer them T Uh unless maybe she's subtly praying and hoping I'll get converted in that area. But seriously, I've had to say, dear, the way I respond to your question With irritation is sin. And I've asked God to forgive my sin of being irritable when you ask me those questions I am committed to mortify that sin of irritability. You do not deserve my respondents in the irritable way. It's perfectly right for you to do what you're doing. Will you work with me as I try by the grace of God to respond to me? And she's even told me how I can respond sweetly. I can just say when she asks me, does he have any kids? say don't have a clue dear. And if I gotta say that twenty times, I can say sweetly, don't have a clue, dear. Rather than letting it get under my skin and make me be unlike Jesus. Jesus would not respond with irritation. C'est an area where I'm not liking and I want to be And I've got to work on it. You see, you've got to identify the areas and then apply the means of grace, husband, wife, pastor, friends. and by the grace of God cultivate Christ-like graces so that when the scripture says God predestined to make us like his son, those who are closest to us can say I see God doing that work in my husband, in my wife, in my mom, in my dad, in my pastor, in my brother, in my sister. People should see Christ being formed in us if indeed the Holy Spirit is forming him in us. And if he's not, why not? Since that's his purpose, and for that reason he sent his spirit into our hearts to make us like him. But you and I are to be active not only in the continuous killing of our remaining sin, but in the continuous cultivation of Christ-like graces. You see, one of Paul's great burdens for his converts was right here. I love Galatians 4. 19. Listen to what he said when he wrote to the Galatians. He said, My little children, of whom I travail again in birth, until Christ be formed in you. He went through spiritual birth pangs to see them brought into spiritual life, and now they've been declining from. trusting in the grace of God alone and trying to add to the work of Christ circumcision and dietary laws and Paul knew When you move away from the gospel, you move away from holiness. The gospel alone produces holiness. Stay close to the gospel. if you're going to grow in holiness, so he knows they were suffering. He had to say, if you if you bite and devour one another, be Careful you don't end up consuming one another. He knew that the more they got away from the gospel, the more they moved away from practical likeness to Christ And so now he's not only laboring to bring them back to the gospel, but to the fruit of the gospel. So he says, I'm going through birth pangs again. I birthed you spiritually with spiritual birth pangs when I brought the gospel to you. Now I had to write this letter to try to bring you back to the gospel. Because I know to some extent Christ is not being formed in you. When you move from the gospel, I travail again in birth till Christ be formed in you. And then the second text that is one of my favorites. Do we want to be like Christ? But we need to keep looking at Christ. As we see in here, 2 Corinthians 3. 18, Paul says, we all, including himself and the Corinthians, we all. with open face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into that image. from one stage of glory to another, even by the Lord the Spirit. He says the Holy Spirit, as we gaze upon our Savior, works in the inner stuff of our life. and more and more is conforming us to our Lord Jesus. And you aren't going to find Jesus Addicted to your television, spending three to four hours staying up late Monday night watching Monday night football. Spending all Saturday afternoon watching your favorite college football games. You're not gonna see Christ anywhere else but in this book And you're going to have to live in the book if you're going to grow in likeness to the Lord Jesus. Well then I must hasten. If indeed we are to grow in this grace of true gospel holiness, We must start at the right place, the radical cleavage with the dominion of sin, moving on to the continual killing of sin joined to the continual cultivation of Christ-like graces, but then in the fourth place. There must be a continuous and serious effort. A continuous and serious effort To conform heart and life to the spiritual demands of the law of God. There is no progress in gospel holiness without a continuous and serious effort to conform heart and life. To the spiritual demands of the law of God. Isn't this exactly what our Lord was doing in the Sermon on the Mount after describing? The character traits of his two children in the Beatitudes. He then goes on to say Do not think that I came to destroy the law. I came to fulfill it, and one of the ways I fulfill it is by bringing the subjects of my kingdom more and more into conformity to the law of God in all of its internal and external demands. The law of God that starts with the springs of motive and desire and attitude and disposition and reaches out to deeds and words and places and people. And if the Bible makes anything plain, it makes plain that one of the fruits of regeneration is the implantation of a passion to be conform to God's holy law. For God said in the new covenant, I will take out the heart of stone. I will give them a heart of flesh and I will put my spirit within them, I will write my law upon their hearts, and I will cause them to keep my statutes and my judgments. God says where there's been a real biblical conversion, where regeneration has genuinely occurred. God gives us an internal disposition of desire to be obedient to his law, the mark of the unconverted, Romans 8. 7. Carnal mind is enmity against God, it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be. But one of the marks of the regenerate is, oh how love I thy law. It is my meditation all the day. Yea, thy law is within my heart. To say with Paul, I delight in the law of God after the inward man. Yes, I see another law in my members, but it doesn't negate this law of passionate love. For God's law. And who is the blessed man according to Psalm 1? The blessed man, the blessed woman, is known by what he doesn't do. Blessed is the man that walks not. in the council of the ungodly, stands in the way of sinners, sits in the seat of scoffers. That's the negative. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that brings forth its fruit in its season. I ask you, my dear brother-sister, are you making a continuous and serious effort to conform heart and life? to the spiritual demands of the law of God, touching motive, disposition, attitude, Do you run from a spirit of bitterness like you would run from the thought of murder itself? Do you abominate the very thought of being untrue to your marital vows as well as avoid all relationships? And actions and words that could lead to that wretched sin of covenant breaking This is part and parcel of gospel holiness. It is this continuous, serious effort to conform heart and life to the spiritual demands. Of the law of God. Will we ever perfectly attain it? No. Our salvation rests down upon the obedience of the only one. Whoever perfectly kept God's law from the deepest springs of its desire of where it touches desires to the widest streams of life You want some fuel for meditation on the way home today? Think about what perfect law-keeping meant for Jesus. As a real human being, living In a sinful world. You mothers, you very quickly know when that little nursing child is hungry. And you need to sit and give him or her a snort. And when they're just making selfish, inordinate demands, you discern very quickly Don't you, the difference between the hunger cry and the world must circle around what I want Doesn't take long and the discerning parent to see I have a little sinner in my arm. A self-centered, willful sinner that would cause the whole world to stop short to meet its demands whenever it makes them known. Jesus went through every stage of infant development and never once did he let out a cry to make Mary, rooted in selfishness. I didn't say he never cried. That's heresy in that Christmas story that says uh the little Lord Jesus. Jesus awakes with the baby. No crying he makes, that's heresy. He cried as lustily as any baby when it was time to cry out of real hunger or real pain or discomfort. But never once did he ever cry out of a selfish desire Think of it. As a toddler, never once living with a bunch of little sinful brothers and sisters. I was just reading this morning. His townspeople knew the name of his brothers, and the sisters aren't named, but he had more than two, because it says, and his sisters are they not with us? And the toys are there in the living room, and Jesus is playing with one, and along comes one of his siblings, who is a selfish sinner conceived in Adam, rips the toy from his hand, not once, not once. Did he haul back and smack him on the side of the head? Not once did he grab the toy and say, That's mine, you can't have it. Not once. Not once. Not once. Sinlessness as a toddler. Sinless as a pre-pubescent teenager. Sinless coming into puberty and feelings surging through his holy humanity. all of the realities of his developing sexuality. Never once a lustful thought, a lustful deed. You meditate on what sinlessness meant when the law of God touches motive, attitude, desire, disposition. The holy soul of the Son of God knew no sin And that's the obedience culminating in the cross that God credits to you and to me that we might be accepted in the beloved You're never going to attain that. But listen to me. If you could, you would. And with all your heart, you wish you could. If you're a true Christian, don't you? Oh, that I could perfectly obey the law of God just one day. And even though we know we can't, we seriously and earnestly make the effort in dependence upon the grace of God And the virtue of Christ that is in us because he is the vine and we are the branches. Well, there is much more that could be said. Just give you the headings. If indeed we're going to make progress in gospel holiness, we must add to these things. I want to just give you the heads. The continuous and growing non-conformity to the world. A continuous and growing non-conformity to the world. Nobody talks about worldliness anymore, but the Bible does And Romans 12, 2 makes it plain we must not let this world squeeze us into its mold. but be transformed by the renewing of our minds. The world has its opinion about everything. It has its standards, its goals. It has its framework of reference for every attitude of life. You want to be a cool teenager? Here's what you gotta be. This is what you gotta wear. This is what you gotta listen to. This is who you gotta be able to talk about. The latest pop star and the latest rock group. You gotta wear these clothes. You gotta use this language. You can't talk like you know English. It's your man, your man, and all the rest, you see. That's cool, that's with it That's the world telling you how to live, guys. Don't listen to them. They've got no right to tell you how to live. Don't listen to the world, girls. Christine Aguilera and Britney Spears got no right to tell you how to dress. Got no right to tell you. Got no right to say, this is cool and that's cool and this is in and that's out. My Bible says whosoever would be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. James 4 and verse 4. And dear people, if we take gospel Christians, but we are new covenant Christians. We are under a covenant that God Himself says is new. And God Himself said the old covenant was made old and is vanishing away. And when he gave the great commission, he said, make disciples, baptizing them, teaching them to observe whatsoever I have commanded you. personally in the Gospels, through the apostles who were the mouthpieces, and through the Old Testament, for it was the Spirit of Christ in the prophets who spoke And their words are recorded, says Peter. But I'm using my words carefully, that the whole ethos and climate of our lives must be that of the blessed realities of the new covenant, a completed redemption, an exalted Savior, an outpoured spirit, a completed Bible. The open tomb redolent with joy and with the wonder of resurrection, life and power We are not to have the mustiness of the old covenant about our lives and about our worship. It is to be redolent and vibrant. with all the dynamics and the realities of our new covenant privileges in Jesus Christ. That's why Paul could say the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking. In great measure in the old covenant, eating and drinking was a vital part of that part of redemptive history. You had to eat the right food. And there was some food you weren't supposed to eat. Paul says, No, now in the full coming of the kingdom. The kingdom is not eating and drinking, but what? Righteousness and imputed righteousness in Christ. Righteousness, peace, peace with God, the peace of God and what? Joy in the Holy Spirit. A joy that comes to us with its taproots in all of our privileges and blessings in the Lord Jesus Christ. For freedom did Christ set you free. Be not entangled again in the yoke of bondage. And this is not just a polemic that will immunize you against some of the freedom. Folly and the spiritual stupidity and tragedy of people who have, in essence, drawn whole communities back under aspects of the old covenant, thereby negating all of these realities. But it speaks to us, dear people. As those who claim to be united to Christ and the recipients of the blessings of the end of the age, we have our new meal before us. A meal that does not look back to a sea that was opened and passing over. and a sea in which God judged a whole nation and its military might. But there's a cup and there is bread that reminds us. of a new covenant and all the blessings purchased by the blood of that covenant And we as the people of God, individually and corporately, if we are to grow in gospel holiness, we must grow in a serious effort to frame all of our life. by God's precepts, especially those of our Lord and of his apostles. Not exclusively, but especially in our praise. In our prayers, our praise and prayers will be vibrately Trinitarian because God is fully revealed himself as he is, one in three, three in one, in and through the gospel and the privileges of the new covenant and our lives and worship should reflect the same. Well, again, parts of what I had prepared to bring have enlarged in my own heart as you've drawn the preaching out of me. And I've had to bring it to a kind of a sloppy jagged end. But such as it is, I give it to you, and at least I gave you a lot of Bible, and that's my comfort. But let's stand and pray and thank God for His provisions for a life of gospel holiness. Holy Father, we are indeed thankful for all of the privileges that are ours. All because there was one who was willing to say, A body, you have prepared for me. Lo, I come to do your will, O my God. And you have told us by which will we have been sanctified by the offering up of the body of Jesus once for all. How we thank you for your word. Thank you for the privilege of this time together this morning. The privilege of singing your praise. of studying your word and now the privilege of coming to this simple supper of remembrance, grant, O Lord, that the Holy Spirit will bring home to our hearts with power. the wonder and the glory of who we are and what we possess in our Lord Jesus Christ. Receive our thanks for your goodness to us as we offer up our praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen.