In 1 Corinthians 10, Paul gives some practical instruction about the danger of temptation and sin by citing examples from the Old Testament And he says in verse 11, now these things happened to them, that is, the Israelites, as an example. And it's interesting that he asserts these things did happen, passing through the Red Sea, a number of other events that have supernatural aspects to them. Paul says these things did happen, but They happened to them as an example for us, and they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. is the New Covenant Era. And it's our privilege this morning to have our brother Pastor Stephen Coleman to bring God's word to us. And uh Stephen is uh not only an ordained minister in the PCA, he's uh working on a PhD in Old Testament at Catholic University. So I was glad to see that he's going to be preaching from that portion of the Lord's word this morning. Stephen, welcome dear brother. And uh it's all ready to go. And as I said last week when Paul Wolf was here, Stephen has been gracious enough to fill the pulpit uh in the past, but I've rarely had the pleasure, I think once before I've been here, so I'm glad to be here to profit from your ministry. Good morning. Before I read this scripture this morning, would you bow with me in prayer? Our Father, we give you thanks that you not only have spoken to your people in the past, but you continue to speak to us by your word. Father, would you accompany your word by your Holy Spirit, removing our natural rebellion and resistance to it, softening our hearts, making us willing to hear and to receive. Both your word of law and gospel, that we may be renewed in the likeness of Christ. And we ask for His sake. Amen. Be preaching this morning on the third commandment. I'm going to read uh the Commandments up to number three, and then I'm going to read a section from the book of 1 Samuel. So first, from Exodus chapter 20, starting at verse 1. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Then over to the book of 1 Samuel, chapter 4, starting at verse 1. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. And now all and all uh and it now Israel went out to the battle against the Philistines. They encamped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped at Aphak. The Philistines drew up in line against Israel, and when the battle spread, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about four thousand men on the field of battle. And when the troops came to the camp, the elders of Israel said, Why has the Lord defeated us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord here from Shiloh, that it may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies. So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of hosts, who is enthroned on the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were there with the Ark of the Covenant of God. As soon as the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel gave a mighty shout so that the earth resounded. And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, What does this great shouting in the camp of the Hebrews mean? And when they learned that the ark of the Lord had come to the camp, the Philistines were afraid, for they said, A God has come into the camp. They said, Woe to us, for nothing like this has happened before. Woe to us, who can deliver us? From the power of these mighty gods. These are the gods who struck the Egyptians with every sort of plague in the wilderness. Take courage and be men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Be men and fight. So the Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and they fled, every man to his home. And there was a great slaughter, for there fell of Israel thirty thousand foot soldiers. And the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni, and Phineas died. Skipping down to chapter 5. When the Philistines captured the ark of God, they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it into the house of Dagon and set it up beside Dagon. And when the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen face down on the ground before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and put him back in his place. But when they rose early on the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen face down on the ground before the ark of the Lord And the head of Dagon, and both his hands were lying cut off on the threshold. Only the trunk of Dagon was left to him. This is why the priests of Dagon and all who enter the house of Dagun do not tread on the threshold of Dagun in Ashdod to this day. The hand of the Lord was heavy against the people of Ashdod, and he terrified and afflicted them with tumors, both in Ashdod and its territory. And when the men of Ashdod saw how things were, they said, The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for his hand is hard against us and against Dagon our God. This is the word of the Lord. The church has rightly understood really what Israel understood when they received these commandments at Mount Sinai. And that is that these Ten Commandments really mean much more than they say. That the commandments carry with them obligations that really far exceed What is written on the page or etched in stone in this case, right? And so, for example, we understand that the fifth commandment does not just have to do with honoring our father and mother, but has implications for the Christian's posture towards every legitimate authority, including bosses, magistrates, and so on. We understand that the commandment, thou shalt not murder, has not only implications for how we are to treat other people, but how we are to promote and preserve all of life. We understand that not bearing false witness against our neighbor does not just apply to the courtroom Right, that's what's envisioned in that commandment, a courtroom setting. But it really obliges us to tell the truth in every situation. Be those who promote truth in our relationships and our dealings. However, when it comes to the third commandment, I think it's common for the church to really do just the opposite. That is, we tend to reduce the command, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, to mean little more than don't use God's name as a curse word. Don't shout Jesus Christ when you're angry. Don't text those three little letters OMG to your friend. But what I want you to see this morning is that while these things are entailed in this command to not take the name of the Lord in vain, they're really a far, far cry from giving us the real heart. The essence of the third commandment. You see, the real heart of God's command, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. is a prohibition against any misuse or any dishonoring of any means whereby God makes himself known And the most basic means by which he makes himself known is his very own name. Or to state it positively. We would say that the third commandment requires that with all of our thoughts, with all of our words, with all of our actions, we treat God. And the things of God with a holy and reverent and serious and pious respect. And that we use his means of grace to their rightful end. And that is the honoring. and glorifying of Jesus Christ and the upbuilding of his church. Do you see how that's a much bigger vision of what the third commandment entails And to unpack this, I want to speak first about really the significance of God's name, the significance of the name Because to understand the third commandment, you need to understand something of the significance of names in the ancient world. And especially perhaps how these names were different for them than they may be for us. For us, names are simply a means for us to designate or point to an individual. We basically agree with Shakespeare's Juliet when she asks, what's in a name? That which is called we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. The ancients would have thought Juliet was crazy. Not for the same reasons we think Juliet is crazy. They would have thought she was crazy because Juliet didn't understand the power of a name. And the capacity of a name to uniquely reveal the essence of a thing. That was what names, how names functioned in the ancient world. A person's name, you see, told you who that person really is. Revealed the essence or character of an individual. And this is why names play such an important role in biblical narrative. Places, people. Think of how many people in the Bible are given a new name at critical moments in their lives. Think of Abram, who becomes Abraham. Sarai becomes Sarah. Hoshea becomes Joshua. Saul becomes Paul. Jacob becomes Israel. And this was to reflect their new identity. It was to reflect that God had done and would continue to do a work in their lives, changing their character, changing their essence, giving them a new heart, changing them from the inside out. And so it is with God as well. God's name was the means by which he revealed himself to his people. It was the way in which Israel was to come to know their God. So that they could call on him to be present as their Savior and relate to him as their covenant Lord. And we see this expressed most clearly in Exodus chapter 6. When God is sending Moses to Pharaoh, and if you remember the narrative, Moses is a tad bit reluctant, right? And Moses objects, saying, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, say this to the people of Israel, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever. And thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. You see, it's through these names. The God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, that Israel could know who their God is. See, this is important, brothers and sisters, that we remember that the name God is not an empty cipher for Christians. An empty uh sign just waiting for us to fill it in with whatever content we desire The God of Abraham, the God of Jacob, the God of Isaac, these names recalled God's gracious promises to the patriarchs. His covenant name, the name Yahweh, translated often in our English versions with the name Lord. uh capital L and then small caps, L-O-R-D. It's the covenant name, Yahweh. This is God's uh name uh in which he's recalling for Israel his work for them in the Exodus. Right, the Exodus of the when God redeems Israel from slavery, bringing them out of Egypt, that single event that was for Israel their gospel, which they could point back to and say, that's our God. And what you see very quickly as you read the Bible is that God has many names. El Shaddai, God Almighty. Yahweh Yerah, the Lord provides. Yahweh Rophay, the Lord heals. Yahweh Mkadesh, the Lord of holiness. Yahweh Tsarikenu, the Lord our righteousness. It's almost as if one name was insufficient. It's insufficient to fully communicate who God is for his people. And each name in a way reveals a different truth about God. It teaches us that God is the provider, that God is the healer, that the Lord is the holy one, that the Lord is righteous. But what you need to see is that all of them, in one way or another, draws back to God's action in history. That God is the Lord of history, and He has revealed Himself in history, revealing Himself to His people. They are God's most basic way, brothers and sisters, of telling us about himself By giving us his name, he teaches us about himself, tells us who he is. See, we don't get to name God. God names Himself and reveals it to us as an act of gracious condescension However, God's name is not only the means by which he reveals himself to his people, it's also the way in which God expresses ownership. Throughout the Bible, we find God putting His name on people and on places and on things. And in so doing, God is essentially saying that these things belong to me. These things are a part of my kingdom. These things are a part of my work and my project of redemption in the world. They belong to the realm of heaven, and so they should be treated as God's property. And so, for example, God says about King Solomon, he will build a house for my name. And I will establish his throne forever. God calls Jerusalem in a number of places the place where I cause my name to dwell. God warns Aaron and his sons in Leviticus 22 to be exceptionally vigilant in their handling of the people's sacrifices. He says, so that they do not profane my name, I am the Lord. See, the sacrifices belong to God. And for the priests to priests to mishandle sacrifices would be for them to mishandle God's property and disrespect God. Didn't we know this same thing in our own experience? If someone takes our things or borrows our things and they mistreat it or mishandle it. We would consider that a disrespect or dishonor to ourselves. Same thing with God. But most importantly, God places his name on Israel themselves This is seen perhaps most clearly in the familiar Iranic blessing. That God commands to the priests to give the people of Israel, he says, the Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. And then God says. So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them. You see, brothers and sisters, God in a sense licenses out his name, not for anyone to do anything they want with it. But so that it would mark out his people as belonging to him. So it would mark out the place of God's presence with his people in the temple. I know there are some children in this room who will be going back to school soon, right? I don't know, is Laurel going back tomorrow or the next week? Tomorrow? That's wrong. Okay. But you'll be going back to school soon. You might have supplies that you might write your name on. What are you doing? You're you're s putting your name on these things, your book bag, your lunchbox, your uh binders or whatever, so that you can tell other people these things belong to me They are my possession. This is what God does when he places his name on his people. He's saying that they belong to me. God is holy and his name is holy and God makes things and people holy by placing his name on them. And so to misuse or dishonor not just God's name, but anything associated with God's name was to take God's name in vain. And so that's the significance of the name in the ancient world. It was a way of God's not just revealing himself. But also a way of God's doing something in the world, that is his actual marking out of people, places, and things as belonging to him And this then brings us to the second point, which is the the seriousness of the sin. Why is it that we are so prone to misuse God's name? I think it's easy for us to understand why we as fallen sinners would want to break most of the commandments. We understand why we want to steal things so we can get things. We understand why someone might want to murder, that is to uh uh uh uh uh exact vengeance or satisfy hatred against another individual. But why do we want to mishandle God's name? What does it do for us? Well, I believe that the most basic reason we dishonor God's name is because by so doing we honor ourselves. We take God's name and we use it for our own purposes, our own programs, our own ideologies, our own agenda, and we do this all in place of God's purpose. God's plans, God's program, and God's agenda. And this is why I read to you from the what's called the ark narrative in the book of Samuel For those of you who are wondering, what on earth does this have to do with the Third Commandment? Well, this is why I read it for you, because this is just one of really many very clear illustrations. of Israel's sinful compulsion to try to conscript God for their own purposes. You'll remember the book of Samuel, perhaps you'll remember the book of Samuel opens up during the period of the judges. The period of the judges was arguably the darkest period in Israel's history. It was a period summarized by the author of the book of Judges, as a time when everyone did what was right in his own eyes Israel's high priest, Eli, was as lazy as he was incompetent. Eli's sons, Hophni and Phineas. who were serving as priests in the temple were well known for being lecherous, vicious, oppressive, and sacrilegious. And it's at this time that Israel goes to war against the Philistines, and lo and behold, they lose. And now this startled them, and rightly so. It s was right that they were startled because Yahweh, their God, had promised that he would go with them into battle, he would fight their battles for them, and he would defeat their enemies. And they lost. Why did they lose? Well, what Israel forgot was that God's promise that he would fight for them and defeat their enemies was conditional. And it was conditioned on their obedience, their faithfulness to the covenant, their loyalty to the law. But instead of allowing their defeat at the hands of the Philistines to sort of startle them into some sort of spiritual reflection. To startle them into seeking reform and renewal in their lives, new obedience, what do they conclude? Let's harness God. Let's bring out the ark, because then that will make God fight for us. They really treat the ark like a talisman or a magic token, the right handling of which will bind God to do their will. It's a way of them trying to get God in a headlock. You kids, you might know if you have s brothers or sisters, they might at one time have gotten you in a headlock When they have you in a headlock, you have to do whatever they want you to do, right? That's what they were trying to do with God. Trying to get God in a headlock and making God fight their battle for them. What you need to see though is that Israel is essentially relating to Yahweh, their God, just like their pagan neighbors related to their gods. This is the heart of paganism. To manipulate gods, to bind gods. And you see this even in the Philistines' response. I think it's interesting how the Philistines respond just like pagans, like we would expect them. It's not surprising. What's surprising is that Israel's acting like pagans, but the Philistines really believe that the same thing that Israel believes. And that the presence of the ark will compel God now to fight on their behalf. But what happens? The Ark, Israel loses, and the Ark is captured by the Philistines. Hophni and Phineas are killed. And the news, I didn't read this part to you, but the news of both, the death of Hophni and Phineas, the capture of the ark, kills Eli, the high priest. What do we learn from this? Well, what we learn is that God will not be a bit player in Israel's drama. He will not be a supporting actor. He will not be a bit player in your play or my play. He is not our servant whom we summon to do our will so that we can continue to go out and make a name for ourselves. And this same narrative is played out over and over again in Israel's history. Just think of the prophet Jeremiah. Who in Jeremiah 7 denounces the leaders of Israel who refuse to believe God's promise that he's going to bring judgment against Judah It's going to bring destruction on Jerusalem for their disobedience. And they go into the temple and they cry out, The Temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. They're thinking in their superstition that by doing this, they're going to bind God to defeat their enemies, regardless of their obedience, regardless of their behavior. Was Israel's intractable habit, like it's our intractable habit, to try to relate to God like pagans? Never forget the first day in my uh era uh Aramaic class, one of my Aramaic classes, we were all handed a bowl. And my professor said, be careful. They're 1800 years old. Okay. You look inside the bowl. And there's words written starting in the very center and moving in a spiral. So that as you turn the bowl You read the words. And what these are are were Aramaic magic bowls used by Jews in the area of southern Iraq. And as you turn the bowls, the magician would read the incantation, usually a curse or a hex upon an individual. They would read the curse, and then they would bury it under the doorstep in their uh or before their house. Because I found loads of them all throughout southern Iraq. And what was striking about these bulls were the numbers of names used. Adonai, Yahweh. Elohim, El-Shadach, all these names over and over and over again. Some of these bulls were basically just a list of names. Why? Because by calling on the name, by summoning the name, by using the name, they were going to bind God. There was power there. It's magic. It's pagan. It's unbiblical. The third commandment God tells his people that this is not how you will relate to me. Like pagans manipulating and binding deities. Rather, you are to relate to me, God says, on the basis of my promise. My word tells you what I will do. You don't need to get me to do something that I haven't promised to do. You don't need to make up more things for me to do. And so Christians, we must always be very careful that we don't conscript God for our own purposes. This has been the unfortunate habit of the Christian church throughout history, to baptize our human agendas in the name of God. This always has, and it always will yield disastrous consequences for the Christians and for the Christian church. And of course, the easy example for us to point to would be the Crusades, right? Where the entire church was roused to war against Muslims in Jerusalem with the cry, God wills it. I realize I'm about a mill millennium late to rail against the Crusades. But what we need to see is that the habit of making God's will look an awful lot like our own will hasn't left us. And something perhaps a little closer to home would be an upcoming election season. Perhaps some of you have noticed that we have an election coming up. And what we have already begun to see is pastors and politicians and church leaders conscripting God for both sides of the aisle. As if God has placed his name on the Republican or on the Democratic platform. God has done no such thing. And we need to remember that. We need to see. Also, that we as Christians do this even on a small scale, in our own lives, in our own churches. Every time we communicate that to be a Christian you have to believe this or you have to do that when God has not said you have to believe this or you have to do that. We've taken the name of the Lord in vain. We need to be very, very careful. You know, a recent book has come out. Talking about how difficult it is to be an introvert in the American Church. Why do you think that is? I think it's perhaps that in the American churches what's being communicated is that to be a Christian you need to be a certain kind of Christian, namely a sort of outgoing and bubbly one. Very talkative. Fellowship, perhaps you've noticed it, has become more what happens around the coffee table than the Lord's table. We need to be careful what we communicate to others, how we communicate what it means to be a Christian, and that we go no further than the Word of God. Also, we take God's name in vain every time we try to read providence. As if God is telling us something directly If he calls by eight, God is telling me to marry him. This is nothing different than paganism. If the crows fly west at dawn, Marduk says, go to battle. This is why we need to know the Word of God, brothers and sisters. We need to believe the Word of God, and we need to be so very careful to go no further than the Word of God in obliging others to do those things that we think that they should do. And we see in the ark narrative, every time, not sometimes, but every time people try to use God to further their own agenda, to make a name for themselves, that it results in failure. As God says in the third commandment, he will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. When we diminish God's name, when we misuse his name, when we treat him and his things lightly or of little consequence. And when we honor our own name and glorify ourselves, we've broken this commandment. What we all need to see is that this too often characterizes each and every one of us. Like the architects of the Tower of Babel who wanted to make a name for themselves, we have sought to make a name for ourselves, and in so doing, we have diminished God's name. We have treated him lightly and dishonored him. You know, each of us has a name. And throughout our life, our name gains a reputation and a history. We know that all sorts of things get attached to our names, and once they're there, there's often nothing we can do about it. Think, for example. of your grades or your schools or your employment history or your marital history or bankruptcy. But we also know that names gain a reputation as well. Especially among those who know us. Very often, like our grades and schools and marital history, our actions, whether good or bad, are not easily forgotten by our friends. Right? A single lie can haunt you for years. A single act of infidelity will be attached to our reputation for decades. But God, we're told throughout the Bible, knows our names. He knows our complete history. He knows our reputation. And with God, it's not like our juvenile record. Gets sort of what expunged at 18 or something. He knows our history from beginning to end. Every thought, every action, every deed. The Bible teaches us time and again that our lives are open books before God, our Creator and our Judge. And God's stipulation attached to the commandment remains true for each one of us that God will not hold you guiltless when you've taken his name in vain. But what we need to do, brothers and sisters, when we read this commandment, when we read every commandment, is to see how this command is fulfilled by Christ Jesus. Jesus, whom Paul called the end of the law. You see, if you draw a line directly from the commandment to your life The only thing you can conclude is you're a miserable failure. I'm a miserable failure. And we all stand condemned before God. There's no good news here. There's no power here. But when we consider Christ, when we see the fullness of God's revelation, the Lord of holiness Christ the Lord our righteousness, the Lord of glory. What we see in Christ is one who never used God's name in vain. He never used his own divinity to serve himself Well we see in this Jesus who never sought to establish his own name is one who sought to bring glory to his Father. Honor to the name of his father. He never sought his own will, but he submitted his will to the Father's will perfectly. So that even as he prayed, begging of his father to take the curse of the cross from him, he could end his prayer with those words. You know them well. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And what we know is that through the cross and through the resurrection, as Paul tells us, Jesus was given a name. Philippians 2. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. And he did this for you and for me. For those who have broken this third commandment time and again. But you need to hear, dear Christians. If when you hear this, you wonder if God is going to hold you guilty. What you mustn't ever do is say, well, maybe that part of the commandment isn't that serious. Maybe he doesn't really mean that. No, he means that. He will not hold you guiltless. But what you need to hear is that God held you guilty in Christ. He pronounced you guilty when Jesus died on the cross. That was God not holding you guiltless. What you need to see is that Christ died for you. And that at Calvary, Jesus took your name with its sinful and sullied history. He took your name so that he may give you his. Then what you get with his name is his reputation, is Christ's righteous record So brothers and sisters, don't you see how precious the name of God is? How holy the name of God is, how valuable it should be to you, that name that was placed on your brow in baptism. That in your baptism, God has put his name on you, he's claimed you as his own, and this is a call for each of us to trust and to continue, to keep on trusting that we belong to God. And so, brothers and sisters, we need to treat our God as holy. You know, we live in a culture in which nothing is sacred. Nothing is exempt from being mocked or being trivialized. And we need to be exceptionally careful. That we, as the Christian church, that we do not buy into the cynicism of our culture. Our culture that tells us that you should not take God too seriously. Sure it's fine to believe in Him. Just Don't be so serious about it. Our culture would have us believe that our God is inconsequential. And our faith can be made into a joke. But what we need to remember, brothers and sisters, is that the things that we're about as Christians are anything but inconsequential, anything but light. Our sin is not trivial. Christ's blood is not insignificant. And the name of God that He has graciously given us is the most costly and precious thing that we have. We have to do with matters of eternal consequence. And so our words, our thoughts, our actions Need to reflect this reality. God's name, you see, should move us to reverence, to worship, to praise and to prayer. The name of God for Israel and for us. calls for a response. Specifically, it calls for a response of faith, a response of loyalty, a response of worship. A response of obedience. So may this be true of each and every one of us here. Would you please bow with me in prayer? Our Father, we thank you that your name is holy. And we ask your forgiveness for those many times in which we've treated it as a light and inconsequential thing. But we thank you furthermore that you've placed your holy name on us. And made a way for us to be holy in Christ and to stand in your holy presence, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. I pray that we would take you. And the things which you are about The redemption of sinners, the extension of your kingdom in the world. May we take these things seriously. May we treat them as significant May we learn more and more to be a part of that kingdom which is not of this world, that kingdom that you've prepared for us. The kingdom to which we are going. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.