Well, needless to say, my brothers and sisters, I deeply appreciate your serious and eager attention to the Word of God in the previous hour And here I want to give a little free pastoral theology before we turn to our subject for this hour. And that is this simple truth. And you will find it hard to believe this because I've said it to thousands of people over the years. And I don't know how many of them believe it, but it's true, so that's why I keep saying that. How you give yourself to preaching GREATLY influences how well the preacher preaches Often people think, well, if someone preaches well, that's all a matter of his preparation, of his heart, of his mind, of his material, and the help the Holy Spirit gives him as he preaches. beginning, middle, end of the story. No, it isn't. No, it isn't. You in great measure determine the level of a man's liberty, delight, and unction in preaching. When you come to the preaching of the word, well rested in body, that's why the battle for good preaching and good listening, Lord's Day morning, is won or lost Saturday night. That's where it's won or lost. Saturday night, it's one or lost. And if you lose it Saturday night, there's no way you make it up in Sunday. The price you pay Is what you thought was a dull sermon when in reality you were a dull hearer. That was the problem. But when you come rested and eager to receive the word, determined to track with the preacher as he preaches, to feel with him as he feels As his emotions mingle with what he is bringing from the Word of God, you allow your heart and your mind, your whole redeemed humanity. To coalesce with the preaching. Not only will the preacher be blessed and exhausted when he's done, you will be blessed And exhausted. You ought to be dead tired at the end of the Lord's day from the way you listen to preaching. You say, I thought I was the only one. No, you're not the only one. There's a lot of us that it is a demanding exercise, but it it's it's it's an exhilarating Weariness. It's not the kind of carking oppressive weariness. It's a healthy weariness. And when you think of those that followed our Lord for days hanging on his words till finally even the Lord said, Some of these people may fast regularly and they're up to two or three days without a decent meal, but a lot of them may not be. Hey fellas. Go find the loaves and fishes, we're going to have us a feast in the midst of all the preaching. So never underestimate what you give to the preacher when you give yourself to preaching. Don't discount that. I know what's happened often over the years, a total stranger would show up at the service and on the way out they'd say, Well, Pastor Martin, it's so good to meet you. I've heard your tapes or heard you at this conference. And it was so good to hear you and to receive the word. And then I would look them in the eye and say, thank you for being a good listener. And they'd look at me, I said, I said, I fixed my eye on you the minute I stood up to preach and you were sitting on the edge of your seat. At one point I almost wanted to say, You can blink and I won't be offended. I mean they just were transfixed and I said, You have no idea what that does to the preacher. Usually when I come into a new setting like this, one of I'm gonna let you in on a trade secret. One of the first things I do As I look out over your faces, I lock into those who are most readily conveying to me by their countenance, I'm ready to receive And I lock those people in, and when it gets a little heavy at times, I look at those people and it's like getting a shot of adrenaline. I d I don't understand all that, but it's the truth And I'm confessing to you, I'm perverse enough to use anything and everything legitimate to help me to preach as well as I can preach with God's help. So I give you that little free bit of pastoral theology and I hope you lay it to heart. Well, let's just once again now ask thank God for helping us and uh Pray again. He's never weary when we come again and again, and we said amen to the prayer that our brother prayed on our behalf. But I would like to ask the Lord for all of us again to help us in this supper. Father, we're so thankful that we're in a context of love and mutual acceptance and the privilege of enjoying all of those wonderful Experiences of human interaction that come as the result of your grace. So we thank you for your grace upon your people here. And we pray that that grace that helped your servant in the previous hour would once again be his portion. We thank you for your promise that those who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. May that promise be fulfilled in me as I seek to open up the word. May it be fulfilled in each man, woman, boy, or girl seated in this auditorium. May your Holy Spirit be our teacher, and may we be blessed with your felt presence, we ask through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Well, given we're a captive audience and it's only a few minutes since we concluded the previous hour, I won't need to assume the leakage of a few hours. in our understanding and give an extensive review, I simply remind you of where we've been. We've established the this text in Jeremiah 6, 16 as our basic foundation and framework for our consideration in the word, and after considering with you something of the man, Jeremiah, the people to whom he ministered, the burden of his message. We then looked at the language of the text, the majestic speaker is God Himself, the four imperatives to which he calls his people and the gracious promise that in obedience they would find rest. Then we turned in the previous hour to the first of those old paths wherein is the good way. Which I described as the old path of a holy spirit-wrought conversion to God And we parked in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 in a way that I hope anyone listening with half an ear would be able to sit down with someone else and teach down through that passage. It it preaches itself. It teaches itself. In answering the very vital question, how did Paul know the Thessalonians were God's elect? Well, he knew because of that work of this amazing, powerful operation of the Holy Spirit, which caused them to turn From their idols to the living and the true God to become his willing bonds and to reorient all of life to the age to come. Now what I would like to do in this hour is to begin to open up with you the second of those old paths Which I am describing as follows. It is the old path of the necessity, the nature, and the dynamics of gospel holiness. The necessity, the nature, and the dynamics of gospel holiness. And as I've gone over the material earlier this morning and even in previous preparation before leaving. uh to come here, I more and more was convinced there's no way I can handle that entire old path in one message. So God willing I will finish up what we begin in this hour in our time together tomorrow morning, and then we'll just have to leave the matter of the Lord's Day Sabbath and the worship of God to the next time I get invited to the conference. Well, seriously now, in this hour we will begin to consider this old path of the necessity of gospel holiness Now it's important that I define my words. What do I mean by holiness? Well, when I use the word holiness, I'm speaking of a life that is lived unto God. Separated from the world, from the dominion of sin, unto God. That's what I mean by holiness, a life that is separated unto God and is conformed increasingly to the standards of the Word of God That means increasing likeness to Christ, increasing conformity to the character and law of God, we'll get into some of those particulars, God willing, tomorrow morning. But that's what I mean by holiness. It has nothing to do with wearing dark clothes, wearing no makeup, going around with our eyes half lifted to heaven. and artificially engaging in pious talk. I have no sympathy for anything of that nature that is called holiness. I'm talking about a life separated from sin unto God, increasingly conformed to the standards of the Word of God. And what do I mean by calling it gospel holiness? Well, basically I mean this. It is a holiness produced by the power and by the motives of the gospel. It is not a holiness produced by traditions inherited from our parents or from our culture. a way of religious life that is merely the external pressure from the religious culture in which we were born or reared or into which we chose to place ourselves. I'm speaking of gospel holiness, that is a life of separateness unto God, increasingly conformed to the word of God that is produced by the power of the gospel. Only the gospel can plant our feet in the way of holiness. But it's not only the gospel that plants us into the way of holiness, it is the gospel in its power and in its motives that keeps us in the way of holiness. Love to Christ, desire to be conformed to Christ, the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit. The sanctifying influence of the Word of God, the intercession of Christ, all of these things are gospel commodities And I want us to think together about a holiness that is gospel holiness. That is, it is produced by the power and the motives Arising from the gospel, and it is the opposite of a merely legal or external holiness That is, a holiness in which people try to behave themselves and live a sanctified life thinking they will earn the favor of God. That's a legal holiness. I have no sympathy for legal holiness because the Bible has no sympathy for it. And also, it will often be a mere external holiness, like the Pharisees had. Jesus said, you Pharisees are like sepulchres. Someone went out with a big bucket of whitewash and splashed it, the morning sun rises and hits it. It almost blinds you like the Son on the new fall in snow, he said, outwardly you appear beautiful unto man. You really look like the epitome of holiness. But he said, roll the stone away and stick your head in, and you'll smell the rotting flesh, and you'll see the bleached bones. You are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. And I have no sympathy for that kind of holiness that is legal and external. We want to be concerned together about the old path of gospel holiness. And in the time allotted to me yet in this hour, we'll only have time to take up what I'm calling the absolute necessity for gospel holiness. How should we look upon this matter of living a life separated from the dominion of sin unto God? Increasingly conform to the norms of Scripture produced by the work of the gospel in us and its ongoing operations and power upon our motives. and our ability to live a life well pleasing to God, how should we look upon it? To make it more personal, let's put it this way. What do I have to do with gospel holiness? Or change the question, is gospel holiness a matter that I ought to be seriously concerned about? Yea or nay? Well, I want to demonstrate in the time remaining from the scriptures four lines of evidence which I trust will persuade you That gospel holiness is absolutely necessary. It is not merely desirable It is not optional, it is absolutely necessary. So, like a lawyer who's going to present his case, I bring forth Line of evidence number one. According to the scriptures, gospel holiness is essential if we would go to heaven and not to hell. Gospel holiness is essential if we would go to heaven and not to hell. A hundred years from now. Perhaps with a rare exception, it may be 105. Every one of us sitting in this building, this preacher standing in front of you, is going to be in one of two places. We're either going to be in the intermediate heaven that I write about in my book, or the intermediate hell to which that rich man went and cried out, I am in torment. In these flesh. Or if Jesus returns, we'll be in the ultimate heaven, which is the new heavens and the newer When heaven will come down to a renewed earth and both will be one, or in the ultimate hell The place the Bible calls Gehenna, outer darkness, the place where there is weeping And wailing and gnashing of teeth, where the worm does not die and the fire is never quenched Where the smoke of their torment goes up forever and forever And according to the scriptures, gospel holiness is absolutely necessary if we would be found in heaven and not in hell. A hundred years from now, we're all going to be in one place or the other. Forever. Forever. And there are times when I've wondered as a creature. Can we even begin to wrap the fingers of our minds around a concept of foreverness? And I've actually thought of taking a watch and saying for the next five minutes, I'm going to do nothing but keep repeating this word forever. Forever, forever, forever, forever Forever. If I were to do it for five minutes, it would almost drive you crazy Just the thought of foreverness. But dear people, that's another reason why no preacher who takes his Bible seriously is a jobster. Because he's always trapped in the issues that are gonna land you in heaven or in hell forever. And uh now where in the Bible does it say, unless I experience gospel holiness, I'll miss heaven and I'll go to hell. I'm going to bring forward three to four witnesses. If that doesn't persuade you, a hundred would not do it. First of all, Hebrews 12 and verse 14. Hebrews 12 and verse 14. Hear the writer to the Hebrews seeking to deal with people Who are tempted to turn their backs upon Christ and the gospel. He writes to them and says these words, Hebrews 12 and verse 14. Strive for peace with everyone, and that word strive is the very Greek word we find in the New Testament for persecute. It means to track down and to pursue something with a vengeance. Strive, pursue, track down peace with everyone and For the holiness without which no one will see the Lord Words could not be more simple, more plain, one-syllable words, without which, that is, without this holiness No man, no woman, no boy, no girl will see the Lord, that is, see the Lord, with what the old writers called the beotic vision. the vision of blessedness. You will see him, but you will see him with terror and with dread when he comes in flaming fire. to wreak vengeance upon you if you're not in the way of gospel holiness. Track down, pursue, seek after peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. And the parallel passage to that is Matthew 5 and verse 8. Where Jesus in his Beatitudes, those eight blesseds, says these words, bless. Are the pure in heart, for they shall see God Purity of heart is just another way of describing gospel holiness. It is a purity that is not merely ex External in terms of what I wear and how I appear and what I do. It touches the very springs of who I am. Guard your heart, Solomon said. For out of it are the issues of life. The heart is the fountain of who and what I really am. And Jesus said, unless at the depths of my being, in terms of who I really am, there is purity, I will not see God. I will not see him in the beatific vision of delight and joy. Is gospel holiness essential? Yes Without it we will not see the Lord. Hebrews 12, 14, Matthew 5. 8. Then turn to Romans chapter 6. For our third witness, Romans chapter 6, I mentioned in the previous hour that the last half of Romans 6, beginning at verse 15 to 23, Paul treats the whole subject that every man is a slave either to sin and to death or to righteousness and to God and to Christ. And then in summarizing his whole argument, he writes in verse 22 of Romans 6. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God Notice he's not saying you ought to be. Eventually you may be. He's describing by this indicative This statement of fact, every true believer at Rome has been set free from sin. Not totally free from sin's presence, Romans 7 makes that plain, but from sin's dominion. where I am the willing bond slave of sin, where I am the willing servant of sin. In union with Christ we've been set free from the mastery of sin. Now that you have been set free from sin, And as Paul said of the Thessalonians, you have become the slaves of God. And there he uses that stronger word. For a bond slave, someone who is the property of another, a slave was one who was the property of his master. He said, as true Christians, you've been set free from sin's dominion. You've become the willing bond slaves of God. Now notice the fruit you get That's what happens here and now. The fruit you get leads to sanctification or holiness. And its end, eternal life. Notice the three things. You have a change of master from sin to righteousness. You have been made free from sin. You have become the slaves of God and the end eternal life. And all three of those spiritual experiences are inseparable. No one gets to eternal life unless he has a change of masters. free from sin. Issuing in a change of practice, you have your fruit unto sanctification or holiness Then there is a change of destiny and the end eternal life. Eternal life comes at the end of a life of holiness. Holiness comes as the fruit of a true conversion where you have a change of masters. All three are joined. How in God's name Bible teachers and preachers can write books and say, well, there's a whole bunch of people, they're really Christians, they've accepted Christ. And they're going to inherit eternal life. But they live like the devil. They are carnal Christians. They've never been filled with the Spirit. They've never been surrendered. They're just gonna you lose a few bags of yo-yos, they're gonna lose a few rewards, but they're still gonna go to heaven as quote carnal Christians. How do you get that out of the Bible? Having been made free from sin, you have your fruit unto holiness and the end, everlasting life. Now Jesus is my fourth witness from Matthew chapter seven, because what Paul gives us in straightforward Theological language Jesus gives us in pictorial language. Matthew chapter 7 Jesus has been teaching about the kingdom he came to establish. And like any good preacher, as he draws his sermon to a close, he's not content that people just have their heads full of knowledge about the kingdom. He wants to see them enter the kingdom. And so in verse 13 he says, Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter in by it are many. Four. Now notice The gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life And those who find it are few. Now notice how Jesus puts the three things together: there's the gate, there's the way, and there's life. You see them there in your own Bible? Gate, way, and life. Who ends up with life? Only those who get through the gate Who gets into the gate? Only those that are found on the way. The proof we've come through the gate is that we're on the way. And the fact that we've come through the gate and we're on the way is the proof we will inherit life. The gate, the way, and the life are inseparable. And while I want to state it as plainly as I know how Our holiness is never the ground of our acceptance or our title to heaven. We've got to have a title to enter heaven. Our title has been perfectly secured. by the perfect life and the substitutionary death of Jesus Christ plus nothing. Plus nothing. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are, my glorious dress, midst flaming worlds, in these arrayed, with joy shall I lift up. my head, the gate, the way, and life. But though our holiness is not the ground of our acceptance, that's Christ and Christ alone. No one gets to heaven who misses the gate and who doesn't get there by the difficult, hard, narrow way of gospel holiness. Exactly what Paul said. He says you became free from sin. That's coming through the gate of true conversion You have your fruit under sanctification. That's the narrow way. And you end up in everlasting life. That's the life that Jesus promises. And so the absolute necessity for gospel holiness is established By this simple principle, it is essential if we would go to heaven and not to hell when we die. But then secondly Gospel holiness is essential if we would authenticate our professed faith to ourselves and to others. If we would authenticate to ourselves and to others our professed faith, gospel holiness is essential, not optional. And here again I bring forward my witnesses, 2 Timothy 2, 2 Timothy chapter 2, and verse 19. Here's what the Apostle Paul would tell us. But God's firm foundation stands bearing this seal. The Lord knows those who are his, and let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart From iniquity. There's the negative side of gospel holiness. It involves a departing from iniquity Not a wallowing in iniquity, a dabbling with iniquity, but a departing from. Do you name the name of Christ? Have you taken his name upon you in public profession of your identity with Christ? Do you take his name upon you? If so, God says, let everyone who names that name Depart from iniquity. For that departing from iniquity as a way of life is the validation to yourself and to others that your professed faith is saving faith. Second witness, First John chapter three. First John chapter three Who really is a child of God? Who is yet a child of the devil? For John is not at all reluctant to use that contrasting description both in his gospel and and in his epistle. And here we read in 1 John 3, starting in verse 9, the following No one born of God makes a practice of sinning. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed, that is the principle of spiritual life, abides in him And he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God by this By this, by what? Whether you practice sin as a way of life, or whether you have ceased practicing sin as a way of life, by this it is evident. who are the children of God, evident to them and to others. Those who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not a God. There's the positive statement. If the practice of gospel holiness is not your practice, you are not of God, nor is the one who does not love His brother. You have no biblical grounds to validate the genuineness of your faith to your own conscience or to others. If you are still living in the practice of sin and are not manifesting the practice of righteousness. And then we come to Paul's witness in the book of Romans, chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. And I'm deliberately giving you these three or four key texts under each of these heads. So hopefully you will memorize at least the references for your own meditation and as you discuss this issue with others, since there is such confusion in the professing Christian church. We desperately need to have a handle on these realities. Here in Romans 8, Paul has set out in the first eight verses that there are two realms of spiritual existence. and experience. There are those who live after the flesh, that is their base natural human nature and tendencies. And then there's another group who live after the Spirit. That is, their lives are framed by those desires and actions that are the fruit of the work of the Holy Spirit in them. And in that context, Paul says these words, verse fourteen. Well, we can back up to verse twelve. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live for All who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. Now, when Paul says, for all who are led by the Spirit of God, He's not talking about people who go around talk so glibly, the Lord led me to do this, the Lord led me to do this, the Holy Spirit led me to do this. In the context, being led by the Spirit of God is being guided along by the Spirit's influence to put our remaining sin to death. If you live according to the flesh, you will die. If you live your life as the outgrowth of responding to your carnal base nature, you're in the way of death. But if by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body, you will live for all who are led by the Spirit of God. led by the Spirit and a life of growing conformity to the will of God, led by the Spirit into a growing life of godliness and holiness These, he says, for all who are led by the Spirit of God, these and these only are the sons of God. And he goes on to say, it is that very Holy Spirit who, when we in our conscience, assess our lives and say, Yes, I am not living according to the flesh. I am putting to death the deeds of the body. My conscience affirms my faith is real. I have a witness within my own heart. of my sonship, along comes the Holy Spirit, and he bears witness with our spirits adding his influence to assure us we are really the sons of God. But for someone to say, I have the witness of the Spirit that I'm a Christian, I don't need any evidences, no no The Holy Spirit who produces his fruit is the Holy Spirit who produces his witness, and the witness and the fruit are never, never separated in a true Christian. It's sheer delusion to say you have the witness of the Spirit to your sonship if there is no evidence of the operation of the Spirit in a life of holiness. Those two are joined in the work of God the Holy Spirit. So is gospel holiness absolutely necessary? Yes. Number one, it is essential if we would go to heaven and not to hell. Gospel holiness is essential if we would authenticate our professed faith. to ourselves and to others. William Gernaugh, one of the old Puritans, said, and I love this quaint way of stating it, Say not that thou art born of God and hast royal blood in thy veins, unless thou canst show thy pedigree. by daring to be holy. I love the language. Say not, say not that thou art born of God and hast royal blood in thy veins, unless thou can show thy pedigree by daring to be holy. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God They are the sons of God. In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifested. He that practices sin is not of God. only those who practice righteousness. But then thirdly, the absolute necessity for gospel holiness is seen in this. Gospel holiness is essential If we would be what we are called to be before the world, if we as the professed people of God would be What we are called to be before the world, then gospel holiness is absolutely essential. We go to the Sermon on the Mount again, Matthew. And we find the Lord Jesus saying in Matthew Chapter seven, Matthew chapter five, I'm sorry, Matthew Chapter Five, these well-known words. Having described what I call the portrait of all the sons and daughters of the kingdom, they all have a family likeness. Christ himself is the elder brother. Everyone in the family is being made more and more into his image. And the Beatitudes are like the Holy Spirit. Being an artist drawing the portrait of one who is a true subject of the kingdom of grace. They have these characteristics Poverty of spirit, meekness, hungering and thirsting for righteousness. But when we ask the question, people who look like that People who look like the Beatitudes describe us, what is their influence in the midst of a society of those who have nothing but the image of the devil? Hatred, love of sin, pride, anger, disrupted human relationships What is it for those who have the characteristics of the Beatitudes that have begun to be formed in them by the Holy Spirit? They will be perfectly formed when they are glorified, but they are really and increasingly placed in them now by the Holy Spirit What will their influence be upon a decadent, lost society whose spiritual face is twisted and lined and grotesque and full of stars and distortions? What will they be like? Jesus is going to tell us. Verse 13. You, you who manifest these character traits of the kingdom, you are the salt of the earth. But If the salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It's no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket But on the stand, and it gives light to all in the house in the same way. Let your light shine before others So that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. When the people of God are manifesting the kind of holiness described in the Beatitudes Those character traits of likeness to Christ. Jesus said they are constituted the salt of the earth To check putrefaction and further declinion into lawlessness and ungodliness and uncleanness And they are the light of the world. They shine forth what man is supposed to be, how God's image-bearers are to reflect him. How they are to conduct themselves in his world. Now, if we are constituted the salt of the earth, And the light of the world, Jesus assumes that that saltiness and that light will exert an influence And he says a terrible thing when the salt ceases to be salty so that it lacks the capacity To check putrefaction when you put it on a slab of meat and it's lost its distinctive chemical saltiness, it can't check the decay from the bacteria. It has no power to influence. And he says, you are the light of the world, but if you stick a bucket over that light the beams do not go out and illuminate and and and demonstrate reality. And he says this ought not to be. I have made you salt and light Be salt and be light. Well how are we being salt and being light in the concrete? Well let the Apostle Paul answer us in a very clear way in Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2 Verse fourteen, after giving us that marvelous statement that God is constantly at work in us both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Then the apostle gives an imperative. Do all things without grumbling or questioning He says your lifestyle should be marked by the absence of grousing, complaining, discontent toward God, toward man, toward society I've never been able to find anything in my commentaries to indicate that this was a peculiar sin of the people in that Roman colony called Philippi. But whether there was something Paul was aware of, because remember he ministered there, and there may have been some peculiar cultural manifestations of a spirit of discontent. And of grousing and grumbling, he says, But you, the people of God, in whom God is working to will and to work for his good pleasure, you do everything without grumbling or questioning why. That you may be blameless and innocent children of God. Didn't say sinless, but he said blameless and innocent children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation among whom you shine as lights in the world holding fast or holding forth to the word of life, that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. What's Paul saying? He's saying, in the day of Christ, I want to be able to brag about you Philippians. I preach the gospel to you. The gospel changed you, and then the gospel equipped you so to live in a counter-cultural way. that your lives were luminaries in the darkness of that society in which God put you. Do everything without grumbling or questioning. that you may aim at being nothing less than blameless, innocent children of God without a blemish In the midst of a crooked and twisted generation among whom you are shining as lights, luminaries in the world. Don't go around with a huge moral zit on the end of your nose You go into office Monday morning and you got a big zit on the end of your nose, I don't care what you're wearing, everybody will see you zit. That's your blemish. Paul said, Be zitless. That's my translation. But seriously, dear people, do you see the standard that you may be blameless and innocent children of God without blemish? Without blemish. Without blemish, what's that? That's gospel holiness touching every facet of our life, the way we relate to our boss, even when he makes an unreasonable demand. The way we relate to our peers when we are interacting with them over the coffee uh carousel and when we're with them in the lunchroom, the way we react to our neighbors when they run over our newly seeded lawn by cutting the corner too short going into their driveway. The way we respond as kids When mom and dad are unreasonable in their demands in some areas, and how we react to our kids when they respond in ways that provoke us Blameless, harmless, no blemishes, no moral sits on the end of our noses, dear people. That's gospel holiness worked out in the concreteness of an unholy and a godless society. And so if we are to be What God says we are to be, gospel holiness is absolutely essential. And now it's 1230, so I'll just give you the fourth heading. And here I'd love to preach for an hour. But I'm not going to. Gospel holiness fulfills, and hear me carefully. Gospel holiness fulfills. a central purpose for which Christ died and rose again for his people. Gospel holiness fulfills a central purpose for which Christ died and rose again for his people. That's why it's absolutely essential. And the key texts are Titus 2, 11-14. Christ gave himself for us to what end? that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify to himself a people his peculiar possession, zealous of good works, he died to give me gospel holiness. Ephesians 5, 25 and following, he gave himself for us that he might do what? Ultimately present us to himself without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that we should be holy and without blemish before him. Why were we chosen in him before the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1:4? We were chosen in him that we should be holy and without blemish. Why were we foreknown loved ahead of time, Romans 8, 29, whom he did foreknow he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. And when he's done with us having called us and kept us, and he glorifies us, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Jesus died, dear people, that we would be passionate in our pursuit of gospel pulling. So I lay before you the biblical evidence of the absolute necessity of gospel holiness, and you will never have it if you are a stranger to that. Holy Spirit wrought conversion to God that we considered in the previous hour But in union with Christ, in dependence upon the power of Christ, motivated by gospel motives with their taproots in the cross of Christ and in our relationship to Christ. May we be a people passionate to be like Christ. Let's pray. Father, we're so thankful for the light of your word that is not at all obscure on this great question. Must we be a holy people? Take your word and write it deeply upon all of our hearts, and make us a holier people, we pray, in Jesus' name.