An institution was established. I'm wondering if you may know what institution that it was. It was the United Nations. It was created after the Second World War to bring nations together for the purpose of promoting harmony and peace in the world. As an organization It is and has been tasked with answering many questions regarding our planet and relationships between peoples and nations. One of these very questions is what James will be asking and answering. What causes quarrels and fighting amongst yourselves? Do you experience strife? Have you ever experienced strife in your life? As far as that maybe to believe. We we uh oftentimes have these tensions in life and it is sometimes within ourselves and sometimes it is with other people, is it not? Let us now turn our attention to this passage and hear what James has to say about this. Would you be so kind to please rise as we read and hear God's Holy word, which is from James chapter 4, verses 1 through 3. From James chapter 4, verses 1 through 3. Hear now the Word of God. What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you. You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain. So you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And join me in prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds so that we may understand this passage better. Let us pray. Holy Spirit We ask that you would help us now to be hearers of the word. Help us to understand. Help us to be focused. Would you guide our minds? To not stray from the worries of our circumstances, the responsibilities of our lives, but teach us to rest from them, for tomorrow will have enough of its own worries and troubles We also ask, Holy One, that we not only be hearers of the Word, but also doers of the Word. By your power, change our hearts to be responsive and obedient to our Heavenly Father's ways, motivated by the boundless love He has already proved to us by the great sacrifice he made of his worthy son. And it is in his name that we pray, even Jesus. Amen. James has been supplying tests for his readers, you and I, to discern if we possess true faith in Christ. Christ. A genuine faith, he says, is one that has value. And what he means by value is that on Judgment Day This faith claim will be tested in order for it to be vindicated, justified, or proven as genuine by its fruits. What is that fruit? Works, deeds, works of righteousness. Last week, as we finished up chapter three, we saw that James began to parse this a little bit further. He introduced the notion of wisdom. He said there are two types. Wisdom from above, God's wisdom. And the second is that of earthly wisdom. This is ultimately self-centered, self-promoting, and he used the word demonic. That is, worldly wisdom has at its core rebelliousness against God's ways. He distinguished professing Christians behaving godly by the way that they demonstrated godly wisdom in their lives. They were to exercise it with the humility that undergirds. meekness. This was of course related back to the second test that he gave us to help someone without expecting anything in return The meek person who has power is able to help another. He should be using his God-given power resources, whatever he's been given, for assisting and benefiting his neighbor, and not use it for his own pleasure and for his own Glory. He did this within the context of the first test he had already given, which was the ability to demonstrate self-control. Self-control over our sinful passions. Our passions are conceived in the heart and often burst by a tongue that can accomplish much. And as James has illustrated, much Evil. This brings us nicely to the contrast. He highlighted bitter jealousy and selfish ambition as hallmarks of earthly wisdom. As he begins to transition his focus more and more into the third test, worldliness, he still has on his mind from our last passion passage, jealousy and selfish. Ambition. I think that he has this in mind as he he asks uh the question from our first passage, from our first verse in our passage today Now many commentators think that chapter 4, verses 1 through 3 begins a new thought that goes through verse 10, emphasizing the need for repentance. From evil human desires. Now others extend it out to verses eleven and twelve and put more emphasis on sinful speech and quarreling. Now I fall into the camp and I believe that the focus is not on wisdom ostensibly, but more so on its outcome. In this case, it is that of peace within the church context With that in mind, this sets the stage for his rebuke. That's right, James's rebuke of quarreling that seems to be pervading the church community. As we zoom out of this text, what we can immediately discern is that there is some infighting and quarreling within the churches that he is writing to. What's needed are peacemakers. And that's exactly where he left us off at the end of chapter 3. You don't need a PhD in theology or a master's in divinity to figure out that this kind of behavior, quarreling and fighting within the church, can cause it to come down crashing on itself. And not just a church community, a family, and all the way to a nation. However, The fact that James does not comment specifically on the details of the battles indicates his greater concern is addressing selfish ambition and bitter jealousy. Demonstrated in the context again of the local church. Like a good doctor, he's not dealing with the symptoms of sadness, broken relationships, tension, melancholy. He's interested In verse 1, James begins by asking the question: What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? By use of a question, James brings his immediate concern center stage. And he's about to confront those who are causing quarreling and fighting. It seems that James is assuming something, isn't he? He doesn't ask If there are quarrels and fights among you, quarreling and fighting are going on in the churches. Does this surprise you? That in the first century that quarrels and fights were going on in the church? It really shouldn't. Sin is pervasive no matter what generation you you you're living in, you know, on this side of the cross. If James were to ask us the very same question, how would you answer? What causes fights and quarrels? Look, it doesn't have to be just in the church context, right? It could be with your siblings. colleagues at work where you may volunteer. What would you say is the cause for fighting and quarreling? Now, I just want to point out that several of the words that James is using here contain military imagery and verbiage. Now the second part of this very same question is sort of a rhetorical one At first glance, it seems that he's answering his own question, meanwhile asking them to consider if this hypothesis is a possibility. He says, is it not? But in reality, it is the cause for their strife. He asks, Is it not this that your passions are at war within yourselves. Now the Greek word for passion is hedoné Now if you're listening carefully, it sounds like and is the same word from which we get our word for hedonism. The dictionary definition for hedonism is the pursuit of pleasure, sensual self-indulgence. Whenever you come across this word in the New Testament, it's always seen as being negative and sinful. We can conclude that what James has in mind are sinful passions. Now the military imagery of warfare continues to work its way through this thought by introducing the idea that these sinful passions are at what? At war with themselves. Within you is literally your members. It may well mean that James has in mind the membership of the church. But it's also, I think, safe to say that the battle is also being waged within the individual. I think 1 Peter 2. 11 certainly supports this possibility. It states: Beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers. To abstain from let fleshly lusts which wage war against the soul. Do you sometimes feel like sinful passions are at war within you. Desires to commit all sorts of sin For the pursuit of pleasure, sensual self-indulgence. See, the sins we nurture have ambitions, don't they? They then become selfish ambitions, and if they are not satisfied, they can lead to infighting and quarreling, even with others. Don't they? If these passions are at war within us, what are what are they at war with? It would be the pursuit of righteousness, wouldn't it? God's ways of doing things. The application of wisdom that comes from above, the one that produces peace within, the wisdom that produces contentment with Christ. Now the first phrase in verse 2 certainly gets your attention, doesn't it? Could James mean that certain members within the church committed murder? Up until recently with the media coverage, given the number of shootings at churches, it it just seemed so uncommon that we could fall into the thinking that it It would have been impossible for the early church to experience this as well. Now the truth of the matter is that there were no shootings in the first church because the technology hadn't been built yet, but they certainly could commit murder against one another. I don't think that physical murder is what James has in mind here, but we I think we should keep in mind that the early church must have had some zealot converts who are political and religious hotheads. who were known for killing Roman Lionese for their ideology. Having said that, I I think that James, who is closely following the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, would have the Lord's words in mind. The murder James is referring to is what we do with our tongues When we speak out of malice, is it not? Certainly malice can have a seat at the table where quarreling and fighting are dining. And he has already stated. That man's anger doesn't always lead to the righteousness of God, right? So what is this murdering business within the church and how is it related to sinful passions? Why does it even happen? James answers this question as well, doesn't he? He says, because you desire something and you're not getting it Perhaps in this context, this desire has more to do with people getting their way than getting something. Nonetheless, it happens because their want has not been met What are some of the ways that one can respond when they don't get their way? Well, other than graciously accepting God's will and learning from their situation. I can think of a couple, and they are not exhaustive. The first one is sulk. Being silent and refusing to smile or be pleasant to people because you are angry about something that either they have done or they haven't gotten. Two, get angry. Number three, blame others. They don't love me. Four, blame God. He doesn't love me. Number five, give up And the last one I have, try again. But this time, manipulate people and situations To get what you want. You know, like electioneering that we talked about last week. So how do you respond when you don't get what you want? The underlying motivation for the strife within the church, as James has given to us, is frustrated. Envious desire, frustrated, selfish ambition Exactly what is it that these people want? Well, it's nowhere really directly stated in these verses now, is it? But but I think in the broader context would seem to provide for us an answer. The problems here is is the turning to the the kind of wisdom that will enable those with selfish ambitions to gain recognition as leaders. in the church community. James has already warned people who would desire to become teachers. Verse 3. 1. In the church. Being a teacher is a prestigious and powerful position within the church congregation. He has rebuked them for fancying themselves as wise and understanding. Chapter 3, verse 13. These people want to lead and direct the church. but they don't have or are not employing the right type of wisdom to show that they are called to this role. James continues by asking, why is it that they don't get what they want? He answers, because they don't ask. Obviously, the he is referencing to God. We all have desires, don't we? And sometimes they just seem to pop out of nowhere And maybe we've we've had them for a very long time. And we've been working on them for a very long time, sometimes a lifetime, and we're still working on them When we get these desires, we just go, don't we? We work at them and we don't even think about it. And at times, after a long time passing We stop and we reflect, and sometimes we realize that we haven't asked God to bless our endeavors and to provide. We just go Have you ever experienced that in your life? Are are you still experiencing that with some things that you're still trying to accomplish in life? Never having really taken the time to go before the Lord with it. Sometimes though I think it's Deliberate. We don't ask God to bless even good and wholesome things. I've known people over the years who've Who've worked themselves. They themselves for years have worked to try to glorify God in certain ministries, only to experience failure year after year. Job after job. After several conversations with them, it's become apparent to me that they are frustrated and angry with God Their questions, the one that they ask specifically is, why wouldn't God bless what they are doing to glorify him? It simply doesn't make sense to them. When I ask them, have you asked God to bless it and give you success? And their response is basically, in short, why would I? That seems like a no-brainer. Are there times when when you don't take the time to ask God for things or his blessing on a desire that you have? to do good things or to bring glory to God. Why is that? Well, I think sometimes it's because we know that our intentions Are not so well intentioned I think that in the scenario that I drew up before, it may very well be pride. The sin of pride. I'm going to do this on my own, and I will present my accomplishments as a gift to God. You do realize what happens if that happens. It doesn't leave room, doesn't it, for boasting It's something that you did on your own. Please remember that God won't share his glory with anyone. What about the fear of rejection? I've heard the following responses from my counsel for turning to God for, you know, his help Oh, he has got bigger things to worry about. He's a very busy God. I don't want to take up his time. Maybe this is fear of rejection. But it could be could it also be a recognition that the motives are not entirely wholesome? And selfless? You see, I can't really answer these questions. Only the person saying and thinking these things really can. James, as usual, raises the temperature a little bit more as he gets closer and closer to the heart. of the matter. He addresses the hypothetical objector again. James, I've been asking God, but nothing changes. I've been asking for years and I get no response. Okay. So for those of you who do ask, verse 3, and do not receive to this objection, James answers God has not given you what you desire because you asked wrongly. He's not saying that you're not using the, you know Right the that using wrong words or using some sort of a wrong formula. Instead you're asking with what? The wrong motives. It's really true. Sometimes we can ask God to bless something with wrong motives and realize we're doing that. But But hope that it will have enough sanctified Greece, whatever sanctified Greece is, to get it through the door. Man is so clever and so deceptive that sometimes we deceive ourselves into thinking that we're doing this for other people, but when in fact we're doing it for ourselves Are we really looking to glorify God by doing things for his glory, as we say? Or are we looking to spruce up? Or put a little shine on our spiritual resume. Let me assure you, God is concerned for his glory And capable of achieving it, so much so that he doesn't need your counsel. We don't get to decide or choose how, where, and when God gets to be glorified. You see, if he allowed you to have success, you may get to achieve your what? Selfish ambition within the church. And at the end of the verse, he tells us why God thwarts us. It's simply because you want your way in order to gratify your passions. Your selfish ambitions. You want God to provide you things not for the glory of God and the good of your neighbor. You want it for your selfish ambitions. What makes me happy? What makes you happy? No, to desire something is is not necessarily bad. But when it when it is to spend it on your own passions, plain selfishness, with no concern for God's glory or for the benefit benefit of your neighbor, is to self set yourself up for a long Frustrating, angry, and bitter frame of heart. Are you there today? It's easy to fall into the trap of blaming other people as if they are thwarting you from serving God when it's God Himself that is closing a door. You can see how this leads to what? Quarrels and fighting within the body of Christ, can't you? So when you ask God for something and don't get it, how do you respond? You know, in in a sense, we we can ha have a partially correct attitude to unanswered prayers. But partially correct is still incorrect For example, if you consistently don't get what you're asking for, you may rightly conclude and say it wasn't the Lord's pleasure. It wasn't his will. You ask yourself in those situations, has the Lord been saying no to me because I'm asking with the wrong motive? To ask that question of yourself may begin a journey of self-discovery and a greater peace between you and your brother, if not a brother, your unbelieving neighbor. You may be onto something. This thing that you want to do, but you have to be humble. Do it for the glory of God and not for the glory of yourself Bitter jealousy and selfish ambition is what James wants us to fight, not each other We need to ask some questions here. The first one is, the thing I'm asking from God What do I want to spend it on? That's the question you need to ask. Why do I want this? We need to ask God when when passions arise within us, I'm using it neutrally now, even when we don't know with certainty if it's for the benefit of others or for our own selfish desires, we need to ask God first for his blessing. When God protects us from our own selfish desires by saying no, we also need to ask God for the following to take away that selfish ambition that resides within our hearts Ask God to make you content in Christ again, to trust Him for all things. You see, when we pursue selfish passions for our own gratification and ambitions, are we not pulling an atom? Yes. We are saying, My soul is not satisfied with you, O Lord I need something else to make me whole. I need something to make me happy. When this happens, I think we're breaking the first table of the law, are we not? The commandments against God and idolatry and putting something something in before him. We're breaking the first table of the law And in order to satisfy our sinful lusts, it usually comes at the expense of our neighbor. And then suddenly we are breaking the second Table of the law. With our bitter jealousy and selfish ambitions, James would say, We are breaking the royal law of God What we need to ask for is not just for our passions, neutral, but to ask God to help us see if it's a sinful passion. But we mustn't stop there. We need to ask God to take it away. So that we may return to Christ as the source of our contentment, not things. for people. The second question is that we should be asking, what does this look like What does this selfless ambition look like? I think within the church context, we can turn to scriptures again. And it's this time by looking at the life and ministry of the Apostle Paul. You know, there are several places where he says, I am being poured out like a drink offering. 2 Timothy 4. 6. And again in Philippians 2. 7. He's doing this. He is pouring himself out for the benefit of the people of God. Of course he's doing this ultimately for Christ, but the point is that he is happy to use God's gifting and resources that have been given to him. His resources are being used for the purpose of spending it. On others, to benefit others, out of discomfort to himself. That's what it looks like. But of course, the greatest example for us is Christ himself, isn't he? Where he poured himself out on the cross. He used what he had, everything that he had, was used to serve us. He didn't use his power to gratify himself. He didn't use selfish ambition. He didn't use his power to protect himself in times of being exposed and being vulnerable. In fact, the creator of the universe, as the scripture tells us, emptied himself by taking on the form of a servant. being born in the likeness of man, being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death Even death on a cross, so that he may love us. May the Holy Spirit make us more like Him Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great grace and for your great Son that you gave up for us. We ask that we would be reminded. by the word of God and by his life experience, how it is that we are to seek you out How it is that we are to turn to you for all of our needs to realize how Incredibly dependent we are upon you. Grant us the humility to recognize that. Help us to recognize that we are not free agents And that we can do things, even good things, to bring glory to you. That we need you and your power to work within us. to bring glory to you, if that is your will. And we pray, Father, that that we would become more and more like our Savior That we would not have selfish ambition and bitter jealousy within our hearts, but rather that we would be satisfied Satisfied with your son. Satisfied with you. Satisfied That you are our portion, both in this life and the life to come throughout all of eternity