Alright, so we're going to be in the book of Genesis tonight in a very familiar script scripture and very familiar text. But I'm hoping that this will be a refresher for some. And uh it'll be an encouragement for all of us. So we're going to be in Genesis chapter 2, verses 15 through 17. I know the uh bulletin said 15 through 16. That was my Back, so it's 15 through 17. And while you're turning there, um the book of Genesis was written by Moses The name means in the beginning. And this is the covenant prologue of redemptive history. It is the introduction to God's revealing of himself and the working of his plan. a redemption throughout history for his glory and the exaltation of his son, Jesus Christ. So, Genesis is outlined into three major sections. The first is God's creation of the world. The second section focuses on God's covenant with the patriarchs, and the third section covers God's providential design, preserving his covenant with his people. So first the creator puts himself on display as the one who creates. He is the creator of the world. And second He puts himself on display as uh the fall of man happens and then he promises redemption. And then third, God puts himself on display. through his sovereignty as he works his will using the evil intentions of Joseph's brothers to preserve his covenant with his people for his glory. So Genesis sets the tone for the entire Bible. It's God-centered. The Word of God is God-centered. Redemptive history is God-centered. It's not man-centered. And this is the book of Genesis. So with that said, please stand. We're going to pray and then read our scripture for tonight. Let's pray. Father, thank you for another day. We get to come before you to hear your word. and worship with your people. May there be no greater joy in our hearts than to come together in your presence and to worship you. Our prayer tonight is that as we hear your word, make us blessed men and women. Father, guide us that we may not walk in the counsel of the ungodly. Guard our minds and hearts from their ideas and their worldly wisdom, for it is deadly to the mind and damning to the soul. Father, guide us that we may not stand in the way of sinners. Father, surround us with your people. Give us wisdom as we interact and live in this world. But please don't have us to be of it. Father, guide us that we may not sit in the seat of scoffers. Guard us from being entertained or enticed by those who mock you, Father. For though guard us from those who mock your son and mock the Holy Spirit. May we be heavily disturbed at anyone or anything that maligns you, our triune God. And Father, bless us to delight in your law, and on it help us to meditate day and night. And from that may we be a people who are planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season. May our leaves never wither and in all that we do help us to do it for your glory and help us to prosper. And Father, help us to see that the wicked, those who refuse to come to you, are not in a better position. They are like the chaff that the wind will soon drive away. And they will not stand in the judgment, nor will they stand in the congregation of the righteous. Father, keep us from that and bring your people to yourself. Father, you know the way of the righteous. Guide us to acknowledge you in all our ways so that you may direct our paths And Father, may we be reminded daily that the way of the wicked shall perish. Father, our prayer is that you will guide us to you in the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Alright, so our text tonight is Genesis chapter 2, verses 15 through 17, and it reads. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in that in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Brothers and sisters, this is the word of the God. Come down. Please be seated. We are, lifespan is with you, we went over the covenant of redemption. Tonight we're going to go over the covenant of works And we're in a three-part series to talk about covenant theology and how that can encourage us and how and what does it mean to be covenantal people. And the main point I want us to grasp tonight, there's going to be a lot of things said, but the main point I want you to grasp tonight is that concerning the covenant of works, that redemption comes by. The covenant of works. I know you're like, wait a minute, salvation's by grace. We're going to get there, but Again, grasp this concept. The main point I want you to get is that redemption comes by the covenant of works. Now the first thing you want to answer, right? We're talking about covenant theology, covenant of redemption, covenant of grace. What is a covenant? What does it mean to be in a covenant? Well, there's two definitions I'm going to read that I think will be helpful. One is by a theologian by the name of John T. Rose. He wrote, a covenant is a conditional promise. A covenant is an agreement between God And human beings where God promises blessings if the conditions are kept and threatens curses if the conditions are broken. The second one is by O Palmer Robinson. A covenant is a bond in blood sovereignly administered When God enters into a covenantal relationship with men, he sovereignly institutes a life and death bond. A covenant is a bond in blood or a bond of life and death, sovereignly administered. So a covenant has six major ingredients. And if these agree if these ingredients exist, then there is A covenant. Okay? And this is coming from the ancient Near East. The first was the preamble. The suzerain king would identify himself as the great king, the one who made the covenant. A suzerain is nothing more, it means a sovereign, a ruler or overlord. Second was a historical prologue. And this is where the suzerain, the sovereign, the overlord would recount what he has done. Such as saving the vassal king from an army or paying his debt so the vassal would understand that the suzerain is being gracious and merciful to the vassal. A vassal is a slave, a subject, lord under the suzerain. He serves under the suzerain. Alright, third is the stipulations. This is the covenant documents of the contract of the covenant. And the suzrain and the vassal are to be committed to that covenant and to obey it to those documents. They're supposed to obey those documents. And this document would determine if you were a covenant breaker or a covenant keeper. And only the suzerain, the sovereign lord, overlord, could add or take away from this document. Fourth, the suzerain would pronounce sanctions, and these sanctions would describe the blessing and cursing of the vassal if they obeyed or disobeyed. I know this is probably painful, but I'm going slow on purpose. You'll see as we're going through the sermon. Try to remember these points. Fifth, there was to be a deposit of the treaty or of the tablets or that covenant document in the sacred temples of both parties. And periodic reading of these documents to remind the current generation and to inform the new generation of the covenant that was made with the suzerain king. Six, and this is the last one, there was a public ceremony and a sign given, for example, like killing of animals. Or shedding of blood to seal the covenant between the two parties. Okay? So to be in covenant, it is a life And death bond between two or more parties. And what we're going to review tonight is the covenant of works. The covenant between God and man. And the covenant of works is biblical and get this, it is necessary to redemptive history. To deny the covenant of works is to attack the gospel itself Alright, so this brings us to our first point. The covenant of works reveals the suzerain and vassal kings. Who is the suzerain king? None other than God. He is the sovereign ruler of all things that is, was, and ever will be. He is the creator and by divine right he is the sovereign ruler and that is still true today Genesis 1. 1 reads, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth Just that statement alone, if you didn't have any more of the Bible, just that one verse requires everything in existence to bow down and worship God. However, God continues to speak, and he speaks things into existence, and no creature can command something to come from nothing. But the Creator can. Throughout Genesis chapter 1 and chapter from Genesis chapter 1 to chapter 3, there's a repeated phrase and it reads, and God said, Let there be. God's act of creation is done through covenantal language. When God speaks, it's automatically an oath and bond for what God says must come to pass, and it must pass. be obeyed. Only he has the authority to command and he has the power to bring to pass what he commands. And he is the sovereign, the ruler. the suzerain king. Hebrews 6. 18 states that it is impossible for God to lie. Meredith Klein says this, the words and acts that expressed God's creational commitments had the character of oath and bonds. Of God, it can truly be said that his word is his bond. In the beginning, God's covenanting bond words took form of creative decree. By these decrees God dictated into existence a covenantal kingdom order. So God's covenantal words puts him on display. As the supreme ruler and king, God is giving his preamble as he sends forth his word to accomplish what he wants it to do. Isaiah 45 verses 18 through 19 reads, For thus says the Lord who created the heavens, he is God, who formed the earth and made it. He established it. He did not create it empty. He formed it to be inhabited. It reads, I am the Lord and there is no other. I did not speak in secret. In a land of darkness. I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, Seek me in vain. I, the Lord, speak the truth. I declare what is right. John 1. 1 And we know this verse all too well, don't we? In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And without him was not anything made that was made. So creation coming to be through the Word of God is the preamble of God. He is telling who he is. The fact that he can speak something out of nothing says that he is God. And there is no other. Through his word, he puts himself on display as the supreme ruler. He is the only potentate. The suzerain king. Not only did God give his preamble, he, through his powerful and creative word, he gave his historical prologue through the display of his works In Genesis chapter 1, Moses records God's work of creating day and night, heavens and earth, and the divisions of the waters. God created the lights in the heavens, the cosmos that we love to see at night. He filled the earth with vegetation and land creatures, and he filled the sea with creatures in them and filled the sky with creatures. God measured the span of time, matter, and space. And these would be recorded. A recorded testimony to the greatness of the Suzan for all to see. All of creation is the Suzan King's historical prologue. Romans chapter 1 verse 20 it says, for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature Have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world and the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. God has declared his preamble and his historical prologue through his word and through his creation. And now it's time for him to create his covenant document. The covenant document was to be placed in the Holy of Holies. of the vassal's place of worship and his temple. So on the sixth day God creates Adam. It is Adam where his law will be written and cherished. Adam was to be a priest for Eden, God's temple garden. Eden was God's Sanctuary. Let me say that again. The Garden of Eden was God's temple, his sanctuary. It was where God's presence dwelt with man, and his word was heard by man. Adam was to live a life of worship before God. presenting the creation to God. Ezekiel 28, verses 13 through 14. And this is Ezekiel presenting a prophecy to the king of Tirah. And he is comparing Adam, he's comparing the king of Tyre to Adam. And he's telling the king, you're going to fall. Just as bad as Adam fell. But this is what he said. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering. You were an anointed guardian sheriff. I placed you. You were on the holy mountain of God in the midst of the stones of fire you walked. God placed Adam in Eden to be his priest. Adam was made to be a vassal king. Remember, he said the vassal was a slave, a subject to the suzerain. Eden was God's kingdom. Adam was to rule as God's representative and subdue all things and keep things in order. He was to be fruitful and multiply. Genesis 1, verse 27-28 reads, So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, be fruitful and multiply and feel the earth and subdue it. And had dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Third, Adam was to be God's prophet. He was to carry out God's command and his word throughout the world. Adam was to think God's thoughts after him. and to speak those thoughts to creation. Genesis chapter 2 verse 19 Reads thou out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called, every living creature, that was its name. Re But more importantly Adam was where the covenant documents of God resided, and they resided in his heart. Adam was not only made for covenant, he was made in covenant. Thomas Boston says this man's understanding was a lamp of light. He had perfect knowledge of the law, and of his duty accordingly. He was made after God's image. Adam had not the written law upon the tables of stone, but it was written upon his mind, the knowledge thereof being created with him. Adam was where the covenant documents resided. And God has made his preamble. He has his law placed in the sanctuary of the vassal and his temple. Now it was time to set the stipulations. The stipulations of the covenant, which are the blessings and curses of the covenant. Now here's our text that we read. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. The blessing was, if Adam did not eat the tree, he would live continually, perpetually in the garden. God was not saying Adam would go to heaven. Adam is the earthly man. Christ is the heavenly man. And you don't get to heaven except through Christ. But the curse was that Adam would die spiritually. immediately and physically. Death would work in him as a necessary consequence of his disobedience. So God provided Adam with all he needed. Adam was given a help meet. Eve, who was equally yoked to him, Adam was given authority over the creatures and the creation. Adam was given a temple to enjoy the presence of God and to hear the word of God. Adam had faith. It was a natural faith. It was a faith that you could look at the world And see God through all of this creation. There was no blockage of sin. There was no distorting of his vision, of his mind, of his perception of the world. Adam saw the world through the lens of his relationship with God. And he had a mutual love between him and his creator. Adam's mind and heart were in tune with God. Adam was given the Holy Spirit. He had the Spirit of God. This was pre-fall. Adam had the Spirit of God dwelling in him. Adam was born with a heart of flesh, not a heart of stone. And it was the Spirit of God that gave him life, and it was the Spirit of God that wrote the law of God upon Adam's heart And Eve was in the same state. Genesis 2, 7, it reads, Then the Lord formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. That breath is the Spirit of God. Jesus does the same thing when he was with his disciples. He breathed upon them and said, receive the Holy Spirit. Ezekiel 36, chapter 36, verse 26 to 27, and I will give you a new heart and a new spirit and I will put put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statues and be careful, and you will be careful to obey my rules. No one Can obey God by his own power. God blessed Adam to have the Spirit of God to enable him to obey and to work and to worship and to be God's prophet, priest, and king. And the fact that Adam, that God wrote the law upon Adam's heart was another evidence of the Spirit being in him. Adam and Eve were made with the ability to sin or not to sin. Pre-fall humanity was made upright by God. Ecclesiastes chapter 7 verse 29 says, see this alone I found that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes. So God has made his preamble. He has given his historical prologue. He made and placed the covenant document both his vassal in his vassals and uh in his temple and gave the covenant stipulations. The last ingredient is the um the last ingredient is the sign of the covenant. Every covenant has a sign. Remember, we talked about the being in covenant one of the ingredients is a public declaration of that covenant. So what was the sign of the covenant of works? It was the two trees, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and the tree of life. And this correlates with the Lord's Supper When you come to the table of the Lord's Supper, take and eat as a blessing and no longer a curse. So this takes us to our next point. The covenant of works reveals man as a covenant breaker. So what happened if they had it so good? Adam and Eve broke covenant. They broke it. They did not speak for God as they were told to do. They did not subdue the earth as God's vassal, king, and queen. Rather, they submitted to the creation. They did not worship God. They worshiped themselves. They ate from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. They broke covenant. No more priests, no more kings and queens, no longer do they think God's thoughts after him. The Spirit of God left Adam and Eve. You said, hold on. I thought the Spirit sticks with you, not pre-fall. We're going to talk about that in a second. They were naked and ashamed. No amount of covering was going to cover them. Beloved, when you break covenant with God, there is nothing left. There's nowhere to go. Genesis chapter 3 verse 7. Then the eyes of both were open, and they knew they were naked, and they sewed thick leaves together and made themselves loincloths. And it wasn't too long after they had committed treason against God that judgment day came for them. The pleasures of sin are short-lived, but after it's over, judgment comes quickly. Genesis chapter 3 verse 8. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. This was their judgment day. This was God's coming to them. This is equivalent to what's going to happen in our time that's recorded in Revelation chapter 6, verses 16 through 17. It reads, Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful and everyone slave and free. Hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of mountains, calling to the mountains and rocks, fall on us. And hide us from the face of him who's seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come. And who can stand? And ever since that dreadful day, we've all been covenant breakers. No one can stand on their works. The best of mankind has broken covenant with God. Adam, the most innocent. Noah, the most favored. Abraham, the most faithful. Rebecca, the most cunning. Moses the meekest man that ever walked the earth, David the most noble, Bathsheba the most beautiful, Solomon the most wise, Samson the most strong. These are the best humanity have to offer and they failed. Everyone of it The covenant of works reveals all of humanity as covenant breakers, and death, beloved, is our portion. And that leads us to our last point. The covenant of works reveals Jesus Christ as the covenant keeper. You know, there are many professing Christians who would deny the covenant of works. One reason is that nowhere in the text, Sterling, does it say there was a covenant. It doesn't explicitly say they were in covenant. My response is, well, beloved, nowhere in the text do you find original sin. But we all Christians adhere to that. Nowhere in the text will you find the word Trinity, and that is Orthodox Christianity. So to argue from silence is not a strong argument. The Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 1, paragraph 6 says, the whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory Man's salvation, faith, and life is either expressly set down in Scripture or by good or necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture. He may say, good, right? But I think we can do a little bit better than just a deduction. Let's go to Hosea chapter 6 verse 7. Then it says, but like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. There they dealt faithlessly with me. This is close. This is close proving from scripture that there was a covenant of works with Adam. But let's not stake our claim just with Hosea. Scripture points us to Jesus Christ as concrete evidence that there is a covenant of works. We receive salvation by faith. That's how salvation is received. If you don't know Jesus Christ, you can receive him by faith alone. But our salvation was gained by works By the works of Jesus Christ. Christ is the prophet, priest, and king who is God's covenant keeper. Romans chapter 5, and this is where I stake my claim that there is a covenant of works. Therefore, in verses 18 to 19, therefore as one trespass laid to con led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. There is a covenant of works because it is by Jesus' works that salvation, that redemption is gained for us. The covenant of works was for Christ to fulfill, not Adam. God had no obligation in the covenant of works to prevent Adam from falling. Let me say that again. God had no obligation in the covenant of works to prevent Adam from falling. That was not in God's plan. The fall was in the plan of God because the exaltation of Christ through his perfect life and sacrificial death and resurrection was always the plan for the existence, entire existence of the universe. Hebrews chapter 5 verse 9, although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered, and being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. It's like making wow man I mean I know you are for the glory of God but that's really heavy to say that you know the fall was just to glorify Christ. I mean what about Adam? It seemed like he got a raw deal Right? What about us? Mankind lost everything in the fall. There's no doubt about that. However, in redemption he gains so much more. Because of Christ, we're clothed with a perfect righteousness that will last forever Because of Christ, we have access to the new heavens and the new earth. Because of Christ, we are the temple where God permanently dwells. Because in the new covenant, God promised the Holy Spirit to us that he would bring us to the end. He did not make that promise to Adam. Because of Christ, instead of a natural faith, we have a supernatural faith. And because of Christ, we will not just inherit Eden, but the whole world. Beloved God allowed the fall because in that he was blessing humanity with something far greater than Eden. He was giving us his son in all his glory. So you might say, that's great. What use is that for me going to work, right? So here's use number one. All of mankind is in covenant with God. The covenant of works has not gone away. The covenant of works is still in effect for all those who are not in Christ. And beloved, we must warn people that they are in covenant with God. They have broken covenant with him. And the wrath of God is resting on them. They can only be a covenant keeper through faith in Jesus Christ as the one who lived for his people and died for his people, all to the glory of God. Use number two. To be human does not mean sin and error. I think all of us heard that term. To err is human. If you mean to make a mistake is human, then yes. But to sin does not mean to be human. Jesus Christ was the sinless man and son of God, and he showed us what it means to be human. And God made men upright. And sin is a foreign enemy. It's a disease. that must be mortified daily, not something to be embraced as part of our humanity The sin nature is passed down through man's seed. Therefore, we must be active in killing sin daily. What I'm trying to get to, beloved, is we must follow Christ. The fall of mankind was a loss, but it was a greater gain than we could have ever imagined because of Jesus Christ and his work. And we receive it by grace and not by words. And we'll talk about the covenant of grace next time. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you for your wisdom. Thank you for your love. Thank you for redeeming your people. And Father, we thank you for the Holy Spirit that dwells within us and who's leading us and will keep us to the end. And Father, we also think that we'll be able to see Adam and Eve in heaven, for they received the gospel from you in the garden that day when you killed an animal and covered them from their nakedness and told them That there was going to be one who was to come crush the head of the serpent. And they believed you by faith. And Father, thank you that we get, that we know that you have done that on the cross. And you've been raised again, and you're at the right hand of your Father, ruling and reigning. And we look forward to the day that we will be with you and with all the other saints who are in triumph right now. Father, we look forward to the day when the new heavens, new earth will be for our dwelling place and sin will be eradicated, and heaven will come down and dwell among us. Father, may we keep our minds meditating upon you, meditating upon Christ, that we receive your salvation by grace, through faith. But help us be reminded that it was one through works, the work of our champion, our Lord, our Savior, Jesus Christ. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.