Philippians two twelve to fourteen. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only in my presence but more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for His good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or questioning Some of you may be old enough to remember what seemed to be a very strange, it was certainly a new occurrence, and because it didn't happen first In the United States, it may have caught us uh a guard, but to just think about the whole procedure that in South Africa in nineteen sixty seven Dr. Christian Bernard did the first heart transplant. And uh I remember Um thinking back on that, just being amazed to even begin to think how that could happen. But now in the United States, um In the world right now, there's over 5,000 heart trans performed per year. A few years ago, the Vice President Dick Cheney had a heart transplant. About 2,000 heart transplants every year in the United States. And yet there's another 3,000 people still on the list waiting heart transplants. Of course, in the Christian church, you know and have heard scriptures like Ezekiel 36, 26. Where it talks about a physical heart transplant as a picture of what must happen to everyone that comes to Christ. Our hearts are dead in sin. They're like stone, and they need to be replaced. And that's what God does. Ezekiel 36, 26, I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I'll put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone and from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I think that we might praise God tonight that if we're here in Christ, He hasn't done that. We didn't do it. We were dead in our sin, unable to help ourselves. But he by his spirit and word gave us new hearts that are open to receive his word now. But even a transplanted heart grows old. Just because you get another one from a younger person doesn't mean that your own heart can't go back and some bad and sometimes. Transplanted, brand new hearts for that person need to have implants. Sometimes they need to have a defibrillator or a pacemaker to keep even that new heart going well. And once again, spiritually, there is a picture for that as an implance that God puts within our new hearts to keep them spiritually healthy. A new heart is not enough. We think, oh I got what's an implant? I guess I need one. What is it? Well, that's what we're going to find out tonight What is the spiritual implanting that God does within our hearts to keep us healthy, to keep us growing into Christ, to keep us becoming like Christ? Now, tonight is the third of a series that I've done in the evening on dealing with our anger biblically. The first is just understanding who the one who is the most mad in the whole world. And some people think, well, that's the devil. He's always No, God is the maddest one in the world. Because the one we must be saved from is Him. We must be saved from His wrath because of our sin. Of course, the joy is that he has provided that in Christ. And last time we looked at, well, how, if we had anger, how do we begin to deal with that? How do we work through that in a godly way? How do we recognize it and what do we begin to do? Well this evening we're going to be looking at what God gives us to deal with our anger with each other. Now I could keep this series going on for a long time. I'm planning to end it tonight, and if You would like to know how to deal with anger in your own life, your own family, I'd be glad to spend that time with you. But what we're going to be seeing tonight is what happens with our anger You could use it particularly with God, I mean, excuse me, with your neighbor, which we're having problems all the time. We have it at work, we have it with our families. We have it with each other at the church at times. That's the reality of when sinners rub up against each other. But the joy is that in God's word for his people he implants his truth so that we can work through our anger. It's not that you're not going to have anger. If you think you're not going to have anger, You're living in a fairy tale land. You husbands and wives are going to get grumping with each other at least. And sometimes more. Our children are going to have conflicts with each other. Our children are going to have conflicts at school. We're going to have conflicts in the church. That shouldn't surprise us, but it's what we do with it. God has given us answers, and so what we're going to be looking at, the implant that we need. We're going to be looking at that tonight and how it directs us how to handle our anger with each other. But I might surprise you tonight because what we're really going to look at, even behind that, what we must deal with often. And it's not often recognized, and we don't often see it, is our own anger with God. So let me pray, and we'll look at the scripture. Our Father and God, would you be pleased to speak to and with us this evening through your word? Would you help us not, as we often do, think of another part of our family that should be here to hear this, or someone in the church and think, I hope they're listening, or why aren't they here? But would you allow to do what we always need to do with your word is apply it to ourselves? Only you can ultimately do that By your spirit. Would you make us moldable this evening that we might hear this? We confess that it's not easy. We're all so tired. And um and we think, oh, how could I be even angry at God? How could I ever even admit anything like that? But we've seen that in the saints in the past and know that it could happen with us. Would you go to the very core of ourselves tonight as we come to your word, open it and bring it to our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well let's stand together as we read from God's Word, the book of James. James is the half-brother of Jesus. Probably the first epistle, first book of the Bible written Some would often say this is just practical, there's no gospel in it. Martin Luther wasn't even sure if we should keep James in the canon of the Bible We'll see tonight that the gospel's certainly there and we rejoice in that, but there is so much just of the practical nature that we need to To survive with each other and get along in the church and to grow in Christ. So may God bring those truths to us. James chapter 1, verses 19 to 21. Know this, my beloved brothers, let every person be quick to get angry. Whoop, wait a minute. It doesn't say that, does it? To be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness that God requires. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. Brothers and sisters, the word of God. Please receive. Well, the first thing you must know is that this word that's going to be what needs to be implanted into your heart is the word of God. And James is writing to the church, brothers and sisters, look at James 1. 19 as it begins. Know this, my beloved brothers. And and just to make sure that you understand this isn't a practical uh uh book, but it's a theological book in the Gospels here. Look one verse before this in the context tonight, James 1. 18, and you'll see the gospel. Speaking of God 118, of his own will he God. He brought us forth by the word of truth. that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creation. S It's talking about God choosing the elect and bringing them forth and giving them faith. The gospel is in the book of James. And now that the gospel's been in there and they've come to Christ, James is talking to brothers and sisters in Christ, people just like you and I. So he is bringing it to the converted Jews in Jerusalem where he is head of the church, but it's gone out, it says, into the dispersion, because of the persecution The Jews were were spread, the Jews were converted were spread all over the Roman Empire. And this letter is going out and being circulated. to encourage them. And he says, my beloved brothers, my brothers and sisters in Christ, he's writing to the dispersed church. And as he writes, I'm going to switch to verse 21, look a little further, because that's we're going to talk about this implant, and then we'll see how it happens. But he says in 121, the second part, receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. Now he's not talking about here saving our souls in the sense of conversion. That happened in 118. He talked about God bringing us forth as the first fruits. He talked about God working regeneration in our hearts. So you can speak of salvation as that one time coming to Christ. But even as we read in Philippians, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, right? So you have salvation You are given justification, you are redeemed, but becoming like Jesus Christ is the working out of your salvation. And so as we receive God's word, it implants in our hearts. The Holy Spirit uses us, then his word, to conform us to Christ, working out our salvation. making us like our Savior. Similar thoughts found in 1 Peter 2. 2. Likewise, newborn infants. As newborn infants, because you're new in Christ, long for the pure spiritual milk that by it you might grow up into salvation. The Holy Spirit works in believers, transforming you into Christ's likeness as you receive God's word and are conformed to it. That's what's happening all the time when you come to a service, you should be receiving. Now, of course, like the Bereans. Careful, because your pastor can misspeak. You could go to a church that doesn't speak the word of God right, like the Bereans, they hear God's word. And then they go back and make sure that what the pastor says is true to God's word, but we're to receive it with meekness, confessing we have a need. We don't have all the truth. We don't do everything right. We need to receive God's word with meekness. Matthew Henry says it this way. We must therefore yield ourselves to the Word of God with most submissive Humble and tractable tempers, this is to receive it with weakness, being willing to hear our faults. Taking it not only patiently, but thankfully, desiring also to be molded and formed by the doctrine and precepts of the Word of God, the gospel. Brothers and sisters, he says, you need to have God's word implanted in your heart that you become like his living word, Jesus Christ. And so we have to be meek in the sense of not sitting here and thinking and you know kind of hitting our husband and wife in the in the elbow or the you know the rib. Do you hear this? You know, that's not receiving the word of God. That's trying to have someone else receive it. Right? Or something's going on with your children and you kind of look over them and the pastor makes a point and you go You get that? You get that? That's not receiving the word of God. Receiving the word is sitting here like a sponge, you know. You have to check it out, but you say, Lord. I need your word. You're giving it to me from my own heart that you would conform me. Implant this word, that I would become like the living word, even Jesus Christ. Now he goes on to say, how does it happen that God's word becomes implanted? Certainly when we read the word of God, but he's talking about as this letter goes out and the receiving the word of God from their pastor and the preacher, we get it from hearing the word. James 1. 19. Look at the second part with me. This is how God would implant his word into our hearts. Let every person be quick to hear God's word. Now what it's talking about here is that not just uh did you hear it? You know, my my wife will tell me some things, then she'll say, did you hear that? I said, oh yeah, sweetie, I heard it. Then she'll say, well, what did I say? We do that with our children too, right? Well, uh uh Uh take out the trash? Was that it? No, I didn't say that, right? And so often, you know, we sit here You know, we're worried about what's going on tomorrow, what's in our checklist for tomorrow, or is the you know, in the morning service, you know, did this did you know, we're having company over, uh, you know, and I set the oven. I hope it went off. You know, so there'll actually be something to eat by the time we get there. You know how our minds we it's hard for us to to really receive the word of God, be quick to hear it. But when it's talking about is if you're in a two-seater plane and you don't know how to fly. And what happens is that while you're flying, the pilot passes out. You know, you don't know whether he's fainted or he's died, but you can't give him CPR. You're the only one up there flying the plane. And you don't know how to do it. And so, you know, you got your head set up. You say, uh, uh, uh, control tower, uh, May Day, May night, whatever it is, I've got a problem. And you're up there and you're listening to the control tower because you got a land. You want to live. If you want to live spiritually, that's what we have to do with the Word of God. We've got to listen to it and do it because it saves us as we hear it and it conforms us to Christ. It's listening in that way. And then James 1:19 goes on: let every person be slow to speak in response to hearing God's word implanted into our hearts. There's a wise saying that God has given us two ears and only one tongue. There's an emphasis there. All right? Shut up and listen. He doesn't say it that way, but you know. The ears are open and exposed without any impediment, but the tongue is to be walled in by teeth and lips. You see what God's done is he created us? He gave us two ears, and he's taken our tongue and he's walled it in. So that you have to open up your lips and your teeth to speak because you get a problem in there. The problem is we open our mouth and close our ears It's the opposite of what we've got to be doing. And it says in the word, let every person be slow to speak and yet quick to hear. Often, too often, we come to God's Word filled with our own preconceived ideas and are like to like the sign that said, Don't confuse me with the facts. My mind is made up. James 1. 19 goes on to say, to you and to me, beloved, that every person Be slow to anger when you hear God's word implanted in your heart. When you respond in anger to God's word, it's ultimately because you're angry with God. There are times when a preacher or a teacher in your own study, God nails you. He lays you open and exposes you. He just says, this is the way it is, and you're sitting there. And it's uncomfortable because you can see your own self mirrored there And there's a choice then. You can have the word implanted in your heart, or you can get angry at God. That's interesting. I don't know exactly all of James' purposes in this, but earlier in this book. James had told these persecuted believers some things they didn't want to hear, probably He was telling them hard things. And I think that part of what James is doing here is he's saying Don't close your ears to these hard things. This is stuff you don't like. This is stuff is naturally because we love our ease and we love our comfort. And we want things to be nice. We don't want to hear these things. But in James earlier, James 1, 2-4, he said, Count it all joy, my brethren, when you meet various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And the steadfastness has its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. I don't want to hear that. I don't want to hear about trials. I want to hear about the blessings. Don't tell me about losses and crosses. Tell me about benefits and blessings. I think part of what James is getting to right here, not only as they deal with their brothers and sisters, but as they listen to God's word, he says. Receive it with meekness because it's what you need. God's word and plant it in your heart. Don't rebel against those things. Or James 1:12, blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he stood the test, he will receive the crown of life when God has promised to those who live him. I don't want to hear trial. I heard trial earlier in the chapter. Enough of trials I want it easy. It's my birthright. You've got to give me an easy Christian life. Give those trials to one of those other saints. They need it, not me. The truth is, I think the beloved sisters and brothers here were having struggles with getting mad at God, and the truth is, I think we do too. You and I get angry at God because he didn't do what you thought he should do. His plan is different than your plan. You get angry with God because he didn't do it in the way you thought he should do it. And you get angry with God because he didn't do it when you thought he should do it. Lord, this is too long. I've waited this long. One month wasn't bad. Six months, okay, but oh, it's over a year. It's five years. I want you to look at the handout that I've handed out. Funny thing about that. And as you look at it, the one side pictures with certainly with other people, but I want you to have think about it tonight in your own relationship with the Lord. That our heart, this new heart that's been transplanted, the new heart that we've been given by God's grace, the heart that we have within us now is to be his, that we would love him and our neighbor, but the truth is that so often if you would look at that heart and get an x-ray, you would see I and me there. Our hearts really are about our own satisfactions and pleasures. And the kind of the things that we might think in our thought, we wouldn't tell this to anybody else, but the truth is, it was often goes in our hearts are these very things. I want my way. Lord, I want relief from my suffering. I need someone or something to change that will make everything all right again and do it now. Lord, help me get this straightened out. I want to straighten out my wife or my husband or my child. Or Lord, I don't like what you're doing. I want to control God. I have a right. By golly, you've adopted me, you've made me your child, and you love me, and I have a right to have it right. Now, would any of us raise our hand in a Bible study and say, that's me, that's what I'm thinking? No, we wouldn't, would we? But beloved, I I must confess to you that when I read these things, I oh Not all the time by God's grace. You know, there's lots of times when this isn't me. You know, uh the word of God implanted in me is making me like Christ, but there's a whole lot of pri times when This is true in my heart, and it leads to bitterness, loneliness, lack of contentment, envy, depression, and self-pity. So if you're struggling with any of these things, you might ask, what's going on in my own heart? Not just with others. So this can happen certainly with others. But in our own walk with Christ, it happens. And then the other side is where we need to be As God's word is implanted in our hearts. And this is a growing thing. Our salvation is wonderfully good because Christ has done it all perfectly already. We're going to heaven. But as we're becoming like Christ, we have to have these battles and ask these questions and ask God to give us an x-ray of our hearts. And this is just helpful to do that. A heart that is God, as you say, I want God to be glorified, even though this heart, I understand that God is sovereign. He's good and wise. I will not respond in sinful anger at this time. I'll trust that God has my best interest at heart. I don't have to have my way. I am mindful that I really have very few legitimate rights. One of the Gospels speaks of the servant who has worked all day and comes to the field, comes home from the field. And uh he has to then feed his master's dinner and his master is there, you know, taking mouthfuls of mashed potatoes after he's worked all day, you know, he's eating these mashed potatoes and enjoying them. And the servants worked all day. He takes his knife and loads them up with, he's very good at this. He loads them up with peas and goes, Are you joining this dinner? And and the response there is You have all that you need in just being made Christ. And we think that we should take the Master's place. He should serve us. Rather than we've given our lives to serve Him. So I would encourage you Uh to just think about your own heart with God and with others and look, is this a picture of where your own heart is at times? And if it is describing it now or in the future, then then then there's some dealings that you and I must do with God and confess that What about you? Is there an area of your life where you're not just sad or frustrated, but actually angry with God? Because your life has not come out the way you expected or planned or want. Is it with your future? Is it with your family, your job, your health? You fill in the blank. But what is it would cause you from giving praise to God and you're just sitting there in your own grumpiness? You're not nice to anybody else and you say, it's the situation, it's my tiredness, it's my oh yeah, all of those things affect us and they make life hard Are you angry with God because his will for now and the details of your life is not his will? Maybe with your children. Maybe with others, you know. Your anger at God's work and will in your life may be seen by your clamming up That's what Jonah did. First told to go to Nineveh, right? He didn't like that. Those Ninevehes There's such pagans, how can you send me their God? And he didn't yell and scream. He just quietly bought a ticket to Tarshish and sailed off. And he clammed up. Some of some people are blowers up All right, but at first he just clammed up and just said, I'm I'm leaving, I'm getting out of here. You might be a clamor-upper with God. Pouting, going around saying, whoa is me, starting to withdraw or go into depression. Or you might be the blower-upper, usually one of each in each family. And Jonah at the end, after they repented, And Jonah's up watching Nineveh now, hoping that God might change his mind. And just because God takes the gourd, the leaf that was covering him in the shade, God kills it with a worm and he says, How dare you do that, God! We think, what's going on with this guy? But Beloved, I know you'll never probably see me shaking my fist at God, right? Especially here, right? How can the best but My little heart in here has a little fist. Sometimes we go, God. And sometimes we do both at different times. You might even be shocked and ask, where did that ugly display of anger when you do it come from? Where did that come from? You know, you're shocked. You know, or maybe you just know your own thoughts and you said, where did that come from? And one of the things that God does Is, you know, you're not sure if I should drink this. I mean, you might there there could be like sewage in here. You don't know what's in this cup, right? Could be water But the only way you know what's in this cup is is that you have to jostle it. It was why. It was why. But you have to jostle it, right? And we might think that we're pretty okay as Christians, but one of the things God does is He jostles us. He brings us trials. And what's coming out of your life in the trial? Is it pretty? Would you want others to be drinking of it? And God does that because he loves us, not that he hates us. We'd rather have his word implanted in there and change us and cause us to repent and trust and love him. Our sinful hearts tell us that our circumstances are either too hard or they've lasted too long, or we know better than God. We begin to rationally our sinful anger, blaming both him and others for our sinful attitudes and actions. But God shows us in His Word what it's like when our desires for ease and comfort and peace take place to our committing to His will. Isaiah 29, 16 describes you and me when we get like this. And there's other places where God describes it in just the same kind of words. But he says this You, speaking of you and me, when we try to take the place of God, we're not, we don't like him and his ruling in our life. So in our hearts we throw him off the throne and we climb up the throne and we say it should be like this. He says, you turn things upside down. Shall the potter be regarded as the clay that the thing has made should say to its maker, He did not make me Or the thing formed, say to him who formed it, he has no understanding. That's why it says in James 120, For the anger of man against God and his word does not produce the righteousness of God. I want to remind you what the definition of his anger we've been looking at. Robert Jones said this Anger is the whole-personed response when you make a perceived judgment against a wrong. So framed in this way, is it okay to ever be angry at God? The world would tell you, or some liberal thorough legends, oh God is, God's big. He can anger all your anger. Just let it out Oh, God knows our weakness. He knows that sinfully we'll let out our anger, but we're never to be letting our anger out at God. You can be real you can be real and true. The Psalms do that. They say, God, why are you taking so long? I don't understand it. That's different than saying, God, why are you taking so long? Right. Anger at God is wrong because it accuses God of wrongdoing. To be angry with God is to perceive some wrong in God, to apprehend some evil in his ways. And we need to confess that it's in our nature to count and keep track of our losses and crosses rather than to praise Him for our benefits and blessings. Here are some words that if you understand what I'm saying tonight, that if anyway God has mirrored your own heart Here's some word to implant into your own heart that would help. And one of the things we have to do is live by God's word, this word implanted rather than our feelings. The world will tell you, live by your feelings. That's a dangerous place to be. Feelings aren't bad or evil, but if we live by our feelings rather than God's truth, we get into problems. One place to go, one one one scripture to implant in your own heart is Psalm 119 and 168. 11968 it says, You, O God, are good and do good. There's just sometimes when I'm going through life and I'm hurting and I'm wondering where is God, what is God doing, that I have to bring up this truth and say, okay, God, I feel this way. But you are good and you do good. It's not long, it's not big, but it's exactly what I need to hear It's like an emergency thing you pull as you're falling out of the plane. You know, that's all you can read on the way down. Oh God, you're good and you do that. Of course, Romans 8, 28 and 29 is always good. Not when someone's just bringing it flippantly, but for your own heart to come and work with. And we know that for those who love God, all things Work together for good. For those who are called to his purpose, for those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. God works all things good, even these trials and heartaches, because they cause us not to rely upon ourselves. But to look to our God. You know, some people like to say, ah, don't read me any John Calvin. Come on. Who can understand that God? And the truth is, sometimes I read John Calvin and I'm lost. You know, he's just a another whole light sphere above. But it's so great because you can read other stuff in there too. And I'm glad for him. I'm not poo-pooing John Calvin, but I want you to read this because he seemed to know exactly what I'm talking about. He says this And the reason he probably can write it is because he has been there, right? Isn't that encouraging? Isn't it encouraging when God writes this stuff for us? 'Cause this is the way we are. He doesn't say, Be perfect, be good little kid, just still like this. And if we don't, he kills us, right? Yeah, he he knows us Calvin said this: As soon as God does not send what we have desired, we dispute against him and bring suit. We charge God. Not that we appear to do this, but our manner shows this, nevertheless, our intent. Why is it that men fret so when God sends them things entirely contrary to their desire, except that they don't acknowledge that God does everything by reason and has a just cause For if we had well imprinted on our hearts that all God does is founded in good reason, it is certain that we would not be ashamed to chafe so again. God not only implants his word in our heart, but he calls us to be active weeding out the sinful anger. Not enough just to receive it. We have to be working to recognize it and weed out the sinful anger. Robert Jones, it says this in James 1. 21. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness. You see, when we're not receiving God's word, when we're angry at him and others, we need to stop that and put it away. He calls it filthiness and rampant wickedness. What? I would just say maybe this is a weakness. I'm having a rough time. It's not really so bad. I'm not, no one knows about this. It's just going on in my heart. No, God says it's awful. The solution to our sinful anger at God lies in our continually repenting of our unbelief and rebellion. When we don't, when we're going through these difficulties and we can't see the future, we know who holds the future, that he's good. He's given us Jesus Christ, but we in our unbelief rail against him. We must reject the lie that denies God's goodness, power, and wisdom, and must reaffirm His righteousness, love, and justice. That's why Hebrews 2, 1 and 2, 12. Hebrews 12, 1 and 2 says, Therefore, since we're surrounded by such a great cloud of witness, let us lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely to us. The Lord understands we're struggles with this. You know, don't be overwhelmed if you're sitting here in the night and you say, that's me. Lord, I understand that. Don't don't let it get you down and go, oh I uh I'm just a worm. It says, look to Jesus Christ. Let us run the waste of the truth. Endurance is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Tonight, if this has been describing you or a portion of you or your own struggle, turn from your sin of unbelief, lay it aside, and by faith, look wholeheartedly To Jesus Christ and your circumstances that he brings to you through the corrective lens of his love for you in dying for you in the cross. The gospel is the answer for you here. To remember that in the midst of all the trials and everything else, you know that they can't come except they're brought through the cross If Jesus wouldn't bring anything or allow anything into your life except that it is good, as hard as it is And that he suffered already before you, never railing against God. I have a lot more here, but we're out of time. But let me just go to the last place where we see that And it's right before his death, of course. Turn with me to Luke 22. In Luke 22, verses 39 to 42, it says this. And this is Jesus as he's coming to the cross. He understands that even as we confess, if he descended into hell, the cross is his descent into hell. The cross is his descent into hell as he lays the sin of the world of those who turn to Christ upon him. He has to take all the anger and the wrath of God for your and my sin. He knows that that is coming. He in his own weakness and frailty would say, Oh God, Let it pass. But because he is the living word and has God's word implanted in him, he says, what? Not my will, but yours. Luke 22, 39 to 42. And Jesus came and went out. Was his custom. He went to the Mount of Olives And the disciples followed him. And when he came to the place he said to them, Pray that you may not enter temptation. And he withdrew about them, about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed, and said, Father If you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done. How wondrous it is. As we go through these struggles, fears, unbelief. That we have the cross to look back to, that we don't have to live by our feelings, but we can live by the truth that all this is brought mediated through our Savior who died, that we might have life. Given a new heart, and given his word, transplanted into our hearts, that we might become like him. Let us pray. Our Father and God, the reality is that we are weak and frail. We don't have it all together. And there are times when we have zippity-doo-daw days and we just say, praise God, how good it is to be one of your children. And yet, we also confess there are times and seasons where we wonder where you are and what you're doing. And we might not scream out, but we have these little fists of rebellion raised and said, God, it's time now. You must do it. And we live in our unbelief. Oh God, help us look to the cross. And remember the glorious gospel of your dying for us and your promise to never leave or forsake us, but to strengthen us, that no temptation will last longer than you call it to. As you conform us to Christ, for we pray in his name. Amen.