If you have your Bibles, would you please turn to our passage this morning, which is from the Gospel of Mark, chapter 11, verses 1 through 11? And if you're wondering, that's correct. It's very easy to remember. It's all ones this morning to find it. You know, there was a a series that was extremely popular, a TV series. Not only was it popular here in the United States, but it was very popular globally. It started in the late 70s, and I wonder if some of you may remember what the series was. Let me give you some of the names of the characters in the series and see if you remember them. Uh the first one's gonna be a little tough. Lucy. Sue Ellen. Hmm. Pam. Cliff. Bobby. And this one you'll get it. J R. J. R. Oh, okay. Yeah, the name of that series is Dallas. That's right. It started in nineteen seventy-eight and and it lasted for a whopping fourteen seasons. You know, nowadays you just can't get something to last that long. People lose interest, but It lasted for 14 seasons altogether. And they were not half-hour or 20-minute shows. They were like hour-long shows. Well the writers on that uh on that cast were experts on weaving tales, making you want to come back. Didn't they? One of the things that they were so good at was the end-of-season cliffhangers. You just couldn't wait until the next season came around so that you could see exactly what was next. They knew how to make it climactic, and they never seemed to let you down. But there was one season, though, at least I felt, that it was uh a little disappointing It was sort of uh anticlimactic. It was from, I think it was the eighth season, and that's when Bobby died. I don't know if you have watched it and remember that. They buried him. They had a family funeral, and they said their goodbyes. And when they went to the next season you discover that it was nothing but a dream that Pam had, right? He was really alive, and you know that was very disappointing I mean, I'm happy for the character, but it but it was anticlimactic, right? The passage I've selected for us this morning is um from the last section of the Gospel of Mark. And we're in this gospel, we're approaching the end of Jesus' earthly mission. What has passed has been preparatory work, establishing his ministry and preparing his disciples for what is to come. The very glory of God is no longer on the way, but he is arriving at Jerusalem, and more importantly, the temple. There's a lot of commotion in this passage, crescendoing to a point that Mark has been leading us up to. How will it turn out? Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Hear now the reading of God's Word. Now, when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethpage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples. And said to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat Untie it and bring it. If anyone says to you, why are you doing this? Say, the Lord has need of it and will send it back here immediately. And they went away and found a coal tied at a door outside in the street. And they untied it. And some of those standing there said to them, What are you doing? Untying the colt. And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go. And they brought the colt to Jesus and and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it. And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields, and those who went before, and those who followed, were shouting, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple. And when he had looked around at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. This is the word of God. Amen. Let us pray. Please be seated. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you now as we continue to celebrate this indeed Palm Sunday that you have given us your word. And we ask you, Holy Spirit, now to help us understand the very word that you have given to us, illumine our minds, open our spiritual eyes, and unstop our spiritual ears, so that we may see and we may hear. our Lord and our Savior, the Lord Jesus. And it is in his name that we pray these things. Amen. In the Gospel of Mark, chapters 11-13, is that in the temple, or it's directly related to it. Very much like the prophets before him, Jesus pronounces judgment, but unlike them, he is not calling them to repentance. His teaching ministry did not make a call back to the old ways, for that would be putting new wine in old wineskins. His is instead a mission of fulfillment and replacement. Replacement because the new is better. His death is fulfillment of prophecy as well as replacement. And one of the outcomes of his mission will be the replacement of the temple of God, as his sacrificial death will atone the sins of his people once and for all. The constant atonement offered to God at the temple will be superseded by the perfect sacrifice made by the Lord of Himself. Now, I want you to think about this. His death, Jesus' death, is actually judgment and replacement of the temple itself. Hmm. Let's take a look at that. And we find ourselves in this passage on the Mount of Olives. which rises over 2,600 feet above sea level. So it's about 300 feet higher than the city of Jerusalem That's like being on the top of a of of a thirty thirtieth floor of a thirty-floor uh building and and basically you're looking down upon the city of Jerusalem. And it runs north to south on the east side of the city itself. Now from the summit of the mountain, the Lord sends two unidentified disciples to fetch him a cult. It all seems very sort of stealthy stuff, doesn't it? Something you might read in a mystery or spy novel, the way that it's written out. So he sends them to fetch the cult. A beast that has never been ridden. And this reminds us of scripture, other places in scripture that has a messianic undertone. He instructs them that if they get questions about taking the cult, they are to tell them that the Lord has need of it and that he'll send it back to them immediately. Now, imagine that you were sent out to go get say some sort of uh performance mountain bike on the front lawn of somebody's house. And if people there saw you taking it and uh and uh they said, what are you doing? Uh how do you think you would go if you said the Lord has need of it? Probably not so good. Unless, of course, that was prearranged by someone else and you had some sort of an equivalent password. for them to let you do it. So they got the cult and they returned to the Lord. Now, in addition to the apostles, there were other disciples with Jesus at this time. And now added to that crowd would be other people on their way from Jericho, joining this band of Galileans on their way to Jerusalem for Passover celebrations. Now it does seem on the surface that so much space has been given to the steps involved in gaining the cult. Mark could have just summed it up by saying something like The Lord was lent a cult to be seated upon, or something like that. You know, so many details. A cult, untying it. A password, etc. Mark is not in the habit of taking time for superfluo details, or would seem like superfluous details. He is the action gospel. You know his favorite word is immediately. Immediately. So as deeper, we may find that Mark has more here to offer in the details regarding the cult than what was originally seen. Now the other gospel writers on this passage, quote from Zechariah, one sense quote, It seems that he presumed that his readers knew what was going on in Zechariah. And it's from Zechariah 9. 9. Now read that for us. It says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of men. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Here it is, Behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he. humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. Now, in Genesis 49, This is what I was making reference to earlier. Jacob summons his sons and proclaims what will happen to them. When he comes to his son Judah, he proclaims this enigmatic oracle. It starts in verse 8 and it ends in verse 12 of Genesis 49. For our purposes, I'd like to direct your attention to verses 10 and 11, if you have your Bibles with you. As for you, Judah, the scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet. until Shiloh comes, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples He ties the his foal to the vine and his donkey's colt to the choice vine. This Shiloh, who was to come, although enigmatic, was widely interpreted in pre-Christian literature messianically. This Shiloh is the very same Jesus that has been prophesied about in the book of Genesis. So Mark is pointing out that by the act of untying of the cult was itself a messianic sign. To be associated with the coming Shiloh, prophesied all the way back in Genesis. This is important to note because we're going to reference this again in yet a moment. Now the donkey, not having been ridden, had no saddle, and so the two disciples take their outer garments and put it on the donkey They brought the donkey to Jesus and he sat upon it. And when he did, some began to spread their cloaks before him, as well as palm branches before Jesus. And this action is suggestive. of ceremonies welcoming a king. In 2 Kings 9. 13, we read Then in haste every man of them took his garment and put it under him on the bare steps, and they blew the trumpet and proclaimed, Yehu is king. So there's an example of that. And what about the branches? Well the branches were a sign of or a symbol of victory. This tradition goes back to Simon coming into Jerusalem. The Simon that I have in mind is Simon of the Hasmonean brothers, when he entered on a triumphal occasion. The people placed branches before him. This can be found in some historical books known as First Maccabees in chapter 13 and verse 51. This was a tradition that was known by the by those in Jerusalem and continued. to uh follow it. So as the pilgrims are making their way to the city, there is this normal excitement and anticipation. Especially when on the horizon they see the temple from a distance. And one of the last things that they would do is sing hello songs or hello psalms. Which is typically from 113 to 118. These psalms were sung and connected liturgically to both Passover and also the Tabernacles. So Mark Republicans And when you look at it, you can tell it's from Psalm number 118. They're singing, Hatana, right? Hosanna is properly a prayer invoking God's saving action. It historically meant God saves us. That's what Hosanna historically meant. God saves us. But over a period of time, it became disassociated with its original meaning and it became a shout of acclamation like hallelujah. And the psalm came to have the meaning of addressing pilgrims or a famous rabbi who is coming as a pilgrim to offer sacrifices at the temple. So Psalm 118 came to have the effective meaning of a blessing pronounced upon pilgrims who came up to the festivals. So it came to be something like, Blessed in the name of the Lord be he who comes, making reference to the pilgrim. Mark won't have any of that. The crowds, perhaps not even recognizing it, are singing the following. Note, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord Psalm 118 says the following. Please, O Lord, do save us, Hosanna. Please, O Lord, do send prosperity. Blessed is the one who comes, Shiloh. In the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. That's what the psalm says. Now this ascent Psalm was looking forward to the Shiloh, the messianic figure pre-prophesied. That would come from the house of Judah, the true lion of Judah, and he came to do what? Hosanna, save us Now stay with me. Is that what the crowd is looking for? In verse 10, in the passage The so-called greeting is expanded. Well, I'm being kind. Stuff has been added to it But not the words that come from Psalm 118. The first couple of words are repeated, but then in the place of a person Being blessed for being a pilgrim, it's now what? A kingdom whose arrival is greeted. Do you see the shift? The people are chanting the coming of the kingdom of David returning They're now chanting, Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. This is not the song. The Kingdom of David has a nationalistic political feel to it, doesn't it? It certainly would have back then. Just recently, the son of David, back in Jericho, Bartimaeus addressed Jesus as the son of David continuously until the Lord called him over. And this crowd heard and remembered and fresh in their minds are now chanting this nationalistic hope. to reestablish the sovereignty of Israel. Prophecy in Zechariah 9. 9 does not mention David. Jesus never states that he came to restore the glory of the divinic kingdom. But it seems that the people following Jesus see in him a leader that would meet their heart's deepest nationalistic desires. Are you guys seeing that? Not salvation, which is what the Psalm sings about. They're thinking about national restoration, former glory. In effect, they are singing, now we will have an earthly kingdom just like the one we've always wanted to have. With the right man in charge, we will restore our nation to its former glory. These people are more excited about the Jesus that they've conducted in their heads than the real Jesus. Christian, do you get more excited about the Jesus that you've concocted in your head than the true Jesus? Are we more excited by the Jesus of our own making than we are of the true Messiah, Savior, and King? What kind of Jesus do you long for? Well, some people come to Jesus so that he can be Jesus, the therapist, who gives them ways to cope with life. Some people look to Jesus to be the one who gets them their dream job. You know, sort of like um um a headhunter. For them, Jesus is the executive search agency extraordinaire. Some look to Jesus to get them a spouse. So Jesus becomes a matchmaker. Is Jesus your Yenta? And it can't go without saying. Today's prosperity gospel is clearly an example of this. Have you turned to Jesus to make you wealthy? Is he your cosmic ATM machine? Do you get more excited about the Jesus that you have created in your own head than the true Jesus? There's a difference between what you need. And what you think you need. What you need is a savior Jesus has not come to fulfill your personal desires. Jesus is not your personal ballet. He has come, however, to be your Savior. All of this so far is happening on the road to Jerusalem, right? All outside the gate of the city. Ironically, the people are identifying Jesus and treating him as the coming king of the kingdom. But what they have in mind is something different than why Jesus truly came to Jerusalem. And so the procession starts out in the Mount of Olives. And it comes to an end at the gates of the city. And you would think with all the commotion, the next thing would bring things to a crescendo. Not the case. Verse eleven leaves what just passed behind. This passage is often called the triumphal entry, as we know it. I think the way that Mark describes this event, it should more probably be called the triumphal procession. Everything in Mark has been leading up to this point. Yes, going to Jerusalem. But it's not the city per se. What's more important is what makes Jerusalem so important. What makes Jerusalem so important? It's the temple, right? It's the focal point of Judaism. It's the geographical center, center point of the worship of Yahweh It is where the atonement sacrifices were offered. That is where historically God tabernacled with his people. The object of Jesus' procession is not Jerusalem per se. It's ultimately the temple. Jesus arrives at the temple and makes a long survey of the temple. He evaluates it. Now I need to take a moment here to explain things. Because what happens here is huge. The temple is the place. Jehovah God tabernacled with his people. If you recall, David was not permitted to build this temple because he was a man of war and had blood on his hands. It was the house that the son of David, Solomon, built. He was the one who was called to build and celebrate God. By building him a palace, by building a temple, because he had defeated his rivals. And the Spirit of God descended upon the temple and resided there. And he tabernacled with his people. Another way of saying this is Emmanuel. God was with them. As long as Jehovah resided in his temple, the false and corrupt prophets of Jeremiah's generation, for example, proclaimed what? We have nothing to fear. We have nothing to fear. And there were many things that were wrong that these prophets taught and led many people astray. But this they got right. For as long as God was within the temple, Jerusalem was protected. However, things reached a boiling point, did they not? Ezekiel records for us, the glory of God rose above Jerusalem, leaving the temple. and landed upon the Mount of Olives. Now this was approximately BC 586. I'll read that for us. Ezekiel 1123. The glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city, the temple, and stood over the mountain which is east of the city, the Mount of Olives. It was expected that this the the Yahweh would come back coming from where he landed, the Mount of Olives back into the city. Where did Jesus start this trek? The Mount of Olives, right? Immediately after that event, back in 586, the city was vulnerable because God was not there tabernacling with his people. And we know what happened, right? The Babylonians came in, they sacked the city, and the people went into captivity. Since then, the people of God have been waiting for the glory of the Lord to return upon the temple so that the people could tabernacle with their God. Do you see? This is what we've been waiting for. This is a huge event in redemptive history. This is what the rebuilders of Ezra's generation were looking forward to. This is what the rebuilding efforts of Nehemiah's generation were looking forward to. The return of the Lord to his palace, the temple. When will God return to his temple? and reside so that Jerusalem and his people would be secure again. Even though the temple was rebuilt, the people knew that God had not returned as of yet. Malachi The last of the Old Testament prophets prophesied about the return of Yahweh. It would be inaugurated by a prophet, making the path straight for his arrival. We know who we're talking about. John the Presbyterian, right? The procession then began At the Mount of Olives, the place where Ezekiel saw the glory of God settle. And the glory of God. In the form of Jesus himself comes back from the Mount of Olives to the temple. Here it is. Do you see it? Here he is. Centuries, centuries in the making Do you see how big this event is? God has come. And he, as the text tells us, assessed. Not looking around like a tourist, assessed the temple and he found it lacking. I don't mean some of the shingles on the roof were broken. They needed to be replaced. Some of the AC units in the Gentile court needed to have an upgrade. Not that the grass in the portico was too high or maybe it was too brown. That's not what I'm talking about. Is this anticlimactic or what? It's no dream. It's more like a nightmare. For those that have been placing their hopes in Jesus. A Jesus, a making of their own. You know, if you don't see Jesus as he truly is in the Holy Scriptures, you will one day. Similarly, wake up to a nightmare. If Jesus is anything other than your Savior on Judgment Day, That nightmare will be a reality. If Jesus, the glory of God, did not descend upon the temple then. Do we have any information that the glory of God has ever returned to his people, the elect of God? Or should we still be looking for God, Jehovah God, to return back Judaism has already answered that question. They say absolutely. We need to keep looking, because of course they rejected Christ. However, the answer is, well, we do. Right? We do have evidence of that. But in order to see that, we have to go past the cross to the day of Pentecost. When the glory of God, the Holy Spirit, descended from heaven upon the elect of God, the church. The new temple of God. The temple is no longer a building with literal stones. We're all stones, brothers and sisters. As Peter states it, we're living stones being built up in the house of God. And as Paul tells us, that we are the temple of God. So God does one better for his people. It's no longer God tabernacling with us. He is tabernacling in us. Praise the Lord. Jesus' spirit is in us. We should be so thankful for this. Not what we think we need from him But what we desperately need, salvation, freedom from sin, and a freedom to love our great God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed that you have made it possible for us to love you back. through the great sacrifice of your Son, the Lord Jesus. We ask now that you help us to lead lives that indeed searches out the scriptures and to see him as he truly is. our magnificent, humble, selfless Savior who took upon himself The punishment for the sins that we have committed and has given us life, abundant life, that fills us up to and through all of eternity. And we ask that you would do this so that we may reflect him more and more, that we may love you back, and to love our neighbor.