Um our passage this morning is from Matthew chapter 28, verses 1 through 15. If you have your Bibles with you, uh would you please turn to that? And and as you're doing that, uh just wanted to point out that um If you are visiting with us perhaps for the first time, uh there are some uh blue index cards that are right in front of you. Uh if you would be so kind to fill those out so we have a record of your visit with us or if you'd like me to give you a call, you can just uh designate that uh on the card. And if you have prayer requests, uh even as now Brother Tom was praying, um we uh you can turn to the back side and fill out your prayer requests and fill this uh out for us and then when the operatory plates come, we'd be so kind to put them in there or give it to one of uh the elders or myself before you leave today. So the passage this morning is from Matthew chapter 28 verses 1 through 15. It is the custom of our church that when we read the word of God, we rise, so I ask you now to please rise for the reading and the hearing of God's word. Hear now the word of God. Now, after the Sabbath, towards the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came, and rolled back the stone, and sat on it His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here. For he has risen as he said. Come, see the place where he lay Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples And behold, Jesus met them and said, greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. This is the word of God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Heavenly Father. We ask that you would be gracious in sending your Holy Spirit to be with us now as we study at your feet From your word, open our spiritual eyes and ears, so that we may see and that we may hear the wonderful words of Christ And he himself as well. And it is in his name, even Jesus, that we ask. Amen. Perhaps some of you are familiar with one of Shakespeare's writings. I have in mind Macbeth. Lady Macbeth, she had great guilt within her soul. She was involved, after all, in murdering King Duncan. Although Macbeth, her husband, stabbed the king, Lady Macbeth planned the assassination. drugged the guards and personally smeared the guards with blood in order to frame them. It was in the famous sleepwalking scene, for those who have read it, where her guilt was manifested as a physical hallucination of blood on her hands that she just simply couldn't wash off. She famously said Out, damned spot, out I say Trying to clean her conscience by simply washing her hands was just an illusion. The human conscience, the human soul, made by God, will not allow evil deeds to find solace. And comfort in anything other than himself. We see this in King David's writings, don't we? I have in mind Psalm 32, verses 3 and 4. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away. Through my groaning all day long, for day and night. Your hand was heavy on me. My strength was sapped as in the heat of summer. King David couldn't find relief until the truth came out and he dealt with his sins. Suppressing suppression of the truth is very exhausting The reality is that it takes more energy to hide a sin than it took to commit it. The truth always has a way of coming out So, after a tumultuous and what had to be an exhausting week of events which ended with great suffering. And the death by crucifixion of Jesus. Matthew now picks up the story on Sunday morning. The two women go to the tomb to anoint the body. Mark, in his gospel, provides for us the detail that they were concerned about. When they got there, how they were going to roll back the stone, because they wouldn't have been able to remove that stone by themselves Well, we we quickly see that when they arrive, this is not going to be an issue. Why? Because we are told an angel touched ground with an earthquake that surely got the guards' attention. And made his way towards the tomb and rolled back the stone. Well, what did the professional soldiers of Rome do when they saw all of this unfolding right in front of their eyes, and feeling the ground shake. Matthew describes their response as dead men. I can't help but think that they reacted like anyone else would react when they see an angelic figure. Well, first, they experience a phenomenon that is a natural phenomenon, an earthquake. I don't know if you've ever been in one, but in itself, this is a very terrifying event. There are other natural events. Maybe you've been in one, having lived in Florida for close to two, over two decades. Think about that. We experienced hurricanes regularly. And even though we did have some advanced notice, it was a very terrifying, natural event. I think sometimes another one, of course, is a tornado. That's also a very terrifying effect, event. These men Despite the fact that they were efficient at executing their duties, well, they were still humans. And they would respond like any other human when they experience an earthquake. But that's not all. This is immediately followed by a supernatural being. An angel is to Described as making his way towards the stone for which they were there to guard. And his appearance was like lightning. And his clothing was bright as snow. An angel who comes in the commotion. And then rolls away the stone and then sits upon the stone. Well these soldiers are shaken. by what they witness into unconsciousness. Matthew tells us they were like dead men. We know that they didn't die. They were unconscious. They fainted. Now, I want you to imagine this The woman, the women arriving. And on their mind is how are we going to roll back the stone? suddenly see a garrison of soldiers, unconscious, and the stone rolled away. The soldiers, having fainted, didn't look like they were asleep. And especially now that it was daytime, they could see that they were just strewn to the ground. It's kind of like a very eerie scene when you think about it. You're there to anoint Jesus and you see this. As they walk a little closer, they see the angel. Their reaction could have been much like the soldiers. And anyone else we see in Scripture responding to these supernatural beings. Fright, fear. But the angel calms their fears. Do not be afraid. I know why you are here. You are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. I think it's important to note that the women were fully convinced that he was dead. They came to tend to his body. They fully expected him to be dead. And the angel affirms, clearly he affirms this. He says, Jesus, who was crucified. The word for crucified is in the perfect participle, this meaning that they were under the impression that he was still crucified. That is to say, they did not expect him to be any different. And then he tells them. He's not here. He's not here because he has risen from the dead Come. Take a look. Meaning, look in the tomb. You're not going to find him there. He has been raised. Just like he said that he would be. Now the word being raised here is in the passive This means that he was raised by someone else. By another. It was done unto him. It's not in the active. This, of course, points to God, God the Father. If God the Father is raising Jesus, his son from the dead, this makes it perfectly clear. That the Lamb of God's self-sacrifice was pleasing and acceptable as a substitute for those whom he died for. I find it ironic that Jesus' followers didn't take him seriously when he said that he would be raised on the third day. If you recall, Peter rebuked Jesus for saying such a thing. The irony is that the people that paid the most attention to his predictions. were his enemies. The Sanhedrin, who didn't believe him, of course, or believed in him. You see, they were the ones that asked Pilate for a guard to prevent anyone from stealing his body because they heard him prophesy. and realized the gravity of that prediction if it was believed to be true They realize the gravity of that prediction. So let me ask you. Have you considered the gravity of the resurrection of Jesus? If he died, which he died, and predicted his resurrection on the third day, which we know he did. Even because of his enemies had heard him saying it and used it to secure a Roman guard from Pilate. And he was raised from the dead. His enemies, those that went to great lengths including breaking their own cherished religious laws to eliminate Jesus. They understood the significance. You see, they understood the gravity of the resurrection. They didn't believe it, but they understood the significance of anyone believing it. You see You really can't be neutral. You can't be neutral to the idea of the resurrection. You see, if you if you believe it, then it should change your life See, if you believe it, then you will want to find out more about who he said he is. And what he came to do, and how he expects you and I to live out our lives. Even if you don't believe it, then you must reckon with answering a whole bunch of questions. Like where is the body? Where is the body? The eyewitnesses, the hundreds of eyewitnesses, of which we read in our call to worship this morning. We saw Jesus die. And the hundreds that saw Jesus after his resurrection. Yes, there is such a thing as a hallucination, but there's no such thing as a mass hallucination. A bunch of men and women cannot hallucinate the very same thing. There is no such thing. And so the angel is kind of saying, if you don't believe me Or if you're understandably skeptical, come. Look. Look inside. He is not in there. Then the angel commissions them to go. Go quickly and tell his disciples that one he is risen from the dead. too that he is going ahead of them to Galilee. It is there that he will rendezvous with them. Now let's stop here for a second and ask a question. If you were one of these ladies and experienced what they just experienced, what would you make of it? Some dude with a really shiny outfit. Well, I would want to know where his dry cleaners are, who it is. So the supernatural person tells you that he's Not here. Jesus is not here. Take a look. And then gives you orders to tell Jesus the disciples that the Lord has risen from the dead and that he's going to meet them up in Galilee. Okay, so his body is not there. But you know that doesn't really prove that he's been raised from the dead, right? I'm not sure If I was them, and I'm going to the disciples, that they're not, how do they, I don't know if they can even believe me that this is the case. I'm not so sure that I can believe it myself. What if this is some sort of a plan, maybe? To capture Jesus' disciples in Galilee? I'll be telling the disciples to go right to their death. This is not so far-fetched, right? You can't really ask, you know, at the moment and in the moment, Mr. Angel Guy. You know, with the great threads? I can I I I can't see his body. I know it's not here. But can you can you produce Jesus for me, please, before I go? Why? Because he already said he will meet you in Galilee. The interesting thing, though, is that perhaps unbeknownst to these women Jesus had already prophesied, right before they went down to Gethsemane, that after he was raised from the dead, that he would meet them in Galilee And this is found just in the chapter prior, Matthew 26, 31 and 32. Jesus said to them You will fall away because of me this night. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. And here it is. But after I am raised up. I will go before you to Galilee. All of these women may have not uh uh been present there. Uh about this meeting place that Jesus said that it was going to be in Galilee, it would have meant something to the disciples. Of course, if they were paying attention. So, if I were there, not knowing of this, and even if I knew this. Frankly, I would be skeptical. Wouldn't you be skeptical? I don't know this angel from Adam. I don't know what happened. Look at all these soldiers. They they they're on the ground. What's going on here? I don't see any blood, right? I don't know, they've been brained maybe? And and what's going on here? Yeah, I'm being a little languish. today. So I would be skeptical. But their response was different. Than my response. We are told that they left with great joy. And we're told also with great fear. Although skeptical, I think that you could entertain the possibility, however, that what this angel guy was saying was true. Jesus is no longer dead, but he is alive. Surely that would fill your heart with sort of this admixture of emotions of joy and yet fear. All fear. So at some level, they have to convince the disciples, don't they? That this is legit, right? What do you think would make their plea more convincing Well, Jesus seeing Jesus alive and resurrected, right? Absolutely. Being an eyewitness to Jesus' resurrected self. This would dispel their disbelief or skepticism, right? It would mine. So what happens next in verse 9? And behold, as they began to make their way back, Jesus met them and said, greetings. There's been a lot of uh writing regarding what this Greek word actually means and how it should be translated. But I think um coming from Texas, I would say, hey y'all. Would be okay. Sighting him, these women, they came to him and they took hold of his feet. With this specific detail that Matthew provides for us, he is communicating two very important details. The first is that it was a real body. It was not some spiritual being without flesh. He was not some sort of a ghost. Christ's resurrection was not in spirit form alone. It was both flesh and spirit. Secondly, it is their reaction. Their reaction is what I think is the natural reaction of anyone who is a follower of Jesus. Who sees Jesus bowing down and worshiping at his feet? Please note: these ladies, these Jewish ladies. Who were monotheists, who understood that there is only one God to be worshipped. Did what? They worshipped Jesus. Please note what Jesus didn't say to them at this moment while they were doing that. You stop that. Worship is to be given only to God, and I'm not God Or something like, stop. Don't you realize if I continue to accept your worship, I can get into a great deal of trouble with God. He said none of these things. He accepted their worship. Why did he accept their worship? Why was it appropriate? Because Jesus is the divine God man And then he told them exactly what the angel said, right? Go tell my disciples to meet me in Galilee. In verse 11, Matthew transitions us from the joy of seeing Jesus to that of the problem his followers faced. From the guards and the Jewish Sanhedrin. Now, the problem we're going to go over is something that the church was still dealing with at the time of Matthew's writing. And we see in verse 15 where we're retold, this is the story that has been circulating till this day, the day that he was writing it down. As to when that may be, well, there's a great deal of debate amongst uh scholars that place it a couple of different years when Matthew wrote his gospel. One of them is a couple of years right before the destruction of the temple, which would be before A. D. 70, and some go to 80 to 90 A. D. Excuse me. The day of the writing, frankly, is not important for what we're doing today. But we can safely say that it has been at least a couple of decades. And this is still a rumor that is circulating at the time of Matthew's writing. Now returning back to the text, the women have come and they've gone at this point. We're told that some of the guards went to the chief priest. One would wonder why is it that they didn't go directly to Pilate? Well, the reason is Pilate himself placed the guards at the disposal of the Jewish authorities, the Sanhedrin. We see this in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 65, where they ask for it. And Pilate says to them, You have a guard. Go. Make it secure as you know how. And following orders, they they report it. The soldiers. Following reporters, they report it back to the Priests. Having a Roman guard with a seal is serious business. Making an attempt at rolling open the stone Would have resulted in a group of professional, efficient soldiers, not stopping you, but killing you in your tracks. It's serious business for everyone involved, because if they fail to do their duty, they themselves will have to face a court-martial. And serious punishment, if not execution. So we can see why they didn't go tell their commanding officer The truth. But let's face it, the Romans would have been skeptical about a questionable story of an angel coming and rolling back the stone and then floating to the top of the stone to have a seat. And then they can't remember anything else. So they did their proper duty. They reported back to the chief priests. After hearing what they had experienced, the chief priests decided that they would call the other leaders in for a consultation. They called the Sanhedrin, if you will, into session. So they can discuss what information that was just given to them. And it seems that after some deliberation, they came up with a plan. Now, please note that we're gonna get into the plan in just a second. But they're not even willing to investigate That the Lord had been resurrected. They were so obstinate. They were so concerned that if this is true, everyone would follow Jesus. Not them. Life and all its comforts as they knew it meant that they would have to give up for following Jesus. for revealing the truth. That wasn't for them. How about you? If Jesus is not your Lord, if you haven't submitted to Him Is it because you have counted the cost? What it is that you have to give up? You see, they won't even entertain an investigation, even a secret investigation. Before we hear the plan We're told that they offered a sufficient sum of money The NASP translates this as a large sum of money. Let's just say that it was a considerable bribe. It was what was needed for what they were going to be asked to do. And it had to be a significant bribe. If they were going to agree with the plan, they would have to face the consequences of a charge of a dereliction of duty. If they were going to survive this, which included being what we, I guess what we would call being dishonorably discharged, This would require several years of salary to each of the guards that were there that day. The plan. Well, it was simple story that they had to perpetuate Tell people that they fell asleep, and while they were asleep, his disciples came and rolled back the very heavy and large stone, and they stole Jesus' body. Very simple. And they give them assurance that if they should get into trouble with the Roman authorities, the governor, they would use their political capital to keep them out of trouble. We will persuade him, the governor, and you will be, the word used in the Greek is you will be without anxiety. You will have nothing to worry about. That's the deal Should we hear anything about this from the governor, we will tell him that we were satisfied with your service And this is the story that they circulated. And so the soldiers were glad to take the bribe. Made them feel easier to know that they had someone on their side, a relatively powerful group at that. And so they were in it together now. One group taking the bride, one group offering the bribe. Both engaged in a lie, a cover. problem. You know, despite the fact that there's a this story was circulated among the Jews, one cannot help but think that all of the speculations, all the stories that were made up It could have been so effortlessly avoided by them. All the leadership had to do was to produce the body. Right? Yet with all of that, nobody was ever produced, and no body has ever been produced So interestingly enough, we don't have a story from antiquity that was purported to be the body of Christ that was later discarded because it was a fake We don't even have a single incidence of that. Not a single one. So what I wanna would like to ask now is How did Matthew come to the knowledge of this plot? There are many theories offered by philosophers, researchers, and psychologists as to why it is that the truth finds its way out. I don't think it's helpful to go over all the different theories that are offered, as we could take up all day doing so, but they all point to the fact that it is so hard to keep a secret. And the more you try to keep a secret, the harder it is. There's actually mathematical models that predict how long it would take for a secret to come into the light based upon the number of people involved with the secret. It's just a matter of time. We see that the Bible doesn't name the perhaps the whistleblower of what is known as the stolen body conspiracy. Some scholars and the text itself suggests several ways that this secret meeting became public knowledge. I think the first is that under divine inspiration we could say that the Holy Spirit could have revealed this to Matthew. In addition to that, we have the possibility of what's called a leaky council, not to be confused with the vegetable. The meeting involved a significant number of people, did it not? The Roman guards, for example. A sufficient sum of money was paid to buy their silence. However, soldiers aren't always known for keeping secrets Especially if they had already told the real version, you know, the earthquake and the angel Especially by those that didn't go to the meeting. Do you remember? It said some of them went to the high priests, not all of them. So they could have gone and told friends about what they just experienced, the process, what they went through before they received the bribe. That's also a possibility. What about the Sanhedrin? The text mentions the priests assembled with the elders and a large group of religious leaders It is historically plausible that a member, perhaps a secret follower of Jesus, like Nicodemus or Joseph of Arimathea, leaked the details of the cover up to the disciples. Or perhaps, as we see later in the book of Acts, one of them converted and later on and told the story of what they had done. Because of a guilty conscience. It's also very possible that it could have been a deathbed confession, too. But what harms the case of the stolen body conspiracy is its own internal inconsistency. That makes it difficult for anyone to believe. The lies that the Roman guards fell asleep. All of them fell asleep. Now it was when they were all asleep, they saw The disciples quietly roll away an incredibly big and heavy stone that would have made so much noise And then they stole the body from the tomb. This they saw while they were sleeping. You guys see a lot of stuff when you're sleeping? I know I do. The only reason why I'm saying that is because my kids are here You know, we've been quoting kings today. Let me quote another one. Truth is like the sun. You can't shut it out for a time. You can shut it out for a time, but it ain't going away. Elvis Presley. The disciples' lives were changed by seeing the resurrected Christ. They were beginning to disband after Jesus' death. But they became so emboldened to proclaim Christ. See, church tradition tells us that all but John Died at the hands of the Roman government. They were all offered amnesty if they would confess that they lied about seeing the resurrected Christ Or if they would just produce the body or at least tell them where the body is. None of them denied the Lord because they personally sought him. We know that a person, as Paul states, the Apostle Paul states, is willing to die for a good cause, a just cause, or someone that they love. I think we can agree with that, can't we? We we we certainly can see that, right? But if you know what you are saying is a lie. No one would be willing to die for a lie. They suffered. And they died, just like the Lord, and just like the Lord had predicted You see, they were able to have peace in their life for their soul because they repented and trusted in the Lord's shed blood for forgiveness and rest for their soul. In contrast, Lady Macbeth represents a lack of repentance. While the disciples found peace through Jesus, Lady Macbeth found no peace. And eventually She succumbed to despair and madness because she cannot find a way to actually wash the spiritual stain of the blood away. The reason that the disciples were able to have peace was because of the resurrection of Christ. Now, if you're not a believer, I think it's fair to ask, where is his body now? Where is Jesus? As Christians, we know where Jesus' body is. It is seated on the throne in heaven. And we know, as we have confessed, one day he shall come back. And every one will see his resurrected body. That is why we say on Resurrection Day. That Christ is risen. Hallelujah. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for the great grace that you continue to give us each and every day of our lives. And we thank you that you have shown us Christ. Through your word, by the power of the Holy Spirit, so that we may believe. And we pray, Father, for those that are present here today that if there is anyone that does not believe, that you would be gracious unto them That you would give them the gift of faith so that they may also believe and be comforted That their lives would end with the rest for their souls like the disciples. And not Like the fables, Lady Macbeth, who did not repent and trusted and hoped in her own ability to be saved. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.