I want to send greetings to those on Zoom and uh you all have been on my mind, the people who have been away, particularly for worship for a long time. Um Again, once again, I find myself without my wife and rejoicing. And uh last time I said that Rick almost fell over, I think. But uh the last time I was here without my wife, she went to be At a worship service where somebody she had spent time with sharing the gospel came to faith in Christ from another country and was joining the church. Today's not much different. Because today my wife, who was off this week, went to be with her mother, who my sister-in-law takes care of. Some of you know Jan Horst. And so my wife wanted to enable Jan to go to worship in person. And uh so she gave her a break. And uh Jan hasn't been sept since September, and I I'm sure many of you on Zoom haven't been for a much longer time. And uh I think about this a lot, and I was thinking about the uh example we have in 1 Kings 17 of Elijah, uh, when uh God was going to set them apart, and he was going to feed them by the ravens. And uh we see this in in uh 1 Kings. It says, now Elijah the Tishbite of Chishbe of Gilead said to Ahab, As the Lord the God of Israel lives before whom I stand. There shall be neither dew nor rain these years except by my word. And the word of the Lord came to him, Depart from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith which is east of the Jordan. You shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord. He went and lived by the brook Cherith, that is east of the Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook. You may be asking, what does this have to do with being home, doing virtual worship? Well, if the Lord would provide for Elijah in this amazing, spectacular way. Surely he can provide for you, as in God's providence you're away. The Lord said to the woman at the well that he would give water, uh uh uh a a source of which would never make her thirsty. When Jesus fed the 5,000, he said he was the bread of life, and surely he will feed you, as Tom reminded us of the gift of the Word of God, that by his Spirit, even now He can nourish you Even though you're apart from the body here and pre in in this room, and yet he still ministers to you because you're his children. Because he's your good shepherd. And nothing can keep him from ministering to you through his word. And so take heart. And Lord willing, one day you will be a part of this group here as well, or you will be part of the group that will be there for all eternity, worshiping the Lord face to face. So The Lord is kind and just ask for his help, but I'm sure he'll minister to you as well at home. So if you would please stand for the reading of God's Word. I'm going to read from a letter to the Hebrews. chapter 1 and I'm going to read the first four verses of Hebrews 1. Let me pray for our time. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. It is the word of life. And so we ask now by your Holy Spirit that you would open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things from your word. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The letter to the Hebrews, chapter 1. Long ago and at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he is appointed to what he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is much more excellent than theirs. Amen. Please be seated. Well recently as I went down to Virginia, as Tom had said, I'm technically pulpit supply there. I'm not an interim pastor because I'm not ordained yet. But um so I have the opportunity to preach down there and I had was all excited, you know, I've when I was with you all I was preaching through the book of John. I thought, oh good, I've got all these sermons lined up, here we go. And then they said, well, we just went through the book of John a year ago. So uh the second book that's been really on my mind that seems to be speaking to me so much is The Letter to the Hebrews. The Letter to the Hebrews. And it's always been a striking book to me when I became an elder, a ruling elder in the Church of Bowie, that people kindly gave me John Owen's works. on his commentary on the book to the letter of the Hebrews. And I think it's very striking because there's so many uh striking warnings that the the writer gives to the people of God in this book that we have to come to grips with in some sense And just a real quick overview, as we look at the book of Hebrews, we have a church or a body of people who are not doing well. They're lagging behind. Some of them should have been teachers and they're not teachers, which is a very sad commentary on these folks. But even worse, if they're close to leaving the Lord. And incurring wrath. And it's amazing to think that these people could be so confused. They could be so confused that they they don't know who their shepherd is They don't know who their husband is. When I tried to explain this to the children down in Warrington, they have a children's sermon, and I had to think about, what do I say? And I'm sure many of the children have been to a wedding. A wedding is a joyful, joyful uh event. And It's a picture of Christ and the church that one day we will be with the Lord finally, that it will be consummated, our salvation will be consummated in heaven. And you've probably been to a wedding and you you know all the the men come out and the groom is here and then uh all the the women come out and then the bride comes down the aisle. And it what's going on in this church here in Hebrews is that the bride comes down and she doesn't know which one of these men is her husband, her intended. She's confused. She doesn't know who her beloved is. She doesn't know who her shepherd is. And so the writer to the Hebrew says, you wake up. You've got to come to your senses. What are you thinking? These are not your this is not your your groom. It's this one here. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what he's trying to do. He's trying to bring their attention back. To the Lord Jesus Christ, these people who we don't know all the details of who they are. Many, many men have tried to figure it out, and there's there's some clues, most of the clues come from the text itself. They seem to know much about the sacrificial system. I mean the letter the letter's title is the letter to the Hebrews, not to the pagans or the Gentiles. And yet, for some reason, they have gone from the the reality of those types back to the types. They're drifting. One commentator, Philip Eggham Hughes, who's considered one of the best commentaries on the book of Hebrews, says this about the situation. It's a good summation. It is apparent that the situation has arisen in which a particular community of Christians is contemplating a compromise With disastrous consequences, since it would mean in effect the abandoning the abandonment of the gospel. On the one hand, faced with daily indignities in the prospect of persecution of a more severe nature, they are more sorely tempted to withdraw from the good fight of faith On the other, enticed by teachings which threaten the uniqueness of Christ, they are in danger of squandering their birthright in order to purchase temporary relief. That if they would submit to these things, they might not be as persecuted as they had been. More specifically, they are showing the disposition to assign to angels dignity above that of Christ. And to treat the Mosaic system with this Levitical priesthood as an institution of abiding value and efficacy. They were greatly confused and they were going backwards. They were not going forwards. And yet they knew something of the Old Testament. They knew a fair amount, but he didn't get it. They didn't get the storyline correct. This is so dangerous. When we don't see Christ as the ultimate of the Old Testament or the ultimate of salvation, we get in danger of losing that salvation. In the sense that we we get off target, we drift from Christ. John Calvin was commenting on another verse. He was commenting on John 10, 7, but he says this, which applies to this. This book as well, he says, in short, Christ says that all the doctrines which have led the world away from him are deadly plagues, since apart from him is nothing but destruction and horrible scattering. There's one shepherd. There's one bridegroom. And that's it. It's Christ and Christ alone. And these people are drifting. And they're drifting in a very dangerous way where they might deny Christ. Now, Lord willing, we're not in that condition today, but we all need a tune-up all the time. We need a tune-up to sharpen our thoughts about who Christ is and what he has done and who he is for us and his glory. And so that's what we want to look at today. We want to think about the superiority of Christ. That's what this letter is about. The superiority of Christ in every way. And as we look at these first opening verses, he's going, the writer is going to compare Christ to the prophets. Christ to the prophets. And so as we look at this text this morning, my doctrine would be Jesus Christ is superior to the prophets. Very plain. Jesus Christ is superior to the prophets. And we'll look at this under three points. The privilege of the prophets, or really the privilege that Israel had of having the prophets. Second, the superiority of the prophets in and of themselves in the midst of Israel. And then finally, the inferiority of the prophets and Jesus' superiority. the inferiority of the prophets and Jesus' superiority. So first the the privilege that the Jews had, the Israelites had, of having the prophets. This was no small gift. Now we've we've talked about this in the past before. But after Adam fell in the garden, At that point, man was under condemnation. He was under judgment. And he had no hope. He had no hope save in the sovereign mercy of God. And God had a plan. God has a plan he was going to execute. And we hear about it first in Genesis 3. 15 that the that the uh The seed of the woman would crush the seed of the serpent. We see the gospel in seed form that would expand over the course of redemptive history. And yet that special knowledge, that special unique word from God would come through the Israelites. God sets his love on Abraham and then Isaac and Jacob and they become a nation. And they're entrusted with the oracles of God, as Paul says in Romans 9. The oracles of God. All the other nations were groping in the darkness, groping in idolatry. We see evidence of this in Romans 1. They did not know the true and living God. He was pleased to make himself known through Israel, that one band of people. Now some might say it's unfair. And yet everybody, after the fall, all mankind, even the Israelites, had forfeited everything good from God. They were sinful before God and could do nothing to rectify the matter. And so God, out of his mere good pleasure, out of his mercy, begins to shed the light on this one community of the Israelites. And over the course of history, he gives them word after word after word from the prophets. He makes himself known to them in unique and special ways. Moses says in Deuteronomy 4, 5 to 8, as he's talking about what God has done, he says, see, I have taught you statutes and rules As the Lord my God commanded me that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. Keep them and do them, for that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, the other peoples who are walking in darkness. who yet had not seen a great light, that great light of Christ. Who, when they hear these statutes, will say, surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. For what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord our God, the God that we call our shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ? A God so near to it as the Lord our God is to us, whenever we call upon him, And what great nation is there that has statutes and rules so righteous is all this law that I set before you today? He's declaring the this incredible gift that the Israelites had, that it was their glory, this gift that he gave to them, his word and the and the laws, these just laws. That the other nations would recognize that this is a unique people. What a God they have. And we see the fulfillment of it, at least in part in 1 Kings 10, 6 to 9. When the king, the queen of Sheba goes to Solomon, and she says this, the report was true I heard in my own land of your words and your wisdom. But I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not told me. Your wisdom and prosperity surpass the report that I heard. You know, usually when we hear things, we hear something good about something, we and we go to experience it, it's less than what we've heard. But in her case it was better than what she heard. And she heard good things. Happy are your men. Happy are your servants who continually stand before you and hear your wisdom. Blessed be the Lord your God, who has delighted in you and set you on the throne of Israel, because the Lord loved Israel forever. He has made you king, that you may execute justice and righteousness. That they had this special privilege and that God gave Solomon wisdom to rule them well. And at this point, things were going very well. It was an organization, it was a kingdom that was well oiled, that was that was working. She probably had experience of other kingdoms, but not like this kingdom. There was something different because the true and living God was their God, and he is the one who directed them through his words. When we think about this, when we think about the privileges that Israel had, and we have to acknowledge it because the Word of God tells us that We live in a pluralistic society. We think everybody's words the same. They all have the same value. It's not what the word of God tells us. For a time, God was pleased to give Light from above to Israel. And this is why Paul is in such anguish when he sees his own countrymen turning away from Christ in the same emotional state that we see in the book of Hebrews. How can you turn away when you've had so much light? We see Paul's anguish in Romans 9, 1 to 5. I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience fears me witness in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart, for I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ. For the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh. They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises To them belong the patriot patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all. Blessed forever. Amen. You can understand his anguish. It's like, you've got so much light. How can you turn away from it? And that's what's happening here in his letter to the Hebrews. And the writer says in the letter to the Hebrews, let's go back, go back and rethink what you've heard. You do not understand it like you should. Because if you did, you would not be doing what you're doing. You wouldn't be lagging behind. You wouldn't be walking away from your shepherd and your bridegroom. And so just a word of application as calm reminded us of a gift of the word that we have. Again, do we think about that privilege? Are we in the word? You know, turn off the television, turn off the computer. Go spend some time in the Word. This is God's gift to us. This word above all words is true and can transform us by the Holy Spirit. I'm going to share in just a little bit just one tweak that I saw the Holy Spirit working on my own heart as I was considering this passage. God is sovereign and the Spirit is sovereign. We never know how he's going to work with the word. But he leads us to glorious places through his word. And we have it here. We have it so readily available. We have it so readily available. But just a reminder, what's our relationship to the word? The word that tells us of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's this great gift to us. So the Israelites were privileged This was a gift. There was no election to be won, to be the prophet, you know, like in our society. It was a gift from the from the Lord. We see in Ephesians, he gives gifts to all men. in one way or another. And some were prophets or prophetesses. And these were unique people. They were not like everybody else. They were given authority in the body of the Israelites, just like we have those who are in authority in the body of Christ. Miriam and Aaron found this out the hard way. They thought, hey, we're just like him. We're the same. Numbers 12, 1 to 9, Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Cushite woman whom he had married. For he had married a Cushite woman. And they said, Has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses? Has he not spoken through us also? And the Lord heard it. Now the man Moses was very meek, more than all the people who are on the face of the earth. And suddenly the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron and Miriam, Come out, you three, to the tent of meeting. And the three of them came out And the Lord came down in the pillar of cloud and stood at the entrance of the tent, and called Aaron and Miriam, and they both came forward. And he said, Hear my words. If there is a prophet among you, and I the Lord myself Make myself known to him in a vision. I speak with him in a dream. Not so with my Moses, my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house. With him I speak mouth to mouth clearly, and not in riddles, and he beholds the form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and he departed. That Moses was not like every other man in a major sense. That God had chosen to speak to him and to have him to lead Israel out of bondage. He had special gifts. He had special revelation. And all the prophets had some measure of this. They were unique. They were unique. We know that Abraham was a prophet in Genesis 20, 6 to 7, when Abraham goes to Abimelech and he. Tell Sarah to lie about her real status as his wife. God comes to Abimelech and says, You know, he is a prophet. He says, now return the man's wife, for he is a prophet, so that he will pray for you and you shall live. That Abraham was a prophet. David was a prophet. Acts 2, 24 to 30. On the day of Pentecost in Peter's preaching. As Peter gets towards the end of his sermon, he says, brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us today. Being therefore a prophet and knowing that God had sworn an oath to him, that he would set one of his descendants on his throne. That David too was a prophet. And so we had these men in the Old Testament and women who had unique gifts. who were above the average Israelite, who had a special calling from God and from God alone. to bring the Word of God at particular times and places as God directed. And so the prophets are unique and the prophets are special. And so there is a privilege of having the prophets, and the prophets are superior over the other Israelites. But in the end, the prophets are inferior to Christ in some sense, and Jesus is superior. The prophets are inferior and Jesus is superior. This is what the writer to the Hebrews is trying to bring before these people. You've got it confused. Yes, Jesus is a prophet, but he's not like the prophets. He's unique. You've got to come to your senses. And when I was with you in the past, we looked at this, particularly John the Baptist makes it so clear. In John 3, John the Baptist makes it so clear there there's a big difference between he, this great last prophet, of those who were like the Old Testament. You could almost say that John the Baptist was the best man of the wedding. as he speaks here in John 3 verses 25. Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who is with you across the Jordan to whom you bore witness, look, he is baptizing and all are going to him. John answered, a person cannot receive one thing unless it is given him from heaven. The prophets received what they had from heaven. John the Baptist received what he had from heaven. And so did Jesus. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ. But I have been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom, the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease. He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way. He who comes from heaven is above all. He bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony. Whoever receives this testimony sets the seal to this that God is true. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the spirit without measure. The prophets of the Old Testament and even John the Baptist had the Spirit in some measure. But Jesus had it without measure. He had it without measure. That he was unique in that way. He was not an attendant in the wedding. He was the bridegroom. He was the bridegroom for whom the bride was made and is being made. When the writer to the Hebrews goes on to talk about Jesus as we move on, as he's trying to bring out how important Jesus is, he says he is the radiance of the glory of God. In the exact imprint of his nature, the radiance of and the glory of God in the exact imprint of his nature radiance, which means uh brightness shining back. He shined back to his father. His glory was of such a nature. He was an exact imprint. He was a perfect representation of God in the flesh. God in the flesh. And as I was thinking about this over the last week, as I was meditating on this passage, it was like the Holy Spirit kind of blindsided me. And I thought, what an amazing thing to behold Jesus in the flesh, to be there and to see him as he was, the very image of God in the flesh. Perfect, perfect representation. Not like the prophets The perfect representation. And as I started to think about this, I thought, it's because he's God. He's God in the flesh. He must be the perfect representation. He must perfectly represent his father. We see all throughout the Gospels how much he wanted to please the Father. He was one with the Father. And yet the difference between him and the Father, in one sense, is he's He's in human form. And as I thought a bit more, I thought, what happens to this beautiful image? What happens to this beautiful image? Usually in this world when we see things that are of great image, we we preserve them and hold on to them and say, don't mar it, don't mess it up. Right? When somebody has an antique car that's in great shape, it's like, well, don't touch it, don't mess it up. Or baseball cards. I used to collect baseball cards. The more perfect they are, the more valuable they are. But there's no comparison. We have the Son of God here in the flesh Perfect representation, but what happens to him? He's betrayed He's marred. He's crucified. Why? Why This one who came from the father's bosom, John tells us in his prologue, in John 1. A place of intimacy, of knowledge, of comfort. The Father sends him. I started to think, he gave us his own son. He gave us his son. Who is in glory with him, enjoying perfect fellowship. And he becomes a man. And he's the perfect image. But what's going to happen to that image? It's going to hang on the cross. This beautiful image is going to be marred. We see such a wonderful picture of it in Isaiah 53. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces. He was despised and we esteemed him not Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, and yet we esteemed him as stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. That this wonderful image of God was not preserved to stay that way forever in this life, at this time. Because God sent his son into the world, for God so loved the world that he gave his beloved son, in whom he was well pleased, as Peter and John and James heard on the Malotransfiguration. That he might pay for our sins. His beloved son, who had been in his bosom, who makes the Father known in his own person, in his own words. That this beautiful image was here to be marred for our sake. And I thought about how great the Father's love for us. How many of you would give up your child if you have children or a loved one for the sake of your enemy? And I was just marveling at. It had to be a perfect righteousness. We see in the Old Testament that the sacrifice had to be without spot or blemish. It couldn't be a perfect. Lamb, it couldn't be a perfect goat. Because the lamb and the goat didn't sin. Man sinned. And so it had to be the perfect man. But a perfect man was not to be found in all the earth. In the course of human history, since Adam's fall. So he sends his own son. And he takes on human flesh. The writers of the Hebrews doesn't talk much about his being God, but he's God. It had to be God who would pay for the sins because they were so great. There was nobody who could pay for the sins. So he had to be God. But the writer to the Hebrews will go on. He'll say so much about this sacrifice. It wasn't like the blood of lambs and goats. That wouldn't pay for our sins. It had to be the blood of the Son. It had to be the blood of the perfect man who came for that reason. He was king, yes, but he had to pay for his kingdom. He had to lay down his life for the kingdom. And so when we talk about what wondrous love of is this, this hymn was such a great lead-in to the sermon. He has sent his beloved son to take on human flesh, not to be a showpiece as is for the world of the perfect man. But first, but first, to be marred and forsaken, even by his Father, that he might pay for our sins. And that this sacrifice was taken to heaven, not into the copies that the Israelites knew about in the temple, in the tabernacle. But into the realities, beyond the pattern that Moses saw And this is why the deep Hebrews, the writer's writing to, is like you don't understand. Christ has entered into heaven. He is the perfect high priest. He is the perfect sacrifice. He offers himself and it's been accepted. Because he rose from the dead. He rose from the dead. After making purifications for sins, all of this sacrificial language, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High, where he is right now. When he said it was finished, it was finished. This wonderful, glorious image of God Who came to die in place of his people has done it. He's done it and he's risen again. And he's at the right hand of the Father. And he's opened heaven for us. We have access to the throne of grace even this moment as God's people. His beloved son, in whom he was well pleased. And so the Hebrews needed to get this. They needed to realize how Confused they were, how their thoughts were disarrayed, and they could not even understand the light they'd been given. But we too need to tweak our thinking. We need to have our thinking tweaked. To remember that Christ has died for our sins. You and I have had errant thoughts today. We've had sinful thoughts. And that one thought is worthy of the wrath of God. And yet Christ, who never had an errant thought, who was obedient to the point of death on the cross, unlike Adam, who failed almost immediately. Had perfect obedience, impeccable obedience, no evil thoughts. He bears our sins and he gives us his righteousness. this impeccable righteousness, so that now we're clothed with it. And that's how the Father sees us. He's not done working on the inside of us yet. He's still sanctifying this by the word, this great gift by his spirit. But it's done. It's finished. And that's why. Those to whom the writer writes here in the Hebrews need to come to grips with that reality. It's done. There's no other sacrifice. It's all over. Come to Christ. Come to Christ now. He freely offers himself. And that's true for us now. Wherever we find ourselves. Christ has opened wide the gates of heaven even to the throne of grace. In his own person, this wonderful image of God. He was much, much superior to the prophets. The prophets were not both a prophet and a high priest and a sacrifice, only Jesus is. And that's our Jesus. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And all of your word leads to your son in one way or another. Some paths seem more clear, others seem more difficult for us to understand. And yet here we see That your beloved son, in whom you were well pleased, who laid down his life for us, is far superior to the to the prophets and to the angels, as we'll read later and In every other way, we ask for grace to embrace this and to live accordingly. We pray this in Jesus' name.