So the Holy Spirit is moving John to write to them ahead of time and prepare them for what is ahead. If you think of the book in those terms, it's helpful to us Because as we enter a new year, we don't know what is going to await us there. There could be affliction and suffering and loss. We hope there'll be great blessing and prosperity and the growth of the churches and even revival. But only God knows, and we must be ready for whatever comes. So this is such an important book in preparing our lives for what's ahead. I once Had a trip with my wife to Ethiopia for a missionary conference. Ten sermons. And I went before the Lord and asked, what shall I bring to the people of Ethiopia, these missionaries? slugging it out, working hard, giving their lives. Who am I to do that? Well the thought came to me, prepare my people to suffer. That really was strange. But I went to the suffering songs of Isaiah. And lo and behold, there were ten. And I had ten sermons to preach. So we went forward. And when the conference was finished and we went in the bus back to Addis Ababa We saw cars overturned and on fire. We learned that Haile Selassie, for the children, that was the ancient king of Ethiopia. A godly man. He had been overthrown, and the communists had taken over the leadership of the country. And the pastors and the churches suffered greatly for the first ten years of that period. God does prepare his people for what they will face. And here he's preparing those early Christians. To stand for Christ, no matter what pressure might come upon them Now what we have here is the central figure of the book of Revelation, of course, is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the main character. There are all kinds of seals and signs, but through it all we see Christ emerging. as the centerpiece of this book, because he is the answer to whatever that the devil might want to throw against us. So you see Christ asserting here his glory, his personhood. He said, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end I'm the Lord God who is and was and who is to come, the Almighty. A powerful statement of his identity. And what it speaks to us of is this matter of the beginning and the end, the Alpha and the Omega, the children here may not realize that alpha is the first letter of the Greek alphabet and omega the last. It's as if you were to say from eight, I'm the A to Z That's what they call amerism, which means that you have contrasting poles in order to highlight all that's in between. He is the master not only of the beginning and the end, but of all the rest. So that gives a certain completeness. to his Saviorhood. And that's what I think he's trying to project to the early church members. How adequate, how fully developed, how complete I am for whatever need may come to you. Now this completeness was not gained at once. It wasn't there from eternity as he was the second person of the Trinity from everlasting. Because in his pre-incarnate state with the Father and the Spirit, he did not, had not experienced suffering in human flesh. He didn't know the pain of death experientially And so, in a sense, this is the moment that he could say, I am the complete Christ. Because when he took on human flesh Then he began to know the pains of parting, of the piercing that would come to him. He would know of the later the slaughter of the innocents and what sorrow that brought. And he would weep at Lazarus' tomb at the pain of death and parting. So he became, as Hebrew says, obedient through the things he suffered. Not that he was disobedient before, but the obedience was at a deeper level. Because now his his humanity had introduced him to aspects of life that he hadn't known personally in that sense. And then, of course, in his own suffering on the cross, he felt the pains, the anguish, the agony. And he knew, passing through that, that he was moving toward completeness. And so that word complete means that a person doesn't lack anything that is necessary. He has everything that is needed. It means somebody who's come to a realized fruition, to a desired end and has gotten there. And then when he was ascended into heaven, He was able to be exalted in that sense, seated at the right hand of God. Everything had been done which was necessary to make a complete Christ. who could say to his church in their hour of need, I am enough for you. I am exalted now. I am your Savior in fullest. control and compassion of your situation. How important it is for us to see Christ in these terms. If we have a partial Christ, we worship Christ uh in some compromised way. or some Aryan way that is lesser than the true God. We suffer greatly. We're not Given then the resources in Christ that we need to face the problems that life can bring to us. Now when he says I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, he's calling for us to trust him. God loves to be trusted. The more we trust him, the happier he is. You can't out-trust God, can you? He wants us to trust him with our minds. Alas, some folk think you have to park your brains at the door when you enter a church or begin to study theology or Bible. That's not so. That's a lie of the devil. Of course you don't. Christianity is a reasonable religion. It's a religion of faith, of course, but that faith is based on evidence. And it's entirely reasonable evidence. And when faith ignites it into devotion, that's power. So he says, I am, I was at the beginning. There was nothing made that I didn't make. From creation I was there. I was at the front end of everything. And so I know about it. I did it. And I was at the consummation of history when things came to their desired end. I know that history is not cyclical the way the world would make you think. Life just keeps happening over and over again. No. It wasn't that at all. It was linear. It was moving toward a consummation. History was going somewhere until the kingdoms of this world would become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. So you can trust me with everything in between. I know what persecution is like now. I know what pain is like. I know what the hostility of the devil and his tempting guiles are. I know all that. I have been there and I will walk with you. as you go through these things. I want you to trust me with your emotions Sometimes we think that emotions are so uh un untrustworthy and personal and quirky in us and so on. No, Christ felt the whole range of human emotions. He knows what it is to be depressed. He knows what it is to feel lonely and to doubt and all of the things, the whole range he's experienced And he can walk with us through that. He does that. He can get under our emotions and hold us up. He can lift us out of the fog of despair into the place of delight and blessing. You say, but there's so much suffering and evil. How can I trust Christ with my emotions? Well, He doesn't guard us from every uh affliction or problem. He doesn't put a bubble around his people so they're never touched with a infirmity. No But what he says is, when you go through the things of life, I'll be with you. I won't leave you. So we can handle anything if he's at our side. And when we do suffer, the witness is the difference between the way we handle suffering and the way the world handles it. And when people make that comparison, they see the difference that Christ makes. And we can trust him with our practical life as well. As we go along, he knows how to change circumstances for us if they need to be changed. I well remember raising our family in a small town in Pennsylvania. where uh school was about to start and they needed school shoes and there wasn't money in the account for those school shoes It was Friday and Labor Day was coming Monday, and we all got down on our knees. I can still picture them when do you were there. Weren't you? Do you remember it? You do. See I have a witness. And we prayed for school shoes. And we hadn't finished cleaning up the kitchen till the phone rang, and there was Charlie Sleezak. Charlie owned a small shoe store there in that town. Not at all a wealthy man. And had never done anything like that for us. He was a faithful Christian and a church member. But he said, Pastor, I'm sitting here thinking you've got children to send to school. Would you send them over to my s store tomorrow? I'm going to put shoes on them. And when they trooped out of the store, they had under one hand a One arm a box of school shoes and one a box of gym shoes. And they were doubly blessed. And no university professor can talk them out of their faith in a living God who answers prayer. He can change circumstances. He does it. I know that there was a book that was written some years ago. You're too young to have read it probably. What when bad things happen to good people. A well-meaning cleric clergyman wrote that book. But it was a bad book. And uh I know a man who said to R. C. Spro, bless his heart, we miss him already, don't we? You know, we feel his absence, his great leadership, brilliant mind and heart. But some uh someone uh I heard someone say to R. C. Why don't you write a book that will answer that when bad things happen to good people? Arcee said, well. I couldn't write it. Nobody would publish it. Well, why not? If you wrote it, they'd read it. Oh no, he says there'd only be two words in it. How can you publish that book? Two words, what wouldn't they? They don't. That's the answer. In other words, to the Christian, whatever comes to us, God has a way of turning it. toward our eternal good. Maybe for the moment it will pinch. But he uses it in his grand purpose. Really bad and permanent things don't happen to God's people because he is with them in it. So God is asking for your trust, wholehearted trust, complete trust in a complete Savior, not a partial trust, hedging your bets over here somewhere in case it doesn't work. No, bank on him. He loves it. And I think when Christ offers himself as the Alpha and the Omega He's asking for our love. You think, well, God doesn't need to be loved. Well, technically that's true. There's eternal love flowing between the three members of the Trinity. What a joy that must be. What a unity. But Our Lord Jesus Christ took a human nature too. And a human nature wants to be loved, doesn't want its love to be unreturned. And the Savior is no exception. He wants our love. And as we think about loving the Lord Jesus Christ, We remember that that is a command that came from the Lord to Moses. He said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and mind and soul and strength. There's a command to love. Sometimes you hear people say, oh, nobody can tell you to love someone. Yes. They do, and Christ did. God said, love the Lord with all your heart and mind and soul and strength. And when you think about it, everything the Lord Jesus did in his human life was done in love. Even chasing the money changers out of the temple was a loving act He was trying to rescue them from their penury, their stinginess, their misuse of the temple property. He was In their best interest, as he always is, Christ loves us in order to prompt our love back to him What he wants for us is a cycle of love that flows from him to us and is returned so that there is this loving unity. And you can enhance your love. Of Christ by finding very uh wonderful moments, especially on the Lord's Day, that Second rest of the Sabbath day. I mean, after you've ceased doing what you normally have to do on a Sunday and you have that Leisurely rest, and you are perhaps very quiet. That's where you enter into a deep communion with the love of Jesus. and you can express it to him. But if we're busy here and there, we may not grow in holiness or love. Sometimes you'll find that darkness helps that love. He's a god of the darkness as well of the light. And often I found the nocturnal hour in the quietness and darkness of the home. He can draw preciously near. So love him. Love him, his word, his day, his people, his house. especially his favorite people who are the least of these. Well, I suggest one other way in which the Lord Jesus Christ, the complete Christ, With these words, is beckoning for you to honor him. Honor him. It's a word we don't use nearly enough anymore. Respect has almost gone out of the window. But We barely honor our parents. How would we be expected to honor God And Christ, but he is asking for our honor, which means honor in awe and reverence. Toward him. No flippancy or familiarity, but a holy kind of reverie in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. He wants that from us. He longs for that honor. And you can give it to him. And he will rejoice in receiving it. So now as we Think of entering the new year. This is the Savior we need, a complete Christ, utterly ready To provide every need. Our part is to trust him in the new year, to love him with a fresh Energetic, youthful love, like a teenager falling in love for the first time To love him and to honor him This complete Savior asks for your complete heart. Don't give him a divided heart. Kirkigar said that purity of heart was to will one thing. Do you will one thing? That I might glorify God and enjoy Him forever. That's the one thing you will, and press on So today I call you to give that part of your heart that you might be reserving. In earlier days in evangelism, one of the methods they used was called the anxious bench. which was a bench up front, I guess somewhere. And if you came under the conviction of the Holy Spirit, that you needed to be saved or to repent of something, you were asked to come and sit on that bench, and then the evangelist or some of his people would deal with you. Well, there was one lady that approached the evangelist and said I love your preaching and I want to be saved. But that bench don't want to go there. Do I have to go to that bench to be saved? He said, well you didn't have to until you said that. And now you do have to That was her point of pride. The one thing she would not give up was the humiliation. She couldn't take that. even to find Christ. Now is there a point of pride in your life? Of something you want to hold on to, it's my own thing. I'll do it my way, thank you. Or you're going to be sold out for Christ in the new year. Give him everything you've got, because he's given you everything he's got. Let's pray together. Our loving Heavenly Father How gracious you have been to us in the gift of time, marked out in days and months and years. So that we can consider our days, the length or shortness of human life. And we can give our hearts to wisdom and to profitable endeavors and to building your kingdom. Forgive us, Lord, when we have frittered our time with things that do not profit. And grant to us as we enter the new year a whole new stewardship of time, a whole new devotion to Christ. Lord, send a revival and begin it in our hearts tonight here, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.