All right, we are all set. You can see in your bulletin this morning that the passage we're going to be considering is from the very end of the Gospel according to Matthew. Matthew chapter 28. And there I'll be reading verses one through fifteen. Please stand with me for the reading of God's Word. And as we turn to His Word, let me pray for us. Father, we thank you for your word. For we know our need of it. We need to be taught, corrected, rebuked, trained. How kind you are to give us a word that serves those very purposes in our lives. How kind you are to have poured out your spirit. That those purposes might be realized in our lives even this morning as we gather for worship. So we pray even now that you would open our eyes, as the psalmist prayed, open our eyes. To behold wondrous things here. Open our eyes to behold the wonder of our Savior. And we ask it in His name Amen. Here now the Word of God, Matthew twenty-eight, beginning at verse one. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid. For I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said Come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. While they were going, Behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers, and said, Tell people, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed, and this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. You may be seated. Well, as Skip has reminded us this morning, for us this weekend it's been all about heaven. It's been all about looking up To the world above. It's been all about looking forward to the world to come. And so it might seem a little peculiar that what we're doing this morning is looking back. What we're doing this morning at the end of this weekend is looking all the way back to the resurrection of our Savior. Perhaps a bit peculiar But upon further review, as an NFL referee might say, upon further review, it makes a lot of sense for us to wrap up the weekend looking back like this. And the reason that makes so much sense is that there is an unbreakable bond between Jesus' resurrection in the past and ours, ours yet to come, ours in the future. Just to look back to the resurrection of Jesus is to be reminded that he is what Paul calls him in 1 Corinthians 15, which is the first fruit. In Christ, the resurrection harvest began in us, who trust in him by faith, in us it will be finished. It must be finished. There must be the resurrection of our bodies at the end of the age. There must be, there must be a new resurrection world that Christ ushers in when he comes back. So all that to say, to wrap up the weekend like this, by looking back like this to the resurrection of Christ, this is not finally to take our sights off of heaven. This is to see how it is that we have a heavenly hope in the first place. And this is to see in the experience of our Savior a glimpse, just a glimpse of what is in store for us. For us who are in Christ by faith. So what about Matthew 28 here? There are a number of different things That we read about in this passage. Different movements and events and conversations. Something that's not described for us here in this passage is the resurrection. At least in the English Standard Version of the Bible, there's a heading over this passage, and the heading is the resurrection. But the fact is, the resurrection itself doesn't actually happen in this passage. None of the gospel writers give us an actual description of the reintegration of the incarnate Son of God, body and soul. and the glorification of that body in the tomb in the early hours of that first day of the week. What the gospel writers give us, Matthew included, is a description of the discovery of the fact that it happened. What we've got here is the resurrection discovery. The resurrection is announced, it's discovered, but it's not described. And at the risk of stating the obvious, because we are, after all, dealing here with the Word of God, that's okay. That doesn't mean that we've been left short-changed. Far from it. First of all, I think there's something fitting about an event that is so unimaginable, so mysterious, being left somewhat shrouded. Left, we might even say, somewhat sealed away in mystery. And second of all, I'd say it makes for great storytelling. This isn't just a true story. This is the most thrilling story ever told. And it's thrilling in part because it's told in this wonderfully roundabout way. There's no actual description of the resurrection. You just have these women. Going back, devoted, brokenhearted. And as you're reading it, you almost want to say, oh, you've no idea what you're about to learn. And every single time you read this story, you learn it along with them. And what you learn is just what you need to learn no more, no less. Which is just what they needed to learn, no more, no less, which is he has risen as he said. And so that's what we're going to learn again this morning. And we're going to learn it again along with these women. Women who, by the end of the story, are not broken-hearted anymore. So here's how we're going to approach our passage this morning, a two-fold approach. First of all, let's review the storyline here. An overview of the passage. And then, second of all, when we've done that, let's note some lessons to be learned from it. So that's going to be our two-fold approach. First of all, let's study this passage. And then second of all, let's harvest. This passage for lessons to learn today. So let's take another look here at just what happens in these 15 verses And I'll note these different sections as we make our way. First of all, verse 1, we can call this the return. Verse 1 is the return. It says this. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the The tomb. Matthew only mentions these two women, although they weren't the only ones who went. It's not altogether clear who the other Mary was. It might have been Jesus' mother, although you can't help but wonder if this is how Matthew would have referred to Jesus' mother, the other Mary. We don't know. In any case, I say this was the return because these women had been at the tomb three days before when he was buried, and now they've returned. And they've returned with a purpose, and that purpose is to finish caring for Jesus' body. Mark clues us into that. Mark says, when Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go and anoint him. So that's the return, verse 1, return with a purpose. Next, verses 2 through 4, we'll call this the opening. The opening. The opening of the tomb. Look again at these verses. Behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow, and for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. Now it appears to be the case that what Matthew's doing here in these verses, verses 2 through 4, is giving us a little bit of background that explains how it is that the women found the stone already rolled away when they got there. Because what the other gospel writers help us to understand is that when the women got there, they found the stone already rolled away. And so they went into the tomb, and it was there in the tomb that they were met with an angelic appearance. So what Matthew is doing here is to say, by the way, here's how it came to pass that they found the tomb already opened when they arrived. In other words, here's what happened at some point, at least a little bit before they got here. That's what he's recounting for us in 2 through 4. And clearly what happened before they got there was wonderful and it was terrifying. Ground shakes. Angel descends. Stone removed. Soldiers terrified. Now, beyond that, we're not told what the soldiers heard and saw. There's no reason to believe that they heard what the angel went on to say to the women. There's no reason to believe that they saw the risen Christ. But safe to say, the soldiers heard and saw plenty. They heard and saw enough to be scared to death. Listen to D. A. Carson. In his commentary, he puts it this way, quote, There is no implication that the earthquake had anything to do with releasing Jesus. He says the stone was rolled back, and the seal broken, and the soldiers made helpless, not to let the risen Messiah escape, but to let the first witnesses in. End quote. That's Carson. And that's verses two through four, the opening. Next, verses five through eight, we'll call this the announcement. And my, what an announcement. The angel said to the women, this is beginning at verse 5, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come see the place where he lay. And then he gives them instructions about going to tell the disciples. And then verse 8: so they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy. Isn't that an interesting combination? Fear and great joy. And they ran to tell his disciples. So there's the announcement. He has risen as he said. And if you've been reading Matthew from the beginning, well, you know that he has said it again and again and again. Beginning in Matthew 16, it says this: From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And on the third day be raised. That's chapter 16. And they didn't get it. And he kept saying it. And they kept not getting it. He says it again in chapter 17. And then again in chapter 20, and then again in chapter 26. His disciples knew it. Eventually, even the Jewish leadership knew it somehow. We don't know how, but somehow, because listen to this from Matthew 27. The end of Matthew 27. The chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate and said, Sir, we remember. How that imposter said while he was still alive, after three days I will rise. So word is gotten out that he made this claim. So here the angel is announcing to these women, it's happened. It's happened just as he said it would. Which is why the angel can say to these women, Do not be afraid. Because this is very good news. That's the announcement. Next, verses 9 through 10, we'll call this the encounter. Capital T, capital E. The encounter. Because now it's not just an angel Verses 9 and 10, behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. How's that her understatement? Greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. And then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid, go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. So the message here is the same message that the angel had given them. Don't be afraid. Go and tell. But this time the bearer of the message is no mere angel. It's Christ himself, Christ in his resurrection body, Christ in his resurrection body, a body with feet. Feet that can be grasped. And that's what they did. And they worshiped him. The encounter. And then one more section in our passage here, and this is verses 11 through 15. And we'll call this the lie. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we'll satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed, and this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. That's the lie. And the main thing to notice about the lie is that this is utterly absurd. I mean, if they really were asleep, if they were so deeply asleep that this very noisy business went on without even waking them up, then they would not know what happened. And not only that, but they wouldn't have wasted a moment seeing that justice was done if they had known that that is what happened. And make no mistake, justice would have been brutal for the grave-robbing disciples of Jesus of Nazareth. This is utterly absurd. But of course, if you're determined to lie, if the truth is not an option, then you're not going to let a little absurdity get in the way. And not even a lot of it. And there's plenty of it here. And this story, says Matthew, has been spread among the Jews to this day. So there's our story here in these 15 verses. The return, the announcement, the opening, I should say, the announcement, the encounter, and the lie. Which brings us to part two here this morning, which is what are the lessons to be learned from all of that? What are the lessons to be gleaned here and brought to bear upon our own lives? And obviously, there are quite a few of them that we might learn here. We're going to learn three. And to guide us as we go, we're going to think about these three questions. First of all, why is this good news? Second of all, why would anyone lie about it? And third of all, what do we do now? So those three questions. Why is this good news? Why would anyone lie about it? And what do we do now? So, why is this good news? Obviously, the resurrection is good news. It's the best news. But it's worthwhile to stop and think again about why this is such good news. And to grasp that, we need to stop and think again about what it means to say that Jesus was raised. And here's one way of putting it To get clear on this, Jesus was not raised in the same sense that his friend Lazarus had been raised before him. Lazarus was raised, and Jesus was raised, but in a very different sense. When Lazarus and others were raised, Lazarus was brought back to life. That is to say, he was brought back to this life. This life still lived in the natural body, still lived under the curse of God, including the culmination of the curse, which is death. In other words, we have to say that eventually Lazarus died again. But Jesus was not raised like that. When Jesus was raised, he didn't just come back. He didn't just come back from death to this life. No, when Jesus was raised, he passed through. He he passed through death into another life, into the life to come. So that after the resurrection, when he appeared to his disciples, in a sense, he hadn't really come back. It's a little bit like the college freshman who In his first semester, he comes back to his high school for homecoming. He's back, but he hasn't really come back Because he doesn't really belong here anymore. And even though just a month or two of college have passed, he can sense that now. He hasn't really come back. Well, Jesus appeared to them. He appeared to them several times, but when he did so, he was coming back to an age that he didn't really belong to anymore. He was coming back as one who'd left. He was revisiting this age as one who now belonged to the age to come with the glorified body of the age to come, the first to ever have one. The first to ever be clothed that way. Here's how J. I. Packer puts it. And if it's Packer, you know it's good. He says this, Jesus' resurrection was not just a resuscitation of the ruined physical frame that was taken down from the cross for burial. It was rather the transformation of Jesus' humanity. It was the creative renewing of his original body, the body that is now fully glorified and deathless. That's how Packer puts it. That's why this is good news. If Jesus had been raised in the same way that his friend Lazarus had been raised before him, ultimately that's not really good news. Because in the grand scheme of things, that doesn't change things. All that amounts to is a delay of the inevitable. Because eventually he's going to die again. Makes for a nice reunion with his disciples for a while. The way Lazarus was reunited with his sisters, reunited with family and friends, but a nice reunion for a while ultimately doesn't change things. Because in that case the curse is still in place, just as it always was. Now this is gospel because this isn't just resuscitation. This is resurrection. This is good news because this is new creation. This is a new age. This is not a mere tinkering around with this present evil age. That's why this is such good news. And because it's good news like that, well then the resurrection is also vital news. It's indispensable news. It's news, apart from which there is no saving news at all. It has to be, if there's to be salvation, it has to be that the resurrection happened. And that it's not just a nice idea about new possibilities. Listen to Jay Gresham Machin. And here, too, if it's Machin, it must be. This is what Machin wrote in 1923, and things haven't changed. This is Machin from Christianity and Liberalism. He says. It should be observed that if religion be made independent of history, there's no such thing as a gospel. In other words, if we do away with history, if we become utterly indifferent to what happened, No gospel, let's not kid ourselves. He goes on. For gospel means good news, tidings, information about something that has happened. A gospel independent of history is a contradiction in terms. The Christian gospel means not a presentation of what has always been true, but a report of something new. Something that imparts a totally different aspect to the situation of mankind. The situation of mankind, he says, was desperate because of sin. To maintain our courage, the liberal preacher offers us exhortation. Make the best of the situation, the liberal preacher says. Look on the bright side of life. But unfortunately, such exhortation cannot change the facts. In particular, it cannot remove the dreadful fact of sin. Very different is the message of the Christian evangelist. He offers not reflection on the old, but tidings of something new. Not exhortation, but a gospel. That's how Machin put it. We've got to believe not just in history as an idea, but in this event in history, the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. It's vital, it's indispensable to gospel, that resurrection isn't just a nice idea, but something that happened. And reading that again lately, Machin's words there from Christianity and Liberalism, I was struck by them. Especially because I've also been reading lately something else that Machin wrote. I've been reading a collection of letters That Machin wrote home from France during World War One. Machin had signed up to serve. during World War I, although not to tote a gun, and I suspect that he'd have been the first one to say that that was a good thing for the cause of liberty. He wasn't toting a gun. He was toting hot chocolate. He'd signed up to serve with the YMCA, and at first He was serving hot chocolate to French troops at YMCA facilities. And I have to say it's very interesting. To read these letters written by J. Gresham-Machin, one of the great New Testament and theological scholars of the 20th century, writing home to his beloved mother about how many cups we serve today. But the point is this, even as somebody was toting hot chocolate, Machin came a whole lot closer than a lot of other people did to what was really going on in France. And not just in France, but around the world, Maiton willingly put himself in the position of being reminded of what this world is really like. What's it like? It's a world of world wars. And worse. Much worse. That was Mason's world. That's our world. And in a world like that Your world, a world of world wars and worse, nothing less than resurrection will do. In a world like this, it won't do simply to reflect upon the way things are and see if we can make them a little bit better. It won't do simply to say, as Mason put it, quoting the liberal preacher, make the best of the situation look on the bright side of life. Now, obviously, that's not to say that human beings can't improve our lot in some ways. We can, in countless ways we have, and that's a wonderful thing, and we ought to keep trying. But it is to say that all of the improvements that we can make, all of them added up, cannot, will not save us from the dreadful fact of sin, as Machin put it. All of our human improvements won't wipe our sins away. And they won't wipe our tears away. Only resurrection can do that. This isn't just good news, this is the best news, and it is absolutely indispensable news. That this happened. So, what does that mean for you It means this, first of all, make sure that you're clear in your own heart and mind on what happened to Jesus On that first day of the week. He has risen, as he said. Get clear on this in your own thinking about resurrection. He didn't just come back He didn't just get his old body back the way it was he passed through. Don't settle for wishy-washy notions in your own mind of what Jesus' resurrection means. He wasn't just alive again. He was capital A, alive, for the first time. So get clear on that. What happened to him. And then get clear on this, Christian. It's going to happen to you. And here, especially, we tie our text this morning to our theme this weekend. We've looked back at the resurrection, and just to look back at it is to be pointed forward. To what is in store for us, for us who are in Christ by faith. Look forward to the day when you will pass through death into his presence. And even better than that, look forward to the last Day, at the end of the age, when he returns and gives you your body glorified, so that it's glorious the way his is right now. Listen to Paul in Philippians. He says, from heaven, from heaven, we are awaiting a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. That's what he's going to do when he comes back. So as a Christian, don't be ambiguously optimistic. Things will get better. The sun will come out tomorrow. As a Christian, be solidly, clearly hopeful. Have a solid hope about the day you die. And even better than that, have a solid hope about the day when your death will totally, finally be undone. Which will be the day when Jesus comes back and clothes you with a body that is fit for a child of the King. This is the best news of all. That brings us to our second question We've just considered the question, why is this good news? That brings us to the second question, which is, why, why would anyone lie about it? This is what we might call the dark side of the resurrection discovery. Right on the heels of the resurrection discovery comes the great fabrication Tell people his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. Now, we've already noticed that this is utterly absurd. That's the main thing to notice about it. But let's keep going and notice some other things about the why. Not only was it utterly absurd, but it was also painfully ironic. Because listen again to something that the Jewish leaders said to Pilate the day before. They go to Pilate and they say, Therefore, order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people he is risen from the dead, and the last fraud will be worse than the furs. In other words, they they went to Pilate and said, we just want to make sure that nobody lies about this. We can't have can't have any lies about this. We won't stand for fraud. Not only was it painfully ironic, but it was also against the light. Light that had shined on them. Because you remember what else they said to Pilate, Sir, we remember. And these are damning words. They said it. We remember how that imposter said, after three days, I will rise. They admitted it. And now some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. So they remember what he said. And now they've heard what the guards have said. So what do you do now? What you do is you seek the truth. You investigate with heart and soul and mind and strength to find out if it's true, to find out if he has risen as he said. But that's not what they did. They didn't seek the truth. They did what they could to quash the truth that they had, to smother the light that they had seen. Not only was it against the light, but it was also bought with money. You see, this just stinks more and more. They gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers, and the soldiers took it. Bought with money. And then finally, not only was it bought with money, but it was also the means of the eternal ruin of men and women. Matthew says, this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. Now that's not to say that the Jews would have believed in Jesus apart from this lie. But it is to say that the lie certainly would have had the effect of confirming them, reinforcing them in their unbelief. So all of these things are true of the lie, utterly absurd, painfully ironic, against the light, bought with money, ruining souls. This is beyond despicable. Why would anyone lie like this? And the answer is, this is the power of sin. This is the blindness of unbelief, especially when it's unbelief in the name of belief. This is opposition to God in the name of God. Because these men would have thought that they were the guardians of the truth of the kingdom of God. But you see, their very idea of the kingdom wasn't gospel, it was an idol. So that when God's king actually showed up, but he wasn't their kind of king, and he didn't fit their idea of the kingdom, their response was, by any means necessary, we will tear him down. By any means necessary. In the name of God. This is the power of sin. This is the blindness of unbelief. And brothers and sisters, this is important for you to grasp because this is the character of the world in which you live. Whether religious or anti-religious, all unbelief at root grows from a lie And it's the lie that you read in Genesis 3, which is what the serpent said, which was in effect, God's word is not true. That's what the serpent said. God's word is not true, and this allegation has been spread among the human race to this day. And unbelief has been the order of the day to this day, and it's all absurd. All unbelief at root is absurd. And it's all ironic, and it's all against the light, and it's all selfish, and it's all destructive. All unbelief is like that. So don't be shocked, shocked, when you find this in the world around you, in men and women around you. Don't be shocked, but be grateful. Be grateful that you can see Be grateful that you've been set free from the lie. Because apart from grace, we're all liars too. And so glad to believe a lie that's handed to us that can assuage our conscience. If you've been set free from that, give thanks to God for that. So, why is this good news? We've answered that. Why would anyone lie about it? We've answered that. That leaves one more question. And it's the same question that's asked at the end of the film, the candidate. And I wonder if you've seen that film. 1972 film Robert Redford plays a reluctantly recruited Senate candidate. And I figure if by now you haven't seen a movie that was made in 1972, I probably don't need to worry about spoiling it. He wins. He wins the race. And there's this extraordinary scene at the end. There's This kind of celebratory chaos at the hotel where his campaign has gathered. And now he's not a reluctant candidate. Now he's a reluctant winner. And you see that disgust in his face when his father looks at him with a grin and says, son, you're a politician. And then finally, he gets his campaign manager and and manages to pull him away from all the celebratory chaos and the people who are pulling at them and trying to talk to them and he finally steers them down a hallway or two and gets them into a room where they've got maybe twenty seconds of quiet to themselves. And his campaign manager looks at him, says, Well what is it? And Robert Redford sits there and he looks at him. He says, What do we do now? And already the noise, the din is growing in the hallway. Didn't quite hear him. What? What do we do now? We've won victory conquest. What do we do now? Well, Jesus won. Resurrection victory. Resurrection conquest. He has risen, as he said What do we do now? What are our lives supposed to be about now? And when we grasp the answer to that, and when we grasp that he's with us, We don't have to be reluctant about it. Regretful. Because he certainly isn't What are our lives supposed to be about now? Well, there's a picture of the answer to that question in this passage. And you can see it if you just stop and think about the experience of the women who went to the tomb that day. After the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, it says, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. Now, on the face of it, that's just the facts, right? Who, what, when, that sort of thing. This is straightforward, matter-of-fact prose. But what I want you to see is that there is poetry in here. There's a kind of gospel poetry that's garbed in this matter-of-fact, straightforward, prosaic account. Just remember why they went to the tomb that day. They went back so that they might go and anoint him. In other words, they came to the tomb that day to get back to work. The work of honoring Jesus' body had been begun, but it hadn't been finished. There was work yet to do, and of course that's why they came to the tomb on the first day of the week. And not the day before, not on the last day of the week, because the last day of the week wasn't a day for work. It was the Sabbath day. So when the Sabbath day was over, it was time to get back to work. And little did they know that on that day, on the first day of the week, a very different kind of Sabbath had dawned. A different kind of rest had been ushered in because the work of redemption was finished. They came to the tomb that day thinking it was time to get back to work. And it's as if it's as if Jesus met them there and said, oh my dear ones, there's no work left for you to do. It's as if Jesus met them and said to them, I know why you're here. You've come back to do the work of honoring my body. But my dear ones, it's been honored. And it's been honored in a way that you never could have honored it. And it is finished. It's as if he said to them, Look at me and see How my Father has honored my body. And it is finished. And so there's no work left for you to do. You can rest now. And so it's no wonder that the first day of the week The first day of the week. Thanks to the Lord's resurrection and his appearances, and thanks to the example of the apostles, that became and remains the church's Sabbath day. Because on that day a new rest had been ushered in. So what do we do now? This is part of the answer. You can rest now It is finished. So there's a kind of rest here. But that's not the whole of the answer. Because you notice he gives them work to do. They came to the tomb that day to do the work of this age. And Jesus says, no, no, that work's been taken care of. What I want you to do is to go and bear witness to the new age. The age to come. And so he gives them work to do, which is go and tell, go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. It's not exactly go tell it on the mountain. It's what we might call, go tell it, and I'll meet you on the mountain in Galilee. And that's what they did. Jesus gave them work to do, and they did it. So you see, both of these, the resting and the working, both of these are aspects of the answer to the question in the wake of the resurrection, what do we do now? The answer is we rest and we work. And by that I don't mean the alternating pattern of rest on Sunday and work on Monday through Saturday. I mean the simultaneous experience every day. All seven days of working for Christ and resting in Christ, every day Pouring yourself into the things that Christ has given you to do and to be, all of your responsibilities and relationships. Pouring yourself into them as one who has been raised with Christ. And at the very same time, resting. Even while you're working, even while you're pouring yourself into the service of Christ resting in the knowledge that the accomplishment of your redemption does not stand or fall with all of your being and all of your doing. Because Christ has done it, the penalty has been paid. His body has been honored And it is finished. Eternal Sabbath is ours in him. How wonderful to go to the tomb and to be surprised by rest. So let us live, working and resting, every day, holding fast to the truth in the midst of lies. Holding fast to the very, very, very good news that He has risen as He said. And when we do this, we hold fast to our heavenly hope. That one day we shall rise with him, clothed in new bodies at the end of the age, and how wonderful to think that the end of this age will be the most glorious new beginning. Of an age that will never have an ending. Amen. Let's pray together. Our Lord Jesus, we hail you today as the risen one. We set our sights on things that are above. We look up and we see you. At the right hand of the Majesty on high, we see you. The risen one, we see you raised and glorified and vindicated and reigning. And then we look forward. We look forward because when we see you, you point us forward to the day when you will come back and give us bodies just like the one you have now. We pray that you would strengthen this hope within us. On this, the first day of the week. We ask it for your glory.