Well good morning, Saints. It's uh good to be here with you. I'm Chris Garriott. I'm the campus minister with Reformed University Fellowship at the University of Maryland. Some might be wondering, well, what is that? It is the campus ministry of the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America, and we're on about 165 campuses, I think, around the country. Mexico City, Czech Republic, and some other places. But uh it's wonderful to be here and to share uh the word with you this morning and I thank you. I thank this church. There's Uh the church has been a big supporter of the ministry there and of myself uh over the years. I'm in my 14th year uh at Maryland, so it's good to be uh with you. This morning we're gonna look at Matthew 13. A couple little parables about the kingdom of God and about what they're like. And so if you have your Bibles, please turn to Matthew 13. Let me pray before we read the scriptures. Lord Jesus, thank you so much for this congregation. We thank you for its witness to you, its witness to one another, and we pray for your Holy Spirit to be with us now as we look at your word, that it would change us. That it would show us Jesus and his glory. Lord, that you would encourage us by it. Father, that Jesus would be lifted up, and we pray that in Christ's name. Amen. Hear the word of the Lord. The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. Then in his joy he goes and he sells all that he has and buys that field. Again. The kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, who on finding one pearl of great value went and sold all that he had and bought it. This ends the reading of God's holy word. Amen. Finn Forrest is a high-value antiquity dealer who in 2010, 10 years ago, he had an idea. He put together a treasure chest 10 inches by 10 inches by 5 inches and inside of it he filled it with gold nuggets, antique gold coins, medallions. carvings, rubies, and other precious stones, and he hid it in the Rocky Mountains. Somewhere in between Santa Fe, New Mexico, and the Canadian border. In an unknown location, only he knows. The value at the time was over two million dollars. He then wrote a seven stanza riddle, and he put it out there on the internet to encourage treasure hunters to find a jackpot. Why? Why did he do it? He's been interviewed. He said he wanted to get the next generation off the couch and away from their screens. And he wanted to get them into the wide outdoors. It's been ten years since the treasure's been hidden. And it's still out there somewhere. Alright? It's believed that over 80,000 people have gone on this search to find this treasure, this buried treasure. In fact, two people have died in the process. And one in 2017 was actually a minister from Santa Fe, New Mexico. He died after a week searching. These two parables that Jesus has given us speak of the nature of the kingdom of heaven. They ultimately tell us what the kingdom of heaven is like, but it all they also show us what our hearts are like. They speak of desire. They speak of affection, of direction and longing. And they talk about how the kingdom of God is the most valuable thing we could ever have. Something that's above any treasure of this world. So we're here February 2nd, right? It's Groundhog Day. We're still kind of in the beginning of 2020. And the question is, you know, as you think about your life, as you think about this coming year, it's a good time to take stock and say, well, where is my heart? What do I ultimately value in this life? Where is my ultimate desire? And every day ultimately is a day to think about the value of God's kingdom and to think also about where is my heart? You know, our hearts are like a compass, right? But they're a broken compass because of sin. Right? True North is supposed to be that way, right? North, or that way. But our hearts are broken, right? And we we go in search of all these kind of treasures that are actually fading and not ultimate and not true. And we get ourselves all over the place, don't we? And so when we come to worship and we come to the Lord's word, again, it's a time to say, where is my heart? What am I ultimately treasuring? What are my goals? And are they in line with Jesus and his goals and his kingdom? And so we're simply going to look at three things here In these two little parables, these parallel parables, and we're going to ask ourselves these three things. What is the kingdom? What is it? What did it take to get it? And what it brings. So the first thing is this. What is it? What is actually the kingdom of God? That Jesus is talking about. Jesus says it's like a treasure hidden in a field. It's like a fine pearl. In 44, he says, it's like treasure hidden in a field which a man finds. In 45, it's like a merchant in search of a fine pearl. He's saying it's something of ultimate value. Something exceedingly great. That we would go to any length. We would sell everything we have. Just to go and get that one pearl or that hidden treasure that's buried in the field As you think about the Bible, what does it lift up as ultimate? Who is the center of the kingdom of God? It is the Lord Jesus. He is the King who has left heaven and come to this earth, and he has brought us The kingdom of God. In fact, as you read through the Gospels, Jesus says his very first sermon in Mark 1, repent And believe the kingdom of God is at hand. Why? Because the king has come. The Lord Jesus is here. Later on, he says that the kingdom of God is within you. What he was saying Is that the I am the King, I am Jesus, I am with you, I am among you. That I am the King. I'm the most precious and valuable thing that you could ever have. And if you have me, you have the kingdom of God. Jesus the King is at the center, the focal point of the kingdom of God. And Paul understood this when he writes in Colossians 1, Verses 15 to 19, if you want to turn in your scriptures, I'm going to read this passage, but it's focusing on the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ. as the ultimate thing that we could ever have. And Paul writes this, Colossians 1. 15. He is the image, the Lord Jesus, of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and earth, visible and invisible. He created everything, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Wow. Jesus is the one who created everything. He's the one it's all for. It says, and he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. The ultimate top, the one we're to give all glory to. 19. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Later on in Colossians 2. 3 Paul says this, in Jesus whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. That in Jesus, that's where the treasure is. And this is why the whole scriptures are pointing to the glory of revelation and the worship of this king. around his throne. In fact in Revelation 5, John gives us this picture of heaven. This is where we're all going. This is where all of all of this is heading to, right? What we're doing today is just. a foretaste of what we're going to be doing forever. John says, then I looked and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels. numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, worthy is the Lamb who was slain. To receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea and all that is in them saying, to him who sits on the throne, And the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. And the poor living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped. They're worshiping the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ, and this is the ultimate thing that they wanted to do, and it's not boring. It's beautiful and wonderful and glorious and it's what their heart longs for. Is that what our heart longs for? to worship and to praise and to live our lives in such a way as to glorify this Lamb who was slain for us. You see, Jesus is that pearl of great price. He is that buried treasure. In fact, this this idea of searching and worship is all through the scriptures, isn't it? We just celebrated the Advent and Christmas and You know, the magi were on that search as well for the Lord Jesus, weren't they? And in fact, um If you think about the Advent and um, you know, we we tend to put the the wise men right there beside the manger, but they should actually be out in the garage. Because it took them some two years to get to the Lord Jesus. They were on a search and they'd come from the east, right? And they had saw his star. In fact, they say In eleven, in uh, and sorry, let me just read this passage from Matthew, um, Matthew chapter two. They come to Jerusalem and they say, where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star and it rose, and we have come to worship him. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold the star that they had seen when it rose before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, not the manger. They saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and they worshipped him. Then opening their treasures, they offered him gold and frankincense and myrrh. It's a picture of people that are captured by this ultimate treasure, the Lord Jesus Christ, this new king who has come, and they search and they. travel for really months in order to find this child, this baby, and to worship him So the question this morning is, do you know this King Jesus? Is he your most treasured possession? Is he what you value? Overall? Or has something else captured your heart? What do you truly value? And that leads us to the second thing. How do you get it? How do you get the Lord Jesus? What does it take to gain him, to gain the kingdom? The passage again speaks of longing and desire. And we see this great search that both of these individuals go on. The one after he finds the treasure in the field, he did not own it. He did not own the field yet. So he goes and he sells everything that he has to buy that field. And the other again is finds the pearl, and again, he had to sell everything he had in order to purchase it. What is this talking about? I think it's talking about what repentance looks like. What faith and repentance looks like is leaving the old And going to the new. What repentance ultimately is, is saying, these other treasures that I've been seeking in my life, I need to do away with them. And I need to go and search after the Lord Jesus Christ. I need to sell what I have in order to have this. You can't have both. Repentance is saying I'm a sinner. I can't keep going in that direction. That's killing me. It's actually destroying me. That's what our idols do to us. And instead it's turning and saying, no, I want the Lord Jesus and the beauty of who he is in my life. It reminds us of the rich young ruler, remember? He comes to Jesus asking about how he can inherit eternal life and thinks that he is keeping all the commandments, right? I've done all these since I was young. And the Lord Jesus says, one thing you lack, go and sell everything you have, and then come and follow me. And he goes away sad. Why? Because those other treasures, his money, his wealth, had captured his heart in such a way. As he was unwilling to leave them and to follow the Lord Jesus and to come after him. And it's a picture again, you know, we don't know what happens to him. It's really a sad story, isn't it? Because we don't know what happens to him. It's left for us to consider our lives. What are we actually uh keeping before the Lord This is showing us what faith looks like. It looks like selling everything and following Jesus. It looks like putting nothing else in front of him. Nothing else can take that seat. Matthew 6. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Deuteronomy 4. 29. But if from there you seek the Lord your God, you will find him. If you seek him With half your heart? Oh, it says with all your heart and with all your soul. And this is what faith looks like. This is what repentance looks like. The focus is the Lord Jesus and his beauties. And repentance looks like taking a hard look at your heart and your idols and the things that are controlling you and your broken compass, right? And it's saying, God forgive me of those things. I confess those things to you. Lord, change my heart. Help me to seek you and not these other things. Whether it's the idols of our culture of money, you know, power, sex. I work with students at University of Maryland, GPAs and and career paths and getting into that grad school and whatever that's controlling you that makes you so anxious and stressed out. Would you just say, Lord, I'm just going to follow you and you're going to direct my path. Forgive me for my sins. And this doesn't go away, does it? Because every day is a day for repentance and faith. Right? Every day is a day to say, Lord, I like where did that come from again? Lord, help me again. Because I am broken and my compass is broken, and I need you, and I need to set my heart and my mind on you. What are the things that have us? You know, Francis Schaeffer, a while ago now, said, I think it was in the 1960s, he said, the American church's greatest sin is personal peace and affluence. personal peace and affluence. It's just so easy to just be right, to be satisfied and to be at peace. And the Lord Jesus is calling us to battle, right? He's calling us to Enter into the world of neighbors and lost friends and the brokenness of our culture. And he's like saying, love and serve And do do works of mercy and justice, right? And preach the gospel and all of these things. And these things are hard. I'd rather sit on my couch. Right? And just be happy and safe. And and the I but the idols of our heart, like They will kill us. They will destroy us. And Jesus wants to wake us up and he wants to show us these parables are about selling everything and going into the beautiful treasure of God and his kingdom. I don't know if you're a Lord of the Ring Lord of the Ring fan, but uh You know, there's a character in that story who really, really, really, really wanted that ring. Smeagol or Gollum, right? And uh he he you know, the ring, the one ring to rule them all. And he he actually kills his brother to get the ring and then that turns him into this weird little man creature without any hair and he basically just lives in caves away from people and he goes around saying, My precious, my precious. He was totally controlled by his idol of wanting that ring, the power, wasn't he? And it totally just changed him. You know, and and and it and it almost changed all the people that came into the into contact with that ring. Every every character, if you w if you watch the movies or read the book, right? Every character that gets close to that ring wants that ring and it like changes who they are. Even even Frodo at the very end, you know, had trouble throwing that ring into the fire. That's the power of our idols. That's the power of Satan's kingdom. That's the power that wants to control and rule us But God's kingdom is greater and his power is greater. And so if you want to find the true joy of Christ, it just means repent. And have faith. And continue to repent. And to continue to have faith and trust in Him. And the last thing is this. What does the treasure bring? Well it brings joy. It brings amazing joy in verse 44. Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys the field. I love that. He had the joy before he even had the treasure. He he knew he he he knew where the treasure was, and just the fact that he knew where it was as nobody else knew, he had joy. And I think it's talking about this is what the gospel brings us. The gospel brings us a true and lasting joy outside of our situation or circumstances or issues that we're going through, that there isn't an ultimate joy in the Lord Jesus that gives us hope and gives us peace. And gives us, you know, a foundation for life and purpose and living. This is the joy that only the gospel brings. The joy of the Holy Spirit, of righteousness, peace, and joy. Excuse me for another Christmas illustration, but. A couple years ago, I was watching the Dickens uh you know the Christmas Carol, but it was the old one. It was the black and white. I don't know if you've ever seen that one. I think it was done in the 30s. And uh if you watch that closely, you will really see, I mean, you'll really see the gospel kind of explained in that and and and basically Ebenezer Screws, you know, like he gets visited by the the ghosts of you know Christmas past, present, and future. And and I think it's in the future where he sees judgment and ultimately Um he he believes in the gospel. He ultimately in the movie, basically the words of the gospel, and he believes, and then what happens? Joy And he jumps out, he finally like realizes, oh, the judgment is not, that was a dream and that was a vision, but I'm actually okay. I'm I'm he's full of joy and he's jumping around like a schoolboy. You know, he's dancing with the maid, and next thing you know, he's buying, you know, dinner for the Cratchit family and Tiny Tim, and he's just filled with joy. Because he had the gospel. Now, I want to turn this parable around a little bit. Because you know what? This parable is also about the true treasure hunter. And I believe that the true treasure hunter Is the Lord Jesus. That's who the real treasure hunter is. The Lord Jesus is the one who was rich with all the riches of heaven. And he sold it all, so to speak, and left the riches of heaven and came to earth in search of you, his precious treasure. You see, the only re way we get our hearts changed with joy in the gospel is if we know we can't do this. But he did. We can't perfectly follow him. Our sin is too strong. But the Lord Jesus is the one Who left heaven and came for us. You see, this is really what the scriptures are all talking about, all through it. He says in 1 Peter, here's what Peter says, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. We are his treasure possession. Look at Deuteronomy 7. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure. Above all the peoples on the face of the earth. Psalm 135, 4. For the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel for his special treasure. This is why Jesus is saying he's the good shepherd who leaves the 99 and goes in search of the one to bring him home. The Lord Jesus is the one who left the riches of heaven. 2 Corinthians 8. 9, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. So that you by his poverty might become rich. Hebrews 12, 2. We've been looking at Hebrews this morning. For the joy set before him, it says He endured the cross. And you know who the joy was? It was you and I, his treasured possession In order to have the heart changed, we need to know that we have a God who loves sinners, who loves us, who left heaven and he came for us. This changes our whole perspective. This is the gospel. If you have this, you have everything. If you have the Lord Jesus, you have everything. And Jesus is the one coming after us. Isn't that beautiful? He's the one that's waking up dead, buried sinners and calling them to life by his grace. That's something you can get excited for. At the end of Forrest's poem, he says this So why is it that I must go? Here's part of the riddle. You can write this down. And leave my trove for all to see. The answer is I already know. I've done it, tired, and now I'm weak. He's an old man now and he's ready for somebody else to search. And here's the last thing. So hear me all and listen good. Your effort will be worth the cold. If you are brave and in the wood, I give you title to the gold. For forest, the treasure is out there, and you have to go get it. But the Lord Jesus has come and revealed himself to us when we were dead. And he awakens us up to follow him and to treasure him and to worship him And to love him and to find joy in who he is and to help other people find this amazing treasure, the Lord Jesus. Let us pray. Lord, Lord, thank you so much. For your love. Thank you for your grace. Thank you, Jesus, that you are that treasure hunter that has come and died for sinners with broken hearts and compasses. who were under your wrath and you've come to bring them life and hope and truth and grace and joy. I pray that we would have that joy today. And God that you would give us lasting joy as we seek you. The treasure above all, the preeminent one, the Lord Jesus, and we pray in his name. Amen