Let's retell the Christmas story from the beginning. The Lord created the heavens and the earth. He was Lord over all that he had made, and he called it all good. But then Satan, an angel of light, incarnated himself in a snake to tempt the pinnacle of God's creation, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve disobeyed God and were exiled from the garden. And then Adam and Eve's children soon became so wicked that in order to punish humanity for their sins God sent a flood, but he saved a small remnant to begin again. But even from that small remnant, sin persisted And people set themselves the goal of building a great tower to heaven to unify the people and make a name for themselves. So, in response, God scattered them and confused them. But then he set about a new plan to redeem the whole world through an elderly couple. He promised them offspring and he fulfilled that promise. He promised them land and he fulfilled that promise. He promised them a relationship with him and he fulfilled that promise. But years went by, and the children of promise would offer their children to false gods, and they would offer their goods to false gods. And so God gave them into the hand of their oppressors. And sent them even into exile. And those who didn't die were spread to the four winds. And hundreds of years passed since God's people had experienced his presence, hundreds of years since they'd heard his voice through the prophets. Their rulers were corrupt, playing into the Romans' hands and uh half the land Samaria mixed worship of the one true God with worship of all sorts of other gods. God's people were in serious trouble when their best hopes were on the Hill Country Zealots or the Fundamentalist Pharisees. So it was In this context, that the angel of the Lord came down, an alien from the heavens, an extraterrestrial, sentient being, and first he appeared where you would expect him to appear. In the temple to a priest. But second, he appears where you wouldn't expect him. In the country to a teenage girl And he basically says to this teenage girl, God, it's finally coming where you least expected him, and in the way that you least expected him, not as a heavenly general, but as a helpless baby. In such a way God breaks his silence. He leaves the ultimate gated community heaven and comes down to be with sinners. He was born of the Virgin Mary in a stable in Bethlehem of Judea after a long pregnant road trip. Not only did Mary await eagerly for this child, as any mother eagerly awaits. uh the coming of her child, but she was eagerly awaiting the coming of the Lord in the flesh. And she knew that this was God in the flesh, because she had not known a man and yet she was Pregnant. Then she gave birth in the equivalent of a first century shed, pr presumably without much family, besides maybe a w midwife and her betrothed Joseph. Joseph. Yet this was the beginning of the end of evil as we know it. The creator entered his creation. The vanguard of the invasion has come, and behold, it's the general himself. J And his angel army appeared in the heavens to ratify this truth. There they are, the military band of eternity. Witnessed by none other than shepherds on the night shift. But it was fitting because Jesus came to shepherd his people Christmas is not merely a human story of struggle and birth and worldly oppression. The book of Revelation makes it clear that it's an epic supernatural struggle that's going on in Bethlehem. Satan, that great dragon, was alive and well and seeking to devour God incarnate in his moment of weakness. And he used a wicked representative, Herod, to do what was certainly his bidding, which was to attempt to kill the Christ. Meanwhile, Magi, wealthy astronomers, caravanned the better part of a thousand miles from Babylon to Jerusalem, presumably. to find out the meaning of a star that according to their calculations foretold the k coming of a king who was worthy of worship They asked Herod and the religious leaders where this king was to be born. Then the Magi went and found the God King in a house, worshipped him. offered gifts to him, and left by another way, having been told by an angel not to go by way of Jerusalem. Which brings us to the point in our story where we pick up today. Let's stand for the reading of God's Word. Matthew 2, 13 through 23 Now, when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you For Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him. And he rose and took the child and his mother by night, and departed to Egypt, and remained there until the death of Herod This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. Then Herod, when he saw that he'd been tricked by the wise men, became furious. And he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. A voice was heard in Rama, weeping and loud lamentation. Rachel weeping for her children, she refused to be comforted because they are no more. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Rise, take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead. And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archolus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And being worn in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, and he went and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled. He shall be called a Nazareth. Please be seated. Let us pray. Oh Lord, thank you for your word. Help us to hear it and understand it today. We need your Holy Spirit. to do so. We could read your word every day. We could read it front to back and back to front and still not understand it were it not for your Holy Spirit. We believe in the Holy Spirit. We ask that you send it today to help us understand and apply these truths to our heart this evening. Thank you for this, your Lord's Day, where we celebrate your resurrection all the day long. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's four days after Christmas, only three hundred and sixty-one days till Christmas. Were there any surprises this Christmas? Raise your hand if you got what was expected, what you expected to get. Yeah. Raise your hand if you didn't get if you got something you didn't expect to get. Keep it raised if it was good. All right. You can put your hands down. I remember one Christmas with my wife's family in South Carolina, and we had just finished unwrapping presents for six children and six adults when Annie's uncle found, Lance Hudgens, found something hidden in the back of the Christmas tree. And he handed the gift to his wife, and she hadn't been expecting anything, and and he had been saving the best for last. And slowly she opened the box to find a beautiful ring nestled inside side. And she let out a little scream of joy and gave her husband a big hug. And that's where I learned that sometimes when we don't get what we expect, or when we get what we don't expect, it can be a beautiful, wonderful thing. But for some, Christmas wasn't what you were expecting in a bad way. I had a friend, our church secretary, who as a teenager had just received her license In the months leading up to Christmas, her mother kept dropping hints that maybe a really nice present was coming her way. My friend would ask her mom, hey mom, what am I getting for For Christmas. And her and her mother would just say, vroom vroom, vroom, vroom. And so my friend's imagination just went wild thinking about the wonderful car that she was going to get at Christmas. And so the Christmas presents were unwrapped, and she was down to her last and final present, and she was unwrapping it, and she opened it to find a children's driving wheel set. Suffice to say, she didn't get what she expected. For for many of us, Christmas still isn't what we expect it to be. It doesn't live up to all of our hopes and expectations that we put on it. We're still not where we want to be. We've lost the loved one that we always used to be with at Christmas. Christmas doesn't solve all of our problems. It doesn't heal all our wounds. Christmas doesn't always fulfill our expectations. This may have been true for Mary as well as it may be for us. Jesus certainly shatters everyone's expectations. If a holy, all-powerful God were coming to earth, one might expect he'd give his family a nice setup in the suburbs and a safe neighborhood. Why didn't everything start changing as soon as he arrived? Herod remained in power and if anything got more murderous. Jesus didn't come with a glowing halo or like a birthmark that says made in heaven. Or it doesn't levitate, so Mary is still un unratified in her saying that he was born immaculately from above. One might expect all these problems, all these allegations to just go away now that Jesus has finally arrived. But the Lord wasn't interested in just merely meeting our expectations. Our God is more like that experienced husband who waits until just the right moment to bring out the ring. To announce the news, to reveal his hand. God promised that he would save, and even when it was painful to wait He waited until just the right moment to go way beyond our wildest expectations. Since God fulfilled his promise, in spite of the pain, let us wait for him. Since God fulfills all his promises, despite the pain, let us wait for him. God promised To save his people, he promised a new covenant where he would write his law in people's hearts so that everyone would know God. He even promised a new heavens and a new earth. And he promised that he would wipe away every tear. Some of that has happened. Hallelujah. Some of that is yet to happen. Hoseanna. So how do we know God will keep his promises? Well, let's look at how he keeps his promises. Promises in spite of the pain. How do you know if anyone is going to keep their promise? Well, you look at their past record and you look at what they do when trouble comes. Has Yahweh been faithful in the past? Yes. Has he been faithful to fulfill his promises even when it's painful? Yes. But God doesn't fulfill all of his promises at once. God fulfills his promises and prophecies in what some call tiered fulfillment. T-I-E-R, tiered fulfillment. God fulfills prophecies in stages and tiers, like steps going up a staircase. They build on one another, just like these stairs that you see before you. In Genesis 3:15, for example. uh called the Proto-Euvangelion. God promised Eve that Satan would strike at man's heel, but man would strike at the serpent's head. And this had a quick fulfillment, uh the first stage of fulfillment in the physical fact that snakes began biting at people's heels and man began sophomore. them with their with their feet. But then it had a fuller fulfillment, kind of a second stage of fulfillment, when Jesus Christ killed death on the cross, saying it is finished. That quintessential man crushed the serpent, Satan's head, by conquering him in death. But then there's a final stage. Of fulfillment, where that great serpent will be thrown down into the outer darkness, into the pit, and chained, finally. So just because God doesn't fulfill all his promises quickly or in the way that you might expect doesn't mean that he doesn't fulfill his promises. We have some several fulfillments in the text before us. Matthew claims that Jesus fulfilled the Old Testament idea, out of Egypt I've called my son. First, we'll talk about what actually happened to Jesus, then what part of redemptive history this fulfilled, and then we'll turn to the fulfillment that's yet to come. So an angel of the Lord warns Joseph in a dream that Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him. And it's interesting how God reacts. God doesn't slay Herod. God doesn't change Herod's heart. God doesn't send an angel army in to protect. God doesn't make Jesus invince a baby. Okay, instead of doing that, he tells Joseph to retreat. What kind of God is this that runs away? And not only that, but to run to Egypt. There's a sordid history with Egypt. This is this is Egypt, God. Remember, they're the ones that enslaved your people for hundreds of years. You even warned them about putting their trust in Egypt in 2 Kings 18 21. And Isaiah 36, 6. Why did you send your son down there? And Mary's nursing a small baby, so why then? But Joseph seemed to obey quickly. Matthew mentions they left at night, and we can either infer that this means that they left in haste or they left in secret or both, or none of the above. But the question remains, why did God allow this? Why did Matthew record this? Why do we need to hear this? Here is the answer. God fulfills his promises even when it is painful, even when it is shameful. And God fulfills his promises through Jesus specifically. Listen to 2 Corinthians 1, 19 through 20. For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, was not yes and no, but in him it is always yes. For all the promises of God find their yes in him. That is why it is through him that we utter our Amen to God for his glory. You see, God fulfills his promises even when it's not easy. It's not yes and no with God. He's not fickle in fulfilling his salvation to his people. Even when it's shamefully hard, he fulfills his salvation to his people. Even when it means retreating and being a refugee, God is in control. And he chose this struggle for his son because in Jesus God fulfilled all that the Father had asked of Israel, his chosen child. Anything that God put Israel, his child through, he put Jesus, his son through. Jesus embodied a human body, but also an Israelite history, so as to redeem both to God. See, the Jews throughout history have been treated so horribly that they might be tempted to say to God, You don't know what we've been through for you But in Jesus, God bodily experiences everything that He that His people have been through for Him. Yet without sin, yet without complaining, yet The scripture quote, out of Egypt I have called my son, is from Hosea 11:1. And whenever the New Testament quotes the Old Testament, It behooves the reader to look at the whole section surrounding the quote in order to pull up the full sense of what the New Testament writer means. So in Hosea 11, he talks about how the nation of Israel is like that beloved child to the Lord. Israel had gone after other gods, had been deceitful, but God still loved his precious child and longed to draw his child back to himself. This quote is a reference to the whole story of the Exodus. Where God relentlessly pursued his people and did great signs and wonders in order to draw his people out of Egypt to worship him. Matthew draws our attention to the fact that Jesus is the recapitulation of the whole redemptive story. Jesus is Israel. He's playing Israel in the divine drama of history as Israel all along should have been played. Jesus went to Egypt as a refugee, but he came out pure, unsullied by the world and by empire. So, what does this mean for us Gentiles in the 21st century? First of all, we should believe that Jesus is the new Israel. Salvation, relation with God is through the new Israel rather than the old. Then said it has two implications. God calls his people out of the empire of the world into a new spiritual country. And finally, it's a fulfillment of all things. God will call his people out of the world into a new heavens and a new earth. So, firstly, your allegiance is not to uh first to American interests. Your allegiance first belongs with Christ. people, wherever they may be, come out of the empire of the world. Egypt symbolized the height of human civilization. They were a flourishing Society capable of great things, and yet God called his people out of Egypt. He called his son out of Egypt, and he calls you not out of your country, but out of worldliness, out of the idolatry that's here. Do not pursue the pleasures and successes of this world, of this country that we're in, but rather pursue the pleasures and successes of God's kingdom. And wait for the pleasures of heaven. Be neither consumed nor satisfied with the American dream. God calls you out to so much Much more to himself. And on the Lord's day, what you worship is revealed. We're tempted to spend it in entertainment. Or work in this culture, let us spend it in worship, even as you do so now. Do so more and more. Finally, when God calls you home, the fulfillment is yet to come. Out of this world and into his fair country, do not go with fear. Go willingly with joy. Matthew draws our attention to another way in which Jesus fulfills the story of ancient Israel. Look at verse 16. Herod realizes that the wise men had indeed found the one who is called King of the Jews. Jews, but instead of returning to Tel Him, they had left and tricked him. So so Herod goes and kills as many boys as he can in order to make sure that he's killed the prophesied king. Pastor Dan Doriani says that Bethlehem and its environs had a modest population, so perhaps no more than twenty boys were slain. Still, it was a great tragedy for those families in that town. No. What horrible sadness. God comes to earth with rejoicing angels, gift giving foreigners, and theologically aware shepherds. But he leaves in his wake a Bethlehem bereft of baby boys. We have a child that is under two sitting in that row back there. And I would uh wail and shake with pain for decades if the governor sent troops to come and kill her Multiply that pain by 20 families in close proximity, and you've got a national tragedy. And God coming to earth didn't stop that pain from happening. In fact, in some ways it seems that God coming to earth caused that pain. Wouldn't you think that the coming of the Messiah would mark the end to these tragedies? It does. But we see a tiered fulfillment. The already and the not yet. God does fulfill his promises, but in stages and in a way that will go beyond even our wildest imagination. Matthew references Jeremiah 31:15 to make sense of this catastrophe. It says: A voice was heard in Rama, weeping in loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children. Rama was about as far north of Jerusalem as Bethlehem was south. So it's not the location that Matthew is drawing our attention to, but the emotion. Heavy sadness. She refused to be comforted because they are no more. Remember who Rachel was? Rachel was Israel's beloved wife who was buried at Ramah And so when Jeremiah the prophet personally witnessed the Babylonians lining up and chaining up hundreds of children to take into exile. He spoke poetically of Rachel, who personified all the mothers of Israel, as herself weeping with sorrow because the pain was so great. And Matthew, by quoting Jeremiah, is drawing our minds back to that nader, to that low point of biblical history, when even Judah was taken away into captivity because of her sin. Matthew is equating Jesus' story with the exile. He's saying Jesus fulfills the exile as well as the Exodus. The exile was that low point of biblical history when God let even the chosen remnant be taken away into foreign captivity. But in Jesus it goes even deeper. And Jesus, God allows his chosen son not merely to be taken captive, but to be slain. Exiled not to a pagan city, but to the grave, to Sheol itself. God's people going into exile is a catastrophe, but what about humanity killing deity? Every other tragedy pales in comparison. Why would God allow this? Why would God do this? He endured the pain to fulfill his promises beyond our wildest expectations. We're expecting a savior. To save it, give us immediate relief from physical pain and death. But what God has in mind is to give his people a final reprieve from spiritual pain and death, and therefore physical pain and death too. You see, Israel and Judah were punished for their sins. But the Bible tells us that Jesus, the new Israel, never sinned. Jesus was taking the punishment for all the sin that his people deserved. It's taking the full punishment of God so that we can receive all his righteousness. Hallelujah. Thank you, God. Jeremiah 31 is a hugely important chapter to understanding and unlocking the whole biblical narrative. Let's look at this verse in its larger context. Jeremiah says, in the midst of sorrow, in the midst of the sorrow of the exile, that God still loves his people. I have loved you with an ever Everlasting love, he says. He says that though they're destroyed, they shall be rebuilt. Those scattered, they shall be gathered. Those sorrowful, they shall be comforted. And even dance for joy. And then comes the weeping in Rama because the sorrow is so great. So then the Lord basically says to his people, Don't be sad. There is hope. I'm disciplining you, but I will bring you back. You are dear to me. I will show mercy. So stop wavering. I will satisfy you with myself. But before I bless you, I'm gonna have to break you. And then comes verses thirty one through forty, where God says to his people in the midst of sorrow, I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel. I'll write my law on their hearts. All the covenant partners will know me, and I will forgive their iniquity. In quoting Jeremiah 31, Matthew is saying that Jesus is a The fulfillment not only of the sorrow of the exile, he's also the fulfillment of all the joy that is a new covenant. You may have experienced some sadness this Christmas or in Christmas's past. And that may be in part due to punishment for your own sin. It may be someone was taken from you. Or it may be from poverty or injustice. Maybe you experienced some sadness because you just didn't get the Christmas present you wanted, or you got it the one you wanted, and it's already broken, or lost, or forgotten. Maybe you didn't find what you were looking for under the tree. But the new covenant is what we're looking for The new covenant is life and wealth and health and justice. It's reconciliation with God, whom we had wronged over and over again. It's the new law within us that brings life. and lights our path. It's forgiveness for all our sins. Jesus in the new covenant brings joy greater than all our grief. It never gets outdated, it never breaks, it never goes out of style. Christmas for some of us is like a bright spot in an otherwise dreary winter. Dreary reality. But Jesus flips that on its head. He turns our world fundamentally into a joyous reality with some dark spots. Our sorrow may last for a night, but joy comes in the morning. Did you know that Christmas is the deadliest day of the year? Researchers examining death records from nineteen seventy nine to two thousand four found that Christmas Day had the highest death toll of any other day on the calendar by far. There are more folks that die in emergency rooms on Christmas Day, or more folks that are brought to the hospital and pronounced dead on Christmas Day than any other day. And many just wait till Christmas to die. And for some of you, this Christmas is the first Christmas without a loved one. But Jesus sees your sorrow. He sees the sorrow of his people. Jesus lived your sorrow. He came to put an end to sorrow. Maybe not immediately. Maybe not when you'd expect him to. But in the end, what he has accomplished will exceed your wildest expectations. Matthew is saying to us today that God fulfills his promises in Jesus. God keeps his promises even when they're painful for him. So surely he will keep all of his promises to us. So wait patiently for him. Speaking of waiting patiently, did any of you have a hard time waiting patiently for Christmas? Did you have a hard time waiting patiently for a certain gift or other that you hoped was coming? Uh some of us we we wanted s this gift so much and we weren't sure if anyone truly loved us enough or knew us well enough or had the resources to get us what we wanted so we're real tempted to get it for ourselves. What was that gift for you? Was it uh a Lego or a hair product or a game or a tech piece of technology? I think sometimes we can do the same thing with Jesus. We're not sure that he's going to get us what we want, what we need, at the appointed time. So we take it upon ourselves to make that happen. We question whether Jesus' salvation is sufficient for us. So we try to get satisfaction on our own. We try to earn God's favor by good works. We question whether Jesus really wants to satisfy our hearts. And so we take satisfaction from things he's commanded us not to take it from. Listen, when someone loves you and has covenanted themselves to you, it's faithful to wait for them. It is faithless. and distrusting to get your own help and satisfaction elsewhere on your own time. So the application for us today is Wait for Jesus in spite of any pain it may cause you. Trust him to fulfill his promises and to exceed your wildest expectations in his salvation. Abstain from getting yourself the salvation, the pleasure, even the righteousness. Wait on Him to do that, to be that for you. Finally, Jesus idea fulfills one more idea from the Old Testament in our passage, but it's a subtle one. An angel of the Lord again appeared to Joseph to tell him that Herod was dead, so they begin to travel back to Israel. But look at verse 22. But when he heard that Archolus was reigning over Judea and place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there, and being warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee. It seems that Joseph was intending to go to Bethlehem, to be near family, or at least in Judea, close to Jerusalem, the center of Jewish politics and life. But he is dissuaded from doing that because of this evil ruler, Archolus. So they went back to Nazareth. Now, Nazareth has several things against it. It was kind of country. It was so backwoods that it never gets even a mention in the Old Testament. Um secondly, it was in the midst of Greek speaking Galilee, and Jesus was supposed to be King of the Jews. Thirdly, it didn't have a good reputation. You remember Nathaniel says of it in John 146, can any Anything good come out of Nazareth? And Nathaniel is ratified as the Nazarenes seek to stone Jesus after his first sermon. Fourthly, in Nazareth, Joseph was thought of as a cuckold, Mary as a loose woman, and Jesus as a fatherless child. And fifthly, Nazareth is not Bethlehem. The Savior was supposed to come from Bethlehem. And no one would expect a boy growing up in Nazareth to be a Messiah from Bethlehem. So this brings up several questions. If Nazareth is never mentioned in the Old Testament, how can Jesus fulfill the idea that he shall be called a Nazarene? Well, in Isaiah 11. 1, speaking of the Messiah, Isaiah says, a root shall come up from the stump of Jesse From his roots, a branch will bear fruit. And the word branch there, referring to the Messiah in Hebrew, is Natser. Which some say is where Nazareth gets its name. So Matthew is saying he is going to be called Branch because he comes from the town of Branch. Isn't that sneaky? The Messiah is a branch from the stump of Jesse, that old royal house of David. And Jesus grows up in the city of branch, so he can be called a branch. And now, if that's what God was thinking, it's beautifully poetic. And it's sly and it's humble. I love how God fulfills his promises in ways that aren't self-aggrandizing. But there's another option to understanding Matthew's contention that he will be called a Nazarene. It's not mutually exclusive from the first. Perhaps Matthew is referring to the idea found in Isaiah fifty-three that Jesus will be a nobody Isaiah 53, 2 through 3. For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him And no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. If Jesus came from Nazareth with its reputation, Jesus fulfills this prophecy. Nobody expects the Messiah to come from nasty old Nazareth, which begs the question: why does Jesus come from Nazareth? Jesus grew up in Nazareth so that he could understand your pain. He understands what it's like to be from a town with a bad reputation. He understands what it's like to grow up in a place where his mom and dad had a bad reputation. He understands what it's like to grow up in a place where people are hard-hearted and refuse to believe. He grows up in Nazareth to identify with you and understand your hardships. He's been there. You can talk to him about it. Your situation is not beyond redemption. He knows. And if he endured that hardship in order to fulfill his promises, he'll fulfill them all. I think the other reason that Jesus grew up in Nazareth is so that no one would see him coming. If he lived in Bethlehem, a suburb of Jerusalem. they would have noticed his knowledge and his wisdom and his kindness as the priest did on his trip to Jerusalem for the feast when he was a young boy. But growing up in Nazareth, he was able to quietly live out his life, not as a celebrity Liberty, but just like any of us, it's all part of the messianic secret. Jesus is so much more than anyone expects him to be. He is the quintessential good surprise. Were any of you able to pull off a good surprise at Christmas this year? It's hard to pull off a good surprise. First, you have to figure out what your loved one wants without them noticing that you notice them staring at that uh ad on the internet or in the store. And next you have to sneak away and purchase it without them noticing. And next you have to hide or explain away the lack of cash or credit card charge or bank account decrease. And then you have to keep the gift and even the box well hidden so they don't even know about it until just the right time. And then the hardest test comes when that loved one questions whether you're getting them anything good for Christmas this year. They may allege you don't care about them and you never get them what they want. And all the while you've been secretly scheming to get them this extravagant gift. You have to endure those questions and allegations quietly, never giving away that you've got this great surprise. It's the same way with Jesus. Jesus is God's beautiful surprise. Eyes. He knows us better than we know ourselves. We may think our heart's desire is a new car or an iPad, but He knows what our heart and mind has most deeply been lingering on. The question: Am I truly loved? Will I be provided for? Can I be forgiven? And he sees your need and secretly orchestrates the greatest gift of all time, the greatest surprise of all time. He was born in a lonely manger, made a refugee Raised in a backwater town of no reputation, he lived most of his life as a commoner with no no one noticing his infinite greatness. Then he went on a homeless road trip around Palestine, only to end up in court, on a cross, in a grave. But it wasn't on Christmas morning that the greatest gift was revealed. It was on Easter morning. The tomb was opened. To quote Paul Houston, the rule has been disproved. The stone has been moved. The grave is now a groove. All debts are removed. He is risen. He's alive. To quote the Apostle Paul, 1 Corinthians 15 54 through 58, death is swallowed up in victory. Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. He has given the victory. He is giving the victory. He will give the final victory. Verse 58: Therefore, my brothers, be steadfast, immovable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Wait patiently on the Lord to fulfill his promise. He is faithful, he fulfills his promise despite the pain. He has willingly given up his life for you on the cross. Will he not also give you all things? Therefore, wait patiently on the Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Jesus, we confess that we sometimes do not trust you, we do not go to you, we do not look to you for our satisfaction. We Seek to get satisfaction and even righteousness and power and control and security and safety apart from you. Forgive us, Lord You are our satisfaction. You are our heart's desire. You are our providence. You are our safety and security. Our sure reward in Jesus. Thank you, Lord, for saving us. Thank you for fulfilling your promises. Help us to trust you in the future. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.