The Word of God from Romans chapter fifteen, verse one. We'll stand and have prayer and then the reading of the Word. Lord of all life, you have made us for yourself. We are restless until the Sabbath day returns. With its regular blessing and joyful worship. And we encounter your word with Great joy. With open hearts. We have repented of our sins. And there is therefore now no condemnation. Nothing between our Savior and ourselves. And we give you thanks for that. We thank you that we have the Word of God in our own language. And that you've preserved, superintended its transmission to us, and made it understandable and clear. And we ask now the illumination of your Holy Spirit. that blessed friend, that shy member of the Trinity, whom we love, and his love saturates and sustains us. So we give thanks that we may read this word freely without fear. We need not read it furtively as brothers and sisters around the world. are forced to do. But we read it openly and distribute it with great joy. as the bread of life to all who hunger and thirst after your message. So now be pleased, Lord, to open this word to us Bring forth its hidden treasures, as only the Spirit can do. Give us attentive minds and hearts, we pray In Jesus' name, Amen. The text itself will come in verse seven Though we read that whole paragraph, I'm glad that in this congregation you're inclined to many verses rather than few verses. I like that too. But focus, if you will, then on verse seven We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good. To build him up, for Christ did not please himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction. that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice glorify God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore And this is the text of the day. Welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. We continue with the passage down to verse 13. For I tell you that Christ became a servant. to the circumcised, to show God's faithfulness in order to confirm the prom promises given to the patriarchs, and in order that the Gentiles might Glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name. And again it is said, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people, and again praise. the Lord all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him. And again Isaiah says, the root of Jesse will come Even he who arises to rule the Gentiles, in him will the Gentiles hope. And then we have this wonderful benediction which our pastor uses so effectively to lift up our hearts at the ends of some of the services. May the God of hope Fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit You may abound in hope, and I know you do. Please be seated Well, there's a long word in the title of the sermon today. I know that you children are following the messages and I commend you for it, paying close attention But maybe some of the words can be hard for you. Let me introduce you to the word hospitality, if you haven't made friends with that already. It's a great word. Sounds like you're going to the hospital when you read it, but it doesn't mean that. It means a warm-hearted, cordial receiving of guests into your home or wherever you are in the church. It means reaching out to the newcomer with a smile that is deep and sincere. It's making him or her comfortable in your home Providing food and understanding a friendly space where he can tell his story It's an important word in our life. It's a Bible word. And Peter speaks of it in his first letter. You can read that at home too. We want to talk today about the God of hospitality. That is, where does this wonderful virtue come from? How do we learn it? Of course, our parents, friends teach us, our teachers, pastors, they teach us hospitality, and that's a great gift. But where does it all come from? Where does it start? And I come to you today to say God is the fountain, the source, the origin of that lovely practice we have of hospitality. That's where it all comes from. It comes from deep in the heart of our heavenly father. Because That heart of his is full of inviting love. That's his nature. God is love. And he's forever inviting. He invites the world to draw near to him and praise every Lord's day. He invites sinners to repent and turn toward him. He invites the hungry and the thirsty to drink and to eat of the bounties of his earth. He is the inviting God, so it's so easy to understand. He would be the one who starts hospitality into motion. But it is a trinitarian God he is. And for the children that means we Think of God as the one who is the Father, the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit. Our God is three persons. in one God. Not three gods, three persons in one God. But the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, also leads us into hospitality because he is He is the suffering Savior who gives his own blood that there would be access or entrance into our lives and into his heart. The suffering Savior says, Come unto me, all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And the third person of the Holy Trinity, the Holy Spirit, he is The pleading, wooing member of the Trinity, the one who yearns for you to come home If you are far from God, far from your parents or your families, far into the far country, as it were, the Holy Spirit is even now. pleading with you to come home where you belong. The Bible speaks of how much God the Father loves us, how great is the love of Christ, and it also speaks of the love of the Holy Spirit. What a precious reality. He doesn't just want you to have more numbers in his church. He wants your heart. He yearns after you. He's jealous. If you put your heart into any other connection than the triune God. So this is the source. He is a God of hospitality. That's where it all starts. That's where we feed. That's where we learn. That's why we become a hospitable church. and home, how good that is for us. Now I almost thought of saying that I we ought to make hospitality, the eleventh commandment. You know the first two, first ten, but think of An eleventh commandment. Now it's not in our right or province to do that. God himself will put it there if he wanted it. But I think he chose not to, because that would make it almost a duty. And a duty can become a burden. And God doesn't want hospitality to be a burden. He wants it to be a delight. So here and there through the scriptures we are encouraged to be hospitable without grumbling. that is with a sense of burdensome. So it's not one of the Ten Commandments. Each of those has its own province, its own power, and we love them all. But we're not going to put hospitality there. as maybe something we just have to do and get guilty if we don't do it. I won't put that on you And your pastors would not either, though it is our duty to give the whole counsel of God, and hospitality is part of his counsel. You see, God has a plan for this world. There is an enemy, as you know, Satan. who has caused our first parents to sin and therefore to fall and bring us into a sinful environment and sinful hearts. That's the great obstacle to be overcome until the pure water of life can flow through our hearts, a stream of love and joy and peace. We have this obstacle of the enemy and his dreadful work in our world. But how to overcome that? You might Not be surprised to find that God has a unique way of overcoming evil. If it were up to me, I would get line up the tanks and big guns and blow them to pieces. Not God. He always has his own way to do something. Now here's the good news of the day. God is overcoming evil with good. Which is exactly what the Apostle Paul calls on us to do. Overcome evil with good. That's what we're about. Christ is teaching us that. So if you take that as God's strategy to rid the world of the devil and his influence is destruction. Then hospitality becomes a key weapon in the overcoming of evil. Because there, in the warmth and love of your own living room, You can draw close to friends who are struggling against evil. You can give them encouragement and patience and consolation. In other words, Hospitality has a very valuable place in the plan and strategy of God It's not just a nice little add-on that if you happen to feel like it, you invite somebody over for dinner. Might be nice to do that. No. Hospitality is a powerful weapon in the hands of God and in the hands of the church and in your hands as servants of the living God. So I encourage you. in this way, to think of this in its deeper sense, as far more than a pleasant little activity that might be nice. No, no, no. It's the will of God to overcome evil through our hospitality to one another and to the world. Now, how does God introduce this hospitality into the world? Again, he doesn't choose ways that you and I might choose. Well what he does, for example, is have a little story at the beginning of the Gospel of John, where two of the disciples Not yet at that time called apostles, but followers of Jesus, beginners, students of his. They get curious about Jesus. Where does he live? He doesn't have an address like the rest of us. Who is this man? Where does he come from? So they ask him. Rabbi, teacher, where are you staying? Do you rem anybody here remember how Jesus answered? Sure you do. You're a learned congregation. I see a few hands. The pastor, that's good. Yes. We're glad you're back, you know. We missed you. Yeah. It's not like the person that said to the pastor after he returned from vacation, we sure enjoyed your vacation. We love you. But anyway, they said, Where are you staying, Rabbi? And he said, Come and see Now that's the sweetest word in all the Bible is come. It's the introductory word when you're going to be hospitable. Can you come? And the sweetest, second sweetest word is, yes. I'll be glad to come. Find a good reason if you really can't be there, but if you can say yes, say yes when hospitality knocks at your door. It's an important part of the kingdom of God. So Jesus brought them invited them right to his uh lodgings. We're not told just what that was like. But he was staying with someone, or had rented a place, we don't know. But he brought them into his house and had Enough conversation and blessing with them that they spent the rest of the day in the house. I would have done the same. They couldn't get enough of the master's teaching. Now that's a kind of introduction to how God is slipping in this strategy of hospitality. But there are many other places he makes inroads into our ideas. to introduce hospitality. One is he made a special friend. The friend is Abraham. I you can correct me, baby, but I think he's the only person in the Bible that God calls his friend Jesus called us who follow him friends, yes, but he he picked out Abraham as a. uniquely close friend. And that uh bears some understanding. We don't know precisely why, but God in his own mercy he makes those kinds of decisions and he began to reveal to Abraham things he didn't reveal to other people. He began to tell him about this covenant, this agreement of faith that he was going to make with Abraham's family and his relatives. And so He explained the covenant. And when he wanted to show Abraham how serious he was about the covenant, he took one of his animals. He had Abraham take an animal, uh, slice it in two. two halves of the of the cow's body or whatever it was and then uh he had his own spirit in the form of a lantern pass between these parts of the body of the animal. That's strange to us. But it wasn't to him and not to Abraham. And he said to Abraham, Sooner shall I be cut in two pieces than I will ever break my covenant with you. That's friendship. That's deep friendship. And part of the reason that we have a paucity of hospitality in the church and in the world is that we don't Give ourselves to deep friendships. Most of our friendships are rather superficial, sadly. But that's better than nothing. But you see what God did. He entered into a deep friendship because he had a lot for Abraham to accomplish. He wanted to use him mightily. And he would need a deep friendship. We need to Make deep friendships, first with our own family, and not simply to know them and passing and to see them go on out into life without ever really knowing them. We need to make deep friendships, husband and wife, parents and children, sister and brother. How precious they are. They're part of God's strategy to win the world and overcome evil. Use it. So what does God do? He teaches Abraham how to be hospitable See, this was not a regular part of their life. They were sort of a warlike people in some cases. Now, Abraham, I want you to learn how to be hospitable. So if you want to get some notes for your own family about that, Read Genesis 18 and you will see there God giving Abraham lessons. He started With eagerness to find strangers. He's sitting outside his tent with his wife Sarah, and three figures appear on the horizon. He could have let them go on by But he's up on his feet. He's looking carefully. Who is that? Am I going to be able to serve them? So as they drew near, he greets them with a warm reading. He says, come, let me get a little water for your feet. The burning sands would need that. As they came closer, he said, I want you to come and sit under my shade tree, and I'll get a morsel of food ready. Notice how he underplays what he's going to do for them. But after he's got them safely in his enclave there, then he sends word to the servants, get the fatted calf, get the best meat. Bring water, bring everything they need, bread, feed them. He's an eager host. He's not scrimping, not resentful of his larder being raided, so to speak. And so he's learning from the Lord the principles of hospitality. Then there's a very nice touch in Genesis 18. It says that he stood by thoughtfully available. To the guests. He didn't suffocate them or be uh overly solicitous about their needs or how he could serve them. He was on the scene but at a little distance, ready to serve them without overwhelming them. That's an art in hospitality, isn't it? You don't see it every day, but it's a wonderful thing. And God was teaching him. But the biggest lesson was still to come. You see, Abraham was taught to listen. carefully to his guests. Many people are looking for a place to tell their story, but often when we're the host we chatter so much, trying to fill dead air, so to speak. that they never have opportunity to say what they wanted to say. The host needs to be quiet and listen. Because God has a message in the host for the guest. How many of you know what the message was that day? Oh, the pastor. There's another one now. So good. You're going to read Genesis 18 this afternoon, aren't you? Well, I'll let you in on the secret. This time next year, Abraham and Sarah, you're going to have a child, a son. Now these old people were almost as old as Betty Jane and I are. I think I think we're maybe the older. Well Isabel's a little older than we are, right? There she is, right there. So anyway, we're they were a hundred. Abraham was a hundred. I think Sarah was ninety. And we're going to have a baby in the next year? And they had been praying. And it had been 25 years since God had given them the promise, you will have a son. Twenty-five years they waited and nothing. Suddenly, when they least expected it, the guest brought a secret. Good news. And Sarah was so delighted, she laughed almost with disbelief, and yet there was belief too. It was a laughter of joy. And strange emotions must have gone over her at that time. But this is the way with God. He often packages a message he has for you in the conversation your guest brings to you. So listen. And it's happened to us, I'm sure some of you could give testimony. How a very thing you've been questioning and thinking about and trying to decide And the heavens are as brass, you can't get an answer from anywhere. And suddenly the guest, without even knowing what the question is, gives you the answer. Oh, that's a blessing when it comes. I hope it comes to you. So this is the way God gradually introduces into his covenant people the principle of hospitality. It has many rich benefits in it. The benefits of having your children meet some new people whom they might never have real conversation with. They're listening. Sometimes missionaries come, dynamic single people come and show that singleness can be happy and good too. And they learn all kinds of lessons at that table. There'll be funny things that happen too, like the day that our dear brother R. C. Sproull was at our dinner table, and he had just preached the Reformation Day sermon in the church. about uh Martin Luther, especially his conversion. And one of our children, I don't think she's here. I better not tell her on her. She said, I thought Martin Luther King was a Christian. She got those two separated that day. And uh but your children will gain so much from your guests. And the relation may go on and on. So it is a great blessing the way God uses hospitality to build his kingdom. Builds it in in our Christian homes when we open our doors, especially to those we don't know very well. It's rather easy, and Jesus commented on this, to invite those who invite you, and you've got a back and forth going, and that's nice. Nothing wrong with that. But you may not be exposing yourself or your children to all parts of the congregation, for some have great stories to tell you and testimonies of Christ. So I need to go a little farther in this case of how God uses hospitality. Sometimes he uses it to test a people. Hospitality can be a test. And God does test us. Remember that rich young man who came to Jesus and he said, I want to know about how to get eternal life. How can it what do I have to do? And he was, I think, serious to a degree. And after he said that he kept all the commandments, and Jesus said, well, something else you have to do. Sell what you have, give the money to the poor, and follow me. But he went away sorrowful. Jesus invited him. to himself, follow me. You can be part of my band and learn from me. But he failed the test. So be careful when you refuse an invitation. It might be a test from the Lord, not necessarily. And also, he uses hospitality to erase divisions within the kingdom. You know our God is a peacemaker. He loves to see brethren in unity with each other And th this passage here in Romans 15 describes how in the early church there was some tension between the uh converts that came from Judaism and those who were Gentiles as they were something other than Jews. And naturally these two groups had very different cultures, very different lifestyles. And suddenly they find themselves in the same church. And so Paul very delicately knowing Jesus Desire for unity in the church said, no. And verse 7 is the one I'm focusing on. He says, welcome each other. as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. In other words, when you came to Christ, you didn't have it altogether. You were maybe a very feeble in faith, but he took you as you were. That's the way Christ takes us, and he works out the hard places as you go along. But that's the same way he wants us to take each other. None of us have it all together. But we are to welcome each other into the inner parts of our lives. Not superficially, not with conventionalities that the world uses, but in genuine inquiry of the welfare of one another, are we doing that? That erases divisions build builds a kingdom because it brings us together. It encourages us if someone else cares about the details of our life. Well, I tried to lay out for you some of the themes that might be in this verse seven. Receive one another. I chose the English Standard Version, which uses the English word welcome, because the Greek word behind this verb is pros lambano. Now when you put prase in some front of something, you mean into another space, towards something. Here it means receive them into your inner heart. Don't just receive them flippantly, but receive them in a deep way. The scripture says deep calls unto deep. I love that phrase. It means that unless you respond or receive people at a deep level. They won't feel that you have really received them. Unless the preacher preaches from the depths of his heart, it isn't going to reach your depths. If he just gives you something he thought about yesterday afternoon, maybe But it hasn't been working in his heart, hasn't changed him, hasn't become a passion. It's not going to become a passion for the congregation either So I've tried to show you who started hospitality, why he did it, and how wonderful it is, what rich benefits it gives to us. And how thankful we are that we have a God of hospitality. May we pray together. Our loving Heavenly Father, we thank you for revealing your heart of love. Your inviting spirit. You don't want to see even one of us wander from the path or forsake the faith. Or turn away to the world. You don't want any of us to have an idol that we love more than we love the fellowship or the Lord? Nothing can come between us and you. Oh Savior, you suffered all the way through your human life, your life on earth. Still have human life, of course. But your life among us, your days of your flesh, you suffered. Perhaps almost daily. In order to draw us to yourself, so that you wouldn't lose a one of those whom God elected for you. You paid a deep price. Oh Holy Spirit, you jealously yearn after every soul. That is to be part of your kingdom. You give greater grace as you seek a greater closeness. And the inners, the inner layers of our souls. We sense your presence and we sense your being grieved. when we quench you or fail to obey your promptings. Oh blessed Holy Spirit Teach us how to welcome one another into our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.