Now hear the reading of God's word. And the people of Israel set out and camped in Oboth. And they set out from Oboth and camped at I Abarim in the wilderness that is opposite Moab towards sunrise. From there they set out and camped in the valley of Z, and from there they set out and camped on the other side of the Arnan, which is in the wilderness that extends from the border of the Amorites. For the Arnon is the border of Moab between Moab and the Amorites. Therefore it is written in the book of the wars of the Lord, Waheb and Sufa in the valleys of the Arnan. And the slope of the valleys that extends from to the seat of Ar and leans to the border of Moab. And from there they continued to beer, that is, the well of which the Lord said to Moses, Gather the people together so that I may give them water. And Then Moses, uh then Israel sang this song: Spring up, O well, sing to it, the well that the princes made, that the nobles of the people dug with the scepter and with their staffs. And from the wilderness they went on to Matanah, and from Matanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Baymouth, and from Bamoth to the valley lying in the region of Moab by the top of Pizgah. that looks down on the desert. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word. Please be seated. Is the microphone on? Is it Well uh as we've been looking through as I've been uh studying through these uh these songs it's And striking to think about music and and song and the way we use it in our uh everyday lives. Music is often written. Often sung and often performed to celebrate or or or to commemorate extraordinary special events, isn't it? John Newton wrote Amazing Grace to commemorate his conversion to Christ. Elton John sang a tribu to Diana, Princess Diana, when she uh died. In 9-11, uh if you uh research a little, you find new tributes to what happened on 9-11. But rarely do uh people write songs uh to celebrate really the orchard everyday events, do they? Things like brushing your teeth at night before you go to bed. Or eating a bowl of honey nut Cheerios in the morning. Or drinking a cup of tap water. However, in our sermon text today, here in Numbers, that's really just what we have, isn't it? A song celebrating something that was very ordinary, something that was very common in the ancient Near East. A well. In Numbers uh twenty one, ten through twenty, we we have the song of the well. I I read from the ESV, I realize that's not the uh version of your peer Bibles, but it's pretty close. And in the ESV there's a heading over this section calling it the song of the well, and really it's a song in the wilderness. We find here another song of praise. As we've been studying this series on the songs, we find many songs of praise in Exodus 15 or in Judges 5, where the Israelites celebrate God's special acts of deliverance for his people. Delivering them from Canaanite oppression in Judges 5, or delivering them from Pharaoh in Exodus 15. But here it's rather a song of praise for an ordinary providence, an ordinary uh event. of coming across a well to quench God's people's thirst. And so as we look at a little more closely, I I specifically uh the place in which this song is sung. And we we see three uh three important significant places that we might consider uh of where this song is sung. First of all, we need to see its place in the life of Israel in the history of Israel. We need to see the significance of this song's geographical place, of the location where it is sung, the location of the s we need to see the song's physical place. the uh the environment surrounding the Israelites as they're singing this song. First of all, the significance of this song's place in Israel's history. And here we're answering the question, well, where or when in Israel's history was the song sung? The answer to that is pretty simple because the song is sung in the book of Numbers, and because of that It is placed in a very specific and important time in Israel's history as a nation, in her corporate life. Since the song is found in Numbers, it it can only take place in one place, and that is in the wilderness. See, the book of Numbers uh it picks up Israel's story after Genesis, Exodus, and Leviticus. Uh Exodus had ended with uh uh Israel being in the wilderness of Sinai. And then Leviticus with the law given at some then in Numbers, Numbers 1, it begins with these words, the Lord Jesus in the wilderness. of Sinai. So the whole brook takes place wandering in this wilderness for forty long years. Now that uh point becomes even clearer if we uh uh recognize the Hebrew name for this book. We have uh this book uh called in our Bibles the Book of Numbers. And that's because of the uh censuses that uh take place at at a couple points. Uh Hebrew the name I think is is more fitting. In Hebrew the name of this book That's what we see throughout. Now uh Israel being in the wilderness in numbers has really two senses. First uh the sense uh of simply a description of of the terrain. They're in a desert. Not like the Sahara Desert as much with the uh large rolling sand dunes, much like you might see in the film uh Lawrence of Arabia. It's not like that. More like the deserts we have out west if you've ever been out there to California uh or or Wyoming and such It's it's a it's hot, uh a dry, a dusty place. It's uh it's eggs cooking on pavement hot, if you will. It's lip cracking dry. So dusty your teeth crunch when you bite your teeth together. And the Palestinian wilderness where Israel finds itself, this terrain, it just keeps on going. It goes on and on, mountain after craggy mountain, dusty valley after dusty valley. And so in the first sense, Israel's being in the wilderness is uh a description of the terrain the desert terrain in which they find themselves. But in the book of Numbers, Israel's being in the wilderness is also a metaphoric description of their spiritual state. A metaphoric description of their spiritual state. In Numbers, we find Israel in a spiritual wilderness, spiritual desert, with hard and rocky hearts. They are spiritually dry and barren, just like the desert in the world. is where Israel's faith is tested and it's found weak. Time and again they come up against hard times. They come up against hunger. a thirst and danger, and time and again they rebel, they disobey, they uh uh uh uh grumble against God rather than trusting in Him and being grateful. for how he's provided for them along the way. And time and again he continues to provide for the needs, and time and again he punishes their sin and their uh grumbling. For example, God gives manna, he had given it in Exodus, he continues to give it in numbers. And yet in Numbers 11 they complain because they don't have meat. As they reach the promised land for the first time, they send out spies into the promised land to scope it out. And they come back with a report saying, Hey, these people are pretty big. These people are pretty tough. It's gonna be tough. Uh and the people get scared. And they refuse to enter the land. And They grumble and they complain against God. And they even try to stone Aaron and Moses. In numbers, even Moses, God's prophet, who speaks to him face to face, disobeys God when he strikes the rock the second time, rather than talking it uh to it. as God had commanded him to do, so that even he's not allowed to enter into the promised land. Well, kids, if you're like me, you've heard your mom or dad say to you at some point or another, hey, quit grumbling and complaining. If you need to know what that means, it's pretty easy. Just read Numbers 1 through 20. We get a picture of time and again what grumbling and complaining complaining looks like. Even Paul in 1 Corinthians 10 uses Israel in the wilderness as an example of what not to do, how not to relate to God. But before we come down too hard, I think, on Israel in the wilderness, we should consider their situation a little bit further and compare it a little bit to ours. God had shown them his might, his power, his love for them, and bringing them out of Egypt and defeating Pharaoh, parting the Red Sea, and they sang about it in Exodus 15. They had uh sung praise to God for that, uh, and it's no wonder because they had just witnessed a miracle of God, a mighty act right in front of their eyes, and yet when they turned to head into the wilderness, uh they lost sight of that. They stopped singing. In Egypt they had been part of uh a stable society. They had access to plenty of water, food And the comforts of civilization, but wandering in the wilderness, easy access to food, to water. They didn't have all those comforts civilization. Instead of It was hot. It was dry. It was dusty. Back in Egypt, God had promised them a land flowing with milk and honey But in the wilderness there was no milk. There was no honey. It was just wandering and waiting and then more wandering and more waiting. You probably felt a little like if if if you were told by a friend uh to to leave uh a job, maybe even a deep job Maybe a not so good job, and yet uh one that had decent wages, uh had okay health insurance. And you you left because your friend promised you a better salary, uh full benefits, and a great retirement plan. But after quitting, a few weeks later, you're still sitting there. You haven't gotten an assignment, you haven't started your job, and you're waiting. Ian Dugat in his commentary on numbers points out that Israel in the wilderness were a people living between a salvation accomplished on the one hand and salvation completed on the other. Listen to this quote. He says, the story of the book of Numbers is written to a people whose lives are lived between the accomplishing of their redemption and its consummation or completion. Between Exodus and the promised land. They live in between the times. And their present experience is not one of fullness of their salvation, but rather of the wilderness along the way. Between Exodus, between Exodus and the promised land, Israel is in the wilderness. And in numbers, that means they're wandering and they're waiting. And that doesn't make for a very exciting story. If you ever do read through the book of Numbers, or if you ever have, you probably notice it often seems to move really slowly. It often seems long in teams drawn out, especially those sections of s of the censuses where they just list all these names. It's a little like uh watching Lawrence of the Rab uh of Arabia, that movie I mentioned. I I watched it very recently, and now the first time I watched it was when I was a child, about eight or nine. I uh my parents didn't let me watch too many movies and so uh one evening they said, Hey, we're gonna watch this movie together, it's on TV. I thought, oh great, a movie, I get to watch a movie. So we all sit down together before the TV, my whole family, there I am, eight or nine, and I'm excited, I'm ready for this great, exciting event of watching a movie, and on comes Lawrence of Arabia. Now, uh as an eight-year-old kid, I was waiting the whole time. But when is something gonna happen It just seemed to go on and on where we see all these scenes of this vast desert. Seems so slow and so long, and yet when I watched it more recently, I think that's part of the point. It's trying to communicate the vastness of the desert. It's trying to communicate the dryness of the desert, how things move slowly because it's so big, because it's so hot, because it's so dry and dusty. In reading numbers, I think if you're lucky you often stink. Let's move on. Let's get to the good stuff. Let's get to Israel entering the land, defeating all the enemies of God under Joshua. Let's get to Fighting Goliath and fighting the Philistines and Solomon showing off his wealth. But in reality, friends, we have much more in common with Israel in the wilderness than we do with Israel in the promised land. Listen to uh again Ian Dugood from the same commentary. We we too live between the times What is more our experience of this world is likewise one of wilderness rather than fullness, wars, sickness, sin, broken relationships, misunderstandings, pain, tears. And we could add hunger at times, thirst, doubt. And so the question for us. It's the same question it was for Israel. How will we respond to this wilderness, to this pilgrimage in a Live by faith, looking to God and his promises ahead and in gratitude for all that he has done for us in Christ, or will we like Israel in the wilderness grumble against him? complain because we want meat, not manna. Do we say to ourselves, why do I have to sit here driving a Toyota? When I probably could have a Lexus if I hadn't just Do we say why do why do I have to deal with shoes from Target when I probably could afford shoes from Neiman Marcus? Uh if only I didn't report all that income on my taxes. Well this sort of grumbling against but isn't isn't just like a whiny child, that it has serious uh uh serious consequences. It's serious sin as we see in numbers. It's a spitting in the face of the Almighty God. And we see how seriously God takes it by the consequences we see in numbers. The plagues, uh deathly uh serpent serpent bites, and death itself. Friends, how we live in the wilderness, by sinning or by seeing. And that brings us to Or second point. This song is sung uh in a place in Israel's history, their time in the wilderness, but the song is also sung in a geographical place. in a location. And here we're getting at the question of where in the wilderness is Israel singing this song? Now again, the book of Numbers can be divided into three sections based on geographical locations. So chapters 1 through 10 take place in the wilderness of Sinai. Chapter 10, verse 11 through verse chapter 20 take place in the wildernesses of Peran and the wilderness of Zinn. And then finally in chapter 20, verse 1, they start moving into the wilderness of Moab, which is right at the Jordan River, right before they enter into the Promised Land. But this trip, this trip from Sinai to the Jordan wouldn't take 40 years if you went straight. So why does it take them this long? Well, if you look at a map, they make a big loop and spend a lot of their time retracing the same ground Because when they uh when they headed up from Sinai, they came to the border of the Promised Land, as I mentioned, they sent out spies, but then they said, hey, we're not going in. We're scared. And so God answers and says, well, fine, you'll get what you want. You won't have to enter. In fact, you won't ever be allowed to enter. I'm going to wait for this generation to die off. and bring the next generation into the promised land, and so they wander back. And it's here, uh at chapter uh twenty that this this loop, this long Forty years of wandering uh uh where the first generation was to die out and the second generation, it's here in chapter twenty that this loop is over. And they start moving back north. And moving back to the Jordan and to the border of the Promised Land. See here, the first generation is dying out, and the second generation is on the move again. uh toward the promised land, uh moving into Moab and at the at the edge of the the Jordan River, uh it's here that we start to see these these travelogues appear again, these itineraries. And that's what most of our passage this morning was about, wasn't it? Verses 10 through 15 and 18 through 20. It's showing that they're moving again. And it's specifically focusing on their moving into Moab. If you look at your uh passage, Uh you see that they they first camp at Omoth and then they they set out to Ayabarim in the wilderness that is opposite Moab. From there they set out and camped in the valley of Zerek, from there they set out and capped uh camped on the other side of uh the Arnon, which is uh the border of Moab. And then uh i in verses eighteen and twenty it says that they uh Uh they continue to move on to Bay Moth finally, to the valley line in the region of Moab. Where in the wilderness does Israel sing? What is the Song of the Wells Geographical Place? Oh, friends, it's it's on that third, that final leg of the journey to the Promised Land. It's in Moab, uh where uh the second generation is on the last part of their wandering in the wilderness. Now This song is the first time they've sung since Exodus 15. If you read through straight, you'll see that's true. And so the song really is surprising. It should be surprising to us. And it should be surprising because that first generation, they weren't characterized by singing. Instead, they were characterized by sinning. Now, after they had seen God's movement deliverance there in Exodus 15, as I mentioned, God pulled the Red Sea and then uh brought the waters back upon i Pharaoh and his army. They had sung a song, but that's the last time they sung. And instead as we see them uh wandering uh as uh on the rest of the Exodus, we see that they're Uh whenever they say anything, uh all these accounts, it's it's a grumbling, it's a complaining, it's a whining or insulting God and his uh leaders. The first generation was characterized by fear, by rebellion, by grumbling, and by sinning. But the second generation, the second generation, as we see here, is characterized by faith, by obedience, by gratitude, and by singing songs. If we had read on, we would find another song coming right after this one. And reading further, there are more songs to come. But uh it's as we look at this, we need to notice not only uh that they're singing, uh, but even more so what they're singing about. If you look at them, they're singing about, as I mentioned in the introduction, a well, an ordinary well, not even one that God had uh miraculously created or anything. If you look at verse 16 it says, They came to beer, that is the well, where Moses, uh where the Lord said to Moses, gather the people. Beer is just the Hebrew word for well. The well was already there. It was an ordinary well, dug by ordinary men. And yet, as the second generation of Israel begins to mature, begins to come to the fore, they're singing a song of praise for this ordinary providence of God. They're singing, recognizing that although it may look like a coincidence, that they find themselves at an ordinary man-made water-supplying well in the wilderness, instead of a mere coincidence, it's a providential gift. providing for their needs, their sovereign God, caring for them. I believe this point is is uh this point of it being this gift from God is is really further driven home if you uh look at that uh next place that's mentioned, Matana. Matana means in Hebrew gift. And really that last uh part of verse 18 there uh could be translated a little differently. I think I would if if if I were to uh make a translation. I'd make it actually part of the song and and then it would read like this. Spring up a well, sing to it, the well that the princes made, that the nobles of the people dug with the scepter and with their staffs, and from the wilderness a gift They went on from Matanah, the gift, to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Baymouth. So we're meant to see, friends, the this stark contrast between the first generation and the second generation. The first generation that grumbled and complained even after receiving miraculous, uh special providences from God. Manna, bread from heaven, water from the rock. But here the second generation is singing a song of praise uh for an ordinary providence of God and recognizing it as a gift from him. So the question for us then is consider this is is is Which generation am I? Which generation are you? Are we more like the first or more like the second generation? Are we characterized by fear and unbelief or by faith and trust? Are we characterized by rebellion and anger for being in the wilderness? Life-sustaining gifts along the way. Are we characterized by grumbling or by gratitude? By sinning or by sinning as I ask myself these questions, I wish I could say that I'm much more like the second generation. But sadly, too often, friends, I think we all are much more like the first than the second. Too often we find ourselves drinking from the wells of God's provision in the wilderness of our lives. Thinking to ourselves, why did it take God so long to get us here? Or why isn't this water cooler? Why isn't there meat instead of manna? I think too often we find ourselves murmuring and grumbling and complaining about what we don't have, other than singing about what we do have. The countless ordinary providences of God, air to breathe, water to drink, the strength to get up here and walk here this morning. Daily bread to eat. Pastor Dusenberry had said that he had just finished a series of the Lord's Prayer, and I think that's the real significance of that line in the Lord's Prayer. Give us this day our daily bread. Now presumably most of the time we we pray this, we're uh right before our next meal. So we're not only praying uh for it when we don't have it, but it's an acknowledging uh the giver, who that daily bread is from. Thanking God by recognizing that our daily bread is always a gift from Him. Like the first generation, we too can be tempted to expect milk and honey here in this wilderness. And act as if this life is the land of promise, while at the same time our longing for the true promise land, our hope for heaven is weak. At best. Now if you are like me in this, if you do find yourself convicted here, recognizing your own first-generation tendencies, if you will. Then look with me finally here then at our final point, and that is the significance of this song's physical place. We saw the significance of the song's place in Israel's history that it's sung in the wilderness. We saw the significance of the song's geographical place, that it takes place moving into Moab. It's sung by the second generation, and then finally we need to look at the song's physical. And here we're specifically noticing that the song is sung at a well. The song is sung at a well. Now we find wells throughout scripture. A lot happens at wells. It's a lot like the water cooler at work. Where it's a place that not only you go to for a drink pretty regularly during the day, but where you might uh meet other people and socialize along the way. And of course there's good reason for wells to be mentioned often in the Old Testament, especially as well as the New Testament, because in the ancient Near East, in Palestine. Which was a dry and arid hot desert land. The wells were uh one of the main sources of water. People depended on their wealth so much that the wealth became really closely associated with life itself and with salvation, with salvation. Isaiah 12. 3 says Well and they were very important uh for life. And so as we see Israel here in Numbers 21 singing praise to God for this well. There's a sense in which they're singing praise for life itself. Because without this well they could have perished. And their gratitude really fits the gift. They sing with delight because they're thirsty. Because they are in a hot, in a dry, in a dusty wilderness there in Moab. Because they know they need water. Why? How do they know? Well, it's because their mouths are dry and sticky. It's because their uh their skin is cracking and dry like paper It's because their eyelids are sticking to their eyeballs. Every cell in their body is screaming for water. They know they need water if they're going to live one more day. And so we find, uh so when they find themselves there at the wall, they uh well they sing a song of praise. They sing a song of praise to their greatest need, this overwhelming thirst has been satisfied. There by this life-giving drink of water. Friends, the same is true for us. The depth of our gratitude for God's Many gifts will only be as great as our knowledge of our need. Only when we recognize how thirsty, how needy we truly are, only when we recognize that we are in a wilderness Only then will we be able to see the joy and the wonder of an ordinary water well along the way But before I close this morning, uh to take a look at one other biblical account that takes place at a well. It's the account of Jesus at the well meeting with the Samaritan woman in John 4. If you remember that story, you remember what Jesus does there. He draws the parallel between the woman's physical thirst, her her need for water from a well. And draws a parallel showing how it points to a more important spiritual need she has or should ought to have. Look at John four, uh just briefly with me as close. Verse ten, Jesus uh uh after a drink of water and she's saying, Why are you asking me for a drink of water? Jesus says, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. And in verse 14 he says, Whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. See, friends, Jesus knew his Bible. The Bible makes clear, as Jesus knew, that we, you and I are sinful creatures. That we are wandering in the wilderness of this world, a world that is in bondage to sin and to death. The Bible tells us that we are like the first generation, sinners dying of spiritual hunger and thirst. And if we don't know it, friends, if we don't sense it, if we don't feel it, it's because we haven't we have convinced ourselves that it's normal. That it's normal for our tongues to stick to the roofs of our mouth. In a spiritual uh way. That are it's normal for our lips to crack and bleed, for our skin to feel like sandpaper. Or maybe if we don't know it, don't sense it, don't feel our spiritual hunger and thirst, it's because we've convinced ourselves that it's okay. It's okay for me to tell this white lie here or there. It's okay for me to love my closet full of clothes just a little bit too much. It's okay for me to covet my neighbor's house just a little bit. Well, Israel didn't seem spring up a well because they were wanted to watch the water overflow and pour out on the ground. They say spring up a well because they were dying of thirst, and now they could drink. The well of water was the gift of life to them, quenching their physical thirst. But If they sang praise to God at the well for his ordinary providence, giving them water that could only quench their thirst for a a few hours or for a day or two. And friends, how much more ought we to sing songs of praise to God for his special provision? His special provision for us. In the salvation that he offers through the person and work of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, who said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to God the Father except by believing and trusting in me. Jesus Christ, who said, I'm the bread of life. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. Jesus Christ who hung naked and bleeding on the cross in the hot Palestine sun and said in verse in verse 28 of chapter 19 of John Hanging on the cross, he said, I thirst. Friends of the first generation in numbers, because of their unbelief, because of their rebellion, because of their grumbling in sin, they all died. They all died wandering out there in the wilderness, never reaching the promised land. But friends, Jesus Christ was more faithful and more obedient than anyone in the second generation. And yet, he died like one of those rebellious grumblers. He died in the will of this world suffering under the miseries of this life and the effects of sin. He died on the cross of Gogatha, and he died thirsty. Why? Friends, that's the great message of the gospel, isn't it? He died. So that you and I, who look more like the first generation than the second, can enter into the promised land of resurrectional life with him in heaven. If only we recognize our spiritual thirst, if only we recognize our spiritual need for a savior, repenting of our sin and trusting. His death and resurrection for all. Friends, it's in our risen Savior Jesus Christ that we need a well. That we meet a well full of living bread and living water, a well that alone can quench the hunger and thirst of our deepest needs. Our need to be righteous in God's sight as we place our trust in Jesus. Friends, we meet the living bread and the living water, the one. Who alone can bring us into his presence, singing to the wellspring of eternal life, to Jesus Christ, our Savior and our Lord. Amen.