Thank you, Tom. Back in the month of March in nineteen sixty eight, a musical premiered. At the Collette School in London. This musical gained much fame over time. Perhaps you've heard of it. The lyrics were written by Tim. Rice and the music was written by Andrew Lloyd Weber. If you haven't guessed it yet, it is Joseph and the amazing technicolor Dream. Now the story is inspired by and based upon Joseph's coat of many colors as found in the book of Genesis Genesis. I think there are a handful of stories from the Bible our culture is familiar with, but the life of Joseph was made even more so by this music. Musical. This morning we will take a, I promise you, a whirlwind tour of Joseph's remarkable and extraordinary life. I say whirlwind because it occupies chapters 37 through 50 from the book of Genesis. That's approximately a quarter of the first book Of the first of the Bible. The goal of our study this morning is to examine the life Joseph, the life of Joseph, through the discipline of type 1. Now, you may be wondering why we're studying the life of Joseph on Resurrection Sunday. The reason why I've chosen Joseph is because as we examine Examine his life through the lens of typology, we will discover that Joseph is the type that helps us to anticipate his Anti-type, which ends up some 3,000 years later, in a rabbi from the backwoods Unassuming town, it was in what was considered a pain in the neck province by the Roman Empire. Let us now read Our text for this morning, which is from the book of Genesis, chapter 41, 53 to 57 Would you please rise for the hearing and reading of God's holy and inerrant word? The following is from Genesis chapter forty-one, beginning with verse fifty-three. When the seven years of plenty which had taken place in the land of Of Egypt came to an end, and the seven years of famine began to come, just as Joseph had said. And there was famine in all the lands. But in all the land of Egypt there was bread. So when all the land of Egypt suffered famine, the people cried out to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said to all the Egyptian, Then the people of all the earth came to Egypt. Egypt to buy grain from Joseph. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would attend to our study of the Word of God. Keep our attention. Keep us focused upon what you would have us to see. Unstop our spiritual ears and eyes, having us to see the Lord Jesus. Make him come alive in the pages of your holy scriptures. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. For this morning I have five points for us to consider. The first one is to define typology and Explain some of its contours. The second is to begin by pointing out some of the significant events in the life of Joseph. Else perhaps you may have heard of from Scripture. After we've made a case for a typological correspondence, we will look at the dissimilarities And finally, its significance. Perhaps you have heard the term or the study of typology and have wondered exactly what does it mean. Let's begin by describing it. The study of typology in the Bible is the interpretation of types and antitypes. The word antitype can get a little confusing because it sounds like the opposite And if you looked up the definition of antitype in the Oxford Dictionary, in its first entry, you would see just that. It says, a person Or a thing that represents the opposite of someone or something else. But what you would need to do is to go down one Of its definitions further, which states something that is represented by a symbol, that is an antity, something That is represented by a symbol. Better yet, when we look up Merriam-Webster's dictionary, the entry is something that corresponds to. Or is foreshadowed in a type. Something that corresponds to or is foreshadowed in a type. We shouldn't look at the prefix and To mean in opposition to. But that the antitype is something whose actions and accomplishments remind us of the type. The antitype fulfills all the goals, the hopes, the dreams, the aspirations of the Type. And not only fulfills, but by doing so, he also exceeds where the type fails, where he falls short. Now this can happen with an inanimate objects as well. For example, when a vehicle comes out for the First time, all the auto automatics write about the car's virtues, its design, its power, and its features. This is five Followed up by the areas where it falls short. They write about the the pros and the cons. After a couple of years of production, the manufacturer will come out with a refra. Critics then can write that the first version, the type, was just a foreshadow of the end Anti-type, the latest version, where the type was good in said areas, the antity exceeds the type with the following powertrain. features, color, options, etc. , whatever it may be. Finally, you can do a typology where the antitype can be Be a person who is compared to a thing in nature, like an animal, or a tree, or something that's even constructed, like a building, or maybe. Maybe even a temple can be used for typological purposes. The type then becomes the standard, the thing to be compared against, but anticipates an entity that looks to and reminds us of the Type, but the antity exceeds in some notable and extravagant way, or succeeds where the antity Antetype failed. Briefly, as an example of this, is when you compare the type Moses to the antitype biblical history, he was unable to bring people, the people of God, into rest, into the land The antity, Jesus, not only saves the people of God from the bondage and the slavery to sin, but also brings us into rest. Jesus, the antitype, exceeds where the type, in this case Moses, failed. Biblical writers themselves use the this literary technique and at times identify it as such. We get the word type from the Greek word, which is tupos. The Apostle Paul, for example, uses it in Romans chapter 5 and verse 14. I'll point out He said there, Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam. Then he says, who was a type of the one who was to come, making reference to Jesus. So in the context of Holy Scripture, we are to understand And typology to make comparisons, but ultimately to anticipate and be focused upon Christ. There's a feature in typology. There are other penultimate antitypes in scripture. However, the ultimate antitype is none other than Christ Himself. Biblical writers invite us, by use of literary to tool, to make comparisons. Not only do the writers of of scripture invite us to make these comparisons. But you know the Lord himself did the very same thing. In Matthew chapter Chapter 12. This is very striking. In verse 40 and after, he says, For just as whenever you see those Words just as. Those are comparison words. Those are clue words for you to recognize that something is going on here. He says, the Lord Jesus. For just as Jonah was in the stomach of the sea monster for three days and three nights, so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. Three days and three nights. He's making a comparison. Is reminding us of what happened in the past. The men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation. At the judgment and will condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, the Lord Jesus says, some Something greater than Jonah is here. He made a comparison and showed that he exceeds Jonah. He continues. The Lord Jesus did. The Queen of the South will rise up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it because she came from the first time. The ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here, pointing to himself. She came for wisdom, and now someone even greater wisdom, Jesus himself, is present here. So he makes these typological comparisons. Comparisons and points to himself ultimately. When we make comparisons within Scripture, the parallel should remind us of the type. But in doing so, again, we are to see That the antitype outrivals the type. Keep in mind though that it's not doing so to put the other or the type down. Or to insult it or put it in any negative light. It's not doing that. But it's showing us that the antitype is better, is superior. To the type. And so now let's turn to that promised whirlwind tour that I promised you. about the life of Joseph. By actually doing a typological study, I hope perhaps by the time we are done this morning, you will see parallels in Joseph Joseph's life with perhaps someone else in the grand breadth of Scripture. In order to make a case for typological assertion, you have to present First, the similarities. Let's do that now. Number one, Joseph was the son of Jacob, who was as Genesis chapter 30, verses 20 to 20. 24 tells us that he was Jacob's beloved son from his much-loved wife Rachel. Number two, because Jacob lavished his love upon Joseph, Joseph's eleven brothers became jealous and hated. Hated him. They became jealous and hated him. Number three, the scripture tells us that Joseph was a shepherd. But he was gifted with a got a gift from God with the ability to interpret dreams. This got him into trouble. Got him into trouble with his brothers because on one occasion he told them that, by the exercise of his gift, that his older brothers, all of them, would bow Down to him one day. As you could well imagine, this went over very well with them. Jacob, his father, had given him a gift It was a coat. It was an ornate coat with many colors, thus the inspiration for the title of the musical. It became a symbol of All things the brothers were jealous of Joseph over. On one occasion Number four, Jacob sent his sons out to feed the livestock. When they didn't return, he sent out Joseph to find them. Joseph, you see, was sent out by his father to find what was lost. Number five. When he finally caught up with them, their hatred of him was presented with an opportunity. Joseph was cast into the pit, and they seriously considered making it his permanent tomb. However, they changed their mind, and instead, Joseph was sold as a slave. Joseph was sold for the price of a slave to the Egyptians. six. However, he succeeded in his service to his new master named Potiphar, the captain of the bodyguard of the Pharaoh. When he was taken into his new master Household, he was eventually falsely accused by Potiphar's wife of wrongdoing because he wanted To obey God's word. He was falsely accused. Despite Potiphar's having misgivings about the accusations his wife made. Despite his misgivings, he turned him over to be imprisoned and left there to die. Joseph was sent into the dungeon, the belly of the earth, condemned there to die for a crime that he did not commit. Condemned to die for a crime that he did not commit. Number seven. When Joseph was imprisoned, he began to Interpret dreams again. One was the former king, former king's cupbearer, and another was his former cook. Here was Joseph, surrounded on the one side by one who would be condemned to die, and the other another one who would be pardoned and granted life. The Pharaoh himself had a dream that bothered him, and was unable to properly interpret it. So he listened to his forex. Given cupbearer's advice to call up from the dungeon Joseph, who had properly interpreted his dream when he himself was in jail. Upon properly interpreting Pharaoh's dream, which was that the land was to experience seven years of plant. Followed by seven years of famine, Pharaoh placed Joseph to be in charge of all things. He placed to sound like somebody you might know. Number eight, Pharaoh elevates Joseph out of slavery to be ruler over all. And to bring all under the rule of the king. Number nine. And in doing so, Pharaoh appointed Joseph as the source and sustainer of life. He would be in charge of storing and distributing grain for all that would come. Proclaiming their need of salvation from starvation. Number ten. Consider, if you will, for a moment That this was a young boy who was taken away from his home, betrayed by those that were his own, but at thirty years of age Genesis forty-one forty-six At thirty years of age, he begins this new chapter in his life that sustains the people of the earth from dying of sin. This caused Jacob, Joseph's father, to instruct his sons to go to Egypt to buy grain so that they may live. Number eleven. When Joseph heard that his brothers were present, he went to see them. When his own Family, his own kinfolk saw him. At first, they did not recognize him. At first They did not recognize him, for they thought he must have been dead. 12. Through some effort, he was able to get his brothers and father to come to Egypt to be with him so that he may care for them. Joseph's brothers and family gained favor with Pharaoh Because of Joseph's special relationship to him. Pharaoh granted them land and food because of Joseph. Number 13. And at the end of the story, we see that Joseph reconciled to his brothers to the ones who sought to destroy. In fact, he told them at the end what they meant and did for evil, evil purposes. God meant and And used those very same events so that they may have life. Now, as we consider but a handful of these events in Joseph's life. We should begin to see how they immediately remind us of the life of our Lord. Let's quickly run through them to refresh our memory of the Lord's life in order to make a case for the similarities. Number one, Jesus Himself was a beloved Son. He was the beloved son of God. As he grew up, he was also envied and hated by his brothers. The scripture tells us that Jesus is the great shepherd. And as the great shepherd, Jesus' father, God, also sent him out to find what was lost. Jesus at the end of his life was also thrown into the grave. Jesus himself was sold. For the price of a slave, thirty pieces of silver. Jesus, we know, was also falsely accused and And punished. Even as he was punished, Pontius Pilate suspected that he was innocent and wanted to free him, but ultimately. Sent him off to be condemned. Just as Joseph was condemned to go down into the dungeon, the belly of the earth, as a condemned man, so did Jesus into the cross. Grave. It was upon the cross, the place of punishment, that Jesus was also surrounded. By one who would be condemned to die, and another that would be pardoned and granted eternal life. God vindicates Jesus and elevates him at the resurrection to be ruler of all. God appoints Jesus as The source and the sustainer of life. He would be the one that would give life to all that would be drawn to him. All of the incredible events in the Lord's. Life we know so well begins to unfold as he began a new chapter in his life, and as Luke 3:23 tells us, when he was but At the age of thirty. In the sadness of the Lord's life, he also was not recognized Favor with God. Not because of anything in us, but because of Christ's relationship with his Father. But as Joseph was gracious, we see Jesus being the same, making a plea with his father, saying, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they are doing. And so we can see that there are so many similarities. In the lives of Joseph and Jesus. That it's not something that we really can chalk up to coincidence. Can we? Remember, these are events that are taking place in the lives of two men approximately 3,000 years ago Apart. The chances of so many events that are parallel in both of their lives, I think, frankly, is hard to Having made the case that Jesus is the antity to Joseph, we have to move to Discern how he is now different than Joseph. How is it that the antitype exceeds the type? And now we will turn our attention to the dissimilarities. The first thing we have to notice is that although Joseph was thrown into the pit He was taken out alive. And even when he was thrown into the dungeon condemned, left to die, we see that he had a resurrection. Jesus really died. He was executed in a most cruel and brutal way. We are told in Genesis 41:57 that all the people of the earth came to Joseph to get bread that Sustain them. But Jesus is far greater. Because he tells us that his life, his sacrifice, is The bread that if we consume with faith is the bread of life for our very souls. Is Jesus the bread of life for your soul? Do you consume upon Christ by faith and faith alone In fact, we see that there is an enormous point of department departure that the scripture wants to point out as well to us between Joseph and Jesus. The peoples of the earth came to Joseph to live, to have life. And Joseph aided them, but They needed to purchase the food with money. Revelation chapter 20 and verse 6 Tells us. Then he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the O Omega, the beginning and the end. This is Jesus now speaking as John is writing this down. I will give water to the one who thirsts. From the springs of water of life. And then he says, Without cost, without cost, you will have life. This is the perfect Joseph. This is the better Joseph. The one who exceeds Joseph in unbelief. Ways. Jesus is the greater Joseph. Now that leads us to our final point today. What this is mean to you. Why why did Jesus have to die? He had to die. In order to fulfill the demands of justice. He offered himself up a sacrifice to stand in our place for the punishment. Joseph did not need to die. What he ultimately had to offer was bread. Yes. Life-sustaining bread, but only for the body. But in order for Jesus to offer us the bread that would sustain our souls throughout all of eternity, He needed, and chose to offer himself up in our place before God Surely, we can see that there is a substantive difference between Joseph and Jesus. Jesus says On this day of resurrection, the day that reminds us that when Joseph did not have to die, Jesus did. And God proved Jesus. God vindicated Jesus by resurrecting him to life. The resurrection proves it vindicates all of Jesus' promises. are real. Although it cost him everything, he offers life to you without cost. It's unbelievable. And frankly, it's refreshing. We hear that that nothing is for free And the reality is that that's true. It is for free. But here, Jesus offers life without cost. All you have to do is to To trust him, to have faith in him, and he will save you. The difference between the type and the antitype is perhaps best Discerned while upon the cross. When Joseph was in the dungeon, he asked the cupbearer to remember him when he went before For Pharaoh, so that he may be granted some mercy or salvation from the abode of the condemned. When Jesus was on the cross, it was the Thief that asked Jesus to remember him for salvation. Joseph had to ask for help. But it is unto Jesus that all eyes must turn to for salvation. On this resurrection Sunday, will you turn Turn to Jesus as the thief upon the cross, recognizing that Jesus is better. In every way possible, in whom your hope will not be disappointed Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you this Resurrection Sunday for your grace in our lives. And for the grace that is offered through your son, the Lord Jesus, we pray for more grace. And we pray for salvific grace for those who don't have it. We ask that you would help us to take great joy in knowing that you sent your very best. Who is the ultimate in all things. And for us, it is free to enter. into eternal life. But it costs Jesus everything. Help us to recognize the value, the infinite value Of our great Savior and his infinite love to us that he proved by dying on the cross And you said yea and amen to that, through the resurrection, proving and vindicating your son in all things that he taught and promised And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders who will be assisting with communion table this morning to please come down.