For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swabbling cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste, and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all that they had heard and seen as it had been told them And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb Would you join me in prayer as we come before God's Word for study this morning? Father, we thank you once again for your word. It is indeed the light to our paths, it is the guidance for us that we need. And more than anything else, it guides us and directs us to your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, who came to be Savior. And Father, we pray that you would enable us this day, that by your Spirit you would move among us, that we may through your word see the Savior. And that we may be enabled by that regenerating work of your Spirit to embrace Him as Savior and Lord and know in Him life abundant and eternal. And to know that no one in all this world will be able to separate us from the love of Christ. We thank you for your blessings in your word. Guide us to Jesus. We ask it for your glory in his name. Amen. When babies are born in our culture, it is customary to send out birth announcements. If I would reflect upon my own experience in the past few days in our little congregation in Manassas, we have had a birth. Uh young child was born December 8th. So the birth announcement if it would come out, and they're coming out by email now, have you noticed that? Uh it's much faster and uh all the old-fashioned carbs and stuff are no more. But this one ran this way. Caleb William Scott, born December 8th to Brent and Jennifer Scott. That one's kind of interesting because Jennifer, we were teasing her a lot, and she was insisting she was going to have this child on a Sunday. And we were all, yeah, yeah, right. Three hours into Sunday morning, the 8th of December, she delivered. Bless her heart. And uh little little Caleb William entered the world. We also include some Statistical information there, such as weight, nine pounds, three ounces. Jennifer's not that big, a pretty big baby. And sometimes the length. But as a man, I never get the length. My wife is always interested in that and the weight. And I sometimes get the weight, but never the length. It's our joy as new parents. To communicate our joy and the reception, the blessing of God that has come to us when this baby comes. And so we send these notices out with joy to share our joy with others around. If that custom had been practiced when Jesus was born, it would have gone something like this, perhaps, name Jesus. Bar Joseph, born December 25th, 4 BC, and of course we don't know that that is the date. It's a matter of some speculation. We just don't know exactly the date. Wait, and there would have been an actual wait and length. Jesus born in the In that manger could have been measured and an exact measurement given for a birth announcement. And that information could actually have been written down and communicated, not by email in those days, but it could have been written down and distributed And passed on by word of mouth. It would have told us something of the earthly characteristics of Jesus But it would have told us very little about the purpose of Jesus, the mission of Jesus. Who is he? Son of Joseph? Well. Not really. And so what we have is kind of half the story, if that's all the further we would go. When Jesus himself reflected upon his coming and his purpose, his orientation was not so much toward the earthly parts of it. but very much toward the heavenly part of it. Why had he come from heaven? So his divinity, his deity i is very much on his mind, and he sees himself then as one come from heaven on a mission. He sees himself in terms of his divine purpose. I came from the Father and entered the world. Now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father, John 16, 28. He realized that his mission had a limited pericope, a limited uh uh time frame and he came for a specific purpose and when the purpose was completed he returned to the father. I have come into the world as a light, so that no one who believes in me should stay in darkness. His mission had a purpose toward people, that he may be that light to people, that he may accomplish something for people for whom he came. His spiritual power was what he saw as important, not the earthly circumstances of his birth Well perhaps in part this explains the ambivalence of the Reformed Church to the celebration of Christmas. There are a lot of reasons for that. But so much of what happens in our world is focused upon the earthly things. So much of the celebrations are focused very much upon the earthly things and very little upon the heavenly purpose. Of Jesus. At the same time, God has given us, particularly through Luke and this remarkable birth narrative in Luke's gospel. Quite a bit of information about the birth of the Son of God. And so I ask you this morning as we kind of launch into the study of this chapter, What kind of birth announcement does God give through Luke with regard to Jesus? What are the concerns that the angels bring? What are the themes that are sounded as God announces the birth of his son through Luke's gospel? As you consider the coming of Jesus in your own heart and life, what is important for you? Our culture, as we are all well aware, has moved quite away from any religious celebrations. Each year we have a few lawsuits that come up and are reported in the press. Some atheists are objecting to the local crash which has been put up in the town square for the last 180 years or something. And yet Christians too in the Christian church oft times I think are very much too much focused upon the earthly things. Even among religious people, our celebrations of Christmas tend to focus on a lot of things which are of little importance from a biblical point of view. But I want you to hear the angels this morning who bring good news of great joy. It is for all mankind. It is for you. First of all, a great messenger makes the announcement. Verses 8 and 9. An angel of the Lord appeared to them. Now, I'm going to say something that may shock some of you. I don't think most of you. Most of you. But I believe in angels. I believe there's a lot of folklore that's developed around the concept of angels, but angels are in the scriptures God tells us that they are real, that they have a purpose as ministers of God, and they often appear at important times in God's redemptive history. When God is moving in particular ways to fulfill his plans and purpose for his people, angels tend to congregate around those events. Why? Because God sends them as his messengers. And that's exactly what we find here in Luke chapter 2. Something great has happened God has acted in a mighty way, and now by the message of angels, God explains his mighty acts. This babe has come to a manger. If you would have gone there, you would have looked, you would have seen something quite ordinary, perhaps even something kind of lowly. And the angels have to bring further revelation to tell us that something magnificent Has happened. Something central in God's redeeming plan to bring to himself a people for his own glory and to constitute them a people by his work on their behalf. At crucial points, then, in God's great plan of salvation, these angels appear, and their presence here is a clue that something great is taking place. Angels are both seen and heard in making this great birth announcement. But the appearance of the angel is to these shepherds a frightening thing. They are afraid. Probably somewhat sudden. The word sudden is used a few verses later. It is night, and the shepherds are quietly watching their sheep. Probably the fields involved are those fields where sacrificial animals were kept for the service of the temple. Outside of Jerusalem, and then you get the the you know you can push that imagery, uh behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world and the relationship to the Old Testament sacrifices as the Lord comes. But these shepherds are keeping watch, and you can imagine a quiet night, and the The startling, how it startles us if a bright light shines in a dark place. And that's something that happens here as these angels appear. We're simply told that the angel of the Lord appeared to them, but then we are also told that the glory of the Lord shone around them. Angels can and do appear in the scriptures as mere men. But here, as at other times, they appear in the dazzling brightness of heavenly glory. And in that glory, God is declaring again that something magnificent is happening, that the very glory of God, that heaven is shining down on this place, that the glory of heaven is lighting this place. To tell us something about what God is doing in the world, what God is accomplishing through His Son, Jesus Christ. In addition, writes one commentator, the radiating glory of God's majesty became visible to them. as it had appeared to Moses at the burning bush, to the Israelites in the pillar of fire in the desert, and to the worshippers in the tabernacle or temple, Or as it would later on become visible to the three disciples on the mountain of transfiguration. See a little thumbnail sketch of Scripture there, those places in history where God was acting in a wonderful way in his redeeming plan. And here is this glory that shines down and lights the place up to the glory of God. Now the shepherds were not surprised or frightened. This is a dazzling display. Come to them suddenly in the quiet of the night. Despite the angels' dazzling appearance, the message, though, and what the angels immediately declare is that this is not a bad thing, this is a good thing, and I want to tell you how it's good. It's a message of hope and comfort. Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Well, let's look then at the announcement itself for just a moment. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. There are a host of Old Testament prophecies which look forward to the coming of Christ. We think in this season of the year, particularly I think of Isaiah seven fourteen. Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. When you look at the context of Isaiah 7, it becomes clear that there is certainly a double reference there when God speaks of a sign. There was a sign to Ahaz, king of Judah. But the reference also looked far beyond that present message to Ahaz, that sign to Ahaz, to something that was in the future. beyond the political situation of ancient Israel. And that's confirmed in Matthew chapter one, verse twenty three, which quotes Isaiah's prophecy and proclaims it fulfilled in the coming. Of Jesus Christ. So Matthew, under the inspiration of God's Spirit, confirms for us that this prophecy of Isaiah 7. 14 referred ultimately to Jesus Christ. The Old Testament, then, the promise of the Old Testament, is that one will come. The angel announces that this babe is the one. The time is here. The promise is fulfilled in this one who has come even to this humble manger. The birth is not described here at all in terms of the physical characteristics and the physical context within which he came. The physical arrangements and details. Rather, what we have are a series of titles. Descriptions of who this one was in terms of his work and purpose. And so, first of all, Savior. Unto you is born this day a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. The purpose is salvation. The salvation of human beings will be accomplished, the angel is saying, by this one. This one is the one that God has ordained and anointed to be the Savior of the world and to provide salvation for his people. The key meaning of salvation in the New Testament, of course, has to do with the transference out of the sphere of death and into the sphere of life. And of course, how does death come to be? You trace it back one more step. Well, sin is the cause of death. Sin requires God's righteous judgment. And so death comes as that judgment. One who is saved, then, is one who has passed from death to life. But to have the sentence of death removed, there must be removal of the sin, a payment for the sin. And so Scripture declares to us that Jesus accomplished all this at Calvary. Where he receives our penalty in death, that Christ's life might be given to you, that you might have a share in the very life of Christ That you may have a life eternal with him, that no one will be able to ever separate you from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus Our Lord, He will keep you for Himself More than any other Old Testament prophet, of course, Isaiah saw the outline of the saving work of Messiah. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was bruised or crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds. We are healed. This whole idea of substitution, that Christ became sin for us, that we might become in Him. So there's a transference. He takes upon himself our sin and the judgment due upon our sin, executes it at the cross of Christ, and in exchange we have his Life, and we are joined to him in that life so that no one can separate us from that life. The door to life then is opened by Jesus. He is the only way to life. I am the way, the truth, and the life, Jesus said. He alone is life. He is the Savior And it's interesting that this is a very prominent theme in the two songs of Luke 1, which are prophetic of the ministry of Christ. Remember, uh, Mary We call it sometimes the magnificat. My soul doth magnify the Lord. My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. In Zechariah's song, John the Baptist's Father, verse 60, Luke chapter 1, praise is given to God, for he has raised up a horn of salvation for us. Verse 77 in Zechariah's Psalm continuing. The child's ministry is to give his people the knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins. This is the work. And the early, even New Testament prophets in these great songs, proclaim the saving work of God through Jesus Christ. Well, the one who has come is next identified as Christ. Christ, the lexicon pronunciation in Greek, is Christos. You may know, many of you I'm sure do, that Christ is simply a Greek translation of an Old Testament word Messiah. And it simply, or if you want the Hebrew pronunciation, Mashiach. And it is the idea is the anointed one. The idea is of the anointing. So Christ is the one anointed of God. So he is not simply someone who's here as a tourist, if you will, but he is anointed for a purpose. And you know that. Pattern from the Old Testament. When God selects kings, what does he do? In the early days when Samuel is the prophet, Samuel is sent with a uh a container of oil. to anoint those as signs of God's call upon that one, God's choosing of that one for his purpose. And here is Christ, the very Son of God, an anointing for a purpose, the saving purpose of which we have spoke. The anointing was God's sign of his selection. The anointing of David is the sign of God's selection upon him to be king, so Jesus is the anointed one. the Messiah for God's purpose of salvation. What can't be seen with physical eyes at the manger, of course God announces by the angel. And so we have these great titles which focus for us the mission of Christ, the work of Christ, the purpose of Christ In coming into the world. God's promises are kept. Messiah has come at Bethlehem, and just as the prophets had foretold. And finally, Jesus is Lord. Here at the humble birth, Jesus is called Lord. One of our Christmas uh songs, uh Jesus, Lord, silent night, I guess. isn't it? Jesus, Lord at thy birth. And that's what the angel is declaring. That this one is Lord, he is God's anointed, and he will reign Even though now in the physical through the physical lies you get nothing of it, but the angels declare that it is so, you watch. See what this one will do for the salvation of his people. One who comes by divine appointment to reign as a sovereign over the lives of his people. Every knee shall bow, every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And the angels are declaring that message even here at this humble manger at the birth. As Savior Jesus brought a peep bought a people, excuse me, through payment of the debt of their sins So that they might have life and not death. As Lord, Jesus now exercises a rightful and sovereign rule in the hearts and lives of his people. And this Jesus is now building his church, gathering his people, moving history toward a time when the Lordship of Jesus Christ will be established over every corner of creation. And that's why I'm going to preach on Revelation next three weeks as I continue with you. Because I want you to see that Jesus reigns as Lord, and I want you to see through that telescope that God gives us in the book of Revelation. That the manger is not the end. Nor is the cross the end. The cross is the center, and everything depends on it. But on the basis of that work, God is going to bring all things together. Through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. He is Lord, He is Lord. He is risen from the dead, and He is Lord. I must ask you the question now: do you belong to Jesus? The word church, you know, relates to this idea of lordship. The uh there's a Greek adjective kuriachos from which the English word church comes from, and it literally means to have a Lord. To be part of the church means to declare that you have a Lord. There is someone who reigns over you. And I think that's a very crucial message in the day and age of In which we live. How many people do you know that you read, pick up books in the pop psychology section at the bookstore or go on Amazon and look at? How many are telling you that you need to humble yourselves? And come under the lordship of another. You don't find much of that, do you? No, you're supposed to actualize your own potential. supposed to uh do all of these things to uh fulfill yourself. And yet the real heart of Christianity in many ways is to how the Lord is to bow under the sovereign lordship of Jesus Christ. And the angels are declaring that even when he's a babe in a manger That the business of this Jesus is to be God's divine appointed Lord over the people that he is gathering into his Church. As I read the Old Testament and I am completing about probably 26, 27 years now reading McShane's plan each year through the Old Testament once, Psalms and New Testament twice each year. And one of the keys to godliness is that sense of humility before God. Before the sovereign Lord. To know that He is Lord and to bow humbly before Him and acknowledge Him. That's what worship is: is to declare His worth and to declare my need. Your practice of kneeling for the confession of sin. I I I enjoy that. Enjoyment's the wrong word. I think it's important Because I humble myself, declare my need, and just at that moment you see Jesus is functioning as Lord in my life. Is Jesus functioning as Lord in your life? Well, this is described as good news of great joy And it still is. There is still no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. The news, notice also, is for all the people in verse 10, but not one of peace for every individual. The Bible doesn't teach that every person will be saved, that every person will come into this knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is a joyful, fulfilling peace. At the same time, Jesus declares that every nation will hear of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And in this gospel of the kingdom, Matthew 24, 14. And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations. And then the end will come. I appreciate each week you have some missionary prayer, some missionary emphasis. And that reminds us, you see, that this Lordship of Jesus Christ is not an American thing. It's not a Washington, D. certainly not a Washington, D. C. thing alone. But it's for all nations. I have uh in one of the great blessings of my life in the last uh years and in my retirement uh has been to expand my circle of friends. Both in car friends and and car guys, uh, but also to continue friendships uh with other folks. I've got one dear friend who's an adjunct professor. We had lunch this week adjunct professor at Oxford in England. And what he's doing in Oxford is focusing, he's a military judge. uh and retired now and uh what he's doing is studying sociolegal issues in the context of communist china And he now has a circle of professors in these Chinese law schools and universities that he's communicating with with his blog and other things. And slowly, quietly, sometimes way below the radar, the gospel of Jesus Christ is going on. For. I've got another dear friend who's uh uh Marine, Lieutenant Colonel, Marine Corps, just got back from Okinawa. He is now studying Russian. And he's going for two years now, be leaving this spring, later this uh in 2014, to go to Moscow as a military liaison. I'm not just sure what the specific thing is, but he and his wife now are both learning Russian. They're taking courses in etiquette and so forth. Lovers of Jesus Christ. Now I don't know what opportunities they'll have for the gospel. They'll be limited. To be sure. But the gospel is going out throughout the world, and the promise to the nations is being kept And God is gathering people in China. He's gathering people in Russia. He's gathering people in Turkey, where I have another good friend working. And he's bringing them all together. Under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. It's a wonderful thing going on in our world today. I want you to notice finally and very quickly as we close the great response in verses 13 through 20. Angels know how to react when God is doing something great. They explode with joyous praise and worship They lift their voices, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. Peace, of course, is the gift of God's grace. It begins with peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, Romans 5. 1. It extends to all of our relationships, and we go in the peace of Jesus Christ with us. With the gospel of Jesus Christ. Sometimes indeed we are confronted. Sometimes indeed we are persecuted in those missions. But with the peace of Christ in our hearts, we can face those things. Without anger and bitterness. And I know it's hard, but it's our call So put yourself in the place of the shepherds for a more for a moment. They went to Bethlehem and they saw with their human eyes A little baby in a manger, these poor people Parents? No room at the end. Nothing to suggest glory. They went and they saw and they believed the angel's message. They believed the angel's message, and they took up the angel's song of praise, and they went about to tell others. They saw the physical thing and still they believed because of the angel's great birth announcement, and they repeated. The sounding joy in verse 20. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen as it had been told them. That's your business in the world. That's why God has left you here. I had uh the difficult task in some ways. Just a week ago, Friday, to hear from a dear friend from our church in Woodbridge, 93 years old. Uh her husband was one of the founding fathers of the PCA, Dr. James Moore, her second husband. Her first husband died of cancer. If you read the uh By Faith Online magazines this week online, uh you will have read of the death of Terry Trailer. Delmore's Terry's mom, ninety-three years old, and to watch her son die. There's a lot of things we don't understand About what God is doing in the world. And part of the conversation I had with Dell was: you're here You're still here, and God still has something for you to do, something for you to be for his glory, until he calls you. You're home, and it's his business when to call you home. We've got a mission. The angels declared it to those shepherds. And it is still the mission of declaring the good news of Jesus Christ. Would you bow with me? Father, we do thank you for your love to us in Jesus Christ. So much of the humanness of his coming Seems to come to the forefront in our modern celebrations. And we need to hear the angel's announcement. For the angel tells us who he was and what he had come for Who he had come to redeem, to save, to forgive their sins, and to bring them forgiven and cleansed Before your throne, where he ever lives, to make intercession for us before your throne. Father, thank you for your grace and mercy through Jesus Christ. In his name we ask it and give you thanks. Amen. In his