I'll be speaking this morning from Mark chapter 1. If you have your Bibles and would like to turn there, it'll be Mark chapter 1. I'll be preaching on verses 9 to 13. I'm going to go ahead and read uh starting at verse one. Before I do, however, I have been asked to bring you greetings from Wallace Presbyterian Church, your brothers. The Wallace Session sent me with those and especially our condolences to the Dusenberry family for your loss. You're in our prayers and we uh will remember you at this time. If you look at Mark chapter 1, Mark opens his gospel with these words. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in Isaiah the prophet. Behold, I send my messenger before your face who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey. And he preached, saying, After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens opening, and the spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, you are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. And he was in the wilderness 40 days, being tempted by Satan And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him. This is the word of the Lord. Amen. Please be seated. The author Anne Lamotte once said that you can safely assume that you've created God in your own image when he hates all the same people you do What Lamot is referring to is that encouragable habit we have to use God To affirm us. Affirm us in our way of thinking. To domesticate God. To keep him from doing things we don't want him to do and from saying things we don't want him to say. In short, that habit we have to fit God into our lives and our stories that we're writing for ourselves. But what's striking when you read the Gospel of Mark is that when God appears, he's always doing the unexpected. He's, as one commentator put it, a master of surprises. And Mark, in a way, labors to show us this God, the God who shatters our expectations of how we think God should act. how the Jews in Jesus' day believed God should act, and how we as well, as Christians in the 21st century, often believed God should act. And in this regard, Mark is particularly highlighting for us God's kingship here in his opening verses. Verses 9 to 11, which I'll be focusing on this morning, are the accounts of Jesus' baptism and temptation. And it's quite clear, both from this account early in Mark's gospel, but also from the Early church, the testimony of the early church recorded for us in the book of Acts that this event, Christ's baptism and temptation, was The mo the most significant event in Jesus' life second to his death and resurrection and ascension. It was this event that was the criteria by which the uh eleven disciples Wanting to choose one more to fill Judas' place, this was the criteria that was used to select that new apostle. Were they with Jesus from the time of his baptism? There's something remarkable that happened here at Jesus' baptism. There's something that we would say is definitive. But defined his ministry, defined his life that happened here at his baptism. I believe that the reason Jesus' baptism is so important is that it's here that the boy, born to be king, was commissioned. It was here that he receives his anointing to be what he was called and predestined to be. the Messiah. And so this is in effect his coronation. Jesus' coronation as King. And this comes into focus, his ministry, his life, his mission comes into focus here in Jesus' baptism. And we're in his baptism, we're told what his life, what his ministry will be about. What is his life and ministry all about? What is his kingship all about? And in short, we could say this: that Jesus' kingship is about the redemption of sinners. Jesus' kingship is about the redemption of sinners. And I want to look at three things this text has to tell us about this king who redeems. First, it tells us about the love of the king. Second, it tells us about the gift of the king, and finally the triumph of the king. So first the love of the king Prior to Jesus' baptism in verse 9, we're given quite a lead up. We're given eight verses, and this it was for this reason that I read those to you. Because Mark tells us quite a bit about this individual, this Christ who is coming. In verse 1, we're told that he would be the Son of God. Right? Verse 2, we're told that this person, Jesus, will be the fulfillment of hundreds of years of hope and prayer and expectation. for the Israelite people. The fulfillment of your hopes and dreams is about to come. Verse 7, we're told that this Jesus, this person who is coming, is going to be greater than the greatest prophet Israel had seen for over three hundred years. John the Baptist says, he will be greater than me He's going to come with power. He's going to come with authority. In verse 8, we're told that this power and authority is going to be the power and the authority of God Himself. When he speaks, God will be speaking. And after all this build-up, we get to verse 9 and we meet this remarkable figure. It's quite a lead-up, right? Quite an introduction. And in verse 9 we meet them. And I imagine the first hearers of Mark's gospel would have been a bit disappointed, perhaps, at least unsettled. And the reason they would have been disappointed is that in verse 9 we see Jesus arriving in a manner that seems quite inappropriate, quite contrary to all this buildup that we've just been given. Right? Jesus arrives unnoticed. Jesus receives no recognition from the crowds around. He receives no fanfare. He's absolutely alone. No entourage, no assistance. He comes from an area called Nazareth of Galilee, we're told. Now that perhaps doesn't mean much to us, but Nazareth of Galilee was despised. by the rest of Israel for their ignorance, their backwardness. Nothing good was thought to come out of Nazareth. One first century Jewish A rabbi said about this region, Galilee, Galilee, you hate the Torah. Your end will be seizure by the Romans. So what kind of arrival is this? This isn't the arrival of a king. This isn't even the arrival of a noble. This is the arrival of a peasant. A pauper, a nobody. This is about as unkingly as an arrival as there could be. And so you can imagine how confused or or how unsettled the original audience would have been when they heard that this is the one you're telling us about. This is our ho the fulfillment of our hopes and dreams and expectations and prophecies. And what's even more scandalous than the manner of Jesus' arrival is what he does when he shows up on the banks of the River Jordan. You see, what almost every scholar and commentator says about verse 9 is that Mark is intentionally building a parallel between verse 9 and verse 5. In verse 5 Mark had had said, and all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to John the Baptist and were being baptized by him. in the River Jordan confessing their sins. Baptism, you probably know, was a symbol. It was a symbol that represented the washing or the cleansing of someone who was not just physically or ritually unclean, but spiritually unclean and needed forgiveness, needed divine cleansing. It said to all around and it said to God, I am clean, I am unclean, and I need to become clean, I need to be washed. And as I just read in verse 5, we know that many people were responding to this call to repent of your sins. Come and receive God's forgiveness, symbolized by this washing. But then we read in verse nine. In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John and the Jordan. Why? Why is Jesus being baptized by John This is the arrival of the Lord Himself, the Messiah, the one of whom John said, I am not worthy to stoop down and untie the sandals of on his feet. Instead of coming in glory, instead of coming in power and authority, Jesus comes in humility, he comes in poverty, he comes alone from a backwards, backwater out area of Galilee, and then he submits himself. to John's baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. This should strike us as odd. At the very least, if not unworthy. What is Jesus up to here? None of this seems royal to us. But what you need to see, brothers and sisters, is that in this act By undergoing John's baptism, what Jesus is doing is making a remarkable claim about who he is and who we are. By responding to John's call in the wilderness, he's saying What he's uh uh saying is, I Father in heaven, identify me, count me with these. He's identifying himself with sinful humanity, with the brokenness and the wickedness. And the sinfulness of those standing around, those who needed the baptism, those who needed to be cleansed of their sins. Jesus, we know is the one person who didn't need to become clean. Jesus was cleanness himself. In the same chapter, later on, Jesus will heal a leper, someone who was physically and ritually unclean. And Jesus reaches out and touches him. And instead of becoming unclean himself, what does he do? You children probably know, don't you? He cleansed the leper. The leper became clean. Jesus didn't become unclean. The leper became clean. Well, Jesus didn't need to become clean. Jesus didn't need to be forgiven. Jesus is the one who offers forgiveness. Remember what he says to the paralytic who's laying on the mat before him. He says, your sins are forgiven. Jesus is the one who's offended. What Jesus is doing when he undergoes baptism is he's in a way saying to his father, Count me. Count me as one of these. Treat me as if I were one of these. Brothers and sisters, let me ask you, is this not the greatest act of love? That the king himself would come and say, My life, Father, for theirs. My life for theirs. This is what Isaiah the prophet prophesied when he said, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors. This is Jesus being numbered, being counted as one of the transgressors. And Jesus says in John 15, greater love has no one than this, that someone lays down his life for his friends. This act becomes all the more rich When you understand that baptism in ancient Israel, this ritual washing, was a very rich and full symbol. Uh there could be sermons and classes on this for weeks on end, but in addition to symbolizing the cleansing of of your sin, it also was a sign in a way of judgment. The judgment waters of God This is reminiscent in a way of the waters of judgment that came crashing down on the Egyptian forces when they were chasing Israel through the desert. Israel, Paul tells us, was baptized. by the by the sea as they crossed through. They passed through the waters and they came out on the other side safe. safe from the waters of judgment. But these waters of judgment came crashing down on the Egyptian army. Very rich and full symbol for for Israel. But what this means for us is that Jesus undergoing this baptism was a way of him saying, I am willing. To drown under these waters. I am willing to die for these people. Why? So that People, sinful people, stubborn people like Israel may pass on through to the other side. This is what Jesus is talking about in Mark chapter 10, when he's asked by his disciples if they can have uh these things. positions of prestige in his kingdom. And he asks them, are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? What's this bapti baptism that he's talking about? Well, if it's crucifixion, obviously. That was Christ's baptism, his final baptism, when he actually drowned under the weight and waters of God's judgment and wrath. So that we might have life. So what is Jesus doing here? He's submitting himself to all the pain, all the judgment, all the condemnation that is due for our sins. And this is what kind of king we have. Does this amaze you? You know, we don't know much about kings anymore here in America. We did it one time. But kings don't typically give their lives for their people, do they? They typically give their people's lives for themselves. They're perfectly willing to do that. But their lives for their people, not often. But not our King. Our King has gone out to the front lines and has said, Father, my life for theirs. And so Christ's baptism first tells us about this radical and profound love of God. But it also tells us something about ourselves, something about how it is that Christ becomes ours. How is it that we come to know this Savior who has loved us so well? And that's the second point, the gift of the king. Because what we see in the next verses are the heavens being torn apart, and the Spirit descending on Jesus in the form of a dove, and the Father speaks these words of love. and delight and approbation for his son. And what is going on here is the father is commissioning his son for his task, for his mission. He's uh uh commissioned him to be uh a substitute, to be the one who gives his life for many. And we know this because the father's words to his son. are an echo, an echo of many many places, many passages in the Old Testament, many prophecies especially, but it specifically echoes the prophecies of Isaiah. When he wrote of the servant of the Lord, throughout Isaiah's prophecies there's this appearance of a mysterious figure that Isaiah either calls the servant of the Lord Or just sometimes just the servant. So for example, in Isaiah 42, God says, Behold my servant whom I uphold. My chosen in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. And in Isaiah 49, God says to his servant, You are my servant Israel in whom I will be glorified. This Jesus is the servant in whom the Father delights, the one who will make God's glory known. He will reveal in a unique way God's character and God's perfections. But then, if you read through Isaiah, you get to Isaiah 53. And in Isaiah 53, we meet the servant of the Lord once again, but this time in a much different context. Because Isaiah writes, yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him, speaking of the servant. He has put him to grief when his soul makes an offering for sin. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. This prophecy was a promise to Israel. It was a promise that there would be a righteousness for them. There would be a way that their sins would be pardoned. But it will only come, it could only come at the greatest cost to God Himself. The greatest cost to God Himself, that this servant who was his delight who uh he has a special loving relationship for that he would crush this person and looking on it his soul would be in anguish but at the same time his justice would be satisfied So, what we see in Mark is the unity of the divine will here. It was the will of the Father to crush the Son as an atonement for sin. It was the will of the son to freely obey his father to the point of death. And it was the will of the Spirit to empower the Son. To anoint the Son to his given task. And so we mustn't make the mistake of ever thinking that Christ's death was an accident. That there was some sort of tragedy. What Mark is telling us is that the death of Christ was according to the will of God. From the very beginning, from his baptism. This was the will of God. That God was and is in complete control, and that the Father freely handed over his son, and the Son willingly went to satisfy the demands of justice. And what's striking is that those people around Jesus Those people around Jesus, they don't feature very prominently in this scene, do they? They don't feature very prominently in this scene. And I say that's important because when we think of God's salvation of sinners, we must write ourselves into God's story and see where he places us and where would we be in this story? We would be like those sinners standing around the River Jordan, for whom Christ is dying. That's where we feature. There's another way to put it is that salvation is all of God. It's all of God from beginning to end. And in this way, God has given us his Son as a gift. If God didn't give him, if he didn't hand him over, we can know that the Christ would never have died. Now perhaps some of you have heard this before, that Christ, salvation, is a free gift of God for sinners But it's important that we remember and are amazed at those words, that it is indeed free, that it is indeed a gift as well. We must ask ourselves the question, have I received Christ as a free gift? Or do I daily try to earn him as a wage, as a wage paid to a laborer? We have a we do n understand what gifts are, don't we? But uh we we we give gifts at Christmas times, at birthdays, uh but For Americans especially, I think it's bet uh almost more appro appropriate or more or true to uh think in terms of exchanging gifts. That's how we think of gifts, don't we? We exchange gifts. At Christmas time, you're going to someone's house and you you think, oh Did they get us a gift? They might have gotten us a gift. And you swing into Starbucks, right? You get those cards. Uh uh You know. Why? Because when we get a gift we feel indebted. And we wanna pay we want to pay it back. We don't like to be in people's debt. Now that can be a good thing uh as uh we live out our lives in the cultural and secular sphere and interact with one another. Um Can make Christmas is awkward, but it's an awful way to relate to God. It's an awful way to relate to God We receive Christ. We can only receive Christ as a free gift. Not something we could ever earn. Not something we could ever dare to try to repay. The message of this text is that God has given us his son as a free gift, and he has sacrificed that which he uh uh uh held most dear. And any attempt of ours to add to Christ's perfection, to earn his sacrifice, will only serve the end of confusing and distorting Christ's work itself. It will confuse and distort the gospel. It will really mar and sully the goodness and the sweetness. Of the salvation offered in Christ. How can you add to it, brothers and sisters? Could you possibly add to a perfect sacrifice? How could you think that, well, Christ's sacrifice is good, but in this way I'm going to make it better. I'm going to add to it. I'm basically a good person. I basically have moral values. I go to church every Sunday. If you're looking to these things as a way in which you're earning your Father's love, you haven't understood the gospel yet, and you haven't received Christ as you should, as a free gift from the Father. As the famous hymn puts it, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. And if you come to God thinking that you're worthy, thinking that he owes you something, If you relate to God on your own terms and not on his, God says to you, I have nothing for you. But if you come to him with nothing, If you come to him with open hands, with all of your baggage, with all of your brokenness, and with all of your sins, God says to you, I have everything. I have the riches of heaven. I have the perfect life of my son Jesus. His death and his resurrection, and they are yours. And so that's how we receive Christ. We receive Him as a gift. The most valuable gift you will ever receive, and the only way to receive them is to say thank you, is to receive Him as a gift. Thirdly, this text shows us the triumph of our king. The triumph of our king. Our tendency when we get to Mark's account of Christ's baptism and his temptation is to quickly flip to one of the other gospels, right? So we go to Matthew or to Luke, because they give us more details. And we want to know what happened there in the wilderness, and Matthew and Luke are happy to tell you. But I would suggest that if you do that, you're in danger of missing Mark's unique message that he wants to highlight. From Christ's temptation in the wilderness. What Mark tells us is very simple, it's very short, and that is that Jesus was Literally thrown into the wilderness, into the desert. That he remained there for 40 days, was with the wild beasts, being tempted by Satan. and being ministered to by angels. Well, it's really quite jarring that in this account we're so quickly taken from heaven to hell, aren't we? From the rending of the heavens to the wasteland of the desert and uh the temptations of Satan. But Mark is making a unique point here. And w we know that what transpired in the wilderness is not very important for Mark for the simple fact that he didn't tell us. Rather, what is more important for Mark is the fact that Jesus went to the wilderness and there he encountered Satan. He encountered the loneliness of the wilderness. He encountered the physical danger of the wilderness. And it was a time of testing. It was a time of trial for Jesus. It was a time of temptation. And what happened in the wilderness is best described by Jesus himself. Much later in the Gospel of Mark, he's being accused by the Jewish leaders by working these miracles by the power of Satan. And he responds to them. He says, how can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand. But it's coming to an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man, and then indeed he may plunder his house. It's almost universally agreed that what Jesus is talking about here is what happened in the wilderness. That in the wilderness Jesus bound Satan. What does that mean? What that means is that Jesus succeeded where Adam failed. Jesus succeeded where Adam failed. Where Adam in the garden failed to obey God when he was confronted by great evil and temptation at the hands of Satan, he fell into sin. But when Jesus was confronted by great evil and by great temptation, when he encountered Satan himself, Mark tells us that Jesus triumphed. Mark tells us that Jesus triumphed. And what this means is that through Jesus, through Jesus, all that is evil, all that is wrong, all that is broken with this world, all that is unjust, In Christ, things are beginning to be restored. Things are beginning to be put back in order the way they were meant to be. Jesus indeed is bringing restoration to a world and an existence cursed by sin. And what's interesting is that unlike Unlike Matthew and unlike Luke, Mark doesn't tell us that Jesus triumphed in the wilderness. Mark or Matthew and Luke do, but Mark does. And what Mark does is something different. What he does is shows us That Jesus triumphed through the rest of the gospel. Jesus, when he returns from the wilderness, begins casting out demons. He begins healing diseases. He restores sight to the blind. He he he uh heals a paralytic, he feeds the hungry. Miraculously feeds the hungry. He calms the storms on the water with a word. And he ra rises from the dead. This is the undoing of the curse. This is Jesus see Jesus having bound Satan and undoing all the wickedness and evilness that Satan through man has introduced into the world. And you know this has been the fundamental Christian conviction from the very beginning that all that is wrong with our world will one day be made right. You see, Christians are not a people who deny reality, who deny the reality of suffering, of hardship, of brokenness, and of sin. We are not those who respond to the wickedness and brokenness of this world with, well, that's just life. That's just life. You can't watch the evening news and think that's just life. The accounts of abuse, the accounts of oppression. Of tragedy and suffering, and think, oh, well, that's just life. We must as Christians remember that, no, that's sin, and the effects of sin That have been introduced to the world by Adam's first sin. But they are also the effects of sin that have begun being undone by the finished work of Christ. When we look at these things and we think to ourselves, that's not the way it should be. Brothers and sisters, you need to hear Jesus saying, and that's not the way it will always be. You need to look at, Jesus says to you, you need to look at me. Look at my life. He says, I have started something In Christ He has started something that He has promised and is able to see through to completion. And we can know that He will not rest until He sees the completion of our new heavens and a new earth. A new reality. My friends, we must remember that our God is in the business of restoration. He's in the business of healing. As the Apostle John says in the book of Revelation, he describes this glorious vision of the new heavens and the new earth. And it's as if he's reaching for language. to try to describe it. And he says this, I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. My friends, the message of the gospel is this that Jesus has begun to undo all of these things, the pain, the sorrow, the brokenness, the hurt, the hardship, the sin. And God it ha has done and is doing a great work. You know, it's likely that when Mark wrote this gospel, he was writing it. For Christians who were in Rome. And the Christians in Rome at this time would have been being persecuted and in danger of of persecution and in danger of being thrown to the lions, thrown to the beasts. And many have looked at that little statement that Christ was with the beasts in the wilderness. They've looked at that and they said, it seems kind of odd actually that it's there. And they wonder They could be right here. That Mark put that in for those Christians specifically who were in danger daily of being captured and thrown to the lions What Mark would be saying then is that Jesus too was with the beasts. Jesus too was with the lions. Jesus confronted Satan and he came out victorious. So take courage. Our king has triumphed. The king has come, brothers and sisters, and he has triumphed, and he triumphed by leading a sinless life He's triumphed by uh uh rising from the dead in his resurrection. And he's triumphed over the curse of sin by becoming a curse on our behalf, so we don't need to wallow And labor anymore under sin's curse, but are free, free not to sin, but free to obey God Free to love God. And this is the call to perseverance. In the face of temptation In the face of trial, in the face of danger, the Christian life is to be characterized by hope in the wilderness. We are in a very real way, brothers and sisters, in the wilderness, aren't we? We're not home yet. We're on a pilgrimage. We're on a journey. But our journey has a sure end. Whatever the wilderness looks like in your life, you can know that Christ has gone before you and He's triumphed. Not as a model for you. Christ didn't triumph and say, look, look, I did it. You can do it too because I did it. Work hard. What Christ says to you is look, I did it and I did it for you. Don't fear. You cannot fail Now come after me, he says. Jesus says, follow me. And all that is broken, all that is sad, all that is wrong in your life also will one day become undone. So, brothers and sisters, if you are lonely, you can know that Christ was lonely. If you are poor and hungry, Christ was poor and hungry. If you are tempted, Christ too was tempted to When you're tempted to doubt. Doubt the future. The reality of this new heavens and new earth. Which, when we're honest with ourselves, seems a little bit vague, right? Seems a little bit far out. What we're to do is to look at Christ. Because in Christ's body, the resurrected body of Jesus Christ, the empty tomb, we can look and know that Christ is raised from the dead. And in his body he has begun to make all things new. Christ says, look to me. He says, look to my finished work, and you will find in me, he says to you brothers and sisters. All that you need to persevere. And may we do so then with joy and gladness. Would you pray with me? Our Father, we give you thanks for the greatness of our salvation in Christ. for his finished work, for its sufficiency to pay for our sins. We thank you, Father, that you sent and crushed your dearly beloved and only begotten Son, so that we might be adopted into your family. And we thank you for Christ who lives, in whose resurrection we have hope. And I pray that we would in the days and weeks ahead gain a greater vision, a greater understanding, greater faith in the risen Lord Jesus, while we don't see Him now. Would you testify to him in our hearts by your word? Your Spirit convicts us and convinces us. And would you use the sacraments that we're about to partake? To remove all doubt, that we may joyfully travel along the roads, whether they are hard or easy. Those roads, those journeys to which Christ has called us after Himself. And may we travel together joyfully, but with full hope and confidence of our sure end. In Jesus' name we ask. Amen.