Good to be back with you. It's Thanksgiving. We had son, daughter-in-law, three boys, ages. Three to seven with us for the last three days. If I seem a little dazed and confused, that may explain it. However, it was a great joy, and I hope many of you share shared similar joys. Our scripture lesson this morning comes from the book of Revelation. I'm going to, for the most part, Work through some passages, some of the great themes of Revelation with you in these uh opportunities that I have to minister the word here. And uh Revelation 4 is our text this morning. This is a vision, and as I'm going to say it many, many times in the next few minutes, the book of Revelation is a very visual book. It's picture. It's images, its color, sound, a lot of things going on. A multimedia presentation And uh if you listen carefully here, you will understand that the uh apostle is being asked to see and hear things and they're maybe Magnificent things, for what is open before him is heaven itself. Hear the word of God. After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice which I heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne, and he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. And around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments. With golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass like crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures. Full of eyes in front and behind, the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight. And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy. Is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever. The twenty four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne, and worship him who lives for ever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you our Lord and God. To receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. Would you bow with me as we come to the study of God's Word this morning. Father, we thank you for these great images. By your Spirit, you opened these things to the Apostle John. And by your instruction, he wrote them down for our instruction, upon whom the ends of the ages are come. And so, Father, we pray that you would Be gracious by the attendance of your Spirit, that we may understand something of what you have revealed here, and above all, that it would lead us to that kind of worship. Which pleases you. That kind of honoring of you and your creation. That kind of honoring of you and your son. For which we are designed, that we may give that to you with hearts of joy and gratitude. We ask your blessing to this end, and we ask it in Jesus' name Amen. Since the fall into sin, and I think I shared some of this with you, and so it's kind of a good connection perhaps to Previous occasions of preaching here. Since the fall of man, human beings face two great problems with regard to worship. Number one, we are finite We don't understand wholly or even in great part the mind of God, for he is in And we are finite. We are very limited in our ability to understand the mind of God. I use the illustration, forgive me, uh Andrew Lloyd Weber is a great musician, some beautiful tunes, a very profane man. In Jesus Christ Superstar, for those of you who go back to the 60s Uh Mary's lament, I don't know how to love him, what to say, how to move him. See, I don't understand him well enough to be able to know what pleases him. Well, fallen human beings, all of us as fallen human beings, are in that kind of situation. We do not understand wholly the mind of God. We need that he should reveal something to us, some instruction, that we may worship him appropriately. And of course, the scriptures are full of such instruction. But if it's being finite that gives us limitation for those after the fall, it's far worse, isn't it? Not only are we finite and unable in our finitude to understand the eternal and the infinite of God. But we are sinners, and so our wills and our hearts are bent to not give him the worship that is due to his name. So not only are we unable in our ability to understand, but our wills are bent to not do, even if we did understand. And so we face a difficult dilemma. Paul says, claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man. and birds and animals and creeping things. Calvin in his usual perception says that fallen human beings are virtual idol factories. Busy day and night thinking up idols to displace the true and living God. You see the religious impulses within us But rather than worship God, we'll do anything else. We'll think up any kind of profane idol so that we don't have to give that word To the true God. Such are the depths of human sinfulness. So if we are to worship God truly, God must reveal to us his will for us and his design for our worship. And that he has done in the Bible in many places, many ways In the Old Testament, God revealed through Moses a program of worship for his people, including a central temple which housed his very presence in the Shekinah Cloud of Glory. In the Ten Commandments, particularly the first four, God has given very specific instruction with regard to worship. What should our hearts be thinking and doing? What are the things that draw us away from true worship? And the commandments spell those out in some detail. Some of you, I'm sure, have uh have dabbled, some of you maybe have studied Calvin's Institutes of the Christian Religion. Uh Calvin and the Institutes, it's interesting. You go there and you want to look for a chapter on worship, as I did at some point in my life. You don't find one. It's not there. You know why? Because Calvin dealt with worship under the first four commandments He saw that they were the basic design of worship, those first four commandments, and he spent a great deal of time unfolding the details of worship under the heading of those first four commandments. A wise man indeed. One of the great values in my mind of this book of Revelation And something often overlooked, excuse me, is that it gives us a glimpse of heavenly worship. There's a lot of instruction here about worship. Here is worship pure and untarnished. Here is worship in a heavenly setting without all of the trappings of sinfulness. and all of the encumbrances that we as finite and simple human beings are likely to clamor into. And so we view God in his glory. And here in Revelation 4, God seated upon his throne in power and great glory. Now, surely we cannot now ascend to those heights, but true worship will seek some principle. In these visions. For we as redeemed people have the Spirit of God. The Spirit is given to lift us and to show us Jesus Christ and to open to us the glory of God that we may be true worshipers. And so we have great resources and we have the Word of God to reveal to us glimpses of God's glory that from humble hearts we may Return and give him a worship, acknowledge his greatness and his glory, and give ourselves to his praise. Greg Beale, in his great commentary on Revelation, says John intended the readers to see what is told of in the vision as a heavenly pattern that the church is to reflect. Well, we're going to look at Revelation 4 this morning and look for some principles, some things that might help us in worship, guide us in worship. First of all, verses one through six, the center of all things is God upon his throne. It is clear as Revelation four opens, that the scene which is being opened is a heavenly scene. After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, come up here and I will show you what must take place after this. Notice first that this whole thing, again I say, is very visual. It's a picture. The words are designed to express visual images. The invitation of Christ, which follows, is an invitation to see. I will show you. What miss what must take place after this? Revelation is very visual. It is pictures. William Hendrickson in his commentary, More Than Conquerors, uh in the nineteen fifties, uh, I believe was first published. uh likened it to moving pictures. They are visual, they are moving. So I say to all you right-brained visual learners, the book of Revelation has a special place for you. You can learn there in these visual images in the book of Revelation. So what is seen as heaven itself is open? A door standing open. There is precedent for this. The Old Testament background is Ezekiel. Ezekiel, beginning of the prophecy, one-one. In the thirtieth year in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month As I was among the exiles by the Kibar Canal, the heavens were opened and I saw visions of God. As we read on in that first chapter of Ezekiel, the images and descriptions bear a striking resemblance to those in Revelation chapter 4. As So this biblical language, which expresses the glory of God, And expresses his glorious heavenly presence as something which we find in the Old Testament and then now being recaptured again, retold in the New Testament. The descriptions are not meant so much to be catalogued and analyzed. It'll sound probably at times the morning like I'm doing some analysis of them. But nonetheless, the idea here is not so much to catalog and figure out all the details. The point is that we are to understand in this visual way that God is great and that his greatness exceeds all of our ability to catalog and analyze. And there are times when we just Just have to sit back, shut up, and let him be who he is, the great God. I used to use always in uh the call to worship, the beginning of the worship service from Psalm 48. Be still and know that I am God. You ever find yourself, I do, I may I have made my living largely Yammering, talking. And you find yourself too much talking. A great verse in in Ecclesiastes. Good to be quiet when you come into the holy presence. Of God, not yammer too much. Because He's holy. When I get nervous, I get chatty. Some of you do too. Some of you get very quiet when you get nervous, but some of you get chatty. In the presence of God, it's a time to be quiet, a time to be reverent in his presence And these images of the greatness of God have the effect, should have the effect, of kind of setting us down. Here is the greatness. Whoa. And we understand that he is great. What comes first into our view in verse 2 is a throne, and one seated on that throne Again, we see that Ezekiel's vision is connected, Ezekiel 1. 26, and above the expanse over their heads. There was the likeness of a throne in appearance like sapphire, and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with a human appearance. As the vision moves us around the heavenly scene, it is clear that this throne and the one who sits upon it is central. This is the unmoving, unmoved center of everything that goes on around it. The descriptions again parallel Ezekiel 1, and they show us a scene which is altogether striking, beautiful, and fearful at the same time. Revelation 4:3, and he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Amazing. Did you hear that? Rainbows are not the invention of some new age guru. God invented the rainbow. And let's worship him as the inventor of the rainbow. Though it's being hijacked for other purposes in these days, let's remember that it's God's creation. And God created the rainbow. Again, the language is very visual, the appearance of these precious stones, so here is an appearance of glorious splendor, something so beautiful and attractive that it overwhelms the senses. But we see too that it is a fearful place. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumbles and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of the city. Of God. Have you ever been sitting quietly in a room as a thunderstorm approaches? And you hear the thunder way off in the background. And then suddenly one hits a block away. And it just empties your being. Have you ever experienced that? It just empties you. Uh the the fear is just a shiver runs down your whole body. Imagine that kind of reverence. And this greatness of this scene is designed to get our attention and to set us back and say, this one is holy. This one is God. He's the creator of everything. Every hope you have in this world is based upon what He has done and what He can accomplish for you. You are dependent. You are a contingent being. You are not the center of the universe. He is. And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like crystal. If you study the theme of sea in Revelation, it's very interesting. The beast comes out up out of the sea. The sea is ofttimes in biblical language an image of restless turmoil, the boiling sea. But here it's all quiet. God has filled the sea. And we have a wonderful picture of that in the Gospels, don't we? The disciples are out on the Sea of Galilee with Jesus, and the storm comes up. And the disciples are all on Twitter. Oh my goodness, we're going to die, we're going to die, everything's falling apart. Jesus, where are you? Come on, help us. And Jesus exercises a sovereign mastery over the wind and the seas. And the disciples say, who? Who is this that even the winds and the waves bow down and get calm when he speaks? And so the sea and the heavenly Understanding is calm and peaceful because the sovereign Lord has still the waves. And if we can press a figure perhaps uh a little beyond what the text does here. Our hearts are in some ways restless seas, sinful human hearts, and it is the gospel. Of Jesus Christ that speaks peace to our restless hearts. It says, In Jesus Christ, I've provided all you need. You rest there and be at peace. And know that I have conquered evil, and that I have brought you to myself, and no one in all this world will be able to bring any charge against you and all things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. That speaks peace to your hearts when the world around gives you a lot of reason to be upset and frustrated and worried. What is inescapable, then, is that the throne of God is at the center of all authority and power It is the word spoken from this throne which orders and controls the issues in the world. The vision consists, said William Hendrickson, of one single picture and teaches one main lesson. The throne rules over all. The throne of God is sovereign over all the issues, over all the creation, for it is his creation. What we learn is that worship orients you, proper worship is being oriented with God at the center. And understanding yourself around the periphery, designed to serve, to look toward the center, to honor the center, to worship the center, and it is there Very fine, your purpose, your place in God's creation. And that's where worship, that's what worship is, you see, is the the the creation finding its proper place and its proper object of worship. and turning itself, orienting itself to give that one the worship that is due his name. All life, then, in verses four through eight, is ordered around the throne of God. The heavenly scene next reveals to us a cast of characters around the throne of God. And again, it's more visual than a logical order. All these are arrayed around the throne or before the throne, making it clear that the throne is the immovable center, but making it clear also that God has a purpose for all this stuff going on around. As he is at the center. We encounter first 24 elders in verse 4. They are around the throne. And this probably, if we are to see it visually, is the outer circle of worshippers around the throne. They are, as it's put, around the throne Later in verse 10, we find them falling down before the ones seated on the throne in worship. So who are these elders? Mark and Cliff and Tom. Well, maybe not. They're representative and they're not meant to be identified much less to be uh the father of your your drawing studies. Uh but here are twenty-four. Now that's an interesting number. We've twelve we're familiar with. We've got twelve tribes of Israel. We've got twelve apostles. Seven, we know about that. A lot of things are seven. We've got the seven spirits of God we'll get to here in a minute. Fours, the city, four square, three, the Trinity. Have you heard uh give this a little aside here, but uh James Montgomery Boyce years ago had these uh uh Philadelphia conferences on reformed theology? And he edited the uh addresses from various places and they were doing about three or four places and and he we were in Philadelphia at the time and uh John Gersner, some of you remember old Don Dr. John Gersner, uh had di given an address. And uh he noted that uh one person had a predilection for three points in their addresses, another had a predilection for six or seven points. Uh And he noted that Dr. Gersner, normally a great Calvinist that he is, had a great predilection for five points. Five-point Calvinists. And uh he had it already edited the address from a previous location and ready for publication and the readiness for publication in the books that came out after those conferences. And uh but he said, then Doctor, last night Dr. Gersner threw me a curve. He had a four-pointer before and obviously recognizing the imperfections of a four-point outline, came up with a fifth point and what you heard last night he said was a good five-point. Well, uh five points, whatever. Uh where is this twenty-four, these numbers? The key really is back in chapter 21, where we encounter 12 tribes of Israel and 12 apostles of the Lord. Lamb. And what you've got really is a representation, you see, of the Old Testament people of God represented by the tribes of Israel, and then the apostles of the Lamb re representing the New Testament. Church. So you've got the one whole people of God represented as 24. So the Old Testament believer and the New Testament believer are united. One of the characteristics of the Reformed understanding is that these two covenants uh are not, or it is one covenant of grace under two administrations, as the confession puts it, uh that these are not things totally disparate that have no connection to one another, but it's one great plan of God. working throughout history in the Old Testament in a preparatory way and in the New Testament by way of fulfillment. They are clothed in white garments throughout Revelation. This is the clothing of those who have been redeemed by God and belong to Him. This is the garment given to the redeemed people of God. Then we note their golden crowns. There are a variety of possible symbolic references here, but What is clear from other passages in Revelation is that this, along with the white robes, are what belong to the saints. Here are the crowns, the victors' crowns. belonging to those who have become victorious. Why? Because they are following the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. That image really belongs in the 19th chapter. Of Revelation, where Christ on the white horse leads his armies forth. But here are those who have conquered because of and in the service of the Lamb. And these crowns reflect their victory through the Lamb. In chapter 2 and verse 10, the faithful of the church at Smyrna are promised the crown of life. In 311, the faithful church at Philadelphia is exhorted to hold fast to what they have so that no one may seize their crown. So putting it all together, the 24 elders represent all of God's redeemed people clothed in white garments with the crown of victory upon their heads. One great victorious church. They are seen here in their heavenly home. They have now reached the true promised land. They share in the glory of God's presence and are arrayed in the outer circle of God. Circle of heavenly glory. Next, we note before the throne the seven spirits of God pictured as seven flaming torches of fire. It's natural to think of the golden lampstand in the uh tabernacle and the temple of the Old Testament where the uh candelabra and we're just lighting the menorah for Hanukkah in in the Jewish uh community these days. And that lampstand which uh speaks of the presence of God. And now here, these are identified as the seven spirits of God. They're noted as before the throne of God rather than around the Word of God. Different preposition is used, which signals a greater closeness. The Greek preposition means before, in front of, and the idea is kind of face-to-face with. And so here is here are these spirits. And I'm going to say, and I spoke uh intentionally perhaps, uh, because I don't think there are seven separate spirits, but I think these seven spirits are representative of the one spirit of God in his manifold work. In other words, it's not his person that's being separated into seven. It's his work which is manifold. Now There's some precedent for that again in Scripture. The Old Testament background in Zechariah chapters 3 and 4. So the spirits are not around the throne but before it. Why? Because they belong to the throne. as the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, serving, as I said, the manifold purposes of God Finally, we note these four living creatures in verses six through eight. So who or what are they? First, we note that the picture and description is in great harmony with Ezekiel 1. They are meant to be the same. Persons, same creatures. As I looked from Ezekiel 1, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud with brightness around it. and fire flashing forth continually, and in the midst of the fire as it were gleaming metal. And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance. They had a human appearance. And as the description goes on, very similar to what we have in Revelation chapter 4. We have also noted, and I'm sure you're familiar with a passage in Isaiah chapter 6, where Isaiah is being called, and in that call he acknowledges his sinfulness And there are these cherubim who are crying out, holy, holy, holy. That's what we've got in verse 8, isn't it? The thrice holy God. So here are these creatures crying out. They are called Seraphim in Isaiah 6. I misspoke in Ezekiel 10. They're called cherubim. These are surely heavenly beings, not human, but creatures nonetheless. Angels who are not part of this world and yet are creatures of God who serve him day and night. We're in a angels are an interesting topic in the Christian church. You can always find a a good discussion about angels. You know the The reformers talk about how many angels could or not the reformers so much, but in the medieval period talk about how many uh angels could fit on the head of a pin and all this kind of silly nonsense And yet, if we read the scriptures with any care, we must acknowledge that such creatures exist. I'm not here to say, oh, you you're you know, to help you find your guardian angel or something like that. And yet these messengers Of God appear at crucial points in redemptive history. And the incarnation is one of them And uh so here are these creatures. What is their business? The same as ours. It is to acknowledge And honor and glorify the one who is seated upon the throne. When we put it all together, we have a heavenly choir. arranged around the throne of God, ordered, directed to his praise and glory. Calvin commenting on Ezekiel writes, by these heads all living creatures were represented to us. All creation is bound by the very fact of their creation to bow before the one who created all things and to worship and to give him the honor that is due his name. Those who do will find themselves represented in this picture, giving praise and worship to God. Do you see yourself in the picture here. Are you doing these things? Are you declaring the holiness of God? Are you giving yourself to the patterns of worship one day a week to worship and to set aside for his honor and his glory to come to sing. And I do appreciate your singing here. You're you're a I I'm a I'm a singer to some degree and and I just enjoy coming and sing singing with you. Uh I can sing at some volume without sticking out and I always enjoy that. I hate it when I I sing with any volume and gusto and I stick out like a sore thumb. Here I don't, you sing. That's the business of God's people. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts. Worthy is the Lamb who was Slain. Worthy is God who created all things, and you sing a lot of psalms, and the psalms often take you to the theme of creation, which is really the theme that I've kind of that I'm kind of working around here in this sermon. this morning, hymn God's creation and hymn God's redemption. The Old Testament, the creative work of God, and the redemptor. work of God in Jesus Christ. The business of God's people. And I want you to see yourself if you're oriented in the right place, you're there with those 24 The business of worship is declaring the worth of God, and this is just kind of tying up in verses, latter part of verse 8 through 11. The song of the living creatures begins the round of praise. with holy, holy, holy. It's a familiar theme to us from Isaiah 6. We have a hymn that we often sing, holy, holy, holy It is the thrice holy God, the one who is set apart, the one who is infinite. And we declare our finiteness by declaring his holiness. But you know, there's another part of holiness, the same word we translate as saints. In the Greek, it's hogyos, is the adjective, holy. The hogioi are the saints, the ones who are made holy by the Lord Jesus Christ, the ones who are sanctified by his work, the ones who are washed in his blood. It is these who are fitted for the worship. It is these who sing God's praise. Two things are declared about God. First, he is exalted above all else, for he is in a class by himself. He's the Almighty. The Greek is Pontocrator. the Almighty, the one beyond whom there is nothing. This is the top. You don't go any higher. Second, he is eternal. And you notice if you watched read through the passage carefully that that theme recurred at least three times through the passage. the eternity of God. And that formula that we encountered first in Revelation 1. 8, who was, who is, who is to come. Uh here is God, the one who seated upon this throne, ties together the past, the Old Testament, the work of Christ, the New Testament. The coming of Christ and the eternal state. The Almighty God and the eternal God. And most importantly for us, he is coming. Now the 24 elders join the great choir to declare the worth of the one who sits on the throne. In a very real way, the living creatures have issued the call to worship, and now the creatures respond. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. Nothing came into being without The plan and purpose of God, putting it into being. And in the creation, the sovereign God from his throne spoke, and it came into being. Out of nothing. I'm a fan of oratorial music, and my favorite oratorial probably is Johannes Brahm's German Requiem A great expression of the resurrection, a great expression of the transience of human life, and yet the eternal purpose of God in preserving his own. This text, uh Worthy Art Thou, is a great chorus, and it's organized, I think, wonderfully, and I'm I'm making some of this stuff up, but it has a good purpose. It's organized, and this is the part I'm not making up, it's organized as a fugue. A fugue, you begin the theme, you state the theme. And then the four parts come in on top, kind of on top of one another. And so you have, worthy art thou to be praised. He said, Lord of the worthy art. And then the parts begin to interlace with one another. And I like to think of it, here we have these four living creatures 24 elders, these various groups, and they're all doing their parts. And they're all singing the worth of the eternal God. Now, do you know where the word worship comes from? In the older English, it's worship. It's declaration The worth of the one you are honoring in worship. That's your business as God's people to declare the surpassing worth. Of the one who created all things. And if you've read through the passage and followed carefully, you probably have noticed That Christ seems a little bit absent. Did you notice that? Well, I've got news for you, and we'll get to it at the table. Chapter 5 is all about Jesus. Jesus Christ. In chapter 4 we sing, worthy art thou, for you created all things. What do we sing in chapter 5? Worthy is the Lamb. who was slain. And there really pictures overlays, if you will. The Creator God His worth, the Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, overlaid over the creation, forming one great picture. Would you pray with me? Father, we come Before these very visual and striking images, and we recognize behind them all your greatness We are to be in awe of you. We are to be in reverence before you. We sing that you are holy, holy, holy. We sing that you are the one who is worthy of our praise and our worship. Now, Father, seal these things to our hearts And help us to orient ourselves in response to your spirit working in our hearts and lives. Be true worshipers, and that our lives may reflect our rightful position in praise and worship around your throne. As we await the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, we will be faithful there until He comes. We ask it for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen.