Well we will turn now to God's Word, and you can see in your bulletin this morning that we're in Numbers chapter six. Numbers chapter six. And I'll be reading verses twenty-two to twenty-seven. What I suspect will be a familiar text to you. So stand with me now for the reading of God's Word. Number six, beginning at verse twenty-two. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, Thus you shall bless the sons of Israel. You shall say to them, The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance on you and give you peace. So shall they invoke my name on the sons of Israel, and I then will bless them. Let's join together in prayer. Our great God, we love you. We love your word. And we need your spirit if we are to grow now in that love and in faith and in hope. For Jesus' sake, may it be so and amen. And you may be seated. Well, I think I've mentioned on previous occasion when I've been with you before, that I had the opportunity in high school and then in college To sing in a variety of choral ensembles. And you know, many of the great choral works are nothing other than scripture texts set to music. And that's why to this day there are several Scripture texts that when I read them or I hear them read, I hear in my mind, in my mind's ear. arrangements, musical arrangements of them that I have heard or sung in the past. There are several passages like that. This is one of them. In number six, if you have ever sung in a choir yourself for any length of time, it's not at all unlikely that you have sung an arrangement of this passage of scripture. It is a choral favorite. Lots of composers have composed music for it. Lots of choirs have sung it. And I would say that that's a testimony to the fact that there is something about this passage. I think many of us would say that this passage of Scripture has the effect of arresting us. Stops us. It gets our attention. And I'd say that it does that both because of its content and its context. It's content in that there is something about these words. They resonate with our souls. There is something here. In this text that touches upon the deepest longings of our souls. These are beautiful words So the content matters, and as I said, so does the context. These words seem to come out of nowhere as you're reading along. You know, the people of Israel get to Mount Sinai all the way back in Exodus 19. They don't leave Mount Sinai until later in Numbers 10. And everything in between, all the rest of Exodus, the whole of Leviticus, and then the first part of Numbers, that is simply a record. Of everything that happened and everything that was revealed at the mountain. And I think we can be honest that large portions of that record are not exactly gripping drama. The end of Exodus, all of Leviticus, first part of Numbers, there are large parts of that record. That strike us as somewhat foreign today, given our 21st century New Covenant sensibilities. And that's true of the first part of Numbers. And so you're reading along. Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and then the first part of chapter 6, all the way down to verse 21, and then boom, all of a sudden, seemingly out of nowhere. Verses 22 to 27. Words that practically leap off the page into your own heart. Words that might have been written yesterday. And so for that reason too, that is to say, where this passage sits in Scripture, for that reason too, it stops us. It grabs us, it gets our attention, it makes us reflect. This passage is sometimes referred to as the aeronic benediction, not the ironic benediction, although I suppose if we stopped and thought about it, we might find some irony here. But no, it is the Aaronic Benediction, referring to Aaron and his sons, because they were the priestly family in Israel. within the tribe of Levi, and this would have been one of their responsibilities, one of their priestly duties, to pronounce a benediction over God's people, the people of Israel. To pronounce a benediction that was, and it still is, to speak a word of blessing. over a particular person or people. It's in some formal way to wish them well. to wish them well. And that's a common enough aspect of human experience, especially, I suppose, Irish experience. It's a delightful thing, let me say, to do a Google search on Irish blessings. And so you come up with something like, may the road rise to meet you. I'll spare you my Irish accent. May the wind be always at your back. May the sun shine warm upon your face, and rains fall soft upon your fields. And until we meet again, may God hold you in the hollow of his hand. Another one was, may you live as long as you want and never want as long as you live. And then there's, may the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past. So there you have a sample of blessings. There's also the flip side, there are not only blessings, there are curses Which is the flip side, it is in some formal way to wish others ill. This is the way Christy and I were toasted at our wedding reception by my best man. May those who love us love us. And those that don't love us, may God turn their hearts. And if he does not turn their hearts, may he turn their ankles. so that we will know them by their limping. It was a tender moment indeed. So in that case, you're wishing others ill more happily. To bless is to wish others well But of course, it's one thing for an Irishman to wish his friend well. It's one thing for the best man to raise his glass. And toast the happy couple, it is a very different thing when the blessing, when the benediction comes from God Himself. And it's pronounced by God over His covenant people, over His redeemed people. In that case, the wishing well. It comes with an authority and with a certainty that a mere human wish could never have. And if if you've begun reading the Bible before you get to number six, you've already seen that. You've seen it back in Genesis When the patriarchs, when men like Isaac and Jacob blessed their sons. There they are pronouncing benedictions. And it's clear as you read their words. that those are no mere human words that Isaac and Jacob are speaking. To be sure, Isaac and Jacob are mere men, and they're the ones who are saying the words, but it's clear as you read them. But those are prophetic words. That is to say, those are benedictions that come ultimately from God Himself. And they are words from God about how he intends to keep his promises. Which are promises to bless. Well, it's the same thing here in number six. To be sure, mere men. Aaron and his sons will be the ones who speak these words. That's the instruction. They're the ones who will pronounce the blessing, but it's clear. Ultimately, it's not Aaron and his sons who are the source of benediction. It's the Lord Himself. And you see that clearly if you look at the text. Look at the way it begins in verse 22. The Lord spoke to Moses. Moses saying. Now, that's not unusual language as you read through the law of Moses. We read that again and again. The Lord spoke to Moses saying. The Lord spoke to Moses saying. But don't just skip over that. That's telling. That tells us that these are divine words. And sure enough, the benediction that's given will be a divine word. So it's a word that comes from the Lord to Moses. Moses is then to take that word and, as it were, pass it on to Aaron. Because Aaron and his sons will be the custodians of this word of blessing. That's what it says in verse 23. Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying Thus you shall bless the people of Israel, you shall say to them, and then the blessing itself follows. Six ingredients in the blessing, two each in these three verses. So we'll begin in verse 24. The blessing begins: The Lord bless you. The Lord bless you. In other words, may He grant you what you need, what you long for, what you delight in. May He provide for you May all of that come true for you. And of course, then as now, the blessings of the Lord run the gamut. Spiritual blessings, earthly blessings, ordinary blessings, extraordinary ones. As James says, every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father, and that was just as true then. for the people of Israel. So to say this, to say the Lord bless you, it amounted to saying to the people of Israel, may you be satisfied. May you find yourself satisfied in the Lord and by the Lord's provision. May He bless you and then Verse 24 goes on, may he keep you. May he keep you. In other words, may he guard you. And the implication is, and this as well is just as true today, God's people need that. We need to be kept, we need to be guarded. Because inwardly we're prone to wander, we need to be guarded from ourselves. And outwardly we're threatened, and that in a host of ways, and that was true for Israel, and so it makes perfect sense. That that should be built into the blessing. May the Lord keep you in the face of all of the threats that you encounter. Verse 25, the blessing goes on. May the Lord make his face to shine upon you. May he make his face to shine upon you, which is about as beautiful an image as you will ever find of what we long for. An image of what it means for God to show his favor, the image is of the shining, the brightness of his face, as he looks upon you with love. Spurgeon called it the divine smile. And that's a wonderful way of capturing it Beautiful language. And so it's no wonder that you keep encountering that language over and over again as you read the Old Testament, especially in the poetry of the Psalms. For example, Psalm 31. Here is David praying. He says, Make your face shine on your servant. Save me in your steadfast love. That's Psalm 31, 16. Make your face shine on your servant. Save me in your steadfast love. And that reminds us that The shining of God's face. That isn't just some nice extra. Life is okay, but Wouldn't life be even warmer and fuzzier if the Lord were to shine and smile upon me? No. This is life and death. David is saying, make your face shine upon me. Would you save me? The point is that the people of God left to themselves are in darkness. And so the the shining of the face of God is salvation for them. And it's the same thing here in the Benedict. May the Lord make his face to shine upon you in the darkness in which you find yourself apart from him. We see the same imagery later in Psalm 44. Here's a psalm that's reflecting upon Israel's history. Early on in the Psalm, it's reflecting upon that moment in Israel's history when they came into the land and they conquered it. And the question is now, how did they pull that off? How is it that the people of Israel were able to move into that land and conquer these peoples that might have struck them with fear? Here's the answer. Psalm 44, verse 3. Not by their own sword did they win the land. Nor did their own arm save them, but your right hand and your arm and the light of your face For you delighted in them. That's the explanation. How was Israel able to go in and win the land? Answer. The divine smile. God looked upon them, he shone upon them with his love. You see it again in Psalm 80. There it's a refrain. Over and over again in the Psalm. It says this: Restore us, O God, let your face shine, that we may be saved. Psalm 80. Or think in this connection about Proverbs 16, verse 15. In the light of a king's face there is life. In the light of a king's face, there is life. How much more must that be true of the king of the universe? In the light of his face, there is eternal life. And one more text in this connection. Listen to Daniel praying. Daniel 9, verse 17. Here is Daniel. Thinking about the land that they had to leave behind. Thinking about the temple that's now in ruins. How does Daniel pray? What is it that he wants from God? He says, Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate. Daniel thinks about the land. He thinks about the temple, which is desolate. And what does he want? What does he ask? Make your face shine. Because that is God's favor. That's what they need. That's what will lead to restoration after all. So you see just how meaningful this language is in our priestly benediction. May the Lord make his face to shine upon you. That is life and death. And then that same verse, verse 25, goes on, may he make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. And be gracious to you. There's the same idea, just without the image. The grace of God. In other words, may the Lord show you his favor, though, people of Israel, you do not deserve it. The grace of God. Then verse 26, one more verse in our blessing. It begins: May the Lord lift up his countenance upon you. There's the imagery of the divine face again. May he lift up his face. May he lift up his countenance upon you. And it's more than just, may he look up and see that you're there. Of course, God knows that the people of Israel are there and that they're in desperate need of his care. The idea is, again, may he lift up his countenance upon you and look upon you with love. May he notice you with a determination to rescue you, to bless you. It's the way Exodus 2 ends. Flipping back to Exodus, you know, there the people of Israel are in bondage and they're crying out. They're groaning. And Exodus 2 ends with this wonderful understatement: the Lord saw. He heard. He heard their groaning. The Lord saw. See there, it's not just, oh yeah, he took notice. He knew what was going on. No, the Lord saw. As their covenant God, as the God who was determined to step in them and grant them all that He'd promised to give That's what it means for him to lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. That's the way verse 26 ends. May he lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Peace. That's not just the last thing that's mentioned in the list. In a way, that's the summary of the whole. Because what is peace, biblically speaking? It is nothing less than the fullness of life, life with God, enjoyed with God's people, enjoyed in God's world. May he give you peace. So there you've got the blessing, piece by piece, verses 24 and 25 and 26, and then verse 27 The Lord, having just spelled out how he wants his people to be blessed, what he wants the benediction to be, then in verse 27, he gives us a glimpse. and to the significance of the blessing. Because he says this in verse 27, Aaron and his sons having said these words, So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel. So shall they invoke or put my name Upon the people of Israel. Think about it. Aaron and his sons are to bless the people by saying these words. And the Lord is saying: whenever they do that, It's as if my name will be written on them. It will come to be inscribed on this people that they are mine and I am theirs. I am their God. Now, stop and think about that. Obviously, in a sense, that was already true of Israel Israel already had the name of their covenant God written on them. In a sense, that was true going all the way back to the call of Abram. And yet, isn't it the pattern of true religion, and this is still true today, that um Once for all, inauguration gives way to repeated renewals and reminders. That which happens at the beginning as a breakthrough. Once for all. Then over and over again, as life goes on, as history goes on, it's renewed, and God's people are reminded that it's true. And that's the case here. The people of Israel were the people of the Lord from the beginning. But over and over again there were to be these renewals, these reminders for Israel's sake. God wasn't going to forget. But Israel was prone to forget. And so they needed to be reminded. And the benediction was one of the ways that they would be reminded. And so it's not as if between the benedictions they would have become any less the people of the Lord. That was an objective state of affairs, not something that increased or diminished. But what did tend to diminish was their sense that it was true. And so they needed to hear it again. And that's the point. Whenever Aaron and his sons would speak these words, they would hear it again. They'd be reminded again, oh, that's right. We bear the divine name. God has placed his name upon us. And so it's just another way. And there were so many of these ways in which the Lord condescended to care for his forgetful people. And then along with that goes the very end of verse 27. And I will bless them. That's how our text ends. So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them. So think about it. Aaron and his sons. are to pronounce the word. They're to say, may the Lord bless you. And then the Lord says, and that's exactly what I'm going to do. I will bless them. Precisely because these are the people that bear my name. I will bless them. I will keep my promises. And in the Hebrew, the pronoun there, the I, is emphatic. I myself, I will be the one to bless them. And so that's why I say in this text, there's no question who the real blesser is. Even if Aaron's the one who's standing up there and saying it, the Lord himself is the source of this word. And he is the one who promises to keep it. I myself will bless them. And it's that divine promise that makes all the difference. If it were just a human wish and nothing more, there'd be a fair amount of uncertainty about it. So, for example, if I wish you that Irish blessing, may the wind be always at your back, I want that for you. But I can't promise what the wind's going to do. I don't control the wind. And I don't know what the one who does control the wind is going to do with it. For all I know, in terms of your earthly fortunes, the wind is going to be in your face and it's going to be strong. For all I know, the wind is going to blow your house down, like it did in Job. So I wish you well. May the wind be always at your back. And that means a great deal to me now that I've taken up cycling. It's a wonderful benediction. May the wind be always at your back, especially on the way home. But I can't promise that. You can't promise that. Because we don't have that kind of power, we don't have that kind of knowledge. But when the blessing is a divine word with a divine promise that's backing it up, then you have that sense of confidence, that sense of conviction. Which is another reason why this passage thrills our souls. This is one of the reasons why So many have written music for a text like this one, because this isn't mere wishful thinking. This is divine pronouncement plus divine promise, and there is nothing better than that. Which brings us to today. We've looked at the benediction piece by piece. We've looked at the promise that backs it up. And it's thrilling. Well then it's perfectly understandable that we reach the end of a text like that and say, well, where does that leave us? What are we today to make of this priestly blessing from the days of Moses and Aaron and the old covenant? Because the fact is we're not living in those days now. So here are these words, these beautiful words, they resonate with our souls. And so we say, well, we want a high priest We want a high priest who will say these things to us. Where's our high priest? And the answer is he's in heaven. We want a high priest. The good news is that we've got one. The New Testament teaches that we have a high priest who blesses us. The book of Hebrews especially teaches us that, the scripture of assurance that Tom read earlier from Hebrews 9. Referred to our high priest. It's as if the writer of Hebrews comes alongside of us when we're saying, Oh, we want the high priest, and he says, Well, you know, you've got one. You've got a high priest in heaven now, a high priest who's higher than Aaron ever was. And you can be sure that he blesses the people of God now. You can be sure that he pronounces the benediction And would you believe we get a glimpse of that in the New Testament? The very end of the gospel according to Luke. What happens? The very end of chapter 24. After his death, after his resurrection, after all that time he spends with them. Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them. And while he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven, and they worshipped him. And returning to Jerusalem with great joy, they were continually in the temple blessing. God. That's the end of Luke 24. That's our high priest. There he is, before he goes, giving us a glimpse of his heavenly ministry. He raised his hands and he blessed them. Because that's one of the things a high priest does. Christ is our high priest. And let me say, it is a glorious thing to take what we learn of Christ in the New Testament. The revelation of his person, his work, to lift it as if it were some kind of transparency and to set it down over Numbers 6 so that it's resting there over your Bible. So that you read number six now, but you're reading it through that transparency. You're reading it through the lens of what you know about Jesus. And it is a glorious thing. It's an oh my moment. Oh my. Because think about number six again. You have God Himself. Addressing Moses with words to give to Aaron. Aaron is to speak the benediction. God, Prophet, Priest, Word of Blessing God, prophet, priest, word of blessing, Jesus Christ is every one of those four. He is God himself, because he's the second person of the Trinity. He is the prophet of God. Because by his word and spirit he reveals the will of God for our salvation. He is the priest of God. Because he's the one who came and laid down his life for us and who intercedes for us now. And he's even the word of blessing. He is himself the living benediction. He is the word of God. John 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He is the living benediction. Listen to the way Paul puts it in 2 Corinthians 1. Paul says, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, whom we proclaimed, was not yes and no, but in him it is always yes, for all the promises of God find their yes in him. Think about it. What is a word? A word is something that comes forth from a person in such a way as to reveal the mind and the will of that person. And that's why it makes sense to call Jesus the Word. The divine son in his very person reflects the Father. And then he comes on a mission from the Father. And in that very mission, he shows us what the Father's will is, and what is the Father's will, but that Numbers chapter 6 come true. And so it's in Christ that the benediction of Aaron comes true in all of its parts And so you can go through number six, that blessing, all six of its ingredients, and one by one you say, oh my. It came true in Christ. So the benediction begins. The Lord bless you. Well, that came true in Christ in spades. How does Paul put it in Ephesians 1? God has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. The blessing goes on. May he bless you and keep you. That came true in Christ. We are kept in him. Jesus Himself said, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Keep going. May the Lord make his face to shine upon you. Listen to Paul in 2 Corinthians 4. He says, God, who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That one came true too. In Jesus we have the divine smile. May He be gracious to you. There's the fourth ingredient of the blessing. That came true in Christ. Listen to Paul in 2 Corinthians 8. You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich, Yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. Again, may the Lord lift up his countenance upon you. Is there any clearer evidence? That the Lord looked up and saw his elect ones in misery and saw them with love. Is there any clearer evidence than Christ Himself? Who came from God. And then finally, the last one, may He give you peace. We have peace in Christ. He promised it. He said, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Numbers six came true in Jesus. Well, then it's no wonder That his apostles, those men who were with him from the beginning, it's no wonder that they learned to think this way. And to speak this way. It's no wonder that in the apostolic letters of the New Testament, they greet people this way. They greet their readers with words like, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, from the beginning of redemption. There was grace and peace for the people of God. That was the benediction. May grace and peace be yours, but now it's put in Christian terms. Grace and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So now the apostles are thinking this way. They're greeting this way, and sure enough, they're blessing this way. Because now their benedictions at the end of their letters are things like this. 2 Corinthians 13, verse 14. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ And the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. There's the end of 2 Corinthians. There's Paul's apostolic benediction. Do you see what that is? That Trinitarian benediction. That is Numbers six, come of age. No wonder then That the apostles pronounced words like those, and ministers to this day are pronouncing those words still. Not as priests. We're not priests. Tom will read the benediction later. He's no priest. Neither am I. But today, the one who reads the benediction, he's pointing the church up to the one who is our high priest in heaven now. Not taking his place, but pointing us up to Christ who blesses us now. Amen. So let me wrap up this morning with just a few words of application for us. First of all, let me say something about the importance of the benediction. When the benediction is pronounced, hopefully you see There's a whole lot more that's going on than just the end. I think of um a far side comic strip. Maybe you remember it. It was one of his two paneled strips. The first panel was What We Say to Our Dogs. And the other was What Our Dogs Hear And so in the first panel, the dog's owner is speaking English to his dog. Bad dog ginger. No, you shouldn't have done that. Bad dog ginger, no bone. But the next panel is what dogs here? And what is ginger here? Ginger here is blah blah blah blah blah ginger, blah blah blah blah blah bone. We tend to treat the benediction at the end of the worship service that way What the elder says is, may the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you now and forevermore. Amen. And what we hear is. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. The service is over, you can sit down now. But it means so much more than that. And you see that if you stop and think, if you stop and notice, all of the ways in which the benediction is connected to different aspects of our Christian life. It's tied in with our piety in a host of ways. So, for example, the benediction is tied into the very promises that we've embraced. Because just to hear it said, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Spirit be with you, that's to be reminded. Oh, yes, God has promised that. That's why we don't sit down after the benediction and wonder, gee, I hope it takes. No, we sit down with a sense of certainty and conviction, because just to hear it. is to be reminded God has promised it. It's also tied to prayer. Just to hear it said, the Lord bless you and keep you and make his face to shine upon you, that encourages us. Not just when we're together as a congregation, but throughout the week, on our own and in our families, that encourages us to pray, to say, Lord, yes, would you do that? Would you bless? Would you keep? Would you shine upon us now in our darkness? It's also tied to praise. Because when he does that, when he blesses and keeps and shines, well, we praise him for that. We give him the credit that he's due. The benediction is also tied to your baptism. When you were baptized, the name of God was invoked over you. His triune name, the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, was put on you once for all. But remember what I said before. Once for all, inauguration gives way then to regular, repeated renewals and reminders. God hasn't forgotten that you're baptized. He hasn't forgotten that you bear his name, but you're prone to forget. And so the benediction is pronounced. And whatever the benediction may be, Numbers 6, 2 Corinthians 13, whatever the benediction is, it rightly has the effect of reminding you: oh, that's right. I have that name written on me. The name of God. So I say to you, take this to heart. It is an important word And in a host of ways it can encourage and challenge you. And then finally, let me say something about who pronounces the benediction, who blesses the people of God. And in this respect, the benediction is no different from the sermon, from the Lord's Supper. Think about it, the sermon. I'm up here preaching to you now. And so you hear these words as, in a sense, my words. But you know, I hope you know, that insofar as the sermon is faithful to the scriptures, Ultimately, it's not me that you're hearing. It's the Lord Himself who is addressing you. And you need to receive the sermon in that spirit It's the same thing with the Lord's Supper. In a few minutes, we'll celebrate that sacrament. And I'll step down and I'll be the one to Say the words and pray, and my brothers will distribute the elements. But it's not Paul Wolfe who's saying, come and eat. It's the Lord Jesus Christ Himself who says, come eat, and you need to hear those words in that spirit. I say all of that because it's the same thing with the benediction. Tom today will bless this congregation. He will give us our benediction. But ultimately it's Jesus himself. It is the Son of God who is putting the name of God upon the congregation. And so I say to you, when you leave this place today, You will have had the divine name spoken over you once again. It is a name that you bear. And ultimately it is Jesus Christ reigning in heaven now who will have said it. And that's why I say to you, when we reach that moment, not just this week, but every week, listen. Listen to the benediction and believe. And let's pray together now to that end. Our Lord Jesus Christ, we Worship you, just as the disciples worshiped you that day when you ascended from their presence. And our great God, we bless you today, just as the disciples that day blessed God for his grace and peace. Lord Jesus, we boast in you today. You are God. And you are prophet and you are priest and you are the living benediction. It has all come true in you And so we pray that you'd help us to take these things to heart, to listen, to believe the benediction, and to go on our way, blessed indeed. And we ask it for your glory and for our good. Amen.