Well, Peter wrote to our brothers and sisters in the first century, quoting first from Isaiah, All flesh is like grass, all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. Like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk that by it you may grow up. into salvation. It's our privilege this morning to receive that spiritual milk and meat from our dear friend Pastor Glenn Connect. It's a we're privileged and blessed to have uh Glenn and Betty Jane uh uh Betty Jane as a member of our congregation, Glenn as a member of Presbytery, and to have them worship with us uh every Lord's Day. And as I mentioned Last week the session agreed that uh this year we would ask Glenn to bring God's word every fifth Sunday on a text or a topic of his own choosing. I I tried to prod him into divulging it last week, but he wouldn't be prodded. But we've blown your cover with the bulletin, so you already see at least what the text And the title of the sermon are, Dear Brother, we look forward to receiving God's word through you. Daniel, would you come up? Daniel's gonna strong arm Glenn up onto the pulpit here. Well, I'll get this. You're welcome. I appreciate that help, Daniel. It reminds me of the time uh In South Carolina when we invited my 96-year-old missionary friend, veteran, Dr. William Miller, whose name you may know uh to come and preach. He was in Philadelphia. And his friend said, you'll die if you go to South Carolina. And He preached both morning sermons, taught a Sunday school class. We had 14 Iranians for Sunday dinner. He talked with them, took a nap. taught the seminar hour at five in the evening sermon. All that at 96. And we had to sort of prop him up. It reminded me when Daniel took hold of me. I'm not 96 yet, but uh my legs feel that way sometimes. But nevertheless The first words at the question and answer period following the evening service were, my friends in Philadelphia said this would kill me. And here I am, big as life. So Serve the Lord as long as you can with all your strength and all your heart. It's a great privilege for me to be invited by the pastors and the session. to fill this pulpit. We have high esteem for the preaching of this church and I regularly, morning and evening, profit from it, and my soul profits as well as my wife's spiritual life. We're so thankful to be with you. And and now this is a cherry on top of the Sunday to have a brief chance to speak God's word to you. Would you stand for the reading of the scripture, please? John chapter 13. We'll start the uh Pericope there at verse thirty-one of chapter thirteen. This is the word of the Lord So when he had gone out, Jesus said, Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glory him, glorify him immediately. Little children, I shall be with you a little while longer. You will seek me And as I said to the Jews, where I am going, you cannot come. So now I say to you, a new commandment I give to you That you love one another as I have loved you. That you also love one another. By this, all will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you shall follow me afterwards And Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for your sake. And Jesus answered him, Will you lay down your life for my sake? Most assuredly I say to you, the rooster shall not crow Till you have denied me three times. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself That where I am, there you may be also. And where I go, you know, and the way you know. And Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? And Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Oh God, the Holy Spirit, the Illuminator of the Holy Word, breathe. From the Lord and through the prophets and the fathers and the apostles given to us. Breathe now upon the ministry of the Word, that it may truly be the Word of God as the oracles of God to our souls. Grant us receptive hearts. We pray in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. The last time I had this great joy, we had messages on the fourth commandment. And you were responsive and encouraging. And I saw in you a love of the commandments, the decalogue, that wonderful set of rules that God's given to his church through Moses. and repeat it again in the New Testament. But did you know that there was another commandment Many others that our Lord Jesus gave in his teaching to the disciples and the crowds And that these commands which Jesus gives in addition to the Decalogue These commands are as authoritative for us, as useful for the kingdom of God as the Ten Commandments. I don't know if anyone's ever exactly numbered the commands that Jesus gave, but I know one that for a long time I forgot. My dear wife in the evenings reads great things to me. It beats TV all hollow. Lately she's been in the books of John Bunyan. I thought I knew something about him until we got deeper in, and I discovered there That he paid much attention to this command of Jesus in John 14, 1. Let not your heart be troubled. It's all through his writings. And I, who was a would-be student of Bunyan, somehow had missed that until God's appointed time came. But this word, let not your heart be troubled, is as important for us now as it was for the disciples. Now maybe I can illustrate what's meant by this, let not you're troubles, by this very situation that called forth the command from our Lord Jesus Christ. Here he's announcing to them that this dear master, their beloved friend, their savior, was about to depart from them. For over three years they had eaten most of their meals, slept alongside him in the open country, or wherever lodging was given to them. They heard his teachings, they asked him questions, they saw him walk on the water. Now he says, I'm going away. Hard to take. You've heard those words from a friend too. I'm going away They're hard words to hear. They create an emotional reaction in you of disappointment, maybe even dejection, depression. They have an effect on us. And then, as if that were not enough of a blow for the disciples, he speaks to Peter. And Peter, furthermore. You're going to deny me, even this night, this holy night, when you have confessed such loyalty to me. You will betray me three times. Can you imagine Jesus saying that to you? What would your reaction be, stunned, sorrowful? Sorrowful. Well, I think that illustrates to us Jesus Desire that there not be this dejection in the Christian life or the life of his disciples Immediately after those hard words, he says, let not your heart be troubled. It seems almost impossible to hear those words, but they are here. They are important. Maybe I could try to define what I think Jesus is teaching us. Is he not saying that our heart where the trouble comes is really a summation of our mind, our will, our emotions. It's the core of our being. It's the chamber in which we make deep decisions. That's the place that gets troubled. And the troubling is somewhat like a tempest that came upon a pond that was peaceful and quiet and was suddenly whipped into waves. And water splashing everywhere. It's tumult coming to a placid person A troubled heart. He said, I don't want you to have troubled hearts now, because I've said this to you. Don't give way to it at this time. You see, the opposite of that is peace in the heart. And peace comes to you when your will is aligned with the will of God. Then there's a peaceful surface to the pond of your life. So it's important here for us to see just what he's saying. He's saying I want my disciples to be full of joy. I want them to have the peace of God on their countenance. And when I look at their foreheads, I don't want to see wrinkles and furrows in their brow. I want to see a reflection of the countenance of God. That's what I want for you. Don't let this news spoil you now. We've come this far. Let's go all the way together. Now, how can I explain this word? It comes to us in a way that we have tended to forget it. Let not your heart be troubled. Explain it. Well, where does the trouble come from? Sometimes trouble comes from God. That is, he disciplines us, perhaps with affliction. We don't know just what way he will discipline us, but he allows troubles to come upon us for his own reasons. And David said, it was good that I was afflicted, because I have learned to keep your law. And David was visited with the displeasure of God after his horrible, sinful caper. But he said afterwards, oh, restore to me the joy of my salvation. Sometimes troubled heart is visited by God upon us to get us to examine things about our life or to see duties that we've been omitting. Love we have not been giving to others. And sometimes our hearts get troubled by Satan He has fiery darts, temptations, deceptions, persecutions, things he can send at us that we need the armor of God for. So Satan can visit you. He has visited you with thoughts, with doubts, with offenses. And his goal is to trouble your heart, because if he troubles your heart, you are not as effective in the work of Christ and in the witness for Christ. There's a source of the troubled heart. We need to guard against it. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. So we need to resist that his recognize them for what they are when Peter suggested an easier way than the cross to the Lord Jesus. He saw the enemy behind Peter and said, get behind me, Satan. And we must say the same. Sometimes our hearts are troubled by enemies of God and the gospel. That is It makes me think of when I was a a new convert, age seventeen. I worked at a certain social agency as a lifeguard after school, and one of the staff members was a a minister. He was working in this social agency. But he was a liberal minister, I fear. And when I returned to that job after my conversion, full of joy, the new blush of spiritual life upon my cheeks and in my heart. I told him what happened, thinking this minister will rejoice with me Oh, he said, this is a great tragedy. Your life is spoiled. Oh. It was one of the enemies of Christing seeking to trouble my heart, and it did. I got on the phone and called some of the elders of the church whom I knew well and had taken special interest in all six of us young boys who had given our lives to Christ that summer And they assured me. They comforted me. They said, no, you are on the right path. God brought you to that path. Give thanks. And I was greatly comforted and avoided a troubled heart. Thank the Lord. And sometimes The troubled heart can come from within us. You are a well-taught people, so I won't have to fear using this word. Uh concupiscence. You know that word. You maybe can't spell it, but you know it. Or you will look it up. Will they look it up? Yes they will. Did they look up Truncate? Con concupiscence. One struggles to find it's that core of original sin that poisons the inner life of the person. And even after conversion Though concupiscence is no longer dominant, is under the reign and restraint of the Holy Spirit, there is some remaining sin in us And it's uh it's a tough thing. I heard one minister say, Don't trust me till I've been in the grave three years. Imagine that. Concupiscence dies hard. And it's in us. We have to acknowledge it and recognize it. But that concupiscence can't give us lustful thoughts. And lustful ideas and maybe lustful actions. Terrible. You say, how could a believer do this or that or think this or that? Well, there's where it's coming from. Even within the soul, the heart can breed troubles, a troubled heart. Great difficulty. That comes, those troubles come from within us partly because of the ignorance we have about God. We don't know nearly enough about God to take advantage of who he is. I heard one woman speak about her pilgrimage with God. She said, I decided I wanted to learn more about God, so I would spend one year on each one of his attributes. One year on the goodness of God she would meditate, read, study her Bible until she had thought about his goodness up one side and down the other. How wonderful that is. Do you know God? Do you know him in the depths of your being? Is it a superficial, casual acquaintance you have with God? Ignorance of the covenant of grace is there. From your own soul comes uh situations uh that you wish did not come, you hated them I remember one meeting in which a prominent minister was answering questions from other ministers. And they said, what is your greatest frustration in the ministry? He said, it's my own finitude. The boundaries that my personhood put upon my life mean that I can't do and accomplish all I would like to. I am a finite creature. And that's my frustration. He seemed unwilling to settle for those restraints. We need to learn that. One of the greatest evils that can happen to a person is when he becomes wedded to his own will. That is, I must have it this way. It has to be that way. I know a man, a dear friend In his 90s now, who in his youthful ardor conceived of a company, a company that would Revolutionize warfare and transportation with new ways of transport He worked at least 60 years trying to get that company going. And it never went anywhere. It was the sorrow of his father's heart that his son had put his whole life and fortune into developing something that showed no promise and still does not. The last I heard, the remnants of that effort were up for sale. But who would buy it? But he was wedded to his will, his own will, and found it so hard to recognize that in the will of God this was not to be. Likewise I've known ladies, Christian women Who just had to have a child. Their friends were having children, even their family members. But God had not given conception to them for some reason. Now it's one thing to persist in your desire for a prayer to be answered. That's good. Persistence. What you don't want to do is insist. This has to be the way it will be. I must have a child. And great sorrow, the troubled heart, entered that home until her death. Don't wed your will, yourself to your will. Wed yourself to the will of God. And follow that will for peace. That's one way to avoid the troubled heart. Jesus said, don't let your heart be troubled. Think of it. Now, there is in this a sense of choice It's as if the permission is ours, whether to have a troubled heart or not. Don't let your heart be troubled. It's up to you and me to guard from a troubled heart. We can so easily think of ourselves as victims. That's a. a familiar, pleasant place to feel something. You can have self-pity about it and so on. And you think that the Troubled heart that comes from that is automatic and normal. No. Jesus said don't indulge in self-pity or victimhood When offenses come, when slights come, when hurts come, you and I have the decision. What are we going to are going to let them affect our heart? So that we walk around now for a long time with a troubled heart? No, he says, choose not to have a troubled heart. What a great thing that is for us to do. Now the Lord Jesus is so kind to us. He doesn't just give us a command. Let not your heart be troubled. But he gives us a remedy right away. And it's simple and clear. It's a two-fold remedy. Remember that you believe in God. He's talking here to Jewish disciples. who have been trained in the unity of God, the law of God, the ways of God The scriptures of God, they knew there is a God. It was not a question for discussion. You believe in God. Start there. Now. Believe that that same God has come to you, incarnate, in human form. With flesh and blood and has walked with you. I am He. Believe in me. In the same way that you believe in God. Believe in me, because. I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and whoever's seen me has seen the Father. Everything that the Father can do, I can do You see how he was creating and improving, increasing faith in the hearts of the disciples. There's the twofold remedy. Believe in God. You do that, start there, but have the faith to see that this matchless figure who has entered history who has made himself known to us, showed us his hands and his feet, who in his own flesh died for our sins. Know that that person, that is I, I am yours, I am God. Don't say show us the Father. If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. That's the two-fold remedy that he gives to us. How thoughtful of him. It's a remedy that everybody can apply and use. You can. You don't need to walk around with a troubled heart. If you do, it's your choice and your disobedience and mine if we choose that. Now I want to speak for a moment to those of you who are suffering now, maybe chronically suffering. I note from my email that two of our families have had auto accidents in the last two or three weeks. And the Williamson one sounds so hard. I'm sure the uh Larson accident was equally hard, though I don't know as much about it. But To you and to some of you have chronic pain and illnesses that will not go away and show no promise of doing so. What about my troubled heart, you say? Well In that, now I'm going to take an actual person. This is a person I knew well with a chronic illness. This person saw her illness as somehow wrapped up with a divine purpose for her. That her suffering was not a calamity that came upon her, but a platform in which she could glorify God. You see how that took away the troubled heart? The heart was never troubled because she saw purpose even in the suffering. That's not to make light of your suffering. No. I've suffered precious little in my life. And you've suffered much, many of you. The other thing for a chronic sufferer to remember, I think, is that For every believer who goes through the fire, there's an unbeliever going through A similar thing. These things are in parallel columns. And the difference between the believer Handling the suffering and the limitation and all the pain and struggle of it, the difference between the anger and bitterness that the unbeliever uh evokes. There's the witness. God is giving the world two things to Contrast how believers receive pain, difficulty, injury, loss, and how unbelievers do. And in the field of your own acquaintances, there are people who can make that comparison. They know people in both categories. And the witness is the difference in response Let me also, if I may, for a minute, speak to those of you who might fall into the category of backslider. You might not use that name. It's an old-fashioned word. Backslider is someone who once walked closely with Christ, but gradually cooled, and now maybe frequents the church irregularly. And now Kerr often is not reading his or her Bible and has a troubled heart. Backsliders have troubled hearts. They may see themselves as victims, or they may have a grudge against a church or a pastor or something. But they are victims and they are have been mistreated or unfairly treated. So If you were in that category, once you walked with the saints, you held sweet counsel with other believers, but that seldom happens anymore. I'm saying that you don't have to have a troubled heart. Jesus doesn't want you to. Because his glory partially depends And you're having peace. If you walk around with a troubled heart and you're known to be a Christian, even though backslidden, you're bringing some A bit of disgrace upon the countenance of God. He's glorified in your face shining. In your sweet love with your church and with your Christian friends and your Christian books and all the rest. So I say to you, come back to the cross, start where you left off, and repent of that backsliding. Come back to Christ. Start all over. It will be very sweet. And let me speak a word to the new convert. Some of you, especially the young, are recently come to Christ, and the rosy glow of conversion is upon you. This is the very time that the enemy will try to discourage you, to create a troubled heart. Don't let him do it. Do what I did. I did that much right. Anyway, I called my elders. Asked for their prayer, got their counsel, and got lifted out of what could have been a A terrible sort of defeat of grace in my young life. And a word too to the sojourners, the more mature members of the flock We, I'll put myself with you, we may have settled for the troubled heart as normal for the Christian life Well, we all have some hurts and scars and wounds, and I have mine, so I've got a troubled heart. You don't have to have that Someone said to me after our little party a few weeks ago, I'm sorry I didn't get to your party. And I said, well You know what? I don't keep a list of people who don't come to my parts. No, you're not on any list like that. You're not in bad graces. We'd love to have you come. But you haven't offended me and you don't need to feel guilty. Some of our older Christians They know all too well their missteps, their omissions over after the as they get toward the end of life But don't let your heart be troubled. Forget those. Put the past behind you. The future calls you to peace with God and with others. Well, let's ask the question in closing. What about Jesus? Did he ever have a troubled heart? Yes. We can find places in the New Testament where it says he was greatly troubled, he was greatly sorrowful, he wept. There are these places. All we have to do is look and see what he did. In each case He confessed his trouble. He admitted it. He faced it, I am troubled in spirit. Like when the Greeks came to him. He said, I'm troubled in spirit. And then He prayed and asked God to deliver him from the troubled heart. And Sometimes he asked for help, said to his disciples, watch with me, pray with me, because I'm in great danger of a troubled heart So don't be afraid to reach out to others and ask them to pray for you. And you will rejoice the way our Savior rejoiced. When each time he was lifted out of the veil of tears and sorrow, where he went sometimes And had the glad heart of the Son of God. I want you to have that same heart, that same gladness with which you serve the Lord. Amen.