Well it's a great joy to be with you all here tonight. I uh uh our church, the Bowie Church, as well as your church and Good Hope all came out of Wallace. And so when we come to when I come to visit one of these churches, I feel like I'm with relatives. It's like going to visit the cousins when I was a young young person. So uh it's a great joy to be here. I know that there's many new faces I don't know yet, but I hope to get to know you a little bit better. over this time. If you don't know why, let me let me pray. I know Tom, pray, let me pray for our word, our time in the word. Father, we praise you. We thank you for the gift of your word. Uh you've left a record for us to know you. And we ask now that you would do what we cannot do, that you would send your Spirit to work in our hearts to receive it, to love it, and to obey it, that we might see Christ more fully. We ask and pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, if you would please turn to John 5. Yes. Oh, okay. Okay, please stand. I'm going to read the Word of God from John five. After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool, an Aramaic. called Bethesda, which has five roof colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, The man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. They asked him, Who is the man that's who said to you, Take up your bed and walk. Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in the place. Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him, and this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus. Because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but is passed from death to life. Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. I was uh I had four children. Some of you may know some of my children. John Daniel Hollage, Mary Hollage. They've been on retreats with some of the students from here, and they always enjoy their time together. And My oldest is 25, just turned 25 years old, and my youngest is uh 17. And during that time, we've tried to get our kids to go to college. That wonderful process. of trying to find the right school to get the money that's necessary. And uh it's it's really a very uh challenging uh task. Trying to find the money to to be able to to get your kids to where you want to get them to go to school, to make sure they go to the right school. And as parents who love their children, you want to make sure you know they get the best as as much as possible. But as I thought about that, as I've thought about this process, by the grace of God, we have been introduced to the school of Christ. Christ. As he has drawn us to himself and made us new creatures in Christ, we've entered the school of Christ where we get to learn of Christ. That's the Great privilege that we have as the people of God. And sometimes that happens during the worship service with the exposition of the word. Sometimes it happens during a discipleship time where you're You're learning more about some aspect of the salvation that we have in Christ. But God's not restricted to those times. Not to say that the word doesn't oversee all of that, it doesn't inform everything, but sometimes just God's providence helps to drive home certain truths to us. And that's what happened with this passage here. In John 5. 25, it says, Truly, truly, I say to you, An hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. Now just on the surface, that's a fairly powerful sentence. Now, as as uh Mr. Clement said, I'm a PE teacher. I've dealt with students for 30 years. And uh whether you're a teacher or a parent, one of the things you always like is that when you ask your students or your children to do something, They actually do it. But I've had situations recently, particularly as a teacher, where I tell students what to do, and some aren't paying attention. And some are uh they hear what I say and they're staring right at me. I'm looking at them, and they're looking at me, and they just keep doing what they want to do. And it's so frustrating. My words are just empty to them. I thought of another situation that came to mind. I played basketball at some in high school. I enjoy college basketball. And about a year or two ago, there was a tribute to Mike Sheshewski, the coach of Duke basketball. He's won four national championships. Which is pretty big. It's pretty big in our time as far as basketball goes. And the old days John Wooden had 11 NCAA championships. I don't think anybody's ever going to match that. It'd be pretty hard to do it nowadays. But anyhow, Mike Zuszewski's won four championships, and one of the people paying tribute to him was Jim Calhoun, who was the former coach of Connecticut. Connected's men's basketball team. And what he said was that Mike Shushewski can impart his will on his players. Now any coach, that's what they want. That's what he wants. He wants to be able to part his will, his plan, his game plan on his players. There's a place where the players have to make a decision at different parts of the game, but generally you want them to follow your plan. That's what the coach is there for. It's kind of give a master plan of what's going on. But if you watch Mike Sheshewski on the sidelines, he doesn't always get what he wants. He yells at his players, he has to correct his players so that even he can't impart his will on these players. So these things kind of shed some light on this passage a little bit. I mean, Jesus is saying there's a time that's coming when the Son of God is going to speak to the dead, and they're going to hear him and they're going to live. Now, I don't know what your experience with death is. In God's providence, death has been a part of my life since I was a young child. When I was about four years old, I can remember living in Mount Rainier in a one-bedroom apartment with four kids It was a very happy time even though it was a little tight in there. But I can remember my mom crying. It was never I don't remember her ever crying besides that time. And it was years later that I realized what it was. Her parents had been killed in a car accident in Urbana, Illinois. Two years later, 50 years ago, my dad said to me as we were riding in the car, he said, Mom might die. A short time later, my mom did die. She left four kids. I was six years old, had a two-year-old sister, a one-year-old sister, and a five-month-old brother. And uh when my dad told me I started to cry. And then he started to cry. I'd never seen him cry before. You know, death is a very sad thing. It's a very unnatural thing apart from the fall. About seventeen years ago, I received a call from a mutual friend of Mark's and mine, and um he called on a Sunday night. said his dad had been killed in a car accident in College Park. And uh he was living in Texas. He came up, you know, for the arrangements and everything. And So that was Sunday night, Monday night, you know, we probably kept in touch, Tuesday night, Wednesday night. My dad happened to know his dad. So there was two viewings over in Beltsville. My dad went to the earlier viewing. I talked to him in between the two viewings, I went to the to the later viewing. And uh I'm thinking, is there anything I want to say to my dad? You know, this is when you come to those times you realize, you know, it's pretty important. Do I need to say anything? And uh that's Wednesday night. I go to work the next day. I'm still thinking about this. Does anything want to say to my dad? I come home from work and my wife's waving me off in the driveway. And she and I think And I I think of what's going on? So I get out of the car, I said, looks pretty serious. You said, Yeah, your dad died. So I don't say that to be morose. I don't say that to Kind of be a downer, but that's a reality that we live with all the time. The death is always there. And uh and it's something we need to think about. You know, you watch television and they don't bring it up. You know? It's misleading. You don't they don't make you think about well what am I gonna do for the rest of my life? That there's an end, kind of a sober, right, proper perspective. You know, the scripture tells us to number our days that we might apply ourselves to wisdom. So, death has been a big part of my life over those years. And when we think of death, part of what we think about with death. Is kind of a non-response. Even the Apostle Paul in Romans 4. 11 says, consider yourselves dead to sin. That you have no response to sin, that it's not going to affect you, it's not going to rule you. And that is truly an aspect of death. There's just this non-response. And that's part of what Jesus is getting at here. There's this These people who are dead have no response to God in and of themselves are going to hear the voice of God and they're going to live. But of course, the scriptures, particularly in Paul's epistles, it doesn't just talk about death, it talks about God's wrath. Recently, our pastor Mike Coleman went through the book of Romans. He preached through the Book of Romans. And as I thought of that, I thought, you know, Romans 1 to 3. It's like a diagnosis of the world. Okay? I'm going to make reference to this in a minute, but I had open heart surgery two years ago. I went through a lot of tests. I've had a fair amount of operations over the last 10 years. And uh I actually appreciate tests. I like it, I like to know what's going on with my body. But those tests, what they do is they tell you what's wrong with your body. It's a wonderful thing. It's a wonderful get from the Lord that in God's providence we have these kind of tests. But they diagnose what is exactly going on in your body, whether you have heart disease, whether you have a broken bone, whether you have torn ligaments, and and then they can do something about it. And God's word does that to us, particularly in Romans 1, but also in Ephesians 2. It diagnoses the human condition. And just to begin, it's interesting that there's nobody exempt, not even us. As Paul starts off in Romans 1, if you turn to Romans 1 with me. He says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness oppress the truth. And then, verse after verse, he goes through what he talks about: the sinfulness of man, the universality of sin, the total depravity of man. And that's the world we live in. Now, it's great to see so many young people out here tonight. We have a worship service in the evening, and unfortunately we have a fair amount of young people. But young people, I think there's an application right here I hope and trust that this is not what you do, but there's so many things in the world that will just take your your you think, man, I want to do this, I want to do that. And there surely is a place for ambition. and purpose in life, but to realize that we live in a sinful world, a world that in and of itself is under God's judgment. And that we too are a part of that. That we have that same disease that Paul is speaking of. And so in a sense, this world's not all a cra it's all crack it's it's cracked up to be. It's not to say that God does not give us good Things to enjoy, and the Christian of above all people can do that. He can enjoy all the good things there in this life. But that this is not heaven That you shouldn't try to make this your heaven. That as you as you make plans, as you seek God's calling in your life, that you realize, you know, I need the Lord. And that this is not my home if I'm a Christian. You know, that we look further on, we look towards heaven for our real home. But that you wouldn't be deceived by the flashiness of the things in life on television, in commercials, on the internet, that there's something more important going on in life. So, as Paul says in his epistles, he talks about the wrath of God in Ephesians, he says, we turn to Ephesians 2. Ephesians 2. 1, he says, And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. Now, as I'm speaking to this group, I assume I'm speaking to many believers. And we recently had a speaker, a man named Ralph Davis, who's written some Bible commentary. And Ralph Davis is a very funny man. He came and did a series called Great Gulps of the Bible, where he brought home large passages of the Old Testament to us. He's a very funny man. But one of his applications he would come up to over and over again is he said, he says, why did God write this? Could it be that God wrote this just for us to fall down and worship? And he was exactly right. When we think about where God has brought us from before we were in Christ to where we are in Christ. I know for some of us that's a hard transition. Maybe we came to Christ as a child, but to consider Consider the glories of what God has done. That He's taken us out of the kingdom of darkness, out of blindness, wandering around in life, and brought us to Himself by His almighty power. That we are those who had this transformation done, who heard the word of life from the Son of God, and we lived. That we really do deserve the wrath of God in and of ourselves, and yet we don't, because of Christ. Now, having been with Mike Coleman, our pastor, for thirty years, I've been the brunt of his teasing a lot. And uh when I was younger I used to like to go to the mall. I don't I don't like to go as much as I do now, as I used to. But when you go to the mall, if you sit down, you can watch people and you can make observations, and you can learn a lot about people just looking at them. You know, you can say, oh, they have a really good family relationship. Look how kind they are to each other. Or, man, that child really rules a roost over there. You can tell just by observations, just by watching people over a period of time. When you read the Gospels, you read, look at Jesus' life. If you just, if you read all the way through all four Gospels and you looked at what Jesus did, In every situation, Jesus was in control. He was usually calm, unless he's dealing with the Pharisees, and he's bringing judgment against her hypocrisy. But, you know, he comes up to this demoniac, this man who's breaking chains and lives in a cemetery, and he heals them. He's not afraid. He's in this storm that the men who are with him are fishermen. And they're panicking. And he's asleep. And he says, be still. That mighty power of God says, be still. And it's calm. And then they were more afraid. But time and time again, you see this with Jesus, his mighty power just ruling over creation, spiritual powers, healing people. You know, Isaiah 53 has this wonderful description of Jesus. You know, he was despised and forsaken of man. He was somebody that we wouldn't naturally have a tendency to go towards in of ourselves. But as you read the gospel, it's like these shots of glory come out. His power comes out, even in his humble estate. You know, one of the movie uh companies they have when they start a movie, they have this dark globe with pinholes, and inside there's a light, and these light beams shine out. And that's what it's like when you read the gospel about Christ. It's like you can't have Help us say, wait, whoa, who is this? In some ways, he's this humble, lowly person, and yet his glory is just shining out all over the place. But then we come to the cross. And Jesus in the garden, he's praying and he's sweating drops of blood. And he's in terror. It's like, wait, wait, wait, what, what? Here was this Jesus who was so confident in all these other things. And yet, when he goes to the cross, he's facing the cross. He's a wreck in some sense. I mean, think of the stress it must have been for blood to come out of his skin as he's praying, as he faces this reality of what he's about to do. And then the soldier said, surely this was a righteous man, as he's looking at the cross. But the reality is, he was taking Isn't it glorious? Isn't that amazing? Isn't that wonderful? When you've ever had any sense of your own sin, when you realize you've said something to somebody and you just you've torn them down and you've felt that. And you realize, I deserve to go to hell. I deserve it. Is there hope? We look to the cross. Look what Jesus did. Did. And that's just one sin that any sin that we commit is worthy of his wrath because he's perfect, he's holy, he's just. And yet, we look at the cross and we see that God was pouring out his wrath on Christ in our place. Now, I I've known Skip for a while, I've known Mark for a long time, I know met some of your elders for a fairly long time, and I'm sure that you are a well-educated Christian body. And fortunately, ours is very similar to yours in that way. And the sense is: what else is there to the Christian life now? Well, these truths. These truths about what Christ has done is something that should stir us up for the remainder of our lives That there's more to know about the love of Christ. There's more to know about the forgiveness of our sins. As we go on, as we confess our sins, as we see that Christ has paid for this, how deep his love is for us. And that should cause us to have great joy. Cause us to rejoice. You know, Ralph Davis was right. Sometimes, as the people of God, we need to just sit and ponder. You know, this is the season when so many are hearing about the birth of Christ. I was thinking this morning, you know, I'm sure you your your church has a heart for evangelism. But think of all the hymns that are going out over loudspeakers and restaurants and shopping malls, you know, born that man may no more may die? What it you know if the spirit is pleased to speak to that person. It's like, what what does that mean? I've never understood that. What does that mean? You know, joy to the world. And he starts and and the the hymn talks about the reversing of the curse, for as the curse is found, for as the curse is Is found, for as the curse is found. And the curse is found all over the world. And that's what Christ is doing. When he's healing all these people, when he's healing lepers and things like that, he's reversing the curse. I'm planning to be back with you all in January, and I have a little series on the Apostle Peter. Peter I love Peter. I I wouldn't I wouldn't probably pick him as my hero or as uh but you learn so much about the grace of God in Peter, his weakness. Peter's weaknesses. You know, that one one w the first example where Peter goes out, he's been fishing all night. He comes back, Jesus says, you know, can you put out in the out in the water a little bit? And he wants to start speaking to the people and he says, Peter, let's go out and we're gonna throw out your net and you're gonna get catch. And so Peter says, and maybe he's biting his tongue. We don't know exactly what Peter's thinking. He says, Lord, I was fishing all night. We caught nothing. But because you've said this, I'll do it. Okay? Good job here. That was very smart. He goes out and he gets the catch of a lifetime. His nets start to break. They call John, who's his partner in the fishing business, and he comes and their boats are sinking. What does Peter do? Depart from me from a sinful man. Think, what is going on there? As I thought about what was Jesus doing? He was reversing the curse. Remember, by the sweat of your brow? In Genesis 3, that work was going to be a burden in some sense. And he reverses it. He gets the, I mean, he just kills it. It's like an explosion of goodness in this one catch. And I think Peter was just cut to the quick. You know, maybe Peter thought, I had all these bad thoughts about what Jesus was saying. Jesus, you're the carpenter, I'm the fisherman. Peter never had a catch like that, probably until I think it's John 20 or John 21 when he gets another catch like that. But he was reversing the curse. That's what Jesus came to do. But that's what he's begun in our hearts. He started that process where he's changing us, he's conforming us to the image of his son. But particularly in that passage in John I read from John 5, we who were dead in our trespasses and sins have been made alive with Christ. By the power of the Holy Spirit. The same power that in Genesis 1 created the world. Let there be this and it happened. Let there be this and it happened. That Christ, when he came to save his own, they hear the voice of the Son of God, and they live. Now, so the first application is just to rejoice. You know, when you go to bed at night, think about my sins are forgiven. He'll never leave me nor forsake me because Christ took the wrath that I deserve to the uttermost. You know, sometimes we don't tie those knots loose ends up. If Christ took it all, there is none left for us. So that whatever we find ourselves in, whatever life situation, it's not his just wrath anymore if we're in Christ. It's his fatherly discipline. It's making us know how much he loves us in some sense. I know it's hard. But there's some incredible blessing he's bringing about in those situations. So there's hope. Paul says in Philippians 1:6, He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. Or I am sure that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. There's hope for tomorrow when you feel like everything in your life is just in disarray. There's no hope. The only reason there's hope is because Christ is who he is. That's it. But that we ought to think about that. You know, I'm sure that some of you have learned shorter catechism number one. What is the chief end of man chief man? Right. Now I think it may be sometimes, okay, I love report Reformed theology. I'm going to Reform Theological Seminary. But I think it sometimes, and I think Christians in general, don't get that enjoy him forever part. I'm not saying enjoy him in sin, but enjoy him in who he is. And we have this new nature that actually can appreciate that. We're the only ones who can. We're the only ones who can enjoy the good gifts that God gives in this life. As they're meant to be, in their right place. So rejoice in God's salvation. Rejoice in his forgiveness. You know? I'm really glad Mark told me that you have a time of prayer. I'll try to shorten this. I don't want to mess up your prayer time. But there's an application for our prayer time as well. You know, we uh I I rejoice that all my children are professing Christians. They they go to worship, they've come to the Lord's table, you know, but We there's elders in our church that their sons and daughters are far from the Lord. And it's a very sad thing, and I'm to weep with them. I'm to sympathize with them. But I think this reality that Jesus is the one who speaks life, should so much encourage us. It doesn't matter what our prayers are, but particularly in this, that he is the one who can give new life. I'm sure you have loved ones. You pray for their salvation. But we have access to the throne of grace, to the one who can do something. Who can change their heart? Who can break through that darkness? Who can break through that deadness and bring them to himself? And so, whatever our prayers are, when we go to prayer, we have to say, this is our God, this is my request, and then to put those two together. You know, sometimes God's re referred to as the maker of heaven and earth. And there's a little bit, there's something to think about too, but you know, that all the good things in the creation The world everything we've ever seen with our own eyes that God has been the creator. I mean the good things, the good gifts that we see. So When we go to prayer, that is who we go to. And then we have to kind of preach to ourselves. Like, you know, we have doubts, we have fears. It's like, we've got to remember: the wrath of God's been paid for me if I'm in Christ. Secondly, this is who I'm praying to. This is the God of the Bible who I'm praying to, who can do, as Ephesians says, exceedingly abundantly beyond all I ask for think. Isn't that a great line? Do you think about your prayers that way? You say, I pray for the salvation of this person. And I did this in college. This person, I prayed for this one person, and I thought, I was supposed to pray for him, I pray for his salvation. He's an elder in the PCA church now Now, I don't say that to boast. I'm an idiot in and of myself. But the Lord was so good. You know, he just we have need to have a sense of how great he is. So, just to encourage you in your prayer, so when we go to prayer, we're going to Almighty God, who can do exceedingly abundantly beyond all we ask or think, who can bring anybody to Himself. And we just need to wait on. It's his it's his power, it's his goodness. Now I do have to say that if there's anybody here that has not yet come to faith in Christ, that Christ's voice is so powerful that At the judgment, he's going to speak again, and the dead are going to be raised. And those, as he says here in verse twenty nine, are going to come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. There will not be one person who will not be under the scrutiny of Christ. That everybody Christ is the Lord of the whole earth. That everybody's going to have to give an account. And the question is, have you received that life? Have you been made new in Christ? That's the question You know, like I said earlier, I had a lot, I've gone through a lot of tests. It's always nice to know when you get the test, it's like, you're okay, Mr. Oledge, you're okay. It's like, ugh, good. You know? And that's and that's where when Paul says test to see if you're in the faith. It's a good it's great to do that. You know, all you're gonna do is have a confirmation. Yes, I'm in Christ. Yes, I am. Praise the Lord. But it may be that you need to say, I'm not? I spoke to a woman today. I'm sorry, I'll finish up here. I spoke to a woman this this afternoon. She was the head of a Sunday school and taught Sunday school And then she heard some things. She heard the gospel. And she realized something wasn't right. Here's this woman who had been attending church, had been going to church, and she Realize I don't know this. Now, praise the Lord, she came to Christ. She came to Christ in the midst of that. But it's always good just to see: am I in the faith? And we won't be disappointed if we're in Christ. We'll see that we are, by God's grace. I was going to read something about this glorious transformation about what happens when we when when God calls us from the dead and makes us alive. It's an incredible transformation. As I said earlier, I had open heart surgery. And I thought at times I'd like to be a a hospital chaplain. But uh after I had my open heart surgery, my wife shared what was going on with me. I thought, probably is a good idea I didn't know about that for a hat. You know, it was just a little bit too much, even for me. But the the transformation that God does to us in Christ is just glorious. And it doesn't it's something that we we were dead. We didn't hear his voice as one of the songs say. We couldn't see him as we did we should, but he makes us alive. He gives us faith. He causes us to see the glory of Christ. We embrace him. You know, some of our Armenian brothers who love the Lord. They're like the tip of an iceberg in a sense. And I I I'm I'm just trying to be charitable, but you know, one tenth of an iceberg is above the surface of the water. And in some ways, when you say, I made a decision for Christ, I chose Christ, it's not to deny that they really did choose Christ. Because the Holy Spirit will make you choose Christ. But the salvation that we have in Christ is much deeper. It's like the bottom of that iceberg. Chosen in him before the foundation of the world. World. Isn't that glorious? It wasn't today, it wasn't when we we we came to life in Christ. It was planned long ago before time. That's the salvation that we have in Christ. And part of this life is just reading through the scriptures, seeing that glorious calling that we have, seeing the work of the Holy Spirit, subduing us, conforming us to the image of Christ more and more. Rejoicing in the salvation that God has given us. May God grant all of us to do that. Let's pray. Father, we praise you. We thank you that Your salvation for us in Christ is so great that it made us who were by nature dead and Culpable of your wrath, to be made alive, to be made new, just as you made the first creation. You remake your people by the power of the Holy Spirit, never to be changed. And that also, Father, that guilt that we rightly deserved and should have borne has once and for all been born on Christ, never to be born by us. So that all we can do is rejoice by your grace. We ask that by your grace we would live worthily of this calling that we have in Christ. That we would never forget where you have brought us from, what you have done. That we would never glory in ourselves, but that we would always glory in Christ. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.