Thank you, Tom, for leading us in prayer this morning. This morning, as you probably have gathered, uh, by looking perhaps at the title of the sermon this morning. The main topic of our passage this morning has to deal with false teachers. This is something that the Apostle Peter has been leading up to in our study of his second letter. I think this topic is frankly disturbing when you give it some serious thought. I think that uh it's a it's a concerning topic for us all, and I think that at times it can be a very confusing topic for most folks. And most certainly what we can say is that it leads to destructive outcomes when false teachers enter into the church. But it's an important topic that the church must be aware of, expect in the life of the church, and for us to discern fake or false teaching from real and truthful teaching. In fact, it's so important that it's not the only place, nor is Peter the only apostle, who expressed concerns regarding this topic. Before we enter into our passage this morning, I'd like to for us to take a look at what the Apostle Paul says about this. And what I have in mind is Acts chapter 20. And I'm not going to read the entirety of it, but I think it gives us a great deal of instruction even in that passage. This is when Paul is about to leave Ephesus and he is speaking to the elders of the newly formed, constituted Christian community there. And he begins by saying in verse 17, Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him. And when they came to him, he said the following. He says, you yourselves know I lived among you the whole time from the first day that I set foot in Asia Serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews. Now I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable and teaching you in public and from the house to house. Dropping down the verse 25. And now, behold, I know that none of you, among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom, will see my face again. Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all, for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God which He obtained with His own blood. And then in verse 29, he says, I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves will arise men. From among your own selves will arise men. speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them Therefore, be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease, night or day, to admonish. everyone with tears. Verse 33, he says finally, I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel. Even as the community of believers were just being formed, the Apostle Paul was warning them of what was going to happen. And that made me alert for this, false teachers, twisting the teaching of the gospel and the counsel of God. This morning, we'll look at what Peter has to say about these false teachers from the first three verses of chapter 2. My focus will be on the following about the false teachers. One, what they do, what it is that they do and behave. Number two, why they do it. The motivation behind why they are doing the things that they're doing And thirdly, what will happen to them, what will be their end. Before we begin, let us be, I think, careful to recognize that there is room. For Christians to be Christians and differ on secondary doctrines. What we must all agree upon, however, is that of our view of the Scripture And the gospel that it teaches, as well as the supporting doctrines that help us to understand the gospel I have in mind, for example, the doctrine of God, the Trinity, Christology, about Christ, about his divinity and his humanity. But there are doctrines that are secondary, such as church polity, the way that the church is governed, the end times How we baptize are examples of secondary issues where Christians can differ and yet call one another brothers and sisters in Christ. So I think that we need to enter into our understanding of false teachers is that we need to be careful to call brethren false teachers when they differ. or hold onto beliefs that have been acknowledged within the history of the church as secondary issues that are not heretical So it can be said, I believe that a brother or sister is in error on a particular doctrine, but they are still a brother or sister in Christ. Just as we may be in error, but we hold to the gospel, as found in the scriptures, as was given to us by the apostles. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word, which comes to us from 2 Peter 2, verses 1 through 3. But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachings among you. Who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction? And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed. And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would be with us now as we worship with the preaching and the teaching of the Word of God. Open our eyes and ears to the truth and the ways of God. Grant us discerning minds, so that we may learn and tell the truth of God, and help us to apply it to our lives in a manner that is glorifying. to God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So in verse one, Peter begins by telling us that the false prophets have a very long pedigree. These false prophets have been around for a very, very long time. And he also is telling us that it is no different, and it will be no different, in the New Testament times. or in the New Testament church. This is the problem that has been faced for a long time and we should anticipate it being around with us until the end, until Christ comes back. He says that the false prophets from Old Testament times arose from among the people. This is kind of worrisome, right? It's not like they showed up at the door of the church and said, Hi, I'm the Gentile, and I have a word from God. They were people from within the people of God. They were within the church. Here, by saying they also arose from among the people, would indicate that he is saying that the church should anticipate Expect that the false teachers would be, or in this case, in Peter's time, are here from within the church. Peter's verbiage, you'll see, vacillates from past, present, and future tenses Perhaps he sees this as the fulfillment of prophecy from the Old Testament. We see that in Deuteronomy 13, verses 2 through 6, where it states of these false prophets. And the sign or wonder that he tells you comes to pass. And if he says, let us go after other gods which you have not known, and let us serve them. You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams, for the Lord your God is testing you. To know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. You shall walk after the Lord your God and fear him and keep his commandments and obey his voice, and you shall serve him and hold fast to him. One of the major concerns of these false prophets is that they lead God's people to perform blasphemy against God. Now, we're going to get into that in just a little bit of detail as well. That's one of the things that we need to be concerned about. But he actually, Peter, is talking about a prophecy all the way back from Deuteronomy. that these false prophets will be with us and that their doom has already been certain. And from the teachings of Christ in the New Testament era, we read from Matthew 24:24. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders. So as to lead astray. To lead the church astray The false prophets had in common, the Dr. Mayer in his paper regarding 2 Peter wrote about these false teachers from the Old Testament. His conclusion was that they had the following characteristics in common. Their teaching was flattery. Their ambitions were financial. Their lives were immoral and self-indulgent. Their conscience was dulled, and their aim was deception. It should be no different today than it was back then. What Peter tells us is that from within The people of God, the church, these false teachers bring in This means alongside orthodox proper teachings, they bring in, slide in, false teachings. One of the things they will do is secretly introduce what he calls destructive teachings. Now, our translations use the word heretical teachings. You'll see that in the passage that you have. This means that there will be things that are taught by these false teachers is estrange to what is normally believed. Now, however, at that time in the first century, it meant something different. It meant a different school of thought within the established norm. That's what heretical, that's the word that Peter uses. a different school of thought within the established norm. The same word heretical is used, in the Greek, is used for places like Acts 24, 5. speaking of Christians. Read that first. For we have found this man a plague, one who sits up sets up, stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world. and is a ringleader of the sect heretics of the Nazarenes. Not saying that they're heretics, but this is a sect. one who's bringing us a different perspective from the established norms, if you will. And then we see this again in chapter 24, verse 14. But this I confess to you that according to the way which they call a sect. There it is, the word again. I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything laid down by the law and written in the prophets. In fact, these passages and others identified Christianity as a school of thought within broader Judaism. It doesn't mean that it was accepted everywhere But the word at that time did not take on the meaning that we assign to it today, that is heresy. But Peter qualifies it by saying that this different teaching is destructive. They should tell us that what we have to offer is spiritually, or what they have to offer, is spiritually unhealthy. It's spiritually toxic. They lead us astray from the truth of God's ways. But it's also important to note that they don't come with heretical teachings as we understand them. It's always side by side that sort of introduces you to something that isn't immediately alarming to us. This means that they bring in opinions that are destructive of the truth. You can see this when people will say something like, well, could it not mean that God meant the following? I see this all the time when people don't really have a leg to stand on to prove their point. If you ask them for some biblical evidence, none will be found. Except, of course, that it's been disproven. That it isn't disproven. So, when we consider the effect of their destructive teaching. Peter states that it was that they have even denied the Lord Jesus, who bought them with his own blood. Now, it is pointed out by many scholars that these false prophets understood all too well, all too well, the freedom that Jesus purchased by his sacrifice. But now liberty was their calling card. They chose to look the other way. When it came to the holy life, one was not called to as a child of God. It's complete and utter anti-nomianism. If if you're not familiar with that word, it basically means that it's against the law, that they're totally um are throwing out the law of God and it has no relevance whatsoever in the life of the Christian. Once Christ has saved us from death upon the cross, we have no more obligations to the law. And by proclaiming this freedom, it gives us a lawless life. They have in effect nullified the very Saviors whose life and death purchased them for their salvation. This now brings us to a second thing about them and their teaching, which is that they deny the master. This is important because it reminds us that we need to learn what the Bible teaches. And because it is so big and has a lot to teach us, the Bible, a summary form is absolutely essential and helpful for the sheep. Hence the need for a confession. I mean, there's a lot of things to read. There's a lot of things to study in the scripture But it's very helpful for us to have in summary form what the church has been able to distill in our confession. And so that is part of the reason why when we get together for worship, We will confess what it is that we believe because it gives you, it's sort of like shorthand of what it is that we believe And so when you get exposed to some false teachings, you have some sort of um parameters by which you can say, wait a minute. The confession taught this, which is a reflection of what the Bible teaches, and this doesn't fit in. I need to be careful here. It's very, very important for us. You see, when they come in, they all have, I think, an element of truth. They sometimes, a lot of the times, they'll point to the Bible. The next thing that Peter states of these false teachers is that they deny the sovereign Lord who purchased them. So this could be referring to either of one of two things. The first is that in the Roman Empire, a slave was purchased for household duties, and sometimes a slave's freedom was purchased It seems to me that either of these explanations fits the context. First is disobedient behavior, and the second is shameful behavior. Shameful because his freedom was bought by the patron and he is failing to give him honor and loyalty. We have to note here that Peter is not identifying the false teachers as teaching heresy, as we understand it, as denying, for example, the Trinity, as we have mentioned before. What he will be pointing out later in the letter is that they are being disobedient in their behavior and that is how they are denying the sovereign Lord who bought them. So we can see that in a sense When we are disobedient to the Lord, by sinning, we are denying the obedience we owe to the one who bought us with his blood. We can see so far that these false teachers are those that don't come in with heretical teachings. at least not immediately. But they come in with different teachings that are destructive that end up in denying Christ in the lives of those who follow them by sinful lifestyles. Not necessarily denying Christ as the Savior or God. These false teachers are persuasive. They will appeal to your emotions They will appeal to your senses. They are, in general, not offensive. They don't deal with the hot topics, the issues of society today. They'll look at it from different ways. It's the the they'll look they'll they'll they'll reapply the the the contexts and the concepts that we have in scripture. So for example, the resurrection. They will say that they believe in the resurrection, but they would not say that they believe in the physical body, resurrected bodily resurrection of Christ. They would say things along the lines that it is the emergence of the authentic self. You have discovered yourself that it that that's what they believe is a resurrection. So they'll say, yeah, I believe in the resurrection, but they'll mean something else. And this is just one example of whatever other things that they may also believe. They can also be identified as not having self-restraint. They they they don't have holy living. It's not something that can be demonstrated. They they they love themselves. They don't love their brothers. Now I hope you're starting to see that this is in contrast to what Peter has already taught. about the characteristics of what a Christian is, that we should have brotherly love, right? We should have self-discipline. These are things that they don't have. And so that would help us to identify the lack of having the presence of the Holy Spirit. Now, these false teachers are not going to blaspheme God. This would be a bad strategy, I think. You know, coming into the church and and blaspheming God and say, follow me. Now, they will do is attack the way of the truth. And by doing so, that is how they will blaspheme the name of God. Another thing that the false teachers will be known for is their, sadly, their success. What Peter is concerned about most is that they will be successful in their efforts, their ways. And he describes their ways as shameful. They will set up the standards and those that will follow them will follow their ways. Peter is not specific about what their shameful ways are. But the word itself identifies really three categories that are consistent with shameful behavior. They are sexuality, financial, and pride. They are leading the people of God away from the way of truth. And this will bring dishonor to the Lord. And honor is one of the most important things in Roman society. It speaks poorly of a person as well as the one whom you claim to follow. Dr. Davidz points out in his commentary regarding Christianity, He says, Christianity is not so much set is it so much a set of propositional truths to be believed as a way of life That is, apprenticing of oneself to Jesus as one's master. Christianity does have propositions to learn and believe. Yes. There is content that we must believe in and understand. But what content, but that very same content has to be lived out. And the leader, Christ himself, to be followed. It's just not teachings So when one invokes the name of Christ, when you invoke the name of Christ as a follower of Christ, and you and at the same time you do not follow his ways, The scripture would say that ye would bring shame upon his character, upon his fame. And this bleeds into the next thing. It is in the manner that they will bring dishonor to the way of truth. When you do a study of criticism, criticism leveled against the followers of Christ by the unbeliever. You will see that the strongest argument that comes from the first century and the second century was offered was that the point that they pointed out hypocrisy by Christians. This reminds us of the importance of Christians, you and I, practicing holiness in our daily lives. This is a major concern for Peter, as he points out in verse 2, that the teachings of these false teachers lead to blasphemy, blaspheming God's name. Straying from the ways of truth means that ignoring God's ways of holiness leads to blasphemy against the one who has laid down those ethics for life I think we can see the importance of this. When Christians live lives of sin, excess, selfishness, and then tell people that Jesus is the only way for salvation and that they must follow him. It's a joke to the unbeliever. And the joke really is an insult to God and his reputation. And this falls into the realm of blasphemy. It is not the unbeliever who is blaspheming God's name by pointing out the hypocrisy. It is the people of God who are blaspheming God's reputation. Now the next point is the motivation. Peter exposes them for what they really are You see, a teacher's focus is to be concerned for the good of his students. He is imparting knowledge to them and should want them to prosper in character as well as profession. Here he reveals their motive. It is not for these reasons. It is for the exploitation of their students. The word's core, and is a rare one, is to make merchandise of. In this case, their students, the sheep that they're trying to set astray. This is in contrast to the Lord, isn't it? whom they deny with their behavior. The very Lord who bought them with his own blood. So the metaphor here is that they are merchandising the very people that the Lord bought. They are operating a business with someone else's property. Greed can take up the form of wanting money, making fame for themselves. Build up reputations for themselves, a greed for power, making a name. Their end result is that they will exploit the sheep. Some of them would say, That they're not looking to hurt people? Of course not. It's not in their hearts to hurt people. I don't want to harm anyone But the reality is that their greed, their selfishness, doesn't come at no cost. It comes at the expense of someone. It comes at the expense of the sheep. The word exploitation means to use a person for personal gain. This causes all sorts of damage within the church It causes all sorts of harm, long-term harm to the sheep. One of the most heartbreaking things that I've had to encounter in counseling situations over the years is where believers struggle to trust God. Come to church, worship God, give of their time, their talent and treasure, because they've been exploited by some false teacher within the church. I sometimes wonder what the ratio is between the number of people that come to me and the number of people who never show up again at the doors of a church to worship God. Satan loves this kind of stuff, doesn't he? I, for one, who have seen this, am gratified by our next and final point. Peter says of these false teachers that their teaching will end in their own destruction. At first he says that their teaching is destructive, and now he tells us that they will end up in destruction. He says it will be soon. Now this does not mean immediately, but that it is imminent. It is sure It may be well that Peter is addressing one of their teachings. As when we get into it, we shall see in chapter 3 that they deny the judgment. And that so much time has passed, and nothing has happened so far. Judgment has not come. See, this is one of their argumentation. And Peter's addressing them that their time will come. Peter swiftly adds at the end, it is not as if they will get away with this. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. It's um that word asleep kind of r should remind you of something from the Old Testament and about who our God is. If you recall, it was about the Baal worship. And 1 Kings in 1827, where in which Elijah is dealing and battling with these false teachers within Israel. And He makes fun of these false prophets by saying, where is your God? Has he fallen asleep? You might want to wake him up. Peter saying their judgment is going to happen because our God never sleeps. God's punishment of them is not idle. So in conclusion, I think we must keep in mind that these false prophets do not deny Jesus with their mouths, their confession. They do so with their behavior. It should be a warning to the false teachers that their end will come. God is watching, and he is not going to let them go unpunished. But at the same time, it should be a warning to us. First, that we should pursue the ways of truth, the ways of righteousness, so that we may not blaspheme our blessed Savior's name and reputation. Secondly, we should pay heed as Christians, because we know that just as the false teachers will be punished We also will be disciplined for ignoring God's way of truth. Finally, we should not allow ourselves to be convinced by their false arguments. We should not allow their lifestyles and teachings to be a cover for our desire to pursue the lusts of the flesh. And the ways of this world. But instead, we should dedicate ourselves to learning from the Word of God so that we may be able to discern the genuine from the fake. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, for it teaches us and it also prepares us for what is already here and what is to come. We pray that by the work of the Holy Spirit in the lives of the individual members of our church and corporately that we would learn more about the truth. And that your spirit would move us to live lives in the way of the truth So that we may bring glory to the name of our Savior, that we may bring glory to our Heavenly Father Who is gracious to us and who is kind to us. And we pray that you would do this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.