Okay. Alright, so we're going to be in the letter of Titus. If you could turn your Bibles to Titus chapter 2, we'll be reading from verses 11 to chat 11 to verse 15. The letter of Titus was written by the Apostle Paul. It was a letter that was to be read publicly in the church in Crete. And um uh it if th this was a personal letter, so they would um It's gonna be read uh this is not a personal excuse me. This is a public letter that's gonna be read in the Church of Crete and um and the culture of Crete was a threat to the church. and was influencing the church against godly living. However, an ever greater problem was the threat within at the church and creed There was professing Jewish Christians who were practicing syncretism and mixing pagan religion with Christianity. And teaching false doctrine that was libertarian in nature and an antinomian in nature. That means against God's law saying that you're under grace and you can live however you please. And uh these false teachers were mixing with the society to keep their place in the world by coming up with Jewish myths, genealogies, and they were concerned. with ancestral privileges, rights, and heritage while indulging in worldly living. And like Judas And like Demas, these false teachers loved this present world. And the false teachers were disrupting the church by overturning whole households. And we see this in Titus chapter 1 verse 16 Paul says they profess to know God, but they deny him by their works. They are detestable, unfit for any. Good work. They are also disobedient. And uh the climate of the society at Crete was that morality was not closely associated with religion. Rules of ritual purity were normally ceremonial and seldomly ethical or moral. So it was a superficial um uh religion going on and antinomian behavior happening there in Crete. And that's what Paul is writing to correct. So the main theme of the letter, the main point of the letter of Titus from Paul is that the knowledge of the truth accords with godliness. If you say that you have the truth, then your life will reflect and exalt the truth giver, the truth incarnate, Christ. And Paul's point is that the gospel is not just about forgiveness, as wonderful as that is. But it is also transformative. So we were forgiven unto good works in Christ. And if you have not, if you are not being transformed by the gospel and growing in holiness, then Paul's argument in Titus is that you have not encountered the gospel. So with that said, please stand for prayer and for the reading of the text Father, we come tonight before your throne of grace with thanksgiving in our hearts and praise on our lips. We are thankful for you are our great and mighty and good God. We are thankful for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and we are thankful for the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. We confess that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. God help us to fear you and keep us from being fools who despise wisdom and instruction. Guard us from the way of seducing sin and sinners who would direct us to be turned from your way. For the sinner's steps goes down to the grave. Keep us from unjust gain, whether by violence or deceit, for the fruits of it is a fool's gold. Father, grant us ears to listen as wisdom cries aloud in our midst. May our hearts be attentive to hear her cry aloud to us. to your people. Bless us to treasure up your commandments in our hearts and make our hearts attentive to your wisdom and incline our Heart to understanding. Lead us to be a people of knowledge, a people who seeks for your wisdom, like we seek for silver and gold and all other hidden treasures, so that we will understand what it is to truly fear. you and to find your knowledge. Father, you said if any man likes wisdom that we should ask you and you will give it to us freely. So tonight bless us. With your wisdom for the glory and exaltation of Jesus Christ. We pray all of this in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Alright, our text says, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. And to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope. the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works, declare these things, exhort, and rebuke With all authority, let no one disregard you. Brothers and sisters, this is the word of God. Amen. I want you all to uh before we get into the text, I want you all to listen very attentively. Oh, please be seated. I'm so sorry. I'm just really off today. I'm so sorry. Um So I want you guys everybody to listen to this poem. I want you to listen very attentively and just pay close attention to every word I'm saying from this poem. This poem is called The Paradox of Our Time. The paradox of our time in history is that we have taller buildings but shorter tempers, wider freeways, but narrower viewpoints. We spend more but have less. We buy more but enjoy less. We have bigger houses and smaller families. More conveniences, but less time. We have more degrees but less sense. More knowledge, but less judgment. More experts get more problems. More medicine, but less Wellness. We drink too much, smoke too much, spin too recklessly, laugh too little, drive too fast, get too angry, stay up too late, get too Tired, read too little, watch too much TV, and pray too seldom. We have multiplied our possessions, but reduced our values. We talk too much, love too seldom, and hate Too often. We've learned how to make a living, but not a life. We've added years to life, but not life to years We've been all the way to the moon and back, but have trouble crossing the street to meet a new neighbor. We conquered outer space but not inner space. We've done larger things but not better things. We've cleaned up the air. but polluted the soul. We've conquered the atom, but not our prejudice. We write more but learn less. We plan more but accomplish less. We've learned to rush but not to wait. We build more computers to hold more information, to produce more copies than others, but we communicate less and less. These are the times of fast foods and slow digestion, big men and small characters, steep profits and shallow relationships. These are the days of two incomes but more divorce, fancier houses but broken homes. These are the days of quick trips Disposable diapers, throw away morality, one night stands, overweight bodies, and pills that do everything From cheer to quiet to kill. It is a time when there is much in the showroom window and nothing in the stock room It is a time when technology can bring this letter to you and a time where you can choose to either share this insight or just hit delete. Needless to say, brothers and sisters, we're living in Crete right now. In such a climate with so many Even some professing Christians are telling us to be extraordinary, sell your house, do something radical for God. But God is saying we are to live a radical, ordinary life, a life of godliness, a life that exalts Jesus Christ. It is that holy life God uses to spread his gospel, strengthen his church, and to exalt his son, Jesus Christ. If we do not live a godly life, Paul, as we will see, says plainly, you're not a Christian. So how do we do that? And that takes us to our first point. A radical ordinary life is a life that focuses on the gospel of Jesus Christ. In Titus 2 verse 11. It says, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. So Paul here is referring to the Christ event where he came, died on the cross for his people was raised from the dead and ascended to heaven. Paul gives great weight to why people should live a radical, ordinary life of God. Because the grace of God has appeared. Now the word for in the passage connects us to the earlier thoughts in the chap in chapter two, which points to godly living. So why should the church live a holy life? Why should the church be uh live a life of holiness? Paul says the grace of God has appeared. in the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And this appearance of grace, this epiphany, this Christ event has past, present, and future implications. Upon the people of God. It is active, it's powerful, and the source of a radical ordinary life in Christ And the work in person of Christ is accomplishing what it was predestined to do by our holy and gracious God to make true worshipers for his glory. Paul goes on to say that this grace is salvation for all people. And that does not mean for everyone that ever lived. Because it is clear from the scripture that Jesus Christ died for his people and his people alone. When Paul says all people, he's referring to the older men. younger men, older women, and younger women. This covers every person in the church. It reaches beyond any ethnic, social, economic, gender distinctions and says His people by his grace. So Paul's point is that the gospel demands a godly response in our character In our words and in our living. It's to have the older men, the gospel demands to have the older men to be sober-minded, self-controlled, sound in faith. and steadfast and to have older women teaching the younger to love their husbands, to be keepers of their homes, to be self-controlled and pure. And isn't that radical? But yet still ordinary. Especially in our climate today. So beloved, this is evidence that you have the gospel of Christ, your radical, ordinary life. So to be saved by the gospel means that you have been brought into God's household. And that's Paul's argument. You need to live as his child according to his kingdom rules. And to not live this way is to say that you have not been impacted or converted by the gospel of Christ. The gospel is the reason for all that we do. Thomas Watson says this, how many are of a dull, lukewarm temper, zealous for their own secular interests, but with no zeal for the things of heaven? Hot in their own cause, the cooling gods. The Lord most abominates lukewarm nominal Christians. I would ask these tepid, neutral professing Christians this. If religion is not a good cause, why did they undertake it at first? If it is, why do they go about it so faintly? Why have they no more holy ardor of soul? These persons would gladly go to heaven on a soft bed, but are loath to be carried there in a fiery chariot of zeal. Remember, God will be zealous. Against those who are not zealous. He provides the fires of hell for those who lack the fire of zeal. So what does the zeal that Watson and Paul writes about look like? That takes us to our second point. A radical ordinary life conforms to holy living. Titus chapter 2 verses 11 through 12 says, For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness. and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Paul gives the negative and the positive actions by which the gospel is training us To live a radical ordinary life. This training is ongoing. Always continuing for the believer. So first is the negative. Paul says the gospel is training us to deny ungodliness and worldly passions. And then second is the positive, that the gospel is training us to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives. And this present age. First the negative aspect of the gospel training. Paul says that we are to deny ungodly and worldly passion. And ungodliness describes the holy character. And worldly passion describes the unholy actions. Paul is making the line clear on who is and who is not a Christian. He is revealing to the covenant community that the teachers, the false teachers they have been following are not. Christians. They are not God's people. These teachers do not belong to God, and we know this because their character is ungodly. In Titus 1. 10 and uh verses 15 through 16, it says, For there are many who are insubordinate, empty talkers, and deceivers. To the pure all things are pure, but the defiled And unbelieving, nothing is pure, but both their minds and their consciences are defiled. They profess to know God, but they deny Him by their works. They are detestable, disobedient, unfit for any good work. Paul shows the clear contrast of the false teacher's character. They cannot know God. Because if they did, they would reflect God's character. God is not saying one thing and doing another. God is not an empty talker. God is not a deceiver. He's not a misleader. He is faithful to his word. The word of God, worldliness, or worldly desires. Ungodliness deals with the character and worldly desires The ungodliness deals with the character and worldly desires is what the ungodly goes after. Ungodliness breeds worldly desires and worldly actions. Paul gives a clear description of worldly desires and what the church is to avoid. In Titus 1. 11 he says, for there are many who are insubordinate, emptie versus Especially those of the circumcision party. They must be silenced since they are upsetting whole families teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach. So apparently these false teachers were receiving money and prestige from their doctrines that they were teaching. In Titus 3. 9, he says, but avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless. So these false teachers are presenting themselves as being in the know. by immersing themselves in worldly issues. And it is quite possible they were promoting this social justice um doctrine and thereby distorting how Christians are to respond in their God-given roles. And some examples would be there probably were promoting feminism A distortion of the roles of women, licentious living, and promiscuity for manhood And since Nero was emperor at that time, they probably was telling the people they have a right to rebel and not to listen and to stir up and to protest. And Paul calls the false teachers the party of the circumcision, meaning that they were Jewish Christians. or professing Jewish Christians. These false teachers were very passionate about their genealogy. And this is what many Jews base leadership and salvation on. And this led to arguments and quarrels about the law of Moses. And this the law they were arguing about had to be about the ceremonial law and the civil laws because Uh it couldn't be about the moral law because the entire letter is about good works. That is in accordance with the knowledge of God. Paul is not arguing here in Titus for the gospel by grace alone or faith alone. Paul Here in Titus is concerned about the fruits of salvation, which is uh the fruits of salvation, which is the evidence of salvation. And these false teachers were promoting a lifestyle of hypocrisy. Paul says of these false teachers, they are unprofitable, worthless. warped and sinful. And that was the negative aspect of training by the gospel. But now the positive. The positive is that the grace of God that has appeared is training us to live sensibly. And righteously and golly in this present age. This is a parallelism to the things that we must deny. The Christians to deny ungodliness and worldly desires and to live sensibly, right, and righteously. To be sensible means to be wise and with a focus on self-control. The righteous, the right, then righteously is uh in contrast with being empty talkers, having workless words or speech, and being a deceiver. Finally, godliness is having a character that reflects God, which is found in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Godliness is opposed to being liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons, devoted to Jewish myths, and defiled and unbelieving, detestable, disobedient, and unfit for any good work. Titus chapter 2 verses 2 through chapter 2 it says, but as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine. Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness. Paul says older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior. Not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good, and so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home. kind and submissive to their husbands, that the word of God may not be revolved, likewise urge the younger men to be self-controlled. And this would explain why Paul late early on in the letter told Titus to establish leaders in the church with these characteristics. He says, set in order what has remained there in Crete. And how do you do that? He says, this is why I left you in Crete. So that you might put what remained in into order and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. And he says this if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or any Insubordination. For an overseer as God's steward must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain, but hospitable, a lover of good. Self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught so that he may be able to give instruction and sound doctrine. And also to rebuke those who contradicts it. Titus 3. 1 says, remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. And what a charge. We think we have it bad, right? The church priest had Nero for their leader, and it was a dictatorship. It was not a republic Titus 3. 14, and let our people learn to devote themselves to good works so as to help cases of urgent need and not to be unfruitful. So Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is laying out the rules for God's household. All who profess to be God's children will conform to this. If they do not, Paul is saying they are not the children of God. They are the bastard children of Satan himself. And that's why he called Titus early on in the letter, here's Titus, my true child. Those false teachers, they are not. Thomas Watson says, submit to Christ willingly. All the devils in hell submit to Christ, that it is against their will. They are his slaves, not his subjects. Submit to Christ's person and his laws. Many would have Christ as Savior, but not their King. Such as will not have Christ to be their King over them shall never. have his blood to save them. Paul probably had in mind the correct separation through godly living that Israel was supposed to have uh have amid a polytheistic immoral um environment among all the nations. However for the new covenant church This is of even greater importance for the true Israel because the grace of God has appeared in the life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ. And that grace is to attract God's elect and to repudiate the reprobate through holy living within the covenant community by the power of his Holy Spirit. And that leads us to our last point. Oh well, next to the last point. A radical ordinary life counts on Christ's return. Waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of glory of our great God, our Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. The life of the believer is to be a life that shows that they are preparing for and waiting the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Godly living is kingdom living. An awareness of the King's reign and his return. How many of us are anticipating Christ's return at any moment The disorder that the false teachers promoted is antithetical to a life lived according to the truth and godliness. Disorder and sin is an act of rebellion. to the king's reign and it either defies the king's coming or it denies it. Let me say that again. Sin It's an act of rebellion against the king's reign, and it defies the king's coming or denies it. And that sort of thinking and behavior is a result of someone with no hope. Chaotic living can spread through the covenant community, eating away at the blessed hope of those who belong to Christ When Paul tells Titus to appoint elders to put what remain in order, and in chapter three of Titus he says to the church to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, he is exhorting them to be ready for the return. of our King and Savior Jesus Christ. 2 Peter 3. 10 says this, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief. And then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burnt up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved. What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will milk as they burn. In 1 John Chapter 2, verses 28 to 29, he says, And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and do not shrink from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. So the crucifixion and the resurrection guarantee the return of Christ. And the gospel ushered in the great day of the Lord. Which is unfolding right before our eyes. The day of the Lord is not a one-time event. This started at the crucifixion of Christ and is going on and it's going to climax at the return of Christ and the second coming. You're living in the day of the Lord. And the clima so Paul's exhortation to the church That godly living anticipates the Lord's return is a clear rebuke to those false teachers. Ungodliness and worldliness are sure signs that a person has not received the grace of Christ and is not looking forward to the return of their Savior And our last point, a radical ordinary life is zealous for Christ. Titus 2 Verses 13 and 14, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, who are zealous for good works. So this is another striking blow. against the false teachers in their doctrine because it appears that the false teachers prided themselves in being connected to Israel by birth and through ceremonial recognition. They believe that their biological connection to Israel gave them an edge over Gentile Christians. And they were professing Jewish Christians that held to and took pride in Jewish myths and practices and perverted the law of Moses. And Paul says they are not the people of God Those by God's gracious choice and the redemption by the blood of his son are his people, and his people are zealous for good works. Titus 3. Verses 9 through 11 and verse 14, but avoid fools, controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law For they are unprofitable and worthless, as for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, Paul says, have nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is warped and sinful. He is self-condemned. But listen to what Paul says about the church. He says, and let our people learn to devote themselves to good works so as to help cases of urgent needs and not to be unfruitful. He puts an emphasis on our people. So Paul tells the covenant community that the people of God are not chosen by ethnicity or birth or ceremony or rituals. But by God's gracious choice of them and the blood of his son, those are the people of God. Finally, Paul says, declare these things, exhort and rebuke with all authority, let no one disregard you. Paul is telling Titus as a pastor. You have to be faithful and preach the imperatives of God's household. That is also part of the gospel. And it doesn't matter who likes it and who doesn't. It doesn't matter what the nations say or what the nations agree with. We must preach the imperatives. of the gospel because we are his children of his household. So He tells Titus you have to preach it publicly and speak these things privately with individuals. And for the church body, for you We are not to let down on the imperatives of God's household. We must live according to God's covenant word if we are truly part of this household. And that means maybe you might not get that big house you want if it means your wife going to work and she can't keep the home. Maybe that means men, you may have to, in order to be self-controlled, you may have to spend less time with sports or entertainment and spend more time with Christ. to cultivate a life of holiness. It may also mean that we'll lose friends, we'll lose family members. co-workers, associates, and make more enemies because we must hold to God's household rules in this present dark and wicked age. Gramay Goldsworthy said this. He says the human rebellion against God results in a marring of the image of God and distortion of all human cultural expression. The demonizing of culture results in a diabolical human-centered response to God. Culture is never neutral. It can only be godly or godless. And theologically speaking, then, culture is the express of our communal humanity in relation to God. Just as there are only covenant keepers or covenant breakers in the human race, so there are only two types of culture. Those that express a right relationship to God and reflect his image, and those that express a rejection of God and rebellion against him. So what side are we on, beloved? There's only two choices. And if you you have to choose, and if you said you won't make the choice, that means you've chosen the wrong side. The radical ordinary life is the means by which Christ is exalted, the church is strengthened, and the gospel is spread. To him be glory. Amen. Let's pray. Father, uh, thank you for the gospel. Thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus Christ, and thank you for Forgiving us and thank you for the shedding of the blood of your son and bringing us into your household. And Father, I praise we got this week Instead of looking for those big wins, help us to walk in your spirit step by step, day by day, moment by moment, decision by decision. Father, help us to exalt Jesus Christ in all what we call the small things. Father, so that you'll be exalted in our life Help us not to look over those things, but help us to submit all those things to Christ. And thank you again for this Lord's day. And continue to bless Christ performed Presbyterian Church as a whole and bless us individually wherever we may go. And Father, help us to be a um a light in our community and help us to stand firm in the faith. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.