The scripture lesson this morning is from the twelfth chapter of Revelation. In fact, it is the entire twelfth chapter of Revelation Hear the Word of God as it comes to us inspired by the Holy Spirit through the Apostle John. With focus upon the Lord Jesus Christ and how all things will come together in Christ. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth. And another sign appeared in heaven Behold, a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it. She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. But her child was caught up to God and to his throne, and the woman fled into the wilderness Where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for twelve hundred and sixty days Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now salvation and power and kingdom. Uh excuse me. Uh salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death. Therefore, rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. But woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short. And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle, so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half a time. The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman to sweep her away with a flood. But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth. Then the dragon became furious with the woman and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring, on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus And he stood on the sand of the sea. May God add his blessing to this reading of his word. Would you bow with me as we come to the study of God's word this morning? Father, we do thank you once again for your word. We recognize that we are not able always to comprehend everything in it. And yet, by your Spirit, you open our hearts and minds. And we understand that you have given these things not simply to be a puzzle for us, but to be an encouragement to us. That your people may be strengthened and encouraged for the warfare that is theirs, the warfare that is ours. So, Father, be with us that we may learn of you, that our eyes may focus upon you in such a way that That we may see these battles for what they are, and that we may see Jesus standing victorious at the last day, every knee bowing, every tongue confessing. that Jesus Christ is Lord. We ask it for your glory with thanksgiving in Jesus' name. Amen. I am always amazed that even when little or no effort is made to coordinate parts of the service How God works things together. Your use of Psalm 2 through the early part of this will become very evident how that's worked together as we proceed here this morning. 20th century Americans are very much a materialistic people. Now, I don't mean by that simply that we're greedy for this world's goods and we want to have more. We're materialistic in that sense. Now, indeed, that's a moral problem that each of us has to face in our own situation. But when I use the word materialistic, I mean that we are people whose vision of the world is largely limited to that which is material, that which we can see and feel and touch. The late Francis Schaefer illustrated our shortness of vision, if you will, with a wonderful little story that he calls the universe in two chairs. I'm sure some of you have a lot of people. It's in Death in the City, page 127, True Spirituality, page 63, and following. It goes like this. He pictures two men sitting in a room, a couple of chairs, and this room is their universe. This is all there is. One is a materialist who sees only the world that is there in their little universe that can be touched Catalogued, examined by the senses. Sitting across from him is a biblical Christian The materialist immediately understanding that his universe is an interesting place gets to work scientifically analyzing their universe. And he goes through everything. He dissects everything, he cuts everything apart, he looks at everything, he analyzes it chemically and uh structurally and all the other ways that you might analyze it. And he writes all of his work down. And after a number of years, he's got a stack of books. And he brings that stack of books and sets them down before the biblical Christian. The biblical Christian begins to read. And he reads, and over the period of time, reads all that the materialist has Discovered about their universe, their material universe. And when he's done, he comes to the materialist And says, wonderful work. You have done a magnificent job of cataloging, looking at everything, analyzing everything on our universe. But You've only told me about half of our universe. You've only told me about the seen half. You have not told me about the unseen half My Bible tells me about another half of the universe that you have said nothing about One of our problems with the book of Revelation is that its visions often reveal this unseen part of our universe. As modern people, we tend to want to see the visions of heaven, and we don't, or we see them, and we don't know exactly how to take them. How do we deal with such things? Prophecy teachers of a generation ago who still influence a lot of teaching on this book of Revelation often tried to take these visions very literally and materially. And believed we should be looking for these signs to appear in ways that we would recognize materially. And see the physical fulfillment historically in the pages of our newspapers. Now, we have to be careful here, and I have to be careful. I grew up under that kind of teaching. And what I have to acknowledge and be humble about is that those teachers, for the most part Had a genuine desire to uphold and defend the authority of the Word of God. And we have to respect that. However, their movement toward more materialistic, more physical Conclusions tended to focus, you see, upon this seen world and less upon the unseen world. And what God presses upon us in the book of Revelation in part is that all of the issues of life are not encompassed by what we see in the material world. There is another world. There is a heavenly world. And as we come to chapter 12, this is surely true And most see at the beginning of chapter twelve a transition to the unseen part of the war. I've entitled the sermon, I think the invisible war. That part of this battle which is beyond this world and yet connected to this world And that's part of what Revelation is about here. William Hendrickson in his great little commentary, More Than Conquerors. Puts it this way, we now see more clearly than in the preceding division that the conflict between the church and the world is but the outward manifestation of the war between Between Christ and Satan the dragon. In a more modern commentary, Greg Deal One purpose of this chapter, Revelation 12, is that its Christian readers perceive that behind their earthly persecutions Stand forces of spiritual evil led by the devil himself. The Apostle Paul put it this way, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against rulers, rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the The spiritual forces of evil in heavenly places. So, first of all, let's notice the central battle of this war is between the dragon and the woman's child. We are introduced first to the woman. In verse 1, a description. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. The main Old Testament clue comes from Genesis 37 in one of Jacob's, or excuse me, Joseph's dreams. Then he dreamed another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold, the sun, the moon, and eleven stars were bowing down to me. Now, of course, what's going on in Joseph's context is that God is portraying his mother and father And his eleven brothers as bowing down to him There are now twelve stars in the book of Revelation. Why? Because Joseph is not excluded, but included, and the twelve sons of Jacob are all represented as the twelve tribes of Israel. So the mother of Messiah is Israel. From the chosen nation comes the chosen seed. By emphasizing the nation here, I think we have a powerful antidote to the inappropriate emphasis upon Mary's personal role as the Roman Catholic Church. Teaches. Mary herself is but a righteous individual, a servant of God. May it be unto me as you have said, as she humbles herself before God to be his servant in this matter. Mary herself is but that servant who represents the nation as Messiah's mother. We find, secondly, that the woman is suffering the pains of giving birth to the child. In verse 3, we are now introduced to a vision of Satan. And another sign appeared in heaven. And you'll notice that there's kind of a break here. The the the birth of the child actually comes later, and we're having being introduced first to the woman and then to the dragon, and then the birth takes place in the order of the text. And another sign appeared in heaven, then, introducing Satan, behold a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems. Here is a picture, a visual representation, but there are truths behind the visual images. Red pictures the oppression and violence which the dragon will bring to the warfare. The seven heads picture the cunning and deceit which will characterize the dragon's warfare. The seven heads picture The uh the horns, excuse me, represent power which the dragon possesses. The diadems picture the authority of governments And kingdoms, which the dragon from his unseen world will employ in the warfare in the present world and the physical world. The first part of verse 4 is difficult. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. I think it's best to see it as Satan. Being the leader of this heavenly rebellion, if you will, sweeping down with him a host of angels, demons, who will be his servants And his warriors, if you will, in the warfare that is to take place. In verse 9, we have the fall of Satan and his angels. It could be taken with reference to that. Uh I prefer to take it as Satan bringing with himself in this sweeping movement of the tail uh a host to be his servants. Regardless, what is clear is that the dragon's warfare involves both heaven and earth. It is not one or the other, but it is both, and there is an interconnected relationship between the two. In the latter part of verse 4, we see the dragon's whole attention now is focused upon devouring this child, which is about to be born. Here is the great battle. If you have any doubt about the identity of this dragon, verse 9 makes it abundantly clear that this is none other than the ancient serpent. Go way back to the Garden of Eden. Who is called the devil and Satan the deceiver of the whole world? The child is born The dragon is waiting, eager to destroy the child. But the child Is snatched from the clutches of the dragon and taken up to heaven. The unmistakable clue to the child's identity brings us to Psalm 2. Verse 5, one who is to rule the nations with an iron rod. Who are we talking about? We're talking about Jesus The Messiah. We're talking about the anointed one, which language also occurs in Psalm 2. This is none other than Jesus. Who came from the unseen world entered into the seen material world to accomplish work there that would have impact both here and there. And so Jesus ties together this world and the next. And in doing so, he brings us from the material world to his world. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go, I will return and take you to myself that where I am you may be also. Jesus has come to make a way between this world and the next for those who believe in Him The voice of God, which speaks from heaven at the baptism of Jesus, uses the words of Psalm 2. 7 To announce the divine presence of the Son of God. You are my beloved Son. Today I have begotten you. Here is Messiah's entry onto the battlefield, and it is the decisive battle of the war. He was born of a woman According to the promises made to Israel, he inhabits an earthly body for a time, but is quickly snatched up to heaven in the resurrection and ascension. And Satan cannot destroy him. It's a black evangelist some years ago. I remember we had him for a uh a Sunday, it was really just a Sunday uh in New York. His name is Tom Skinner. Don't know if you've ever heard of him. He had some relationships, kind of a chaplain to the Redskins for a time, uh perhaps in the Joe Gibbs era. The other, the previous show would give Zara. He put it this way: He said, when Jesus left heaven and came to this earth He put his, and Tom Skinner came out of a gang, New York gang area. He said, when Jesus came from heaven to this earth, he planted his foot, smack dab in the middle of Satan's turf. Jesus came from heaven and established a colony, if you will, here That colony is the church of Jesus Christ, and that colony is going to prevail, and Jesus Christ is going to work through that colony, his purpose, and bring everything to completion in himself. The heavenly dimensions of the war, secondly, in verses seven through twelve, the invisible part now comes into focus. Satan is defeated and thrown from heaven, never again to harm those in heaven. We're introduced here to Michael and his angels who set about the work of cleaning heaven of Satan. and his hosts. There is no longer room for Satan in heaven nor his hosts, and God sets about to clean up the mess and to preserve heaven as his holy place And the great dragon was thrown down in verse 9. That ancient serpent who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. Number of things here very quickly just to note. We confirmed the identity of this dragon as Satan. No question about it. And I'll have to stop maybe here for just a second and remind you that the Bible teaches a real presence. Of demons and of Satan behind this war. This is not some figment of somebody's imagination. This is real warfare. It has a heavenly dimension, it has an earthly dimension, and behind it all. Is this person, Satan, who is working to destroy God's purposes, working to destroy God's elect, and to defeat. The Church of Jesus Christ. Secondly, we note his method of operation, and you find it woven through these passages, deception. He deceives. The point of the millennium in chapter 20, and I'm not going to explain all the millennium today, nor any other time, uh, but uh The point of the millennium is what's good about the millennium? Satan's ability to deceive is limited. And that's what makes the millennium a golden age, however you describe it, and I'm not going to go further in that. But Satan's method of operation is deception. Thirdly, we see he has angels who work with him in seeking the destruction of Messiah's people. Even during his earthly ministry, Jesus knew the cosmic scope of the battle. While it was played out on the earthly stage, it affected heaven as well. You cannot read the Gospels with any care. Mark, in some ways, has become my favorite gospel. I believe that Mark was probably written first. And uh Matthew and Luke. The great little A. M. Hunter has a great little uh teaching on that. If you want to know the synoptic problem in a nutshell, it goes like this. Our mark did first of all appear, for Luke and Matthew used him both, but Luke and Matthew, nothing woke, used. Q for Kell and each a special source as well. I don't believe in Q. But Mark, read Mark, his favorite word. Is immediately. And it it gives it it there's a staccato feel to the book of Mark. It moves along quickly. But what do you find Jesus doing so much? He's casting out demons. He's exercising heavenly authority over these servants of Satan, putting them in their place, dealing with them. I think of the Gathering Demoniac, one of what Dr. Clowney once described as one of God's truly free men. He was totally free. And Jesus cast out the demons from this man. And he was sitting in his right mind and telling people about About Jesus. Wonderful story. Wonderful power of Christ over the demons. John chapter 12. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. John twelve, thirty one and thirty two. There is Jesus saying, I am here for judgment. I am here to judge. I am here to do battle with Satan, to judge him, and to exercise victory over his host. In his high priestly prayer, John 17, Jesus ties himself both to those who are his on earth And to his heavenly Father. It's interesting how Jesus in this priestly role, you see, the idea of being a mediator between the heavenly and the material. He just sees himself in that role and expresses it so clearly here. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, as you, Father, are in me, the heavenly, in me, Jesus is saying And I in you, that they may also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one. One, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them, even as you have loved me. That the world may know that Jesus was sent from the Father, that the heavenly has entered the material world and has business here in bringing home a people Cleansed, forgiven, belonging to Jesus Christ, given to him by the Father, and He now having accomplished eternal salvation for them, bringing them before the Father. Father, without any fault. Quoting Greg Beale, Christ's resurrection and the beginning of his rule are immediately reflected in heaven by Michael and his angels to the earth. Christ's redemptive work on earth unleashes the effect in heaven of Michael's victory. In verses 10 and 11, the victory over Satan is declared. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now, the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of Christ have come. For the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down. You see, that one who would accuse us, that one whose business is to make sure we do not have forgiveness but are destroyed for our sins. That accuser. Is now dealt with, has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. Something of Satan's work is made clear here. Satan has business in seeking your condemnation before the throne of God. You have a heavenly reckoning to deal with. And Jesus was clear. Do not fear those who can kill the body. But cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell. Heaven, earth. Satan has business in making sure you get what you deserve before God's throne of justice. But what God did was send his son in the likeness of sinful man to be a son. offering that we might be included as the fruits of that offering, a sweet savor before the throne of God, in the fellowship in the honor Arms of our loving Savior, Jesus Christ. There is therefore now no condemnation. For those who are in Christ Jesus for the law, the Spirit of life has set me free from the law of sin and death. God did by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh to be a sin offering Rome. Romans eight. I think everybody ought to memorize the first four verses at least of Romans eight, every Christian. The Lord Jesus has cleared out heaven and now is there interceding for us. His people, his blood-bought people. And that's exactly the message of verse 11, that in connection with Jesus Christ, through faith in him, you conquer. We, says Paul, are more than conquerors through him who loved us and gave himself for us. It is by faithful witness then to his word that we are kept, for they love not their lives even unto death That doesn't fly in our world, have you noticed that? We're very self-affirming people. We don't give up our rights. We don't give up our prerogatives. Here are people Who love not their lives even unto death. Why? Because the heavenly things are more important, and there is a connection. The things that we do here must be accounted for there. The things that happen There have impact here. The offering of Jesus Christ as a sacrificial lamb being offered in heaven secures my forgiveness Here and now. Why does this make sense? Because there is a God in heaven who sent His son. Fear not those who can kill the body, but fear him who can cast body and soul into hell. The earthly dimensions of the battle continue for a time What is most striking in these final verses is the fury of Satan. It is that fury which drives so much of our world today. There is hatred toward Christians often in our world, and we can see it around the world in many places. I served a church in Kansas which was an old what was known as the old UP. Dr. John Gerstner had a great conversation with uh uh uh retired pastor, OP pastor last week, uh uh who has uh background with Dr. Gersner attended Pittsburgh Seminary years ago Ago, and uh Gershner was that old UP. They had mission work primarily in two places, Pakistan and Sudan. And I've followed Sudan for years, and now this week Sudan is in the news with kind of a civil war in the South, even though the Muslim oppression of the South now has ended with a separate nation in the South still The battle rages. And even in our own country, where people stand for biblical understandings of life. There is opposition. There is scorn. And we feel the hot breath of Satan on our necks, oftentimes, as Christians in the modern world. Listen to Peter. 1 Peter chapter 4. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. As though something strange were happening to you, but rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory comes. is revealed. You can't do that without some understanding that there's a relationship between this world and the world to come. But be assured that God's help is never far away. But when the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle So that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half a time. Verse 14. Eagle's wings. You heard that language before? It's language that comes from the Exodus. God reached down into Egypt and brought his people out on eagle's wings. It's a picture of God's salvation, God's victorious saving work, accomplishing what seemed impossible to human eyes from his heaven. Heavenly home and reaching down into this world to affect things here for his glory and for his purpose. The wilderness is a great theme in the scriptures. As God dealt with his people in the Exodus of the Old Testament, there are really two dimensions. We focus, I think, primarily on the one of judgment. Okay, the people were disobedient and for forty years they were to wander in the wilderness as punishment. But there are also places in the Old Testament that see it as the honeymoon period. As God woos his people, as he takes them apart, to love them, to nurture them, to care for them, to get to know them, to press his way of life upon them. And so Jesus came to do those kinds of works. This whole passage really provides little more than a commentary on Genesis 3:15, where we first encounter the serpent. But that isn't the end. For God says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. What we sometimes call in theology the Proto-Yuangelion, the first telling of the gospel. There is an unseen heavenly world There is a seen world in which we see a lot of chaos and sin. But Jesus Christ has cleared the unseen world of Satan's tyranny. And through us his church and by his church, he is leading the conquest of what remains You can't avoid the war, but I want you to see your commander. It is Jesus. Jesus, who is now your heavenly high priest, ever-living to make intercession for you. It is Jesus who moved from the unseen world into the seen world and returned to the unseen world. Dr. Schaefer used to put it this way: the windows are open. You know, we talk a lot this day in a different context. We talk about glass ceilings, where you your your ability to uh be promoted and so forth is is uh Hits a glass ceiling. The materialist, in a very real way, you see, is living in a world with a glass ceiling. Windows are closed. For the Christian, the windows are open. And because the windows are open in the midst of this warfare, you know what you can do? You can pray. And he Does that give a little different perspective on prayer? Uh makes it a little bigger thing maybe than uh uh and I Forgive me and I it I know it's right to pray for people's minor illnesses, but when you think of the greatness of the kingdom, I get tired about praying for Aunt Mabel's ingrown Schaefer's two guys back in the room, okay? They're sitting there, the Christian has finished reading, and they've had some discussion. Looked up on the wall, clock stopped. Uh-oh. What do we do now? Put yourself in the place of the materialist. What do you do? One of us is going to have to get the ladder or climb up there and fix it. That's an American way, isn't it? Get to it, do it. The Christian says, wait a minute. We could also pray to the one who made it, and he could start it. You think about that. Let's pray. Well, Father Our hearts and minds have much of this material world's trappings upon us. Indeed, we are those who are called at this time to dwell in human, material, physical bodies And yet you have created us in your own image with potential for fellowship with yourself. And through Jesus Christ, you have entered into our world. And drawn a people to Jesus Christ through his work on the cross and have made us new creatures in Christ. Father, help us to be faithful in the warfare in which we are engaged, that we may be part of that church. Which survives and thrives even in the midst of persecution, for your own glory in Jesus' name. Amen.