Well, Paul's coming here in 2 Corinthians 12 to the conclusion of his fool speech. Now there are people who would come in after Paul, as I said earlier, who claim to be literally super-apostles, hyper-apostolon. They claimed to have knowledge that was above, beyond anything that Paul might have to offer them. But Paul knew exactly what they were. In fact, if you look turn back a page, 2 Corinthians 11, verse 13, he talks about them. He says, Such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. Back in verse 4, we see how they came. They were coming in the name of Jesus. They were claiming to be sent by him, claiming to speak for him, but the gospel they were bringing was in fact no gospel at all. Back in verse 4 he says they they came and they proclaimed another Jesus from what from whom they had preached. A different Jesus, not the Jesus who was God eternal, from all time at the throne of God, come down to earth, taking a human body to himself. Living a perfect, sinless life, being crucified, dead, and buried, but now by the power of God, being raised from the dead, sacrificed for our sins. and also rising from the dead for our justification. That wasn't the Jesus that they were preaching. They are preaching a different spirit from the one you received. A spirit of wisdom, a spirit of knowledge, a spirit of self-reliance, but not the spirit of God. Not the Holy Spirit who comes to illumine God's word, to apply it to our hearts, to intercede for us with groanings that are that are beyond words. And in fact, they came and and they proclaimed a different gospel from the one that they had originally received. Not a gospel that was based upon grace alone. By Christ alone, as he's presented in the gospel alone, to his glory alone. But they were proclaiming a gospel that was based upon works of men. No, they were coming for proclaiming something different. But they had come, and now Paul has to deal with them. And to prove their point, these false apostles, these quote-unquote super-apostles, would point to Paul and they would say, what a fool he is. What a simple gospel it is that he proclaims. What you need to do is you need to come and listen to us. We'll tell you what's really true. We'll tell you what's what the real gospel is and and oh by the way, you know, if you would just give us you know some money, some recomp recompense. You know, so that we can enlighten you in this uh in this wonderful word. We we would be really grateful about that. That's what they were out for Does it sound so different than today, though? I mean, if you were to stand and proclaim Christ today, aren't you also seen as being a fool? How often have you heard that that old-time religion was good enough for your parents, and good enough for your grandparents, perhaps? But you know, in today's world i it just doesn't work. It's got to be that plus something else. We have to add something to the gospel to make it sell. That's what we hear today all the time. We can't hope to present the gospel to our neighbors, to our friends, to our co-workers, because people are much more sophisticated today than they were back in our parents' or grandparents' day. And therefore, before you take that gospel message out, you know, it's not sufficient just to have that. You better learn how to counter every argument before you go out. Learn how to counter every argument that's out there. If you were to take a stand that says Jesus is the only one who can forgive our sins, people would sneer at you and say, foolish. What's this forgiveness all about? Why do I need forgiveness? I just need to be good enough. I'm not a uh you know, I'm not a robber, I'm not a thief, I haven't gone, I haven't killed anyone, therefore I'm I'm good enough to get into heaven. That's what people would say If you were to come across somebody who's who thinks in a naturalistic way, you know, who sees all of the universes just coming together by chance. And if you were to say to that person, no, that's not true. But there is one God, one ruler of the universe, in fact, Christ Himself, who created all things. And in whom all things hold together, in whom all things exist and move and have their being. And he is the one who has ordained everything, every event that's ever happened, created all things in this universe. If you said that, you'd be laughed at, wouldn't you? And if we suffer, if we undergo the miseries of living in a fallen world, And if we were to say that in spite of those miseries, I take my stand upon Christ, for he is my strength, he is my salvation. And all things work to his glory and therefore are good. Again, people would say you're foolish. Because this they would say this life is all there is. And therefore, what you should do is you should avoid pain. You should avoid misery at all and any cost. You know, even our Christian bookstores are full of that. Kathy and I were down in South Carolina earlier this summer. And we hadn't had an hour or so to kill. We went into a uh it was a Borders or a Barnes and Noble, one of the two. Uh went over to the you know to the section, you know, see, well, let's see what they've got on the shelves here, and you know, look, look under their Christian books. And, you know, sadly our Christian bookstores really aren't terribly different than what we saw there. You know, there are lots of books on how to be successful, you know, how How do you have a successful job, a successful marriage, how do you have successful children? You know, how to have a thin life, a happy life, you know, any kind of life that you might em might imagine. There aren't any books in saying I can rest content in what I have because the grace of Christ is sufficient for me. So that's what the world wants. You know, the world wants pop and show. The world wants experience upon experience because the world boasts in its pride. But ultimately, in God's wisdom, the world is foolish. Because the world completely misses grace. You know, Paul here, that's what he's facing. You know, these super apostles, they talked about all these wonderful experiences they had. And he says, you know, If it's experiences you need, I've got experiences that outdo anything that they could bring to the table. I could bring those out. What does he say? He says it's unprofitable. It's worthless. It's not worth our time. Why? Because those things are ultimately weak and they're ultimately powerless. You know, even the most glorious experiences do nothing to change a heart. They do nothing to bring a person to Christ. But Paul talks about these experiences. He says that they have no profit, even as great as they might be. And do you see how reluctant he is to even bring them about? You know, he says, well, I know of a man who received this this vision from the Lord. You know, twice he says that. He talks about it in the third person even. And he's pointing away from himself all the time. Even though down verses 6 and 7 we can see it's really Paul who would have these visions. But he doesn't want to take any credit for it. Because he knows that they are utterly worthless, that they are utterly foolish, even though what he saw was pretty amazing. You know, he says he was caught up in the third heaven. Now, we don't know, and Paul in fact says, I don't know how this happened. He said it you know, it could have been in the body, it could have been a vision, could have been a dream. I don't know how this happened. But he says, I was caught up into heaven. I was caught up into the place, the very presence of God Psalm 33 talks about heaven. It says, The Lord looks from heaven. He sees all the sons of men from the place of his dwelling. He looks on all the inhabitants of the earth. This is the heaven that Paul's talking about. When he repeats himself, he talks about being brought up into paradise. Remember where else paradise is used? Jesus himself uses that word as he's hanging on the cross. And the one repentant thief says, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus gives him this great promise. He says, today you will be with me in paradise In heaven's the promise, it's the hope that we all have. Revelation 2, 7 tells us, to him who overcomes, I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. You know what Paul had seen was completely amazing, but yet there's no record. And in fact, he says, I haven't even spoken of it up to this point. Now, Paul had seen visions before. We see at least half a dozen occasions where he had received visions if you look through the book of Acts, for example. But those visions, five of them, anyway, had to deal with the Holy Spirit telling Paul where to go, where to bring the gospel next. Go to this town, go here That's what those visions were about. There's only one vision that wasn't about that that Paul referred to, and that was the vision of his own conversion. And even at that, he didn't use it to exalt himself. He simply used it to say that indeed this is the gospel that I was commanded to take forward. He uses it to point to Christ. He uses it to point. To our Savior. But this vision was unique. He was transported to heaven itself. You know, Edwards writes about anticipating heaven. He says, when we get to heaven, we shall be brought to a perfect union with God. We will have more clear views of Him. To go to heaven fully to enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here. Fathers and mothers, husbands, wives, or children, or even the company of earthly friends, are but shadows. But the enjoyment of God is the substance. These are but scattered beams, but God is the sun. These are but streams, but God is the fountain. These are but drops, but God is the ocean. Isn't that the longing of our hearts to see God, to see our Savior face to face? Paul was there and he saw this. And it would be a wonderful story to bring out, wouldn't it? I mean, think about what Paul could have done with this. You know, having this vision of heaven. But yet he doesn't go forward with that. He doesn't tell others about that. He doesn't use that as a draw to bring people to hear what he has to say. For a couple reasons. One, he says he wasn't permitted to. Personally, I think you know there are a couple of reasons for this. I think, first of all, the things that he saw were so holy, were so sacred, that to try to put them in human words. would simply profane what he had seen. But also, God in his infinite wisdom Doesn't allow Paul to exalt himself, and he doesn't allow us to exalt ourselves as well. If we exalt ourselves in order to bring the gospel, that's being foolish, and that's empty, that's powerless. And Paul refuses to do that. Now, you might think, you know, he could have. He could have used this thing and and wouldn't have been great. Could have rolled him out. The church could have rolled him out and said, Hey, come hear the Apostle Paul. We would see posters up on every building through Corinth. Come hear the Apostle Paul, the Apostle who went to heaven. He did more than any other of these so-called apostles that we have have done. Come on out. You know, they'd fill the building. They'd probably have to go rent the amphitheater because people would be coming out in streams and in mobs to hear about this thing. And we kind of laugh at that. We chuckle and we think that's ridiculous, don't we? Well, there was an article this summer in my local paper that talks about a book that had come out, a book called 90 Minutes to Heaven. And there's a fellow who's going around. He says on his way home from a church conference, his escort was struck head-on by an 18-wheeler. pronounced dead by four sets of paramedics, but he m miraculously returned to life. He walks today only as a result of miraculous and in some cases medically unexplainable circumstances. During the time he was dead, he says he was granted the privilege of glimpsing heaven. And what he's doing is he's going you know going around to you know to churches that'll have him. He's probably written a book. and talking about his experiences in heaven. Now, I don't mean to impugn this guy's motives. Don't get me wrong. But doesn't Scripture here tell us that to exalt ourselves is absolutely foolish Because if we think we need the gospel plus anything else, then we've missed the point of grace altogether. We've missed the fact that it alone is sufficient. What do people need to hear? They need to hear the pure, the unadulterated, the complete, but alone the gospel of Jesus Christ. They need to hear that from our mouths. They need to see that in our lives. See, it isn't any sort of mystical experience that God is going to use to bring people to Christ. It's not going to be our intelligence. It's not going to be our eloquence. It's not going to be our skills at debate that are going to make others able to heed his word. Because none of those things have the power in and of themselves to change a heart that is stone-dead cold. And if we think we need those things, then we ourselves are fools. Scripture tells us in 1 Corinthians 2, Paul says, When I came to you, brothers, I did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and power were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. That your faith may not rest in the wisdom of man, but in the power of God. You see, it isn't our strength, it isn't our experiences, it isn't anything that we might bring to the table that God will use, except our weaknesses instead. Now, is that to excuse us from understanding the gospel? Is that to excuse us from being prepared to give an answer when we're when others ask us, why do you have this hope within you? Not at all. Scripture commands that we do that. And that's not to say that that apologetics cannot be useful in terms of deflecting the arrows of the enemy. from somebody that we're talking to. But but, you know, the the most reasoned argument of all, and we love our arguments. I mean we're good Presbyterians, aren't we? You know, we we love logic, we love arguments. You know Yeah, yeah. I bet I could take a poll and probably find out how many of you are engineers in here. Probably half the room for raise their hands. We love that. And it's good because God is a God of logic as well. He is a God of reason. He's created all things in order. But our logical arguments alone will never carry the day. What's needed is the sufficiency, and we need to trust in the gospel of Christ alone. Do you think you uh perhaps you're too ordinary? Do you think perhaps you're too unlearned to be able to have any hope of bringing the gospel to other people? Let me tell you the story of John Bunyan. Many of you know Bunyan. You know, he wrote of one of the most famous books of all time, Pilgrim's Progress. But before he wrote that book, and immediately after his conversion, he began to preach, and he became known for his preaching. Now, Bunyan had no formal education to speak of. He had learned the very basics of reading, the very basics of math, and of writing. That's all the training that he had. In fact, his trade was that of what we call a tinker. Now, that's not somebody who putters around in his workshop. A tinker was somebody who went around and repaired pots and pans. That was Bunyan's work. It was a lowly trade. It's what his father did and what he was trained to do. However, in spite of the lack of learning that he had He went out and he proclaimed the gospel with great power. In fact, he he did so even before he was licensed by the church. And again, Presbyterians were shuddering at that, right? But he went out and all he did was proclaim the gospel of Christ. And that's that that is the only thing that he would proclaim. You know, at one point we we know that over 1,200 people would come out from all over the countryside to hear Bunyan proclaim the gospel. At 7 a. m. , not on a Sunday, but on a weekday. That was the power of what he preached. Not in himself, not in his own wisdom, but in preaching the gospel. John Owen, one of the great Puritan theologians, said of him, I would willingly exchange my learning for the tinker's power. Of touching men's hearts. So if it isn't going to be our wisdom, what is it then that we take forward? And we learn that indeed it is the grace alone that God gives that is sufficient. And in fact, through our weaknesses His power is made known. Paul goes on, he says that to prove that and that he might learn that, not only did God say you can't tell people of this vision. God gave him something to keep from taking too much pride in it. As Calvin would say, you know, take note of what happened to Paul here. You know, he who had conquered all sorts of enemies, he who had whom God had used to bring the gospel to the Gentiles, who was turning the world upside down. Had conquered all sorts of enemies, but yet he had not altogether conquered pride. And God's works through his weakness. And God gives him this thing that he calls a thorn in the flesh I'm not even going to bother to guess what it what this was. Fact is, we don't know. People have have spent countless hours and pages writing about it. We don't know what it is. It could have been something in his body. It could have been a physical ailment. It could have been the opposition that he had from without. It could have been any of those things. But we know that it was serious. You know, this wasn't a splinter in the finger, you know, this thorn in the flesh. We could translate that word thorn as being stake And we know the source of it also. The source of it was from Satan, a messenger of Satan sent to buffet Paul. To beat Paul, to pummel Paul. That was the purpose of this messenger of Satan that came. It wasn't a light trial, light a light tribulation. This was something that was serious. It was something that was hard. It was something that weighed upon Paul. In fact, Satan meant this not for good. But Satan meant this for evil. That's the work of Satan throughout all of Scripture. Did not Satan tempt Jesus sorely in the wilderness? Paul himself talks about turning the immoral man in 1 Corinthians 5 over to Satan for what? For the destruction of his body, that his soul might be saved. Jesus told Peter Satan desired to sift him like wheat. And of course in Job we see Satan You know, he's coming not not to prove God's point that Job is righteous, but he's coming to destroy Job To get Job to turn away from God, taking all of his belongings, his oxen, his sheep, his cattle, his house. Taking away his family, his children from him, even his health, that his wife might would turn to him and say, Get it over with. Just curse God and die and be done That's what Satan intended. And Paul did what we should do when we're when we're buffeted. Like that. You know, Satan oftentimes does work to buffet us, to cause us to turn from him, turn from Christ And Paul comes before God and he pleads three times. This is fervent prayer. You know, there's one other who pleaded three times to God. That was Jesus himself in the garden. Three times he prayed, praying so hard that sweats, that blood sweat from his brow that that cup would be taken away. And Paul pleaded as well that whatever this trial was, that it would be taken from him. And yet God said no. But God gave a great promise also. Because along with no, he said, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. That's the pinnacle verse of this whole letter, isn't it? That the grace of Christ is sufficient in all things. And it's his grace alone. It brings us back to Christ. This brings us back to the gospel each and every day of our lives. It brings His grace is sufficient for all things. It's sufficient for our salvation, is it not? Is by His grace alone, the Bible tells us, that we are saved through faith. There is no work that we can bring to add to his grace, to make his grace more sufficient for our salvation. In fact, that does nothing That pulls us away from salvation. Is his grace alone that is sufficient alone for our salvation? It's his grace that's not come because we're deserving, that somehow we've earned, that somehow we've merited his favor, for we were all sinners. We sought Everything that we crave, the Bible says we followed the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, the boastful pride of life. And therefore, all the things that we whatever we would see, we craved after it, we longed after it. We would covet those things. We would be jealous of our neighbors when we saw that they would have good things that we did not. But according to the riches and the praise of his grace alone, when in fact we were sinners. God has chosen us in him from all eternity to be adopted, to be turned from being his enemies, and in fact becoming his children. All through the finished work of Christ. By the grace of Christ alone we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our sins. For he has done what we could not do. He lived a perfect life. He lived a spotless life. He became the perfect Lamb of God then, one without sin, without spot, without blemish, who was offered for our sins. Who bore our sins upon the cross? Who took upon himself the full wrath of God, the full penalty for our sins. He died a death that he did not deserve, so that we might have a forgiveness to which we could not attain. But not only do we have forgiveness of sins, we are also now considered as being righteous. Because none of us can stand before God unless we are declared righteous. How is that happening? The righteousness of Christ is credited to our account, it's imputed to us. So that, as the Bible says, we become the righteousness of God, not in ourselves, but in Him. And therefore, the Bible says, where sin increased, that grace, which is all sufficient, abounded even the more, so that as sin reigned in death. Grace might also reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. See, apart from Christ, we were wretched, poor, miserable, naked, hopeless, enemies of God. What do you think you might bring before him? Your good works? The Bible says, even those have filthy rags before him. But it's his grace, the finished work of Christ, that satisfies God's wrath and satisfies his demand for a righteousness. And as amazing, as incredible, as awe-inspiring as that all-sufficient grace is for our salvation, it doesn't stop there. It goes on because his grace is sufficient for all of life. As we've been saved by Christ alone, shall we not also be kept by him and preserved by him through good times and in bad? Through times of plenty and times of need, through times of joy and times of sorrow, through days of blessing as well as days of trouble Philip asked Jesus in John 14, 8 to show us the Father, and that will be sufficient for us. You know, Philip got it there. He understood. If I could see the Father, if I only put my gaze upon him, he is completely sufficient for me. And Jesus answers him. He doesn't rebuke Philip, but what he says is, he who has seen me has seen the Father. Oh, Christ alone is sufficient for all things, for he is God Himself. And he affirms Philip there, and he is our Our all-sufficiency for everything in life. Does not God Romans remind us about Christ? That if God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he then with him not also give us all things? Oh, we have all that we need in Christ alone. We stand adopted, no longer children of iniquity. But instead, children who now by the power of the Holy Spirit can run to the Father and cry, Abba, Father. Come to a father who is infinitely good, who is infinitely merciful, and who loves to provide for his children, to protect his children. And yes, they even pity us when we stumble, when we struggle, and when we fall into sin again, and we grow in that grace. As we understand even more the depth of our sin and how much it grieves our Father. And we understand even more how Ultimately sufficient His grace alone is, because there's nothing that we bring to the table. His grace is never exhausted. He gives us his word. He gives us his sacraments. He gives us his Holy Spirit. That even in this life, day by day, we grow in the knowledge of that grace. And this grace is not only sufficient for our salvation, not only sufficient for this life, but it's sufficient to one day bring us home. Because one day We will be raised from the dead. Or better yet, if Christ should return, we'll be caught up to meet him in the air. And we will be changed. We will see our Savior face to face. We'll be caught up with him. We'll fall down in joy before him. We'll be singing his praises forever and ever. See, the grace of Christ is all-sufficient. It covers our past. It covers our present. It covers our future. It gives us assurance of salvation. It gives us strength to put to death sin today. And it gives us hope that he will one day bring us safely home. We sing of that grace. We sing of that threefold use of grace. In the famous hymn, Amazing Grace itself Remember the lyrics, twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? That's grace in the past, grace for our salvation. But it goes on. Through many dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come. That's grace in the present to strengthen us, to keep us, to protect us, to cause us to grow in Christ. And grace has brought me safe thus far. And grace will bring me home. And therefore, because of the all-sufficient grace that's found in Christ, he takes the things that we have that are weak and uses them to demonstrate the transforming power of his gospel. And he does that because of his sufficient grace. He has bound us with the Savior. For did not Jesus go through what is weak? We call that his humiliation. The Lord of the universe, leaving his throne, being made lower than the angels, being born of a woman. Come to this earth suffering temptation, suffering rejection from his people, hatred by the priest, thought of as nothing of no account by the Romans. Being spat upon, beaten, mocked, being put on trial, a thorn of crowns pressed into his brow, and eventually being taken to the cross crucified, dying upon that cross, and being buried in the grave. Did not Christ demonstrate weakness? But what power came out of that? For out of that weakness, out of this humiliation, comes the power of the resurrection. And now he is risen, he's ascended, he sits at the right hand of God. having conquered all of our enemies, having conquered sin, having conquered Satan, having conquered death itself, and bringing a whole host of captives out of darkness, even ourselves. A whole a bride who is perfect, a bride who is spotless because of his work. Such power that has been demonstrated in his weakness. For we also are weak in him, yet we will live with him because of the power of God directed towards you. You know, the world says, play to your strengths. The gospel says, boast in your weaknesses. Because in it his power is made known. You know, we don't boast because we're weak. That's just pride. And and boasting in our weaknesses, that just isn't just summoning up all of our courage and kind of soldiering, soldiering on. Listen to what Philip Hughes wrote. He says that's a joyless theology of insecurity, whereas Paul's theology is one of unclouded joy. An impregnable security, precisely because of the complete adequacy of God's grace in Christ to meet and make good the complete inadequacy of sinful men. In the presence of his holy creator. And therefore, like Paul, we join with him and we say, I count all things as rubbish. For the sake of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord and being found in Him I told you a little bit earlier about Bunyan's gospel preaching. But Bunyan also suffered When he was 30, his wife died, and he was left to to tend to four children, four young children. The oldest was ten, and this this child was closest to his heart because she was born blind. God was pleased to give him another wife a year later, but shortly after that, Bunyan was put into prison. Why? Because he would simply preach the gospel. Bunyan was in prison for twelve years because of his preaching. He was devastated over it. He says, the parting with my wife and poor children has often been to me in this place as the pulling of my flesh from my bones. That not only because I am somewhat too fond of these great mercies but also because I should often have brought to my mind the many hardships, miseries, and wants that my poor family was likely to meet with. especially my poor blind child, who lay nearer my heart than all I had besides. Oh the thoughts of the hardship I thought my blind one might go under would break my heart to pieces. But in the midst of his suffering, he wrote this also: I never had in all my life so great an inlet into the Word of God as now. Those scriptures I saw nothing in before were made in this place and state to shine upon me. Jesus Christ also was never more real and apparent than now. Here I have seen him and felt him indeed. I have had sweet sights of the forgiveness of my sins in this place, and of my being with Jesus in another world. I have seen such things here that I am persuaded I shall never, while in this world, be able to express. It was at the towards the end of his time in prison that Bunyan wrote Pilgrim's Progress. He wrote another book before that. In fact, if you read it, you can actually see where Pilgrim's Progress came from. It was more famous than Pilgrim's Progress was until the last hundred years. The title of it was Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners. He knew God's grace was entirely sufficient Where are you weak today? Is it in insults? Is it in calamities? Is it in struggles? Is it in troubles or trials? Are you content in those weaknesses? Spurgeon once wrote that to try to talk about grace in the past, what's happened to us, or in the future what might happen to us. is somewhat easy, but to rest in that grace alone, being all-sufficient, that requires true faith But God leaves no doubt that the grace of Jesus Christ is all sufficient. Completely, without limitation. It is completely sufficient to hold you, to comfort you, to strengthen you To cause you to grow through trials, to make you overcome trials, to bring you through whatever trials are yet to come in your life, and one day to bring you safely home. That's this all sufficient grace of Christ