Lord Willing, this evening will uh give more of a report on the PCA General Assembly that was uh held this past week in Mobile, Alabama. Uh it was in A good time of fellowship with the other commissioners. We did uh some important things, which you can hear about tonight, but our fellowship was sweet. By God's grace, I don't think we have uh chased the world and their heresies and are still seeking to be faithful. So that's a grand thing uh for the church today. Those of you who are parents Certainly know and enjoy those times when you can be tender with your children. But in God's providence, we almost we also have to be tough at times. Those are the hard times. And we have to be tough with those we love. We hope that it's not often. And we hope that it has effect. But we have a tendency to want to forget those times as parents or skip over them or avoid them. The Apostle Paul, as he was writing to churches, was the spiritual father to so many of the churches in the New Testament. He had three missionary journeys. And through the Holy Spirit's work, through his preaching and teaching and ministering to the people in these cities, churches were raised up and they looked to him. as their father in the faith. And so he wrote letters to instruct them on how they should live as churches. And so being their spiritual father You can read portions like I'm going to read from 1 Thessalonians, but you will see how much he loved the church, God's people, those who came to Christ. Listen to these tender words that he writes to them in 1 Thessalonians. But we were gentle among you. Like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. So being affectionately desirous of you We were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us. Well, how can you listen to that and and not new know of his tender love and care for the church in Thessalonica? And he had that if you read uh the his words for all the churches, but there were times When he had to be the parent that had to speak tough to bring down the hammer because they were being disobedient, but more than that their very spiritual lives were in danger. People who were headed for heaven and said they loved Jesus were in Galatians starting to believe because of false teachers. Another gospel so that they might end up in hell. And so he was willing to be tough with them. As we come to the scriptures today, there's one verse in particular that we're going to camp on. Because it tells us how the Apostle Paul was able to say those hard things to people he dearly loved. Knowing that if he said those hard things, they might not appreciate it. They might not smile They might become cold to him. They might begin ignoring him. They might say, we don't know you. They might even say, I hate you. What parent wants to have that time where their children turn to them and say, I hate you? The one that was birthed from their very loins, the ones whom they'd nurtured and brought up in care. But because the parent loves them enough to say those hard things, that might happen And so this morning we're going to learn from the Apostle Paul how he was able to say that to the church. But this lesson all of us need, how we can say not just tender things to our children. and our relatives and our coworkers and our family and our friends. How do we love people enough When it's necessary, how can we live through saying those tough things that God would call us to do? So we have good, helpful instruction this morning for each of our souls because we find ourselves in that predicament. Because we want to please people. We love when people smile at us and say nice things. And instead of saying, I hate you, I love you. You're the greatest. Wow, isn't it nice that we're friends? Right? Instead of beginning to get the cold shoulder, the turning away from you when you come towards them. Or even the relationship broken. But the Apostle Paul loved Christ enough And he loved the saints enough that we'll see in the context of Galatians. We're going to be reading verses 6 to 10, but it's 10 that we're going to camp out on so that we might learn ourselves. How not to be undone when we have to go to people with tough things, and how God has provided what we need for that in the Lord Jesus Christ. So stand with me as I'll read the Word of God this morning. And as we pray that we'll be instructed and built up and strengthened for those times that we would be faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. So let us pray, and then I'll read God's word. Our Father and God, the very problem of people pleasing, living for the approval of men. Is a trap. Is a death trap spiritually for us? Because it's your smile that we need to live for. And yet we find ourselves so often in this culture with people we can touch and feel and we brush up against and know and love and care for and others all the time. And we so want to be approved and loved that we can live from that and be drawn away from you or not be faithful to you. So would you, O God, by your word and spirit, speak to us this morning, encourage your saints, that we would not just be tender. Oh God, I thank you For the tender, loving care in the body of Christ and that we could have for others as we love our neighbor as ourselves. But to love them that way means there are times in our families and friends and the church in this world that we have to say those things that are tough and even hurtful so that they might be healed. So, God, would you speak to us today through your word? Would your spirit strengthen and encourage us? And may you use us in a grand and good way. In the lives of each other for the glory of our Savior Christ. Amen. Galatians chapter 1, verses 6 through 10 Remember that the apostle had brought them the only news they needed to be saved, the gospel, and they had strained away from that, receiving false teachers that said, You need more than Christ. And he was saying, no, Christ plus nothing is what saves us. And so he is speaking especially to these false teachers, but also the people who were going after the false teachers. Go to say hard, hard things. Now thankfully most of the things we have to say won't be so anything like this. But even when we have to say things that are just a little bit hard, sometimes we'll avoid them. And so this is for us. Galatians chapter 1, verses 6 to 10. I am astonished. That you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and returning to a different gospel Not there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one preached to you, Let him be accursed. That means be damned. That means to go to hell. As we said before, I say to you again: if anyone is preaching to you a different gospel, Contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. And now this verse that we need to see and hear for our own souls, that we might be taught. How not just to be tender, but to deal with the tough things in this life. For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. All men are like grass, and their beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Amen. A good question for all of us to ask this morning as we come to the Word of God is for whose approval do I live? For whose approval do I live? Paul begins this verse, Galatians 1:10, saying, For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? And he's starting with that word for. It's a connective. He's talking about verses six to nine, where he had to say to those false teachers and the ones following after them, you're going to lose your spiritual life. You'll be damned. if you don't follow Christ. It's going back to that. Do you want their approval and not saying those things? Or will you live for the approval of God? It's a biblical message that discounts any message of our own that he was talking about. He was talking about the gospel. He was saying, if you change the gospel, you're lost. I will not allow that to happen with everything I am and who I am, because you will lose your spiritual life. You will be damned yourself and go to hell. And the gospel, of course, is that that we cannot save ourselves. We can bring nothing to God when we come to believe in Him and find salvation except our sin. The church is not a place for people who have it together. The church is not a place for people who are righteous on their own. The church is a place for people, it's a hospital for sinners. It's a messy place that you go into a hospital. People are missing limbs. They're dealing with aggressive things like cancer, you know. Stuff is spread from one to the other. Thankfully there's doctors and nurses as we care and help for each other, but we don't have it together. That's why God gives this message to his church. That's why we need ourselves to hear this, that we must live for God's approval rather than the approval of people. I know that. I know as a pastor. There's so many times when I need to go to speak to someone about their lives for something, and I'm going, oh no, you've got to be kidding me I gotta go again. Lord, I I know I'm a shepherd and that that sheep over there is in trouble, but if I go, they're not gonna speak to me anymore. You know, or you know, they know them and he knows her and I might not have a job anymore. You know, you all know churches where that's happened, right? And so we all live for that. You're talking about Paul the Apostle lived with it, but you live with it. Every day. Whose approval are you living for? And thankfully the Lord Jesus says this in Matthew 10: Do not fear those who can kill the body. Don't fear those who can kill your own self with their look, right? They no longer give that look of approval. Right, the same kind of thing is talked about here in Matthew 10, 28. Don't fear those who can kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Who is that? It's not fear the devil. Fear God. Fear offending him by our behavior. For fear offending Him by loving our families or our friends more than Him, that we won't speak the truth to them, that we're afraid they'll turn for us, and not concerned about God turning from us. Living for the approval of men will bring your spiritual death. Galatians 1. 10. He says, or am I trying to please man? This verse speaks of man-pleasing, living for the approval of men. Proverbs 29-25 is a verse that you need to underline if you struggle with this. I do. It it's underlined for me. It's a place where I go, where I start to be afraid, you know. And and we can be afraid of all kinds of things. It's not just being afraid of giving the gospel to someone. But what about the husband that has to leave his family and go to his wife? And his wife he knows if he goes with this issue, she's not going to be happy, right? And if mama ain't happy. Ain't nobody happy. Right? And you can of course do it the wrong way. You can come in there, we're gonna do this. No. Right? But you go graciously in the word of God to your dear wife and say Sweetie, we need to change this. We're not following after God here. You know, we need to do this. Or the wife that needs to make a gospel plea to her husband Sure, she is submissive to the ways that he leads and they work together and ultimately he has the last decision as the head of the house. But she might have to speak to her husband in a gospel way. And she knows if that happens, the volcano might go off. And she and the children will have to duck. You know, so she's she's finally hidden away. I'm not about to do this. Man, life is not fun if that happens. So we all know what this is. Some of you in school with your friends. They're doing that, and we say, no, we we can't do this. I'm not gonna go with you. Uh-oh, everything's cut off. No more friends, no one calls you, no one texts you, no one emails you, and you're left alone. And you're saying, oh, this is awful. You know what it is at work to speak up on issues that are righteous, and the company might be doing something that's wrong. Yeah, and everybody does it. But you say, no, I can't be a part of that. And you're thinking, oh man, if I get fired from here, what's going to happen? We all know this in so many ways. Proverbs 29, 25 says this, the fear of man lays a snare. What does a snare do? It entraps the animal so you can kill it and eat it. The fear of man will lead to our death spiritually. Because we fear man and will do what men want rather than what God wants. The fear of man leads to a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. Doesn't mean they might not kill you, but you're safe for eternity because you've rested in Christ. The fear of man is when you live seeking the approval of man more than or apart from God. Even the secular world knows about this. Not a Christian psychologist, but the psychologist wrote this. It said, to seek approval is to have no resting place and no sanctuary. Like all judgment, approval of men encourages a constant striving. It makes us uncertain of who we are and our true value Approval, living for approval of others, cannot be trusted, because it can be withdrawn at any time, no matter what our track record may have been in the past. Yep, you kept it was always good, but if they ever turn away, then you're undone. The approval of man is as nourishing to real growth as cotton candy. Yet many of us spend our lives pursuing others' approval. Pastor Tim Keller describes it this way: that is helpful. He says, to be controlled by the fear of man causes you to elevate a particular person or group of people and hold them in awe, to crave their approval and fear their disapproval. It's a situation in which you desire their blessing, and it amounts to adoration and worship. Now we need to just stop here for a minute and say, who is that in my life? Where is it that I have I'll fall short of where I know I should be? Because if I did what God would have me do, or say what God would have me do, they're going to look away. Even even it's not that they'll give you up, but they'll just go You know, and we're not afraid, usually most of us of being up on a cross and crucified, right? But if just someone goes We're undone. Oh, what am I gonna do? It's a situation living for the approval of man, that you give some form of human approval the rights and power over your heart which only God should have. It means you will be as devastated by the loss of their approval as if you felt damned and lost. Most of us can think back over some time in the past, right? That person no longer looked on you with favor and you just thought, it's all over. There's no life left. What am I gonna do? The president of Wheaton College, Philip Riken, PCA pastor, calls you to fight against this lethal nature of the fear of man by remembering the life-giving message of the gospel. For God so loved the world, for God so loved those who entrust Christ, that He gave. He gave the ultimate disapproval to his Son, who was perfect. He crushed his son. It says in Isaiah, it pleased the Lord to crush the perfect one, whom always did what was right. That he would place his love on rebels like you and me. That's What can have us live for God's approval rather than the approval of men? It's only that That can have us do that. I'm not talking about someone who's just a hard case, right? I'm just gonna do what I want and I don't care what anybody says. We're not talking about that. Of course not. We're talking about speaking the truth into life situations with the people we are. Graciously, truthfully, but not compromising because we're afraid. Of the look that could kill, or the turn sideways, or the frown, or the coldness Most of us are not worried about death. The gospel liberates us from seeking the approval of others. And at the same time, it frees us from striving for God's favor. We already have his tender affection and his eternal love. What more do we need? Consider what the gospel says. It doesn't tell us what we have to do to please God. It announces already that God is pleased with us through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now, God in His Word this morning is giving you a direct contradiction where you have to figure out what side you're on in this in your life as you live it with others around you. You cannot live to please men and serve Christ. Paul says it this way. If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. Now understand. This isn't talking about, you know your wife likes flowers once in a while You know? You know, it would be great if you thought to take her out. Or those tender things of love because she of who she is to you. It's not saying, I guess I can't buy flowers and take my wife out anymore because I would try to get her approval. No, you know, we're not we're not being any foolishness like that at all. But it's when because of someone's cross-eyed look at us, looking at us a glance, not with the smile, not with the approval. That we're willing to give up what we know that God would have us do. Paul says: if I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. Well, I'm asking you to allow the Holy Spirit right now to just say, where in my life, with what person Am I afraid to be and act like a Christian with? To say the truth Because I'm afraid of what they'll do, what they'll withdraw, how they'll turn away. Where is it in your life that you're living for the approval of man and not being a servant of Christ? In Matthew six, twenty-four, Jesus said, You cannot serve two masters. For either you will hate the one and love the other, or you'll be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. But you could just take that money out of there and put another master, right? The approval of man. Who will I have to please? Who am I afraid if I spoke the truth or said that, they would turn away? I'm not going to act like a Christian around them because I'll lose their approval. Who is it in your life? That you do that with. Because the Lord says you cannot live to please people And live for their approval and be a servant of Christ. In each of the churches that I've served for the last thirty-five years It's happened individually when I've counseled people. And so it's happened already here in this church because I've counseled some of you. And it hasn't happened in the church yet corporately, with the whole church, but I've had to stand up and say some things that I knew would offend people. But I knew it was the right thing to do. And there were times in each of those churches of people that I didn't go see. I knew when I left that I should have seen that person, but I was terrified. And I just had to run to Jesus and say, Will you forgive me? I thankfully has, but I've grown more and more in seeking to approve and love him that I'm willing to say those things. But I was terrified. And if I go to them, they'll no longer say, Pastor, oh, Pastor, you're loving. You're such a great shepherd. You visited me when I was sick and the hospital. You've had us over for dinner. You know, we had nice conversations. But if I talk about this, there'll be hell to pay. Right? You know where that is in your life and which person. And I was terrified. So I had to begin to ask myself these two questions. These are two diagnostic questions. A doctor asks diagnostic questions to see where you're sick. And if you're sick because you live for the approval of man more than God in some areas, these are questions that you could ask yourself. It could be this. Who do I love and live for their smile more than the smile of God? Who is it that you'll stop acting? Where is it that you'll stop acting like a Christian and speak the truth because you're afraid of what that person will say? And when that happens, you're worshiping them. They become the one you bow to rather than the living God. And so we need to ask that self with people and situations into our life. Where do I live more Where do I love more and live for? Whose smile do I live and love for? Is it God's smile or their smile? If you want to find out where you're here and how you're doing with the approval of man, whether you're living for the approval of man or serving Christ. The other question is to say, what do I hate? What am I terrified? Whose smile? Whose frown am I more terrified of? Offending God or offending them? Who am I more worried that they would draw their love away? Am I worried about the frown of God or The frown of man, who is that? And it's only the gospel that can help you stand up against that Because you're so amazed that God would take his only son, his perfect one, and crush him, the one who always lived to please his papa, the one who never offended his father. And he would give them for us who trust and love him. It's coming back to know how much God loves you that you can only say, Oh God, help me serve you more than them. Let me ask you to you this way. Tim Keller says this again. It's really helpful. When I forget the gospel, I become dependent on the smile and the evaluation of others. Who pops into your mind? Who has God this morning brought to your face in your mind that you do that? You might even be terrified and start sweating this morning because you can see their frown. You know, the situation is brought up, and you're going, oh no, gotta face them. Is it someone at church? Has someone offended you or you've offended someone over the years that you need to go speak to? Yeah, it happens right here all the time because we bump up against each other. We're not a place of perfect people, we're a hospital for sinners. I I said last Sunday night that if I haven't offended you yet, hopefully it's the gospel that offends, but if I offend you, I I'm going to offend you sometime. I know it. I'll say something stupid or dumb or be off you know just loving myself that day and caring less about you and I'm going to offend you. So come to me and we come to each other. So that happens in the church and we have by the gospel the ability to say, Oh, well you forgive me I had no idea or it may be yeah I don't like you but I should will you forgive me You know, we have to go through things like that, even here. Or with your spouse. Where's issues that you just don't talk about anymore? It's not that God wouldn't have you deal with them, but you just won't talk about them because if you do, you know that no one's getting asleep for a long time. Which of us with our children? We're in a culture today that raises children up, that the children have to be pleased. Sally, what dress would you like to wear? What do you want for dinner? Instead of Sally being glad that she has some dinner and has a dress. You know? It's a culture of raising up our children, and they rule over us. Or our adult children. Yes, they have gone away, but we're still called to speak the truth into the life. Graciously But some of us know that we need to speak into some child that's an adult, but we just won't because we're afraid we won't get any more calls. And you might be the only one to speak into them. Now you may have spoken into them before and it's time to stop and lay off, but there are opportunities where just say, I'm not doing that. I still like that they get get to speak in their life sometimes. And we find ourselves living for their approval. And what would happen if they withdrew? Now remember, please. I'm not calling any of you to be Mr. or Mrs. Hardperson. Right? We don't go around flaunting this. I have the right way and blah blah. And you all have to bow and no none of that. But if you care, you care for their spiritual and their physical lives, then in spite of their response, you're willing to speak into them them. It could be with your extended family, your friends, someone at work, at your job, your school, your neighbors, or sometimes your culture. I was telling someone a couple weeks ago about my unilustrious scholastic career. That's probably being very nice to say it that speak that highly of it. I went to Penn State, 50,000 people on the campus. I went through Penn State at the time in the 60s where there were riots over the Vietnam War and all that. So Every spring they allowed everybody take pass fail courses so we wouldn't burn down the school. I wasn't in that, but that's kind of it was literally that's the way it was. And with 50,000 people, you often felt like you were in a conveyor belt. They were just taking your money and at the end you'd get a diploma as long as you didn't do something too bad. And uh my grades and my work were terrible. But I said, I'm working in Christian ministry with Young Life. I'm working with God to save high school children, and so that's what's important. So often I didn't go to school and uh Uh often I didn't study. In my senior year, I was to um go in a camp where I was to lead the work crew. That was some of the stronger Christian kids that would Help serve the dinner and clean the cabin so that the uh the non-Christians could have fun and and do all their stuff and hear the gospel. It was a really important job for that weekend. There's gonna be about 300 kids there. And I turned in a paper for my one professor in a class, who I didn't like her anyhow, and uh she came to me with my paper and said, What is this? She kinda held it like this, you know. I think she was being generous in doing that. It was a bad paper. And and I had to have that paper to finish school. I mean I was my senior year and without that paper going through I wasn't going to graduate and I'm going And she said, Well, you need to have this paper redone by Monday morning. I said, I can't. I'm a Christian. I'm going to be serving God this weekend And she says, That's fine, but you won't graduate. So I had to go to my friends, my fellow Christians, and tell them, you might think I'm a great Christian, but I'm a horrible Student. I'm first called to be a student at school who is a Christian, but do that for the glory of God. So I had to stay home. I had to do a paper that was the first decent paper I maybe ever did. And that's the only professor I remember from college. One who loved me enough to be hard. And to be tough. And to see what was important. And I believe that set a groundwork for me to begin to even Get by the skin of my teeth, but to get through Hebrew and great Greek later on when God called me to seminary. So as you think about the approval of man, and God may have brought someone before your face this morning, you say, how do I do this? I'd like you to turn to Matthew chapter ten, verses thirty-four to thirty-nine. Matthew ten, thirty-four to thirty-nine. Because you could easily Make this rationalization in your mind this morning. Well, Pastor, what we have is the Apostle Paul who started churches. And he had these three missionary journeys and he had all these connections with people. So This struggle that he had with the approval of man and living to the lead for God, that was just his. I'm not going to start any church. I can hardly open my mouth ever for the gospel. I'm terrified of doing that. Or it's that's the apostle thing. But as we come to the scripture, Jesus is speaking to the disciples. He's speaking to Christians, and he says, what is necessary for every disciple. And the great thing, when I read the scripture, is he's willing to speak in these issues because he made us. And he knows us and he knows this struggle that we have. Right? And so he speaks into these issues because he knew that after he'd left, how hard it would be for us. But listen to what he's calling us to do is you might have that person or that situation in mind even now, Matthew 10, 34 to 39. Jesus says to his disciples, he says to you who are in Christ today, do not think that I've come to bring peace to the earth. Don't think that I come to make it easy and have everybody just smile and say, I like it. I have not come to bring peace but sword. For I've come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law And a person's enemy will be those of his own household. You see, if we speak this truth and live this way, it's going to be hard at times if the gospel isn't at work there. Jesus knows that. He's speaking already ahead to us. And he says, and a person's enemies will be those of his own household. Whoever loves father, their smile, or mother, their smile. More than me is not worthy of me. Whoever loves son or daughter is more concerned about their frown more than me is not worthy of me Whoever does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds this life Whoever lives for the approval in this life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it It's taking up the cross and dying to ourselves daily. That's what Jesus calls us to do. This is impossible without the gospel. To know that there's one who will always love us. Now there are times, and I've done it often, where I thought, okay, God, You want me to go in there and I have to take care of that situation? So I get myself all fortified and I pray and I go, I'm God's champion And I go in and I destroy everybody in the way, right? And I walk out of the other end. But I was faithful, God. And I wasn't, right? Did you see the tenderness that Paul has even for those people? We're not out to destroy them. We know that spiritually they're going to die. Physically, they're in trouble, and so we go, even if they won't like us anymore. Because we love them. The doctor who comes to you and says, You have cancer. It's stage four. We need to treat it. Loves you. He doesn't hate you. And he comes alongside then and is willing. Because he loves you and you're in danger to come. Beloved, we're the spokesman for the Lord Jesus Christ in this world And the doctor who lives for the approval of his patients will say, he just read the scan, he finds out they have metastasized cancer at stage four, and he says, hey, great news, you're doing just fine. And you hear it and you go, oh wow, thank you, Doctor. You walk away and die. What kind of care is that? The fear of man is a snare. The fear of man is deadly But whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. Who is it that God has brought before your own eyes even this morning? That with God's grace and strength, you need to speak to for the sake of their soul. And look to God and love them. For Christ's sake, for Christ's glory. And for their good. If you are a struggler in this area as I am, and I am I would be glad to sit with you and talk about the scriptures and the situation and how you do that and how you trust God. There's some great books that go through the scripture and give so many helpful things. And you might find yourself in a snare today. I know that snare And I know that I'm going to get in that snare again. Because I'd like people to like me. I do. But there is times because I love someone that I must go. And what a joy that the Lord goes with us. I will never leave or forsake you. All authority has been given to me in heaven and earth. Go. And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the day. the age Amen