The one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, will be blessed in him. Did you notice what James says here? God's law is a perfect law, and it's the law of liberty. James, in fact, says that not once, but twice in his short epistle. It is true liberty to have the power, the desire, and the power to walk in the law of the Lord. And so we're blessed this morning to have our dear uh grandfather of our congregation, uh Pastor Glenn Connect, to come and bring God's Word to us again. So brother, welcome, and we eagerly await the Lord's blessings through his word through you. Skip, I won't do to you what was done to me once upon returning. after a rest. Pastor we shall maybe about to do it. Pastor, we sure enjoyed your vacation. I still haven't figured that out. It's a little like it's like the one who said to me, You haven't been in this church too long, have you? And I said, I hope not. So anyway. We're so glad you're back and we miss And Brother McGuire did an outstanding job teaching, loving, encouraging all of us. We thank him and Marg for that too. And we miss Miss Bonnie. Trust that she'll be feeling well real soon. Hard to preach without her here. How do you do that? It is hard. I'm glad you're preaching, not me today, without her. Thank you for the privilege of being with you again. I'm indebted to the session and the pastors for this kind invitation. It's it's allowed me and given me a a a reason to get back into the study of the Lord's day, which I love. and have loved to study the depths of it. Uh so happily in God's providence we still have one more Sunday. So I look forward to Digging deeper into this wonderful subject. Would you rise, please, while we have the reading of the scriptures? Let us pray for God's illumination. We thank you, O Lord, for inscripturating your word, not only spoken to holy men of old But then superintending the writing of it, that we may have it in our own language available, And for the lively interpreting of it by the Holy Spirit, unless he comes now to illumine The word and the interpretation of the word, we are bereft of blessing. So come mightily upon us, every soul, young and old. And grant humility to the one who speaks through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. I want to read from the Old Testament Deuteronomy chapter 6, beginning at verse 17. You may remember these are the words of Moses as he spoke to the people in the time of the preparation for the Exodus and the accomplishment of it. He is giving them a lot of warnings and teachings. What a wise leader. You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God, his testimonies and his statutes, which he has commanded you. And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land of which the Lord swore to your fathers to cast out all your enemies from before you as the Lord has spoken. And when your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is the meaning of these testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord our God has commanded you? Then you shall say to your son, we were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. And the Lord showed signs and wonders before our eyes, great and severe against Egypt, Pharaoh, and all his household. Then he brought us out from there. That he might bring us in to give us the land of which he spoke to our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to observe all these statutes. to fear the Lord our God for our good always, that he might preserve us alive as at this day. Then it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to observe all these commandments before the Lord our God, as he has commanded us. And turning over to the letter to the Romans, chapter ten The first ten verses of this chapter. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. For I hear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes For Moses writes about the righteousness which is of the law. The man who does those things shall live by them. But the righteousness of faith speaks in this way. Do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven, that is, to bring Christ down from above Or who will descend into the earth, the abyss, that is to bring Christ up from the dead? But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith which we preach. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart man believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. May the Lord add his blessing to this reading of his holy word. Please be seated. It's very fitting that On this day when we're remembering 240 years of freedom as a nation and celebrating and thanking God for the independence we have from foreign powers. And it was sought and then maintained by the blood and sacrifice of so many of our brave young men and women. We thank God for preserving our liberty as a people, and may it continue in his kind providence. Here, as Moses is speaking to his people, he links their freedom to the giving of God's law. That is, at the same time as they are brought out of Egypt, the law of God is repeated to them. It had been given to our first parents. And now it is reiterated, and at Sinai it will be more formalized in the giving of the tablets to Moses. But you can see here the connection between law and liberty. These two things are not mutually exclusive. They go together. We couldn't drive here to the church today if there were not traffic rules to follow. We are free precisely because we live by laws. This is God's arrangement for us. And so we're looking today at the way in which God's law expresses and delivers to us the freedom we have in Christ. Now it's important to remember, is it not, that the reason That he can pronounce this freedom is that God is the authority. He is the one who is the ultimate power. and has all strength and honor and glory in his own hand. This world is his creation, not ours. We're guests in his house. And when you are a guest in someone's house, you try to learn the house rules as soon as you can. And they make your stay much more pleasant for you and your host. If you're going to live in God's house and we do, we've got to know God's rules. And this is where the Ten Commandments Come in. God gives us this outline of how He expects His people to live Because he is the one who delivers us from bondage of various forms. He brings here the children of Israel out of Egypt. Now in the Bible, earthly things are the shadow of divine things. And Egypt not only stands for that country, wicked in its oppression. and pride and ambition, the country that reared up the pyramids as if to raise themselves up to heaven to show their great accomplishment. And really all the pyramids do is to hold dead men's bones. They reared up the Sphinx as if to say, we understand the zodiac. And we can have figured it out, and we think the stars are in charge of our fate. What godless ignorance that is. But Egypt summarizes and embodies oppression and darkness. And wickedness and human pride. If you ever want to get a detailed picture of Egypt, read Thomas Mann's five-volume book on the life of Joseph. How in the world he was able to describe so beautifully and accurately the wickedness of that land when they held Israel in captivity. But the God who whom we serve and who delivered the Jews out of Egypt is a God of light. He pierced the darkness in the heart of Pharaoh. He showed Pharaoh a finger too. He brought Pharaoh to his knees when his own firstborn was taken. God had the victory that day. How wonderful that was. And we thank and praise him for that great triumph. In our fathers, bringing them out of Egypt into the promised land. The giving of the Ten Commandments is a sort of gift that goes along with the Exodus. You know, when you send your son off to college, you give him certain do's and don'ts. Don't show him you. You give him rules to abide by and when he ought to call and let you know and what kinds of things to avoid. My mother used to teach me that when you go, I'm giving you a $10 bill and the Ten Commandments, and I don't expect you to break either one. But we all have these rules, and that's what God did as they were coming out from this great captivity, four hundred years of oppression. Barbaric kind of conditions, dirt poor, and expected to labor hard. God brought them out by his mighty hand. And he gave them these ten precepts, statutes, which we love. Alas, they're falling out of favor and knowledge. Ask some of your friends casually, you know, what is the fourth commandment? What's the seventh commandment? Do you remember number two? They barely know any of them. My friend Pete has been passing out on the post office steps a little bookmark that has the Ten Commandments on them. People are eager to see them. I didn't know about this. So if you see Pete, be sure you get a bookmark and uh tell him I sent you, please. But these commandments, you see, are given because when the emancipation was given There was no guarantee that they would not fall back into slavery. God wanted them to remain free. And the commandments are the recipe for staying free. Then and now. Just look at them briefly, if you will. The first, of course, keeps us from worshiping false gods, no other god. We must not bow the knee to Moloch because he seems like an interesting deity and our neighbors all follow him. But Moloch demands that you offer your firstborn child in the fire. Now who is ready to do that? And when God provided the ram to Abraham, instead of sacrificing Isaac. He said once and for all, no other gods to Israel, because they will spoil your life. But the same thing is true today. We take false gods and they remake us into their image. Likewise he said, don't make any images or statutes or fall down before them. Because when a human being makes an image of a God, He makes him out of the worst materials of his being. Have you ever noticed the faces of those ugly idols in the window of the crystal fox? Do you know that store? Don't go in, but look at it. And the faces of those idols are the most grotesque you could ask for, because Satan has his way in the shaping of an idol. He brings out the worst part of human life and fixes it in plaster. No. Don't make any objects or fall down or worship them. They will distort you. It goes on to say, don't use careless words about me. Don't make up names about me. Use the names I've given you. They describe me perfectly and beautifully. The words you make up are going to make me less than I am I want you to know me just as you are. You will be imprisoned by wrong language about me. You'll bring me down. Now as I move about among people, I hear these strange initials, OMG. I know what they mean. You even hear it in the media. A kind of a cosmetic way of taking the Lord's name in vain. Terrible thing. No abbreviations can speak of the Almighty God. Nobody can give him better names than he's given himself. His name shall be called. wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Who can devise any better titles than those? Or we think about honoring our parents, how important that is, is it not? Because if we don't keep the generations together by that honor and fellowship, then Each generation will be a tribe apart, with no connection to the future or the past. God wants to keep the generations together so that the wisdom of age can be passed down and the energy of youth can be shared So honoring parents is a way to keep our freedom, to keep the The flow of God's truth going forward down through the ages, so we'll never be imprisoned by atheism or other religions. And of course in the sixth commandment, God says, have the kind of respect for human life that I have. I've put a fiery ring around Human life. It's sacred. And if you don't see the value of human life, even one human life, you will be tempted to molest. Or to violate, or to harm, or to exploit human life. You may not take the life, but you do the things that lead up to it. You will be free of those terrible sins if you put the kind of value on human life that I do. And whatever you do, don't allow yourself sexual uncleanness of any form. Deviations, man-made experimentations, don't go there because I have made this sacred ministry To be a fountain of pre-procreation of human life in the days to come. Keep it sacred. You will avoid the pain of a guilty conscience. You'll avoid making your body impure and your mind cluttered with terrible images. No. No, if you want to be free, keep that seventh commandment in good form. And don't take property from other people. That belongs to them because you will lose the ability to know that you're providing for your family through honest work That it's your work product. It's something you have done. The creativity God gave you, you molded into a living and rejoice in it. Don't take that which belongs to others. And don't tell untruths. Always speak the truth. This week I had a a funeral for an old friend. One of his son called me. I said, Tell me, what was the one quality of your dad that you loved the most? Honesty, he said. He never spoke an untrue word. Ninety-two years old How wonderful that is. And don't let your heart be filled with a desire for something that God has not given you. It's called coveting, that inordinate longing for something that God hasn't seemed fit to bless you with. I don't know what it is for you. But whatever it is, move your affection and attachment to the to what God has given you. If you don't, you will lose and become a prisoner of discontent. God wants us to be content with the present arrangements He's made for our life not to be always hankering for something beyond what he has provided. Can you see from this little synopsis of the Decalogue How God uses the commandments to maintain our freedom. They're not there to uh kill our joy or our fun. They're not there to be strict burdens, irksome to the person. They're not there for that at all. They are there for liberty So that we can live life the way God intended us to live it. Now in this Deuteronomy passage, it's uh It's a class on parenting, really. Now when your son asks you why you do this, this is what you tell him. You tell him about Pharaoh, about trying to make bricks without straw. You tell him about the terrible uh Prohibition against the birth of boys in Pharaoh's administration. You tell him how terrible it was and how great it was that God brought you out. Show them that the commandments are linked to your present prosperity and freedom. Show that to your children. And show them how God gave even a creation in his mighty power. Gave rules for living in his universe to us. Take them back, don't just say don't do that. Take them back to the reasons, the history of the commandments. Now we're called to do the same. When our children say, why do I have to Observe the Lord's Day. Do we have to go to church today? Can't I go and play with my friends and this and that? What will you say to them? Teach them about God's creative work, that on the completion of it, he rested. Now God doesn't need to rest, but he paused, he stopped, so that we who greatly need rest every week Can have an example. Take them way back to creation and explain to them the pattern of six days of labor and one day of a holy rest. And the need of our souls to catch up with our bodies, lest our souls shrivel from lack of vital energy by the Holy Spirit And of course, you will take them to the empty tomb. At the Lord Jesus, he died, he rose again And it was on that day that the disciples gathered in the evening and every Sunday since, over all these centuries. Believers have gathered on this day. I remember when I was A younger Dunce than I am now. Um going off to Iran, hardly dry before the behind the ears And when we got there, of course I knew that Friday was the holy day in Iran, a day off for people, and so on. And yet the folk worshipped on Sunday, and somehow they'd get off from work if they could, or they'd come in the evening. They found creative ways to worship on Sunday in spite of the fact that this didn't fit with their national life. And How could I have said it? But I said in an elders meeting, have you ever thought about moving worship till Friday? Well, I would have thought the world had come to an end because they let me know quickly. Sunday is our day. That's the day Christ rose from the dead. I got my first lecture on the Lord's Day in Farsi. It was really wonderful. So I I learned they're not about to give up that day, even though it's most inconvenient for them. Bless their hearts. So when we think about teaching our children, let's say to them, look, these This is one of our core values as a family. Do you ever when you're sitting around eating ice cream and nothing serious going on at the moment? No. discipline hanging in the air to do and so on. You're just having a nice time. Do you ever say to them, now what are our core values as a family? And let them list them. Honesty, uh promptness, uh, respect All those things will come forth. But make sure that in there is the observance of the Lord's day as a core value of who you are and who they are. And tell them that the whole day belongs to the Lord. The time before worship is his. The time between worship services is his. The time after worship service is his also. It's all his. When I went to conduct the funeral of my old friend up in Lancaster County, where we began ministry. I met another old friend there who must have been about the same age as Kenny. Mr. Ferguson, and I had forgotten his first name. I knew the Ferguson. But I always thought of him as an elder brother. He wasn't in that church, but I knew him in the community. He was a respected merchant. He had this large supermarket. That was very beautiful, up to date, and very busy. And he came over to me and he said, I want to tell you something, I didn't solicit this He said, my father started the store, and he was closed on Sunday. And all the while I was in charge, we were closed on Sunday. And now my sons are in charge, and they are closed on Sunday too. And I said, and is the Lord honoring you? Oh yes, he said, more than we deserve. What a beautiful testimony that was. I should have brought him with me today to tell that story But uh there it is. See, it's built into this Deuteronomy passage that parents are to pass on to their children not simply rules about the Lord's day. But the background, the reasons, the history, so that they realize themselves a part of a mighty movement of God, keeping this day special. And wonderful. Now I want to touch on one other aspect, if you'll bear with me a little. See, if you only preach once a month, you get a little extra time. Maybe. That true skip, okay. Okay, good. I'll try to be concise You see my title. Did you look at it? Titles are sometimes a vexation to preachers because it's hard to do. You can't always name a baby before it's born, you know. But here it is. Here's my title. The liberation in the Lord's Day. And that word in. In other words, I'm saying to you that the same kind of liberation that exists in the commandments that I just outlined is found also in the fourth commandment. Maybe you noticed as you were keeping track. that I did not say anything about the fourth commandment and the kind of liberty it gives. I was saving that to develop that a little further here at the end. So let me speak a bit about what does what liberty Liberation does the observance of the Lord's Day give us And I have in mind a few things. The most important, and the first one, is it frees us from legalism. Somebody that you observing your life and patterns, they may, oh, you're legalistic. Oh no. We have been set free from legalism. How is that? Now that's why I read Romans 10. 4 to you. There it is. It's other places too, but just let me read that one verse again, and you'll see what I mean. If you haven't already, and four, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. What does that mean? He's the end of the law. In other words, when Christ comes, lives, dies, rises again, the law, in its Jewish context and detail is obsolete. The law, to some Jews at least, was a way of salvation. If they kept, at least they thought, if they kept it perfectly, they could please God, and so on. But that's over. Nobody can earn his salvation by keeping the Ten Commandments, even if he could do it perfectly, which he cannot. But that way of salvation is over. What Christ has done is to have offered himself. His body, his blood, his flesh, on the cross, to be a sacrifice for our sins. That's what we call his passive obedience. That is, this was done to him. So he obeyed the law passively in his suffering. His active obedience is that all through his earthly days he obeyed God's law, including the true meaning of the Sabbath, perfectly. His active obedience and his passive obedience are imputed to us when we believe. You see that in four, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. So that we cannot be judged now by the law. If we were, we wouldn't have entrance to heaven. None of us can present that kind of a record. But we come with the righteousness of Christ keeping the law imputed to us. That is put to our account, our possession. This is such a glorious thing. You say you're just being legalistic when you try to keep the set. No. The Sabbath is a testimony to our freedom from legalism. Our joy and peace come. On the Lord's day from what Christ has done from us. It is his day. We're celebrating his death and resurrection. Well then you say, Pastor, why should we observe the Lord's day and be careful about how we handle it? Well I had one of the most wonderful fathers-in-law that a person could ever have. He was a delightful man. Not well educated, but wise and godly. And he taught me so many things I had to care for his farm for a while, a city boy, poor fella. He was in bed with a heart attack, trying to tell me how to what to do and how to do it But he was so gentle and kind and loved me from the first day we met till the last time I saw him. I did not want to do anything that might offend him or discourage him or anything. I I was so grateful for the education I was receiving that I didn't know anything about till he took me patiently under his wing. I did not want to break any rule. I don't even know what the rules were if they were there. I knew that I was grateful. And that's the way we come to the obedience to the Sabbath. We come out of gratitude that Christ died for us. and is imputing the righteousness of his perfect keeping of Allah. That's our motive. It's a motive of thanksgiving. Not of legalism. Don't let anybody pin that on you. You take them to Romans 10, 4. But there are some other ways too that we find liberation in the fourth commandment One is uh we're set free from our work. On that day we don't work Whatever uh prefix you put on work, homework, yard work, I don't know, account book work, you could all kinds of things you could put on that word work Still there. We stop. We pause. We quit for a day. Whatever it is we do I'm afraid that you don't remember Dr. Gerstner. He's been dead now a while. Anybody remember Gerstner? Oh, look at this Oh, my dear, dear friend. But Gerstner, now this is a Gerstner story, you may not have heard. He, when he was in seminary, worked part-time or between college and seminary in a steel bill. He was a man from Pittsburgh. And he went to a big steel mill. Now these steel mills cannot cool down the furnaces for Sunday. They have to keep them up and running, which means Some people have to work on Sunday. This is a reality. And this is one of the exceptions that comes into our understanding of work on the Lord's Day. But here's Gerstner. in the payroll department. And so he asked if he could be excused on Sunday from, oh no, we all work Sunday. Well, could I do my payroll work on Saturday? It doesn't have to be done on Sunday, does it? Oh, well, you're fired because you won't work on Sunday. But Gersner pressed it. He made the point that what he was doing was not necessary to do on Sunday. Some people would have to work, but he could be excused. And later when they thought about it and whyzer heads prevailed, they called him back to his job. You can work on Saturday. You can do your payroll on Saturday. Now do you see how Particular he was. He didn't just take the boss saying, well, we all work on Sunday. He didn't leave it there. He really wanted to follow up on this point of freedom. We can become slaves to our work. And there's actually a chemical situation within our nervous system that makes us kind of addicted to the rush that comes in work. And when we don't have it, we miss it. But God wants us to be set free from that kind of addiction. He wants us on that day to pause, to stop. to quit. No longer wear the label of teacher or doctor or anything. Just be a child of God. And he will bless you for it. And we can also have uh be slaves to our pastimes. I don't know what yours are, but uh some people have things they just love to do and they can never find enough time to do them. They're not bad things at all. But they grip them, and they don't necessarily, don't usually lead to holiness. So this is a day to stop those pastimes No matter how enjoyable, enjoy them the rest of the week, unless they lead to greater holiness and spiritual maturity and service to others Let Sunday break your love of some of the pastimes that you have developed. One of the Bible or book clubs in Annapolis had a uh somehow they got hold of my little book and they read that And then they were concerned, they called up, said, Would you come and speak to our book club? Answer questions. Sure Well, one man named Joe said, Do you realize if I did what your book said, my whole life would be turned over? I'm a NASCAR fan. I'm there every Sunday. Now what are you gonna do with me? And so on. That was his pastime. And that pastime meant more to him than the soul, the strength and health and blessing of his soul. And I think the Lord's Day can liberate us from our addictions. You know, we many of us have addictions. I like to call them attachments more, but it doesn't matter. Something that you just crave to do. You You almost have to do it. It could be a substance, could be a behavior, could be a person. Uh, but this is an addiction. And I had an addiction. I probably still have some. I had the Athenian addiction. You might have it too. I hope not. You can study it in Acts 17. But my addiction was that I had to know the latest news about everything. Or I had to see how that story had progressed. I had to know how it had developed, and I had to know it now. Terrible. And it got so that I get up in the morning, first thing I do is flick on the television and see what had happened overnight. I gotta know these things. And the Lord stopped me in my tracks. On a Lord's Day. Why don't you stop doing that on the Lord's Day? The world's going to go on without you. You don't need to know that. So I stopped that. And then that bled over into the rest of the days. No longer did I go to the TV first thing. I went to my Bible and prayer where I belonged. And God used the Lord's day to liberate me from that particular addiction. He's probably got a lot more work to do in me, but that's what happened in my own life. And also you can find that the Lord's day will liberate you from planning and preparing for everything. It's easy on the Sunday when the whole week's before you to start thinking, now what's my week gonna look like? What if and you start scheduling, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna go there, you make arrangements, maybe you make buy airplane tickets. I'm seeing that more and more people are traveling on the Lord's Day. It's a big day of travel. But God doesn't want us to do things that cause other people to work. Let's not in our planning. Let's plan into our life. schedule that this day will be set apart from all other days and watch the Lord bless in it Well, my goal for us together is some well-kept Sabbaths. Well kept One minister during World War II made an amazing statement He said, one well-kept Sabbath would end this war. I don't know where he got that from. But I pondered. I thought, wouldn't it wouldn't in our house, what would one well kept Sabbath in your home look like? Just one. What would change? Or in a church. What would one well-kept Sabbath look like? Or in the town of Laurel, imagine if this town had just one. Well kept Sabbath. What would change? Well, you say, Pastor, you We're very different from other people on this point. We're we're the antithesis of the culture. I know it. And that's what Christ meant when he said, you're the salt of the earth, the light of the world. Live out the antithesis. Let us pray together. Our Heavenly Father We confess with Nehemiah that your Sabbath day has been infringed and broken to our detriment. And to the shriveling of our own souls. O Lord, refresh our understanding. Open the pages Scripture. Help us in conversation with each other to encourage and by love to serve one another toward well-kept Sabbaths. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.