So this verb is not referring to a cheerfulness that comes from, say, if you're having a good day, or if you got some good good news that puts you in a good mood. They were singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. The wording here does not limit or make the need for the elders exhaustive to just physical illness. for med medicinal purposes to heal maladies that ranged from a simple toothache to paralysis Now, one thing that needs to be pointed out today in our society and where we live, that it's a very complex thing to dispense any sort of medication for any elder unless of course you're a doctor. Now this symbolic function continues in the New Testament, where anointing is used for consecrating to God's service. We see this in 2 Corinthians and of course in Hebrews as well, 1-9. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. to the will of God and the image of our blessed Savior. James tells you simply to pray. to realize that God is in the process of making us more holy and building character, Christ-like character in us. We are to raise our voices in songs of thankfulness, songs of praise unto God. Having received this order, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. I think an important thing to learn from this is that our circumstances should not dictate or control how we feel. Whether we're feeling down or whether we're feeling up, we are to turn to God. that he really does love us as we just read through Hebrews, didn't we? But this is perhaps one of the reasons or one of the things that's being said here. and others who believe that this only happened in the apostolic era. What I'm saying is you can't separate the two unless it specifically says you must separate the two. And of course, the last phrase, they would argue, makes the final case for salvation as forgiveness of sins, is what obviously happens when one is saved, right? And he took him up by the right hand and raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong. So as it relates to this passage, I think it's safe to say that those who should be the most experienced in biblical counseling and leadership in the church presumably are the elders. And it seems to me that they would and should discuss with the person requesting the elders to pray over them with anointing oil about unconfessed sin. Now let us remember that sin is not necessarily the case, because he said if. who suffer. From chapter 5, verses 13 to 18. Is anyone among you sick? And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick. Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. Amen. Help us to understand and apply these things that we that we learn from it, as we rely upon you to help us comprehend spiritual things as well as be changed to conform. And the third question James asks is if there's anyone among you who is sick. Now let's take each one of these in turn. all sorts of trials that we undergo in life. To cheerfulness. thoughts in this epistle. to be joyous, if you will, despite the fact that they were made aware of an endanger uh impending danger and hardship. But when it's a Christian family who knows w where their loved one will end up, I've seen the sorrow of loss, but yet at the same time there is a joy But yet you are cheerful in the midst of it. In those situations, people are genuinely melancholy and rightly so, facing uncertainty in their own lives, losing the presence of a loved one. to the unbeliever, but not so for Christians. Now, remember, this is after they were put in jail and they were beaten by the townspeople. And matures us. just as much as when we are feeling good. The reason for doing so are usually the same. Note that the first two situations had the disciple, the Christian, the follower of Christ, turning to God directly. Nowadays we think of picking up the phone, but obviously here in this passage that's really not what the meaning is. is in Mark chapter 6 and verse 13. They are, one, a a practical aspect, and the second is a religious aspect. to an inn and took care of him. It's possible then that James is urging the elders to come to the sick person with both spiritual and natural resources with prayer and medicine. Anointing frequently symbolizes the consecration that is the setting aside of persons. or things for God's use. to to understand this. Pick up your bed and go home. But should not expect anything if they are double-minded in their faith We must be careful here. But it should suffice to say that when one prays, it's always answered with God's will in mind, no matter how much faith you have. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? And and then says, do not go sin any longer. which he brings out in verse 16 is drawn from the teachings of verses 13 and 15. Having said that, let us now turn our attention to the additional counsel that James is offering us. The answer to that question is, let him pray. but only of the ship. Knowing that their loved ones are with the Lord. and have no appetite to be happy or content in God's providence. Perhaps licking their wounds. Your Heavenly Father loves you so much. It is bringing maturity. perfecting us so that we may like nothing? In fact, the truth is, they don't. So this calling may mean a serious illness, preventing one to get around. So if you're experiencing some sort of illness, the elders are to be called, this passage tells us, to pray over the person and use anointing oil. Now the New Testament attests to its use, and we see this in the Gospel of Luke, you know, the story about the Good Samaritan, where he uses oil for healing purposes. He went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. in order to vividly show how that person is being set aside for special attention to prayer. and an outward symbolic act that sets aside, consecrates, that person for prayer of healing. Now before we move on, it's important to note that many theologians who uh rightly hold a cessationist view, which I hold also, say that this practice, the anointing of oil, no longer applies, which I do not agree with. Because those applying the ointment, the oil for healing, are the established permanent regular officers, elders. of the church throughout the entirety of the inter-Advent period. but rather the prayer. And in this case, saved to mean salvation for the soul. at times does have the meaning of being saved spiritually. But the word is consistently used in the New Testament for someone who has just been physically healed. um for the argument of salvific intent, I think really does more damage than help. Or for that matter, the prayer of elders. and not by faith and at times anointing oil administered by elders. James now addresses circumstances where the illness may be due to sin. This is something that we would do, that we would need to talk about and make peace with that unconfessed sin via confession. is in the future passive tense. Therefore, I conclude that the forgiveness being referred to here is not from the person that has been offended, but by God, either perhaps before physical death or at the day of judgment. specifically from sin as opposed to something that's beyond our control, then it is paramount that we confess our sins to one another. which already a spoiler was given, to practice when we are undergoing trials and testing. Now let me first address the issue of the anointing oil and then work my way down. can simply mean just very simply as being raised up from the bed. And it makes a spiritually healing only as in salvation of the soul, that interpretation, very, very difficult. Having established that this verse is about physical healing and not spiritual salvation, and that healing can come to those who have not sinned. However, if sin has caused an illness that has not been confessed, technically, the person requesting healing is in a state of guilt. Additionally, James no longer has the specific case of healing as he did in verses 14 and 15. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain. Previously, if you recall, he said that you should ask God for wisdom, for which God will generously give to you. Unexpectedly, James turns things inside out. but not necessarily due to an outward set of circumstances. Sorry, Acts 16, verse 23 to 25. Are you cheerful in the midst of your suffering? However, one has to be careful in interpreting a word to have the same meaning all the time. or healed. refers to physical illness more times than not. Would the healing have taken place if they had just believed hard enough? I'll read that. Jesus answered, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but the works of God, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. However, the reality of the situation is the New Testament does not deny its reality. or experiencing hardship. It seems as if bookends. If you are, then what James is encouraging you to do is to sing a song of praise or thanksgiving. Well, I think James is giving us a clue as to how you just might feel poised. But here, it is turning to the elders of the church. And they anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. So he raised up, should not, should the Lord choose to heal a person. So this means then the question has to be asked. I have to answer yes. But James doesn't stop at patience. By praying for wisdom, you can refocus your perspective. James is referring to times when you have cause to be sorrowful, in pain, but despite the circumstances, you are joyous. Then maybe we can say that it is good for you to suffer because God is doing something in your life. The truth is that we are not in control of all things around us. Steady, measured cheerfulness. God loves you. But you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Let me explain. This is not what James is teaching. So then, is it the elders that don't have enough faith if the person is not healed? Sin and sickness were closely associated in the ancient world. But rather a genuine request for forgiveness and a desire to turn away from that sin, not to do that anymore. For those of you who are here, if you recall, that piece of advice was basically to be patient and to trust in the Lord and in his providence. As I am aware, as I I should say, as I am unaware of any circumstances of spiritual need of salvation that isn't a product of sin. James has offered counsel to those that are suffering on a variety of different levels, but really persecution from the wicked and dealing with trials in life. Yet now I urge you to take heart, take heart, be cheerful, for there will be no lost life among you They would argue that by praying one will be saved and raised up is supposed to mean for the future resurrection at the return of Christ. Let thy will be done on heaven and on earth. It was because of his sin that he, whatever it was, or someone else's, that he was in the situation that he was in. Ever-present, Holy Spirit, be with us now as we continue in our worship through the expositing and proclamation of the Word of God. Whatever you're experiencing, it's happening for a reason. But you could be physically sick, unrelated to sin. Now before I move on, I would like to add that there is nowhere in Scripture that shows us that the direct instrument of spiritual salvation or conversion is prayer. So James says, and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. when I've had to visit homes or do memorial services for church members when they have lost a loved one. This can happen, but it really requires you to gain a godly perspective. In determining the meaning of this passage, it shows us that James does not assume that the sickness that the elders came for is caused by sin. We must recognize that there is a connotation here again, with the beginning of the letter where James says that those undergoing trials should ask God for wisdom. They were no longer there because they had committed sin. Please be seated. To whom? We can relate to that. And suffering doesn't mean he loves me any less. James begins this passage by asking three questions, two in verse 13 and one in verse 14. Are you undergoing a difficulty right now? You can think of Mark chapter 2, right? Or he may be calling you, pressing you into service for his glory. What should you do? Many of you know what kind of cheerfulness this is. Is anyone is anyone among you who is sick? This is the word of God. So this is Paul speaking. And then finally, to raise up and gyro, the word that's used in the Greek, reminds Christians immediately of what? Would you please turn your Bibles if you haven't already done so to James chapter five, where we will be doing um studying and reading from his verse It seems almost out of place, doesn't it? Again, we're still in verse number 15, last phrase. Does this sound something similar to James chapter 1, verses 2 through 4? I'll demonstrate that in an example here in just a moment in Mark chapter 9 and 21. Then we must understand that a prayer of healing with proper faith will be answered if it is in accordance with God's providential will. We saw that with the priests. He didn't resurrect them. This is Jesus and and and his uh disciples walking together and they came across the blind man. There's an example of how oil is used for medicinal purposes. Because we're not saying that if you have enough faith, you will get what you want. Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Well, the rest of us. First, we must note that it is the prayer that is offered up in faith that potentially brings about healing. Now the word for cheerful, euthemoe, has a connotation of a positive emotional state. This morning we're going to be returning to the book of James as we enter into the concluding section of this epistle. But the book of Job reminds us that we must be careful to not draw a cause and effect conclusion to all ailments as due to sin. So as we move on to verse sixteen, we encounter a therefore. We can do things that cause illness in our lives. What were they doing? The first of the three is about suffering. I mean Paul talks about that at the Lord's table, does he not? And as you are seated, please join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit on our time in the Word this morning. James has returned to how he has started this epistle, undergoing trials and what to do when you experience them. It is bringing perfection. Some interpret this passage in verse 15 to have a salvific meaning. He now adds another important Christian discipline In the name of the Father and of the Son and Holy Spirit we pray. Let us not forget that the prayer is offered up not by the sick person, it is by the elders. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy, infallible, and inerrant word? Stand up and rise, right? Does this mean that you may have ailments due to unresolved sin? They're urged, the people that he is with, they are urged to be of good cheer. To the community. And the Lord will raise him up. Yes, absolutely. This is when the Lord sent out the apostles to proclaim the coming of the kingdom. Now the second is a religious purpose. We saw that with David, where oil is being poured out to set aside a person for a particular use, or even instruments for religious purposes. He told them to get up. Ask for wisdom from God. The suffering that James has in mind with this word is not specifically physical illness, as he'll deal with that with the third question that he asks. I'm certain that you can think of a time when you have been maybe persecuted for your faith, suffering for your faith. Is anyone among you suffering? That's why. However, it also has the meaning of being physically saved. He is not willing to let you go. Now, if James has this in mind, then it would appear as if James is having the elders anoint the sick person. If anyone is feeling joyous, James instructs us. And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, Paul and Silas, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely. Verses 1 through 12, where Jesus forgives the man his sins. If you're experiencing difficult times, whatever it may be, and the weight of the pressure is great, It's in the future passive tense. These type of life experiences are very much like trials that God brings about in our lives. What then should you be singing a song about? They were singing songs of thanksgiving to God. Are there difficult times in your life right now? As Protestants, we believe that salvation is by faith alone, In this particular case it was death, right? What dictates how we feel is how we respond to those situations. The second question: Is anyone cheerful? And here's why. If so, let him call the elder so that he can anoint you and pray for healing. Do you remember what happened when Paul and Silas were jailed in the in the book of Acts? You have been forgiven The Greek word is kakapatheo, which means to suffer misfortune. And if he has committed sin, he will be forgiven. The if is paramount. This man or his parents that he was born blind? He has returned again, as if bookends, to the beginning's thoughts. So then, the anointing with oil would be for the purpose of physical healing. He goes from suffering But think about it. Are you cheerful in the midst of a trial? Another example is in Acts chapter 3 and verse 7. Frankly, we're not in control of any things around us. Then he set him up on his own animal and brought him For example, it could be something environmental or it could be genetic. However, let me caution that Therefore, it must have a permanent validity until Jesus returns I have seen it most often as a minister. Now this question has to deal with a weakness. When we think of calling, The only other time in Scripture where anointing oil is used in regard to sickness Now the importance of James teaching has to be highlighted here. In fact, when he brings it about to mature me, discipline me, it reminds me, and it should remind you The wisdom that we need There are several instances where you can see that it was because of sin a person has an ailment. The prayer of righteousness, prayer of righteous person, has great power as it is working. Sometimes we go through difficulties, trials in life. And no matter what, He will always love you. Not a spiritual sickness. He then said to the paralytic, Engaro, rise. Let him pray. This is the word of God An example of this word usage is found in Acts chapter 27 and verse 22. It is through the trials that God raises us up You can learn from it. In fact the language seems to reinforce the idea of physical healing than spiritual salvation. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and doing what? He is fighting for you. So there are two major categories of what the anointing may mean here. It is true that the Greek word of save, sozo, Okay? Now the forgiveness It's interesting to spotlight that James is constantly pointing us to God. The reasons now now think about this God loves me. Now, as we move on to verse fourteen and the third question So let's take them in turn. We see that in John chapter 9, verses 2 and 3. We bring things to the table ourselves. If we're to understand that the physical ailment has come Acts 23. I I disagree, and it's rare when I do this, I disagree with John Calvin. Such a temporal restriction cannot be accepted. But we can be we can become sick. And when you gain a biblical perspective, how do you think it would affect you? He said, some of you have fallen asleep. And for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Calling for a person or persons can imply inability to go yourself Now, let's see how these two seemingly unrelated notions connect. Not let my will be done if I have enough faith. Amen. Now, what about this notion of healing? This is not a place for a teaching on God's sovereignty and predestined will. It's good advice to sing praises to God when we're suffering. I'll show you. What type of song? Are there pressures in your life that are bearing down upon you? Now the related part of that verse is in the second half, which reads Is anyone cheerful? So the last phrase which seems to cinch it If so, let him sing a song of praise to God. They had just been beaten by a crowd, a crowd of people, and now they were in jail. Now, if you're suffering, What pray tell might it be The first one is that oil was widely used in the ancient world. The first question, is anyone among you suffering? Additionally, the word for sick Now, Matthew chapter 9 and verse 6. But it may be He is disciplining you. We see this in Acts 4. Now again we're we're in verse 15. You can grow from it. That's his word for dead. But what we are in control is how we respond to those things. It seems this is so counterintuitive. The primacy is really not the anointing. Let him sing praise. I'll read that for us in Luke chapter 10 and verse 34. Being resurrected, doesn't it? 27. More recently, Now, when we consider the second question, And I'll read this passage for us. Do you remember what they were doing? But it's about James's concluding How do you feel?