Thank you so much for the reading of God's Word. Incredible passage with great cohesiveness. And It'll take us to the high point of this great book. As you just heard, boasting for the Apostle Paul Was a matter of painful awkwardness for him. And here in 2 Corinthians, when Paul's opponents, the superapostles, boasted about their ethnic and religious pedigrees. You'll notice in the reading that he reluctantly responded by reciting his own transcending pedigrees as a Jew and an Israelite and so on. Which he then quickly turned into an extended boast in his weaknesses as perceived in the eleventh chapter, that long litany of awful things that happened to him. Well, here in the 12th chapter, you have the same hesitation as Paul is called to counter his opponents' boast and their ecstatic spiritual experiences by describing his own. surpassing spiritual experiences, his own ecstasies, so to speak. And you heard it, and you see it in the opening verse there where you have the same discomfort and reticence as he says. I must go on boasting, though there's nothing to be gained by it. I will go on divisions and revelations of the Lord. Though Paul is doubtful of what that kind of sharing will accomplish, he fully understands the dangers of default, and so he's willing to, in his mind, play the fool. And boast. But very significantly, he's not going to waste time on lesser phenomena. We'll go straight to his vision and revelations of the risen Lord. And not unsurprisingly, Paul's boast in his incredible revelation accorded him will be followed by an even greater boast. His ultimate boast, namely his greatest boast of all, that is in his weaknesses. That's what he concludes with Now, what Paul does is he opens with a bare bones, minimalist description of his personal rapture to the third heaven and a paradise. Verses 2 and 3. I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows. And I know that this man was caught up into paradise. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows, and he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter. Now, the Apostle Paul, you'll note, twice refers to himself in the third person, a man, with almost identical phrases. There's no doubt that it's Paul. This man is Paul because in verse 7 he switches to the first person, identifies himself as the recipient of these incredible, surpassing revelations. I think his use of a third person, a man, I know a man, signals his discomfort and his embarrassment in indulging in ecstatic biography. Which he's always deemed of little import. He hasn't done it. The very fact that for 14 years Paul had told no one about his rapture to paradise shows that he considered these private experiences as unimportant to the gospel ministry. Certainly, it had been important to him fourteen years ago, personally, when he began his missionary journey fourteen years ago in Antioch. But Paul believed that the subjective nature of individual revelations was no profit to others. Otherwise, he would have told people about it. But he never told anyone. As he did, for instance, he repeatedly described his conversion story on the road to Damascus because he thought that was profitable, but he had never shared. This, but this experience. Paul's experience of rapture here had been thoroughly ecstatic. So ecstatic that he didn't know whether he was uh caught up bodily, like Enoch and Elijah? Or whether it was simply an out-of-the-body transport of his human spirit, he's sort of been beamed up? He didn't know. But the thing that he did know is that it had happened, that he had been there to heaven and paradise, and it was stunning. Now what's he talking about? Well, biblical cosmology, the way the universe Is looked at views the heavens as threefold. There's the atmosphere, that's the first heaven around us. Then there is a second heaven, that's the place of the stars. And then there's a third heaven in biblical thinking, which is the abode or presence of God. And the designation paradise. Signals that it's the very presence of God. The word paradise only occurs two other places in Scripture. One is in Luke 23, 43. Where Christ on the cross says to the repentant thief, Today you will be with me in paradise. The only other place is a Revelation 2, 7, where he says, To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life which is in the paradise of God. Those are the two places. that it's mentioned. And scholars like Philip Hughes hold that these three mentions of paradise, the one here, uh Are mutually defining and talk about the very presence of Christ throughout salvation history. And here's what Hughes says: the apostle was caught up as far as the third heaven. Presence of God. This specifies the height or distance of his rapture. But also, but not separately, he was caught up into paradise. which specifies the depth of his rapture and is a more precise disclosure of a particular part of the third heaven into which he was taken. And there, in paradise, in the presence of Christ, in the paradise sector of the third heaven, he saw the resurrected Christ. And he saw the souls of the redeemed at home with the Lord, awaiting the crowning consummation of salvation. the bestowal of their glorious resurrection bodies at the hand of Jesus as a new heaven and new earth are inaugurated and all God's purposes are finally fulfilled. It was bedazzling. What he saw. He really saw. He didn't think he saw it. He didn't imagine he saw it. He saw it. And there, in the third heaven, he heard things that cannot be told, which men may not utter. What's he saying? Well, what he heard was was beyond utterance, not because they were unintelligible. He understood what was being said, but because God had forbidden him to speak about them. He understood every word, but they were private. Because they were given for his own edification as he began his first missionary journey some fourteen years before. Now, what an awesome. Transcendent experience has been given to the Apostle Paul. What he saw, because seeing all that dazzling in his eyes, and what he heard. There's nothing like it in Scripture. Maybe Moses is up on the mountain, but that doesn't come close to it. But why we ask if it wasn't to be shared? Well, I kind of answered it, but there's more to it than that. John Calvin supplies the answer. And I alluded to it. It was for the sake of Paul himself. For one who has such arduous difficulties awaiting him, and this is Calvin's term, enough to break a thousand hearts. Required to be strengthened by special means that he might not give way, but might persevere undaunted. He was given this incredible Experience of being caught up in the third heaven and seeing Christ and the souls of the departed and hearing the discourse of heaven. To prepare him for what he was going to go through. It was, in a sense, an epic experience for an epic life. Unique. When I think about the Apostle Paul, and I and I have to I'm just going to stop and say this, he is the hero of the ages for me. You go back to the 11th chapter that was just read, and it says that five times he received 40 stripes minus one. From the Jews? That's for what? 195 lashes. Do you know that that uh that that that was a synagogue punishment? You know why he got those five whippings? Because he always was committed to taking the gospel to the Jews first. So he would go to the synagogue and they would hear it and begin to tear on their hair and their robes, and then they would uh fasten him and they would beat him to with an inch of his life. And then he would heal up. He'd preach the gospel. Maybe the officials, the lictors, the Roman lictors, would beat him with rods again. And then he'd move off to the next city, and he would take the gospel to the Jews first. I'll tell you what, after a couple of those meetings, I think. I don't think I'm going to go to the synagogue first. But Paul took it to the Jews first. And then the stonings, the shipwrecks, the dangers, the pressures, talk about being squeezed and squashed. That are part of his life. It is an epic life. In fact, I would say this: in the history of the world, there is no greater hero than Paul. Not just a biblical hero. There are people that have died horrendous deaths. People die horrendous deaths today, but the fortitude and the consistency over decades of ministry, there is no one like Paul. I think he's the hero of the ages. Then I'll also say this, this is A. D. 53 or 54. He's got 10 more years to go. What if he'd have written this 10 years later? This is phenomenal. What a hero for the ages. An epic experience of being caught up in the third heaven to sustain an epic heart and life. Now, most people have been granted ecstasy like this, where they've been actually raptured to paradise to God and to the Son and His Holy Spirit and the souls that departed as discourse of heaven. Would scarcely be able to contain themselves. Right? I mean, the first person you saw, you'd want to just pour it out to. Most people, I mean, they wouldn't be able to keep it in. Today they'd write a bestseller. My rapture. A personal account of my trip to heaven and back. Seminars on five steps to your own rapture would be sold out. I mean, your very words would be accorded like divine revelation. And you know what? If you experience something like that, you could build an entire denomination on it. You could establish a university on it. A huge university. Rapture University. I mean what a great recruiting call, Rapture You But from the evidence of the text, it seems certain that Paul would have taken the story of his rapture to the grave were it not for the compelling necessity. to boast of it for the sake of the Corinthian church. That's why. And now as he does reticently boast, it is so modest and restrained, as he continues Still in the that self-effacing third person in verses 5 and 6. He's talking about himself. On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast. Kind of double talk. Except of my weaknesses. You see that? Though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I'd be speaking the truth. But to refrain from it, so no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears of me. He could have been Completely justified and boasts in his amazing experience, but he forgoes doing so and he boasts in his weaknesses. And by doing this Paul assures that authority in the church is not to be based on subjective, ecstatic experience, but on the example and words of its leaders. I actually have a pamphlet at home of a Catholic priest that claims he was raptured up in the third heaven and came back and holding big meetings in New York City. Paul forbids any assessment of himself and his ministry by standards other than his actions and his words. And I think that gives all kinds of essential wisdom if you navigate the currents of Christianity. Christianity in this world today. Regardless of how great a personal claim is made to visions and ecstasies, nothing can replace one's conduct and words as indicated. Now, up to this point, he's written opaquely. Of his rapture to paradise from the perspective of the third person. I know a man, this man, and so on. But now He switches to the first person, and he is absolutely crystal clear. And the essence of Paul's thought in verse 7 is that the revelation according to him was so personally exalting. That he needed a humbling thorn in the flesh. Now think about that. So awesome. He had to have something really humbling happen to him In the flesh. So he says, verse 7: so to keep me from being too elated for the surpassing greatness of revelation. A thorn was given to me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan harassed me to keep me from being too elated. And what you want to note well is that Paul's thorn came after his surpassingly great revelations and in consequence of them. It's not something that he had before. It's not a malady that he had before, whatever it was. And as to what it was, we can only conjecture. Some have speculated that the thorn that was given to him were the Judaizers and superapostles that excoriates in chapter 10. And I mean I can I can understand that uh certainly the metaphor can be used this way about troubled people. I've known some thorns Others have said it's a specific ailment such as poor eyesight, noting that in Galatians 6. 11 he takes he writes in large letters. I think that's just for emphasis. I don't think it's because he had he was myopic or something like that. It's for drama. But the speculations run wild, and if you had ever had one of these things, you could say, yeah, it was. Uh golf stones, buy that one. Sciatica. One guessed it was lice. Well, I don't know. I think he probably had better habits than that. Sir William Ramsey, who was a famous uh a century-ago New Testament scholar, traveled to Asia Minor and in Pamphylia he got malaria, and Paul had traveled, he was sure it was recurring malaria. I remember giving this uh speaking on this text one time and a woman came up to me after word words and she was uh the wife of a pastor and she said, No, I know who it was. It was the pastor's wife. Or Paul's wife. Well, she said it, I didn't say it, and she's wrong, but it was sure funny what she said. It wasn't that. But the the the Thorns anonymity is a good thing because it allows for broad application for us. But the truth about the thorn that we should all note is that while the thorn was Satan's work, God allowed it. Just as God was the one responsible for the ecstasy, God is the one who is responsible for the agony. The ongoing agony of a thorn. That divine revelation determined that is what Paul had to have, or he would become impossibly conceited and ruined. What a vision. Paul would be ruined without the thorn. Fascinating. Because what Paul is saying here turns the argument of his critics on its head because Paul's thorn See, the very thing his critics loathed in him and saw as evidence that God wasn't with him, the fact that he couldn't get rid of the thorn. He says this lo some thormous actually proof of the transcending superiority of his experience What a stunning rebuke to the superapostles who worship health and wealth and well-being, who viewed affliction and weakness as the absence of God's blessing. That doesn't suggest that he enjoyed it. I don't think he did. In fact, you see this prayer in verse 8. And uh it says, three times I pleaded with the Lord about this that it should leave me. His trio of pleadings talk about one specific time When he pled with the Lord. He kind of had his own Gethsemane and said, Lord, if it's possible, take it away. And as Jesus was answered by the Father that he wasn't going to take it away, Jesus answered Paul that he was to remain with the thorn to know. So I think we have to take it to heart. Whenever Christ says no to our desperate, passionate pleadings, the no is freighted with perfect compassion, goodness, and love. You know, when you when you when you live a long time like I have all these years you you go through one problem after another problem after another problem after another Another problem. As I'm standing here talking today, I've got domestic problems with my grandchildren that are absolutely on my mind all the time. On my mind all the time. God has not answered those things yet. But it's all in his grace because his answers, even his no's, are never negative except in a superficial sense Because ultimately they're positive, bringing an unending blessing. I believe Romans 8. Implicitly Now, Jesus' note of Paul came in the form of an explanation, and everybody, this is the high point of the entire letter. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. I'm not excited about red letter editions. But if you had a red letter edition, what would those words be written in? Red. Jesus said it. Jesus said it. It's an exact quotation. And this is the summit of the epistle, the lofty peak. From which the whole is viewed in true proportion, and you begin to understand everything, his weaknesses, his trials, his labors, his con they all fall into place. The grand theme. The melodic line of 2 Corinthians is that authentic ministry, as Paul describes and defends the ministry of the New Covenant, the persistent motif of authentic ministry is power in. weakness. I want you to take just a a a quick go back to the first chapter. I'm going to take you on a really quick journey through this. I mentioned this morning in chapter 1. 8 that you see this power and weakness motif. 1-8. For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength. He's saying we're weak. That we despaired of life. Indeed, we felt that we'd received the sentence of death. That is abject weakness. Then he says, but That was to make us rely not on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. God, resurrection power. You see it? You look across the page in chapter 2, and you have an account which may be enigmatic If you've never studied it before, where he says in 2. 14, we'll go through 16, where he says, But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession. And through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of Him everywhere. For we are the Rome of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are being perishing. To one, a fragrance from death to death, to the other, a fragrance from life to life. Here it is. Now that has been misread for centuries. Because people have imagined when they read this that being led in triumphal procession is sort of riding in the chariot with the victorious general with all the troops behind. They read it triumphantly. Well, we're talking about a Roman procession. Do you know, say, for instance, in Titus's triumphal procession into Rome, that Titus rode in a chariot? In a purple robe embroidered with palms, his face painted red like Jupiter, the god of war. His chariot was pulled by four great war horses or pacchoderms, and the behind him was an endless row of big trailers with the beaks of ships, gate gates off city, trailers with gold, trailers with silver, then followed by the prisoners and their leaders. as they proceeded on with the priests singing around him, wafting incense in the air, and that Paul is talking about being back there with the prisoners, being led to death. But thanks be to God, who always leads us in a triumphal procession. And he talks about how his life wafts out the gospel, which is a smell of death to those who do not believe and for those who would believe from life to life. That's what he's talking about with his huge illustration. And then of course In the fourth chapter, we have, I'll just give you the beautiful Uh paraphrase, squeezed but not squashed, bewildered but not befuddled, pursued but not abandoned, knocked down but not knocked out. Because what we have this treasure in earthen vessels to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. Then, if you go to the sixth chapter, I'll just give you an outtake because it it picks up on this same paradoxical language. It actually begins in verse 4, but I'll just begin in verse 8 and read down through verse 9. Through honor and dishonor, see the antithesis. Through slander and praise, we are treated as imposters and yet are true, as unknown and yet well known, as dying, and behold we live, as punished yet not killed, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing, as poor yet making many rich, as having nothing, Yet possessing everything, the weakness and power. And then in the eleventh chapter that was read by the pastor this morning, the final part of eleventh chapter He says, in verse 30, if I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weaknesses. And then he gives an example, an outrageous example in Greco-Roman culture, one that no one would ever share unless they felt compelled to, or or had a completely different uh understanding of the world. In fact, it's so unbelievable that he swears that he's telling the truth. Verse 31, the God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who is blessed forever, knows I'm not lying. Yeah, I mean he he didn't he didn't uh he didn't do this, you know, uh lightly And then he says, here's the story. At Damascus, the governor under King Eratos was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize me. But I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands. No Greco-Roman would ever tell this story about being let down to escape in a smelly fish basket, which is that's what it was. to escape. But he said, I'm going to boast in the things that show my weaknesses. See, power and weakness Runs like a golden thread throughout the letter. And then he crowns it by saying, But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. And the masked force of those repeated eloquences, power and weakness, is to make it drive it home to our souls. And with that, with Jesus' words, then you come to the greatest boast that Paul ever made. He didn't like to boast, but he liked this boast. Verse 9. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. And I want to say in this phrase, it's almost like a holy of holies in its revelation. He feels no reticence about boasting. He doesn't feel he's playing the fool. In fact, there is absolute existential abandon in his boast. He's not shy anymore. He joyously boasts of his weaknesses, his loathsome thorn, as well as his beatings and hardships and sleepless nights and hunger and thirst. Why? Well, of course. It's the power and weakness principle, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. And I want you to look very closely at this. So if the power of Christ may rest upon me because it is so beautiful. You don't want to miss it. Rest upon me, that word, rest upon me, dwell upon me, is the vocabulary of the tabernacle from the time when God pitched his tent with his people in Exodus 40, 34. It's it's it's so it will tabernacle upon me. It's the same thing used in John 1. 14. When the word became flesh, Jesus became flesh, and literally tabernacle pitched his tent among you. And here in 2 Corinthians, Paul employs the same awesome image to teach the all-glorious, powerful Christ pitches his tent with his people in their weakness. Camps. He camps with us in our weakness. That's the divine revelation. He camps with us. He encamps with us. Weakness. I was talking to the pastor's wife, and she quoted Amy Carmichael to me. And I said, Can you find it? She found it for me, and here's Amy Carmichael, if I can read it properly. I thought I heard my Savior say to me: my strength encamps on weakness. So on thee. And when a wind of fear did through me blow, how can that be? He answered me, but if it were not so. I would have told thee. He encamps with us in our weaknesses. And now we, you know, in our culture today, Our culture, I'm talking about the evangelical culture. They imagine that he encamps with those that can command large crowds and go from city to city and be announced. It's like it's like uh a thing that I I think I heard. And it was uh it was a Latin American evangelist being introduced in some spot. And and uh when he came out they said, may we introduce to you, and I'll give him a name, Hernando, you know, whatever. That great servant of God drumroll and he steps out in the spotlight. I don't think so. Christ pitches his tent with the weak and the unknown, the suffering shut-in, the anonymous pastor The missionary serving somewhere in oblivion, the godly quiet servants in the home and in the marketplace. I mean, this is what it says. Look at 9b again. So that the power of Christ may rest upon me, tabernacle on me, encamp with me. And then this brings us to Paul's disposition, his attitude, as how he approached life. Verse 10. For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions. And calamities for when I am weak, I am strong. That's an axiom from Paul. When I am weak, I am strong. The paradox of power. The paradox for when I am weak, then I am strong doesn't need our perceived strengths. If that is what we depend upon. And again, I want to read this to drive it home because it is so utterly perfect wherever I put it. Maybe it's up here Well, all through history, God has chosen and used nobody's because their renunciation uh because their lack of see I I don't even have it memorized properly. But you know what I'm saying. He uses somebody's only when renounce dependence upon their natural abilities and Rely upon him. That's the axiom. So true. So true. I don't know. Um again, uh Bonnie, I was thinking about Charleston and I was thinking about uh a uh a pastor there um that pastored that church years ago and uh his name was Vance Haviner And Vance Havner talked about how God called him to do the work of an evangelist. He pastored that church there in Charleston. And he said, here I was. He was a little man, kind of a frail man. He said, God was calling me to do a work that that that strong men had failed at. He said, to go and do evangelism and be in a different bed every night in different places. places and uh never be completely rested and out of gas. He said I he said it w if there ever was an opportunity to show God's strength is perfected in weakness, this was it. And uh and he said basically he said, I had the weakness God had the strength. And we teamed up. And we were an unbeatable combination. You know what uh uh uh what I've been talking about here is this calling us to live a life that is countercultural within the body of Christ, understanding this is how the gospel goes out. To understand it for those that are committed to the gospel, this is always how the gospel has gone out. It's always gone out like this. And uh God doesn't need heroes. God doesn't need superheroes in the sense that we think of the world. He needs people who rely upon him. Who understand that his strength is perfected in weakness and throw themselves upon the grace of God. So God God bless you all with this. Amen.