Well they talk about being ready in season and out of season, so here I am. Well, it's good to be with you and uh to worship the Lord and to lift up his name and to confess our sins and to take the Lord's Supper So I'm thankful I can be here and fill in for my brother Chuck and everything I've heard is he's doing well and they they put one stint. um in his artery and uh I think everything is going great. He didn't even have to stay overnight so we're really thankful for that This morning we're going to look at uh John chapter 3, Jesus' encounter with Nicodemus, the Pharisee. And Nicodemus, if you're familiar with this passage, comes to Jesus at night wanting to understand. I think it's a very honest coming to Jesus. Sometimes in the Gospels we have people coming to Jesus to test him. Here we have Nicodemus coming to Jesus really to understand who he is and what he's all about. And Jesus talks about grace, sovereign grace with him And so uh it reminded me of when I was a kid um understanding grace probably for the first time. I was in fifth grade I went to an elementary school at Winfield Elementary School in Ramlestown, Maryland. I don't know if you're familiar with that. And it was recessed. And we were all out there playing next to the school, and we were kicking around a soccer ball. And I remember the teacher blew the whistle, it was time to come in from recess. And I remember the soccer ball sitting there on the field in a perfect, you know, location, and as I was running in, I decided Well, the ball has to go in towards the school too. So I kicked the soccer ball, and it was a perfect shot into a six by six. window of the sixth grade classroom next to mine. And I just remember that it you know, it broke the sound of it and all the kids of course were right there too And they all looked at back at me and like, oh, you know, you can hear the echo of the the sound and and uh Of course, then it was like, Mr. Garriott, you need to see me immediately in the principal's office. So here we go, marching down to the principal's office. There at Winfield Elementary School and I was embarrassed. I was full of shame. I was shaking my head. And uh there we go into Mr. Hirsch was the uh the principal at the time. And I just remember, you know, he was larger than life. I was sitting there, he was huge. And I heard him say these words to me. And I think he had called my mom as well. And uh he said, Well, Chris has finished off the window that had a crack in it. And I was just blown away. It was like I'm going to live to see another day and uh w and it and it was grace really, right? I deserved punishment. I deserve you know the fool you know you know I have to pay for this how can a you know a ten year old pay for something like this and uh instead I heard those words of of grace that uh It's just gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay. And really this passage is all about grace. So if you would look, let's look at This, John 3, verses 1 to 21. Let me pray first and then we'll look at the word of God. Lord Jesus, thank you so much. for this morning to look at your word, to consider the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. As he preached this sermon to Nicodemus, may he preach it to our hearts as well. May your Holy Spirit work in Jesus' name. Amen. Hear the word of the Lord. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. And this man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher, come from God. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God Nicodemus said to him, Well, how can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you. Unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from. or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, Well, how can these things be? Jesus answered him, are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended from heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the servant in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe in is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light, because their deeds were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been carried out in God. This ends the reading of God's holy word. Amen. How can one be saved? What does this mean to be born again? These are the questions that this text is asking us, and these are of utmost importance to us. of utmost importance, the nature of salvation. And in this whole passage assumes something. It assumes that we need to be saved. It assumes that we need to be born again. It's saying ultimately that something is deeply wrong with the human condition. That all of us are on a journey to physical death or spiritual death. Something is wrong. And so Jesus wants Nicodemus, this ruler, this Pharisee, to understand that only God can save. Only God can give the new birth. Only God can awaken our hearts. It's not knowledge or philosophy or a code of ethics or obedience to commands. God must save. God and God alone. And so we're going to look at the nature, the source, and the evidence of salvation this morning. First, the nature. The nature of salvation is grace. The free grace, the free sovereign grace of God. And so Nicodemus comes to Jesus, and he was a Pharisee, and he was a ruler, and he comes to him at night, and he begins to question Jesus, and he even makes the point that You must be from God because you can do these miracles and these things. And Jesus kind of goes right to the heart and doesn't, it seems like he's not really answering his question. And he goes right to the heart and says, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. He keeps speaking about being born again. Verse 5. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water. And the Spirit. He cannot. He cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. Jesus keeps telling him about the new birth. some six times in this short passage. And the point is he's he's saying that just as you did not cause your physical birth You cannot cause your spiritual birth. That it has you have to be born of God. And this brings a what I would call a holy confusion to him. You know, he is a teacher and he is a ruler of Israel and the Lord Jesus is bringing confusion into his life. And I would say it's a graceful confusion. And the first thing we have to know is these Pharisees were all about law-keeping. And I think if you've been around the church, you will know. They were as sect within Judaism, the most conservative. They were the lawkeepers. They believed that they were faultless according to the law of Moses. They built laws surrounding the law of Moses. In fact, they had 39 extra laws regarding the Sabbath day. And they would even tithe their weeds in the backyard, their mint, their dill, their cumin. But we remember too, later on, the Apostle Paul, who was a Pharisee, who came to that new birth later on in Galatians, he says this about the law. He says, we ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. Yet we know that a person is not justified by the works of the law. but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ. and not by the works of the law, because by the works of the law no one will be justified. So Jesus is ultimately saying it's grace, it's not by the works of law, and it's not also by status. It says that Nicodemus was a ruler. He was a ruler within the Pharisaic sect. So you have status, a leader, someone who had talent, knowledge Right? And the gifts to get to that position within the Pharisaical sect. But we remember again the words of Paul in Philippians chapter 3. He was a Pharisee who was rising to the top as the leader, right? Remember? And in Philippians chapter 3, he gives his little testimony. about how, you know, he used to be, used to put all of his hope in his status, right? In his blood. He was a Hebrew of Hebrews. From the tribe of Benjamin, circumcised on the eighth day, right? As to the law, faultless. And then he says later on in Philippians 3:8, but whatever gain I had. Status and lawkeeping, I count it as loss for the sake of Christ. I count them as rubbish only to be found in him not having a righteousness of my own. So the Lord Jesus is bringing this what I would say a holy confusion to Nicodemus to ultimately say, Nicodemus, you have failed. That the gospel of grace is not about Obedient lawkeeping because you cannot keep the law, right? The law is showing the glory and the holiness of God, the perfection of God. But in and of yourself, without the Holy Spirit, you cannot keep the law. That the law is condemning you. That you need to look to me to be saved. And so he is bringing this confusion so that Nicodemus will understand that it must be by grace. Only by being born again, something that God does, something that God causes, that Jesus is the author and the finisher of our faith. And so he's saying to Nicodemus, and he's saying to us that it can't be by our lawkeeping, it can't be by our status, it can't be by our family connections, right? I'm in a family with three but three of us are ministers, right? But that's not what makes us righteous. It's only the blood of Jesus. So this is grace. This is what the world needs, right? This is what the world doesn't understand. The Christianity, the Word of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, is showing this is the only religion in the world that speaks about grace and and holds up grace. That it's about what Jesus has not done, not what we have done, right? It's All the other religions in the world are saying, you know, you got to work up the steps of the ladder to get to nirvana or the five pillars of Islam to be maybe to to be approved and accepted by Allah or maybe it's the eightfold path of Buddhism, but it's all of these things we do. And Christianity is saying none of that. You can't do it. Instead, Jesus has to come down and live the life that we couldn't live and obey and go to the cross for sinners. And we need to be born again. And so ever this is so hard for us to understand, isn't it? Because every I was I was preaching this sermon to the students on Wednesday. It's so hard for us to understand because everything in our life is performance-based, right? To get into the University of Maryland, performance-based, GPA, SAT, right? Uh once you're there, it's all about performance, right? To get the grades, to to be accepted, to get the job, to get, you know, to get and then and then once you get out, it's everything is about performance, right? For the gospel is freedom. It's saying rest. It's saying receive the Lord Jesus. What an amazing thing that it says to us. So that brings us to the second part, and that is the source of salvation. And the source of salvation here is God alone. God alone. He is the one that is behind our salvation. And so he says in verse 3, you must be born by water and by spirit. And again, Nicodemus is confused about these things. And Jesus says, well, you're a teacher of Israel. You should know about these things. And the Pharisees were well acquainted, if not, if they didn't have, you know, they pretty much had the Old Testament memorized, and they missed it. They missed these basic points is what Jesus is saying. Let's look at Isaiah 32, 15. It says, until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high. And the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is deemed a forest. Isaiah 44, 3. For I will pour water. on the thirsty land and streams on the grie ground. I will pour my spirit upon your offspring and my blessings on your descendants. And so Jesus is saying With these metaphors of the water being poured out, this is the a picture of the Spirit bringing life to Israel, bringing life to all who would believe. And then you have this beautiful, most famous passage here, Ezekiel 36, 25 to 27. Where it which says, I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncle uncleanliness and from all your idols, and I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart Who's acting here? The Lord. And a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Again, this is what God is doing through his spirit. He is the one causing the new heart. He's the one awakening us. to his love and to his forgiveness. It's what he has done. He is the source of our salvation. And so we see that uh we must be born of God, that it's God's work, and it's it's ultimately uh God's what's the reason behind this? It's God's sovereign love. behind all of this action. And so as the passage moves on, as the conversation moves on, we have this most famo probably the most famous work verse. in all of the Bible. John 3. 16. If you grew up in the church, if you went to DBS, right, or you know, you grew up in the covenant family, I'm sure that this was one of your memory verses. I grew up in a church that was very liberal, but this was a memory verse. God's grace punching through that church and their theology with this verse. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. That Greek word there is agape. who you've probably heard that. But that is the Greek word for God's unconditional, committed. Covenantal love for his people. This is the never ever going to let you go, love of God that only God has. for his people. We as sinners, we can't keep this. But God's love. And so the source of salvation is God's work. It's God's love for us. He does it just because he loves us and we We don't understand, right? When he uh Israel and back in Deuteronomy 7, the Lord says to them, Hey, I didn't I didn't choose you because you know you were the greatest of nations or you were better than anybody else. He just says, I chose you because I loved you. I chose you just because I loved you. This is, again, grace. And it knocks the feet out of pride. Because we're always saying, well, look at me, or look what I did, or I must earn this some way. And it's just his sovereign love. That is the source of salvation for us. And ultimately, that sovereign love is manifested in this work of his son. And so Jesus begins to point to himself in this passage where in verse 14 he gives an Old Testament illustration. He says, as Moses was lifted up, had lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believes in him may have eternal life And he's getting to the centerpiece of God's love, of the source of God's sovereign grace, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the centerpiece of the Bible. The love of God in Christ Jesus for sinners. That's what the Bible is all about. That's what our faith is all about. The love of God for sinners. And so this is the source of our salvation. God's love for us manifested in the Lord Jesus Christ. 1 John 4 says, this is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. And so when we understand the grace of God, we understand that God is the source. And that he has manifested the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's through his work on the cross that saves us. We don't save ourselves. the perfect life, death, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus for us. And that gets to the last part here. And this is the test or the evidence of salvation. The evidence of salvation. How does one know if they are born again? How does one know if they are saved? How does one know if they have the Spirit of God? Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ alone? This is what Jesus is getting at with Nicodemus, that he is the center. And he is the source of our salvation. So, Nicodemus, do you believe? Friends, do you believe in the Lord Jesus? That's what the last part of this passage is getting at. The evidence is on our responsibility and the calling of God to believe. And this is the mystery of this idea in the Bible that we have as reformed folks. We have the sovereignty of God. We believe totally in God's sovereign election. And his grace. And at the same time, we have the responsibility to believe. And this is the mystery within our belief system. That the Bible never pitched this against each other. That we are always called to believe and to receive the Lord Jesus Christ. And so again, he gives that illustration of the snake being lifted up and to look to Christ. Look to Christ, Nicodemus, just like the snake in in the wilderness and how the poisonous snakes came in because of disobedience and people were dying and Moses lifted up that staff. with the snake on it and he said look at that and you will be saved from the poisonous snakes you will live and Jesus makes that same parallel to his being lifted up on the cross And all who look to me will be saved. So we don't have to think about, oh, I wonder if I was elect. I wonder if I was elect. What we look to is do you rest and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you confess him? That's how we know we were chosen, right? For God so loved the world that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. 3. 18, whoever believes In him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already. So he's saying, like, those that don't believe, they're already condemned. But look and believe, Nicodemus. This is saving faith. What is it? Well, the confession talks about it's a resting and receiving of Jesus Christ as Lord, as your only hope. Again, it's all about resting. It's all about receiving. Luther talks about grace like the rain watering the earth. We do nothing. We just receive it. Uh and I was thinking about some of you may have years ago been involved with like evangelism explosion. I was remembering some of those uh outlines and one of them is, well, so what is saving faith? Well, it one thing they would say is, well, it's not intellectual. It's not simply intellectual where I believe in Jesus like I believed in George Washington. Like he was a historical figure, but that is not saving faith. That's just intellectual knowledge. Jesus existed. on the earth. Okay? And it's also not temporal, meaning it's not just foxhole prayers when you have an exam or when you're sick. It could be that. That could be evidence of faith. But It's not just some sort of like every once in a while you think of God. That saving faith is a continual believing. In the Lord Jesus Christ in your life. It's in every day. Francis Schaefer said that when you become a Christian, it's one big yes and a million other yeses. as you go. You are continually, as Luther says, all of the Christian life is repentance, that you are continually repenting and believing. Because We still have the old man. We're still sinners. We have been set free to obey now if you have the Spirit. But We live a life of repentance and faith. That's an evidence that the Lord is with us and that we are his. And so acknowledgement of sin is what this means. The evidence is repentance and faith. Because people are sinners, and even after we believe, even after we come to Christ, we still live. uh as those who need to repent and believe the gospel. But the point this entire thing is, is that Jesus is our only hope and he is the evidence that God loves us. And he has given us himself. And you might wonder, well, what happened to Nicodemus? You know, was this the end of the story? What happened? Well, it's really interesting in John. He pops up a couple more times. And uh in John chapter 7, verses 50 to 52, the Pharisees were meeting, though the rulers were meeting. to decide about Jesus and to, you know, they feel threatened by him. They're beginning to think about his destruction. And Nicodemus speaks up to defend Jesus before the Pharisees. Evidence of salvation to stand up for Jesus. Evidence that that this person that God is doing a work of salvation by his sovereign grace. based on that conversation and based on him looking to Jesus. And then at the end in John chapter 19, after Jesus' death on the cross, there he is again with Joseph of Arimathea. helping bring Jesus' body to the tomb and with the uh with the spices uh to prepare Jesus for his burial. But what it says to me is no Nicodemus. The gospel was going deep into his heart, and he was following Jesus, and he was noticing Jesus, and he was serving Jesus even there as a Pharisee. And it speaks to the powerful working of God's grace. It's confusing and it's glorious. When I was uh I graduated from Geneva College back in, it's been a while now, back in the mid-80s. And uh at my graduation service, there was Chuck Colson who spoke. And uh some of you remember him. He was one of Nixon's uh cabinet members. He was involved with the Watergate scandal. And uh he was pronounced guilty and he served, I think, six months in prison for that. But during that time, uh A man who was embalmed with a fellowship shared the gospel with him and he became a Christian. He became born again. He actually wrote a book called Born Again, his testimony of God's sovereign grace in his life. And if you remember, everyone was so confused. That this hatchet man for Nixon was now loving people and his personality changed and now he wanted to serve those in prison with the gospel because he had experienced that. The gospel sets us free to serve and to love people, and it's confusing, isn't it, to the world. But this guy really came to know Jesus and his love and was born again and made new and everything changed. This is what God wants to do in our life. And wants to continue to do in our life. Just like he changed Nicodemus. Just like he changed Chuck Colton. He wants to change us and make us new. Let me pray. Lord Jesus, thank you. For the gospel of grace that it's all of your work and none of ours. How freeing and wonderful and beautiful that is. Lord Jesus, would you continue to remind us of your grace and how this world and our family and co-workers and people that we run into day in and day out, they are on a treadmill of performance and they need to know the beautiful, wonderful grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so Lord help us to be those who proclaim that. And we pray all of this in Christ's name. Amen.