Well, it is a privilege to be back with you again this morning. And you can see in your bulletin today that our sermon text comes from the book of Galatians, so that's where we'll turn now. The very beginning of that letter. And I'll be reading this morning the first ten verses of chapter one. Our focus will be on the very first verse. But I'll read down through verse ten for us. So stand with me if you will And hear now the word of God. Paul, an apostle, sent not from men nor through the agency of man. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. And all the brethren who are with me. To the churches of Galatia, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever. Amen. I am amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. Which is really not another, only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even though we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so I say again now: if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you received, let him be accursed. Or am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let me lead us in prayer. Our God and Father, we do desire that it might be said of us, as it was once said of the Thessalonians, that they received your word, as just that, your word, and not the word of any man. And as it was true for them, so it is true for us. We need your spirit if we are so to receive it. Your spirit who opens eyes and who softens hearts. And we pray for his ministry among us now that we might see and believe and obey. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Galatians chapter one, as I Said our focus is going to be on verse 1 this morning, but I'll have some things to say about verses 1 through 5 so that we can get a good handle on Paul's introduction as a whole. Before we dive in and take a closer look at those verses, I think a bit of background is in order about the letter. You may know that there's a little bit of debate. that has traditionally surrounded Paul's letter to the Galatians, debate that has to do in particular with when he wrote it and where precisely the churches were located to which he wrote it. Some folks say that Paul wrote it relatively early on in his ministry Others say that he wrote it later on in the course of his apostolic labors. So some uncertainty about that. There are good and wise men on both sides of that question. question. At the end of the day, however, the things that matter most to us today are the things that we know for certain about this letter. And so we can take comfort in that. Above all, we know for certain just what it is that Paul wrote to them. In other words, we have the text of the letter itself, and that is what matters most by far, because this letter is the word of God to us. So we have the text of the letter, obviously, and we also know from the text of the letter that Paul is writing what is sometimes described as a circular letter. In other words, a letter that wasn't written for just one congregation, rather, it was meant to be circulated among a number of congregations. We also know that these were churches to which Paul himself had previously preached the gospel. Most likely, thanks to his preaching, he had been instrumental in these churches. being planted in the first place. So we know all of these things for certain. And finally, and perhaps most importantly We also know that these were churches at the time of Paul's writing to them that were troubled, seriously, perilously troubled. If you're familiar with the book of Galatians, you know that it is a stern letter. It is an angry letter. It is Paul on fire for the sake of the gospel. He is on fire. Because these churches of Galatia have come perilously close to abandoning the true gospel for a false one. And that stirs him up as much as it does because, among other reasons, the gospel that they've come so close to abandoning Which is also a gospel that he himself once preached to them. That gospel is nothing less Than the gospel of Christ and of God. It is of no mere human origin. Rather, it is the good news that comes from God. And that very point Paul wastes no time in making. See how he begins the letter, Paul, an apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father. Who raised him from the dead? There is verse 1. He begins, Paul an apostle, not from men, nor through man. And so straight away, right out of the starting blocks, you have this denial. In fact, a double denial, the way that Paul puts it. He says he was an apostle. In other words, he was an ambassador, he was an emissary, he was a sent one, and sent by whom? Sent, he says, not from men, nor through man. There is your denial. In other words, he says his apostleship was of no mere human origin. And he was sent as the representative of no mere man. Rather, his was an apostleship, he says, through Jesus Christ and God the Father. Through Jesus Christ and God the Father. It's striking to see Paul put it that way: not through man, but through Jesus Christ. That's striking because Jesus Christ is man. He is true man. We believe that about him. Paul, of course, believed that about him too. Well, then the implication of Paul's words is that Jesus Christ must be no mere man. It must be that he's more than that. Paul's doctrine is the Bible's doctrine, which is that, thanks to the incarnation, Christ is both God and man, as it's been observed, Paul, in this passage. Puts Christ on the side of God in the creator, creature, divide, and he can do that because Jesus Christ bridges that divide. He is one person who is both. God and man. Also notice Paul goes on, he further identifies God the Father here as the one who raised him from the dead. The Father raised Jesus from the dead. Paul can only serve as an apostle of Christ because he is, of course, the risen Christ. And it is true to say that the Father, by the Spirit, is the one who raised him. That is one way of looking at it, and that's the way that Paul tends to put the matter in his letters, the matter. of the resurrection. So there you have verse 1. Paul's point from the outset has to do with the origin of his apostleship. What he is denying is that he's ultimately the representative of any man. What he is affirming is that he is ultimately the representative of Christ. And God. The origin of his apostleship is not human, it is divine. This was clearly a big deal to Paul. How it was that he'd come to be an apostle in the first place. He knew well his own story, and he loved to tell it. He was not shy about telling the story of how he was once on his way from Jerusalem to Damascus, at the time, a determined enemy of the church. fiercely determined to destroy the church if he could. But instead the Lord conquered him. The Lord revealed himself to Paul there on that Damascus road. In so doing, the Lord converted Paul. To the service of the church. That story, that episode, was the origin of his apostleship, and that's what he's got in mind here in Galatians 1:1. where he describes his apostleship in these particular terms. Notice, by the way, what Paul is not saying here. We might go wrong. We might get some misguided ideas. He's not denying the fact that he was, in a sense, sent out by the church. You can read about that in Acts years later, after his conversion. This is from Acts 13. It says, There were in the church at Antioch prophets and teachers. While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Then after fasting and praying, they laid their hands on them and sent them off. That's from Acts 13, verses 1 through 3. So in a sense, Paul was sent out by the church. The church acting in the Spirit. And he's not denying that here in Galatians 1. 1. Nor is he denying the fact that there were others who were sent out merely as representatives of the churches. And that that was and is a wholesome practice in the life of the church. Paul isn't casting aspersions here on those who served in that capacity. What he is denying. Here in Galatians 1. 1 is simply this: the claim that his own apostleship could be ultimately traced. Keyword ultimately. To the authority of any man or man. Paul says, not so. Not so. Did he recognize the authority of the other apostles as fellow apostles? Of course he did. But that's just it. They were his fellows. They were his peers. They weren't over him in the Lord. They did not make him an apostle. Was he sent out by the church in Antioch? Sure he was. But even that sending was according to a revelation of the Spirit. And that sending by the church was not how it all began for him. That's the key point. It all began for him on that Damascus road. His apostleship began when God, through Christ, Called him into service. His was a divine commission. And straight away out of the starting blocks, he wants to make that point plain, and he does. Then in verse 2, his greeting continues. He has introduced himself by means of this denial and affirmation, and then he goes on, Paul, an apostle, and all the brothers who are with me. Most likely, he has in mind his fellow servants, the men who traveled with him and who shared in his labors. He might also have in mind the church or churches that are located in the place from which he's riding. He is writing to the churches of Galatia, as he goes on in verse 2. As I said, the plural there, churches, is telling. It's clear from that that the cancer of this false gospel had spread to more than just one isolated congregation. So we have the from of the letter, Paul and the brothers who are with him. We have the to of the letter, to the churches of Galatia. And then in verse 3, we have the what of this greeting. What is it that he wishes them? It is a standard apostolic greeting. He says, Grace to you and peace. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. A standard greeting indeed, and yet certainly no less meaningful simply because it was standard. These are words that are full of gospel meaning. He wishes them grace. In other words, he wishes them an abundance of that unmerited favor that God shows towards sinners. And he also wishes them peace. In other words, he wants for them that fullness of life and relationship that the grace of God brings about in the lives of his people. Grace and peace. And notice he wishes them those things. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Once again, it is telling that He puts God and Christ together as the source of grace and peace. Telling because it reveals something of the highest regard with which Paul thought of Jesus Christ. And then in verse 4, this very same Jesus Christ, who's on a par with God the Father, he's also the one who stooped down so low. in order to serve and to save. How does he put it in verse 4? Jesus Christ is the one who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. Lord willing, when I'm with you next time, we'll Take a closer look at this gospel summary here in verse 4. For now, notice the basics of it. Christ gave himself for our sins In other words, he laid down his life in order to redeem us from the guilt of our sins. Notice that he did so in order to deliver us from the present evil age. In other words, to rescue us from the way things are now. A world enslaved to sin laboring under cursedness, burdened by misery, under the sway of the evil one, the one who's called in Scripture the God of this age And what's more, notice, he did all of this according to the will of our God and Father. Jesus Christ was no renegade. He came to do his Father's will. The divine Son came to carry out the work. That his father had appointed for him to do. And then finally, notice verse 5: Our God and Father is the one to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. And that's how Paul concludes his greeting. To God be the glory, which is the conclusion that all the more powerfully sets up the strong words that follow in verse 6, which are I am amazed. I am astonished, as it's put elsewhere. It is a powerful transition that he makes from to God be the glory, amen. Two, in effect, you foolish Galatians, can you not see just how much your toying with a false gospel insults the God of grace rather than glorifying him? Paul does indeed have strong words that follow our passage. Really, the whole of the letter is strong stuff. And so it's fitting that his introduction to this letter should be of such a character. You notice no glowing words of thanksgiving and rejoicing here. The kind of words that you find in the introductions to his other letters. No such words here. Instead, in the very first verse. The beginnings of a defense of his own apostleship, not the apostle of any man, is is an apostleship of divine origin. It's that point in particular that I want us to glean from Paul's introduction today. Notice, first of all, that that's a point that he makes not only here in this opening verse, in this letter. This is a point that emerges as one of the major themes in this letter, at least early on. Paul as an apostle representing Christ and God A huge theme in Galatians. In fact, I want to read for us how Paul goes on after verse 10. I stopped at verse 10 in my reading this morning. Listen to how he goes on. Listen to how he Tells his story. He says, beginning at verse 11, I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. For I didn't receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. You've heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God violently and tried to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers, but when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace was pleased to reveal his son to me in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. I did not immediately consult with anyone. He wants to make that clear Nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus. He goes on. Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, that is Peter, and remained with him fifteen days But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother, and then to make it very clear that this is very important to Paul, he says, Parentheses, in what I am writing to you before God, I do not lie This is very important to Paul. He goes on from there. Chapter 2, verse 1. After 14 years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me. And he describes the circumstances of that visit. And then he says this, beginning at verse 6: From those who seem to be influential. In other words, these Jerusalem apostles. From those who seem to be influential, what they were makes no difference to me. God shows no partiality. Those I say who seemed influential added nothing to me. They added nothing to me. On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised. Verse 9 And when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me, they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles. and they to the circumcised. So that's a good portion of Galatians, beginning at chapter 1, verse 11, down to chapter 2, verse 9. I read that lengthy passage. Because it is, in a sense, nothing but an exposition, an unpacking of the very first verse in the letter. The verse that we've got before us today as our focus. In that opening verse, he says, I'm an apostle, not from men nor through man. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father, and then in this lengthy passage, chapters 1 and 2, he proves it to them. He proves that that was true of his apostleship by telling them his story. The story of how he was once converted and called by Christ. And the story of his subsequent visits to Jerusalem. And do you notice as I read, he makes it very clear to them that when he did go up to Jerusalem, Especially that second time. The other apostles who were there, they didn't make Paul an apostle. They didn't send him out as their representative. Rather, they simply recognized the fact that he had already been made an apostle, thanks to the Lord's gracious commission. What he says in chapter 1, verse 1, he explains to them. He proves to them as the letter goes on. Apparently his full apostolic credentials had been called into question by his opponents. By the men who were troubling these churches with a false gospel. No wonder then that he wastes no time in beginning to respond to their accusations. This was very important to Paul, as I said before. Now the question fairly becomes, having immersed ourselves in Galatians, Now the question fairly becomes, how big of a deal is it to us today? It was important to Paul, very important. How much does it matter to us believers today? And as you might imagine, whenever a question like that is asked by the preacher, the answer is it's still very important for us today that Paul was an apostle sent by God. Why? Because that fact implies that the very same thing was true of his gospel. The message that he preached. It implies that his message came from God. Paul himself understood it in those terms That his role as an apostle and the gospel that he was charged to proclaim as an apostle went hand in hand. If the one was true, his apostleship, well then the other was true, his message. If the one was false, then the other was false too. If the one was from God, his apostleship. than the other was from God as well, his apostolic message. Paul was sent by God By implication, then, so was his message. And that's important to us today because we ourselves stand on the foundation of that very same gospel. Paul's gospel is ours. It's the message that we've come to believe today. And that's why his divine commission all those years ago actually undergirds our faith today. His divine commission undergirds our faith. And of course, the same thing's true with respect to the whole of the apostolic company. All of those men. Who were immediately called by God to bear witness to Christ after his resurrection. Their gospel has taken the form of our New Testament. And so it has become our gospel too, and it's from God. It's of divine origin. Another way of saying it is to say that God is the author of the gospel. God is the author of the gospel, and that is our doctrine, our lesson today. And that is a doctrine worth our reflection. I do want us to take some time now to reflect upon this lesson that we've gleaned from chapter 1, verse 1 in Galatians, so that we can learn it well. The gospel is of divine origin. In particular, I want us to reflect upon it in terms of what the gospel is. A brief word about that. And then, second, in terms of what it means to say that it is of divine origin. And then, third, we'll reflect upon our doctrine in terms of what it implies about the gospel itself. So those reflections now before us, what the gospel is, what it means to say that it is of divine origin. And then what that implies about the gospel itself. First, a brief word about what the gospel is. Remember that the word gospel technically means good news. It means good news. Well, what is the good news of the scriptures? But that God is saving a people for himself. God is saving a people for himself through Christ. By the Spirit. That is one way of getting at the heart of the matter. That's why it is that the gospel can be fairly summarized in terms of the work of Christ. That's the way Paul summarizes it. In 1 Corinthians 15, you remember he writes to them, I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures. That he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, and so on. That's one way of unpacking the gospel. It can also be fairly summarized in Old Testament terms. In terms of the good news of the messengers of God in Isaiah 52, who came and said, Behold, your God reigns. The sovereignty of God. That's another way of thinking about the gospel. So to be sure, there are lots of different good biblical perspectives from which we might view it. The sum of the matter is. What is the gospel? God is saving a people for himself through Christ. The bad news is that humanity is lost in sin. The good news is that God saved sinners from sin and all of the miserable fruit that sin has borne. So that brief reference to what the gospel is. Now, secondly, what does it mean to say that that message Is of divine origin, that God is the author of it. Let's think about that a little bit. It least means these three things. First, it means that the gospel was God's idea to begin with. It was no mere human contrivance, it was no angelic proposition to which God then lent his seal of approval. In fact, the gospel was God's idea and his alone. So, for example, Paul writes in Ephesians 1:4 that God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. He writes similarly in 2 Timothy 1. 9, that God saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works. But because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. You see, this was a plan that was devised within the Triune Godhead before the world began. It was his idea. That's certainly part of what it means. To say that the gospel is of divine origin. Second, it also means this: that it was his accomplishment. It was his accomplishment. God is the author of the gospel, not only in the sense that he originally came up with the idea But also in the sense that He's the one who actually did it. He's the one who accomplished the very works of salvation that are at the heart of the good news. God in Christ. Through the incarnate Son, who lived and died and rose for us, God having devised the plan, he made it happen. So Paul says in Romans 3:25 that God put forward Jesus as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. God did that. Paul says in Galatians four, four, when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. The work of Christ was a divine doing. It was a divine initiative. He didn't wait to be asked. The divine Son didn't come to save because we had been wise enough to appeal to him to do so. Rather, he came to save in spite of our folly. So the gospel was God's idea. It was also God's accomplishment. Third, it is of divine origin in the sense that it is now, still today, God's message. The gospel comes from God in the sense that He's the one who's personally seeing to it even now that that message is broadcast throughout the world. And throughout the ages, God in the Spirit, by the ministry of the Holy Spirit through the church, God has provided for the ongoing proclamation of his idea. And his saving deeds. And it's always been that way. Once upon a time it was through the labors of extraordinary ministers, divine spokesmen immediately appointed, men like Paul. And Peter and John. Today, it's through the labors of ordinary ministers, men who preach and teach the truth in the church. But the point is, in every age. God has been behind the preaching and the teaching and the writing and the spreading of the good news. The very fact that there is such a thing as the Bible and the church and the church's preachers that isn't our invention. That is a divine provision. The good news of the gospel is that God is saving a people for himself, and that is still today his message. That good news still comes from God. So we've considered briefly what the gospel is. We've considered now what it means to say that God is the author of it. It's his idea, his accomplishment, and his message. Now consider third what that divine origin implies about the gospel itself. It implies a great deal. What that means, among other things. Is that the very being and character of God must be reflected in it, if it comes from him. If he is indeed the author of it, well then it must have God written all over it. And it does. Think about it in terms of our shorter catechism. God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. Sure enough, the gospel comes stamped with each and every one of those realities. They are unmistakably revealed. in it. Make your way through that shorter catechism answer. The reality of his being. Well the gospel reveals that he is And that he is a being who plans and who takes action. His being and his wisdom. That's revealed there too in the gospel. If wisdom is rightly described as know-how. Then the gospel reveals divine wisdom that rightly leaves us speechless, because the brilliance of it is unfathomable. His being, his wisdom, his power. The reality of his power is revealed in the gospel too, even resurrection power. And we can keep going. The truth of his holiness. That's revealed there too. The good news is that thanks to Christ, the Holy One, we ourselves are being made holy too. And the truth of his justice. That's revealed in the gospel. At the heart of the gospel is the cross. And the cross is the justice of God most clearly and most dreadfully on display. So to the reality of his goodness. Who can go to the cross and to the empty tomb and still reasonably doubt his goodness? Finally, also the reality of his truth. God, who is the truth, can speak no lie. And so we need not fear that his message, this gospel message, is a lie. It cannot be. The gospel is indelibly stamped with all of these truths, his being, his wisdom, his power, his holiness, and all the rest. And notice this as well. Our shorter catechism says that he is Infinite and eternal and unchangeable in those things. Infinite and eternal and unchangeable, well, sure enough, so is the good news that comes from him. Infinite and eternal and unchangeable, because the gospel tells of a love that is beyond limits and that is everlasting and that is never-changing. And that's true of it, because it does come from God. It does not come from men, nor through man. So those reflections this morning upon our doctrine in the interest of applying it today Hearing that truth. How can we bring it to bear upon our own lives? First, let me address any who might be with us today who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. This doctrine that the gospel is of divine origin, this is profoundly important for you to understand. And it's important because one of the responses that's commonly offered to the Christian religion by those who don't believe it is the simple dismissal, well, that's just your opinion. You Christians, that is just your opinion. Well, to be sure it is my opinion as a Christian. Better put, I suppose it is my conviction, the gospel. And it is, furthermore, the conviction of this whole congregation in the midst of which you find yourselves today. And of course it has always been the conviction of the Christian Church as a whole, throughout the world and throughout time. So guilty as charged, I believe it, we believe it, the church has always believed it. But what you need to understand is is that it is not only that, it is not only our conviction. It is our conviction, but it is not our invention. The Christian gospel The message that God saves sinners through Christ by the Spirit, that very message comes from God. And for you to dismiss it as just your opinion, that is to put you in a place of peril, great peril. And so I urge you this morning, see this, understand this. You may be hearing the gospel this morning from me. And you may be surrounded by a bunch of people who stand for it. But we did not invent it. And I call you this morning to believe a message that comes from God. He is the one ultimately with whom you have to do. Now to those of us who do believe, a few final words for us as well. The first of which is this, our doctrine helps us when it comes to that familiar objection to the Christian faith. The objection that goes, religion is a human invention, it's a crutch. Religion is something that man made up in order to help him cope with all his problems in a problematic world and so forth. One right way of responding to that objection would be to say you're right in every case but one. You're right that the religions of the world, on the whole, are human inventions. You are wrong to conclude that, therefore, that's true of all of them. Understand this about Christianity. It does not claim that religion generically is divinely revealed. Christianity claims that Christianity specifically is divinely revealed. And furthermore, it acknowledges, it understands that the world is and has always been shocked full of other religions, religions that are nothing other than departures in one way or another. From God's revealed truth. That's an observation that's worth making. Making it by itself isn't enough to persuade anybody of Christianity. But still, making that point just might help to clear away some of the smoke. A second word of application for us who believe there is comfort here for the believer. Comfort in this doctrine that the gospel is of divine origin. After all, we are those who have staked our very lives on this gospel. The gospel is, after all, all more than a mere statement of facts. It is a summons to wholehearted devotion in the light of those facts. And we believers are those who have heard that summons and who have heeded it. So that if the gospel is merely human invention, if that's true. Then to borrow Paul's words, we are of all men most to be pitied. If that's true, then we are surely the most pathetic band that the world has ever known. But Christian, I say to you today, take comfort. You have staked your life wisely on this message. Because it is of divine origin. You have taken your stand on the firmest of foundations, because you have taken your stand on God. A third point of application, there's also hope here for the believer, hope for the future. Because if God is the originator of the gospel, then surely he will fulfill all of its promises in the end. If he is the Alpha of the Gospel, then surely he will be its omega. If he is the author of the gospel, then surely he will be its finisher. If the gospel comes from God, Then surely in the end it will come back to him. It will return to him, having accomplished the purpose for which he sent it, which is the teaching of Isaiah 55. A final word. There's also responsibility here for the believer. There's an admonition. Remember, why was this such a big deal for Paul in his letter to the Galatians? Why was he so fired up? And so earnest in making this point, because the Galatians were losing their grip on the gospel They were failing with respect to the believer's responsibility to hold fast. And so do I say to you today, Christians, hold fast. Hold fast to the truth that God saved sinners. Hold on to the work of Christ who lived and died and lives again. Hold firmly to the truth that your God reigns. Hold fast to this gospel, because thus saith the Lord. And Amen. Let me lead us now in prayer. Our God and Father, we would take this truth to heart today, that the gospel in which we believe Is of divine origin. It is from you. It is not our invention. By your grace, it is now our conviction. But it came from you. And so we pray that we might take comfort in that, and that we might find hope in that, and that we might be stirred by that to hold fast, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen