Good morning and welcome. We're glad to have those of you who are online joining us and it's a joy to see uh so many of you again that the weather's permitted us uh to gather together. Um we're reading from Philippians. And if you would, would you stand? We're uh in chapter one and moving into chapter two this morning. That's uh page 980, if you're using the Bible before you. Let's pray. Oh gracious Lord. Lord, be pleased to allow us to hear your voice today without distraction. We're amazed that you would want to speak to us. And Lord, you've made it possible for us to hear. Be pleased. To grant that the Spirit would come and make alive to us all that's in this passage, and help the one who speaks today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Beginning at verse twenty seven of chapter one one, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear that you are standing firm in one's spirit. with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel, and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation. And that from God. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. Engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had and And now hear that I still have. So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from his love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete. Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in Humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each one of you look not only to his own interest, but also to the interest of others. You may be seated. What do Christians in the first century and the twenty 21st century have in common? Well, there are many things, but the thing I want to lift up before you this morning is this: that they both lived as marginalized minorities in societies that driven By values that run contrary to the deepest commitments of Christ followers. Now, globally, where the church is growing, that's Latin America and Asia and Africa. where there are it's been estimated about a hundred thousand people come to Christ every single day there, the church is facing either poverty and suffering or one kind or another persecution. In our country is by and large a mission field. It has embraced values that run counter to the gospel. Here's, for example, just a few of them. Relativism and tolerance together mean that there not only is no absolute right and wrong or even truth, but we can't voice a disagreement based on those ideas. Pluralism means that there are many ways to encounter God, and almost every religion in the world is present in America today. And the historical Christian sexual ethic is no longer honored in our society, but is actually viewed as repressive. Given the marginalized place we uh have now, where Christianity is no longer respected, we should expect, just as our first century uh brothers and sisters did, to be miserable. misunderstood, to be pushed out, not have a voice in the public square, and even despised. We shouldn't be at all surprised that America views Christianity as a matter of indifference and sometimes with hostility. That was true in the first century. And it's true today. And I want you to pay close attention to what I'm about to say now. The church flourished in those conditions. And we should not think that because we live in these conditions, that it's not possible for the church to flourish in America in the 21st century. Now when people are surrounded and outnumbered, they tend to react. There are a number of ways people react, and here's just a few. We can be bold and abrasive, or we can become timid and quiet. One says why Those people are the enemy, and they'll get what's coming to them. They become cultural warriors, seemingly in the name of Christian truth. Others say Please just leave us alone. We'll mind our own business if you don't press us. And they become chameleons. They're not warriors, they're not cultural warriors, they're just chameleons. They blend in, and in many cases, their closest uh friends, the people they work with, they go to school with, have no idea that in fact they are committed followers of Christ. And uh But others, in the pressure that this creates, come to think, well, the problem is, is our version of Christianity, Christianity in America is simply not pure enough. And so they become highly critical of their fellow Christians. As Paul writes this letter, the Philippians are experiencing hostility And as a result, a loss of unity and harmony, and perhaps they are experiencing some of these same responses that we see in the church in America. And Paul writes to press on them the Essential nature of unity. Unity must thrive. Unity must thrive if the church is going to have an effective witness for Christ. Now to the Philippians, Paul writes. Verse 27. Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel. If you're taking notes, you want to make a special note of that, because that verse. That phrase is in fact the clause that pulls together the entire letter. It's the thesis, and everything else of this letter flows out. It's an admonition that covers everything. every aspect of our lives. And you can see it. I'm going to just trace it up very briefly. Paul writes here, to live worthy of the gospel is to live as united. That's our text this morning. The next passage is that being worthy of Christ is being Christ-like in your attitude. And after that, well, being lights to the world. And then after that, by being imitated. of Timothy and Epaphrodiaus, and then after that by pursuing the righteousness that comes by faith in chapter 3. And so on. The whole letter can be outlined around this thought. And here's what I want you to grasp today. That it is the inconsistency of Christians that hinders the advancement of the gospel and Likewise, when our lives commend the gospel, then the church and Christians, their witness, has the greatest influence for good. This is always been the case, and it is true today as well. Now the word behind this phrase, let your manner of life is actually a single uh work, uh word in the original. It's the word uh Poloi to amai. It lit means literally conduct yourself as citizens. It contains this little word polis, from which we get our word political. And the political overtones of this word were not missed by the Philippians because they were proud to be members of a Roman colony. They lived in a Roman colony. See, unlike a In in our country, at least since the Fourteenth Amendment in 1866, to be born in Rome did not automatically confer on you Roman citizenship. But the entire City of Philippi was declared to be a r a Roman colony. It was as if it was part of Rome itself. And so everyone was a Roman citizen who was born there. And they are all the privileges that came with that. The right to vote, the right to hold off. office, the right to own property, uh, and they had the responsibilities to abide by the laws of Rome and to serve in the military. There were lots of military veterans living in Philippi. And this word, poloomai, that Paul uses, what he's saying by it, he's chosen this word, because he's saying, in effect, you know the pride and responsibilities that come with living in a Roman colony. And you seek to bring credit to the city you live in by the way you conduct your lives. So remember that you have a higher allegiance. He'll say it explicitly in chapter 3 when he writes, you are a citizen of heaven. Then there's another image here. And it's in the language that's translated by the phrase, struggling side by side This is an athletic image or a military image. It's of people working together as if they were a single human being. Like the phalanx, a cohesive, uh, unified unit. And Paul's saying this should be true of you, whether I'm with you or whether I'm absent, you're to maintain your witness regardless of the circumstances you find yourself in. And the very first thing Paul focuses on is unity. In verse 27 he writes, that I may hear of you, that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind. And then in chapter 2, in the second verse, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Paul wants unity to thrive and he just presses it home with just this heaping of expressions that talk about unity. And unity thrives. He says, when the church is striving for the gospel. That's verses 27 to 30. And then he goes on to say, unity thrives when we're mindful of our shared experience. And then unity thrives when humility reigns in the church. Striving side by side for the gospel means that the church has an outward Focus. It's more concerned about those who have not been reached with the gospel than how things are in the church itself. about our preferences, about getting our way. Unity is essential to witness. And divisions and splits and acrimony in the church undercuts the witness of the church in its community. And it's really a sad state of affairs that in America that splits and divisions are considered normal, in fact inevitable, and it seems that many, many people, if they don't get their way about something They just, well, they just walk away. It's I'm not going to be bothered with that. I'm not going to wrestle with what it means to be united and have a different point of view. Now when the gospel came to Philippi, it came in the midst of opposition. Luke tells us when the gospel came. That Paul encountered a slave girl who was possessed by a demon, and her owners were making money as she was telling fortunes. And Paul cast the spirit out, and the owners were incensed by their loss of income. They dragged Paul and Silas to the magistrate, where they were stripped and beaten and then thrown into a jail. And the next morning, they were escorted to the end of the city and told never to come back again. And this opposition continues in the city of Philippi, even though Paul is not there. In verse 28, Paul writes, not frightened by anything in your opponents. And this opposition is a sign of two things. He says it's a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation. Now, like the Philippians, When we encounter opposition, we tend to get discouraged. We tend to wonder, is it worth the effort when we experience opposition? We can think it's a sign that God is displeased with us Maybe that he's abandoned us, we've lost favor with him, but that is completely wrong. You mustn't interpret opposition in two ways. It is a sign that in fact those who are opposing you because of the gospel are in fact opposing God Himself. As well, it's an evidence of God's design to save you. Why? Well, because suffering is a path to glory. God's gift of salvation to his children comes along the path of suffering. And Paul adds, we have twin gifts in verse 29, for it has been granted to you. That's a gift. That for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for him Now, faith is a gift. The capacity to believe is a gift. Luke notes this as he describes the coming of the gospel to Philippi. He writes about a woman, Lydia, and he says, the Lord opened her heart to belief. Lydia believed, she exercises strafe, but only after God opened her heart. He turned her heart into stone. to a heart of flesh and made her responsive to the gospel. She sincerely and truly actually exercised the gift, but the capacity for the gift came from God Himself. Now that faith is a gift should humble us. It's humbling to realize that your faith is not something that, well. It's not your independent contribution to your salvation. This is what I've brought, uh, Lord. Um no It's a gift that God gives and it should increase our assurance because it means that God Himself has taken the initiative. It's God Himself who has pursued us. It's God Himself who's touched us and changed us so that we can respond to the beauty of Christ. as he's offered in the gospel. And when we really are oriented the right way to this wonderful gift, our hearts overflow with thanks. And that shapes the way we live. The second gift is suffering. Now it's a strange gift, and most of us would like to find the gift return receipt. So we could hand that one back. Yet suffering is one of the primary ways that God works to make us Christ-like Consider that God used Jesus' suffering to bring you eternal joy. And the apostles rejoice that they were counted worthy to suffer for his name. And we too can learn to rejoice in our suffering because of what God accomplishes. through it, both in us and often for the sake of others as well. Many of you have been through something difficult, and it's th created the uh possibility for you to come alongside someone else who's having a parallel experience and sure uh suffering, uh to be a companion as they walk in their suffering. See, in view here, in this letter is suffering that takes place for the sake of Christ. But this raises an important question. And I want to explore it for just a minute. Is the only suffering that this is true about is that it comes by virtue of persecution. Well, the New Testament doesn't give an explicit answer to that, and it's probably because all the Christians in the early church were experiencing especially suffering for their confession of Christ, and they probably thought it was a very strange thing. that that should happen after all. Uh they've gotten on God's side. Why should all this trouble come? Why should they have problems they didn't have before? But I want to share with you what I think is my mature and settled point of view, and it's this. Surely it's impossible to think that believers who enjoy religious freedom, which we do, And to actually suffer no physical persecution. There's not physical persecution in our country. We are feeling sorry for ourselves when we tell ourselves we're being persecuted. People don't agree with us, people don't respect us. That's not persecution. You just need to get in touch with the majority world, and then you'll understand what it is to be persecuted. Is it reasonable to think that we who don't live in a place where we're persecuted actually are deprived of something that's essential for our sanctification. Go home and look at Romans 8. Suffering is essential to entering into glory. And so here's where I come down. Because we belong to Christ, everything that touches our lives, everything that He allows to enter our lives, including all the ordinary experiences of suffering, that everyone who lives in a fallen broken world encounters is used by Christ. to further his purposes in our lives, to conform us to the very likeness of Christ. And so suffering's a gift, but it's not a gift to seek. It's not a good gift in and of itself. It's painful. And it can, in its intensity, often shift your view of ourselves, of life You become aware that life is not fair and even your expectations of God Himself. But it is one of His tools to work in us something that cannot be worked in us in any other way. And Paul himself aspires to that work when he says in chapter 3 that he desires to be conformed. to the pattern of Christ's life. Now the lack of an outward focus in a church, a lack of a wholehearted embrace, Of Christ's passion for people who are without God and without hope inevitably increases conflict in the church. This is what could be called mission thrift. When a church loses its moorings and the advancement of our witness to those who don't just show up at our door. but out in the community, who have no interest in the church. If we're not intentional about that, as Christ uh said to his followers before he ascended to heaven, go into all the world. It's not enough just to have a sign that says everyone's welcome outside. It's not enough to welcome warmly people who walk in. Of course you do that and we should do that. Every church should be marked by that. But we have a responsibility, our master said, to go out just as he pursued us. And so we are called to pursue other people. And when that's not happening, inevitably we turn inward. And when we turn inward, instead of being the Coast Guard, we become the yacht club. And we're concerned about how the tables are set up in the restaurant and you know what What privileges and benefits are ours as members of the yacht club? After all, we contribute, we pay our dues to be in the club and so on and so forth. And this goes from the trivial to things that can be very weighty. Many a church in America, because of its inward focus, has had horrible conflicts over the color of chairs or the paint color or carpet color in the facility when it needed to be changed. or about which missionary we support or don't, or even about something as important as worship, Many, many churches in America have engaged in worship wars. Sometimes those are generational wars. The older generation wants to do things the way, in fact, they experienced them, perhaps even growing up, or their first encounter with the church, and they're comfortable with that. That feels right to them. They've been normed to that. And others, often their children, want to do something different. They desire something different. These wars can extend over how refined our music is, how historic uh our worship service is, which worship pattern we have. In the Reformed tradition, there's a Lutheran pattern of worship, there's a Geneva pattern of worship, there's a Westminster pattern for the liturgy, and there's a continental pattern that's reflected in the Dutch churches. uh in America. And we can fight over these things. All of these traditions agree about the elements of worship. It's not about what belongs in the worship service. It's how we do worship, how it's structured. How it plays out. And many wars have been fought over these things. And see, at the bottom of this Paul is hinting here, and it'll be clearer later in the letter that in fact people are at loggerheads with each other in the church. He names two women in particular. That if we approach the question in terms of what we want, what we're comfortable with, what we're used to, will inevitably elevate our preferences. But if instead we approach these questions about what will enable us, whether it's worship or the seating or our programming to help us reach others Will help us reach Laurel in PG County and the surrounding communities. We'll come to this in a different way. We will be more concerned about the lack of worshipers. And more desirous of seeing people become worshipers than having our particular preferences. For the sake of the gospel. You see, unity is actually possible about any of these things, including worship, when we are faced outward. Then these things get relativized. They are not things of first importance. Worship is of first importance, but the details are not. Then Paul goes on, and this is the second thing I want you to see here, that unity thrives when we're mindful of our shared experience. Paul wants us to understand we do not create the unity that exists in the church. And he says this in almost every one of his letters. No, he says, God himself has forged our unity and we must guard it. We must protect it. In Ephesians, he writes this. Eager to maintain unity in the spirit of the bond of peace. In fact, our membership vows echo that language. All of us have taken that vow. And Paul goes to the very bedrock of our unity as he asks us to remember what, in fact, we've experienced. Chapter 2, the first verses. So if there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind. Having the same love. Being in full accord and of one mind Now, these four clauses are expressing experiences. These are experienced realities in the life of every Christian. Now the word if here makes it sound like this is conditional, like it's possible for some of you to have these experiences and others of us not to, as if it's merely hypothetical. But actually, many of the translations translate if here as sense, because that is, in fact, the sense that Paul has in mind. These things are not in question as to whether Christians experience them. They're the foundation of unity for all Christians. But he's chosen the word if deliberately here, because Paul's writing, he's speaking in an emotional way. He's appealing to them. To complete his joy by their unity. This letter is in part a response because they're concerned about him. And he's saying, if you're really concerned about me, Then be united. Be united. Just what are these realities? Well, very briefly, the encouragement in Christ is his sustaining presence in keeping us going when things are hard. The comfort of his love is our shared experience of Christ's amazing love, both in dying for us while we were his enemies. Do you think of yourself that way? That Christ died for you because you were his enemy? As well as, and this just astounds me, after almost five decades of following Christ, just how amazingly patient he is. with me, how forbearing he is with my sins and my foibles. And while I would love to be free of him, I don't expect to stop needing his patience. This the patience of his love, the comfort of knowing his love. And participation in the spirit. It's our common fellowship In the Spirit, all of us having been united to Christ and baptized in the Spirit. Now affection, the word next phrase is equals tenderness, and sympathy is the equivalent for compassion. All of us have been touched by the tenderness of Christ, so that we will tenderly care for the interests of others. In 1966, the World Conference on Evangelism was held in Berlin, Germany. People were gathered from all over the world, people with from various nations and ethnicities, and there was one pastor who was especially distinct. He was from Central Africa. And you could see from the deep cuts in his face and the primitive dyes that he had been saved out of stark paganism. He was a bit frightening even in his conversion, and he must have been terrifying to encounter before he came to Christ. He spoke French, of course, and then his tribal tongue. But no one could mistake him. The testimony was written in his face that Christ had transformed his life And this man was present one night when two Alca Indians from Ecuador were giving their testimony. One of the Alcas had been among those who had encountered Jim Elliott. and slaughtered them and his uh companions. Um and the other was a leader in the tribe. And the Alcas spoke only in their dialect They were culturally distinct from all the other delegates in the Congress, but they had come to Berlin from thousands of miles away. And they gave testimony through a translator, and it was thrilling. They told it how they'd grown up in the darkness of worshiping the gods of the jungle, and how their lives had been oriented and their lives uh kept track of in terms of the wars they'd had with other tribes and how in ignorance uh they had killed uh these men and how later They had come to hear uh the gospel and they had responded uh to it. And now they said they wanted to share the good news. with the other tribes that were scattered over the Amazon. That was their story. And as the Alka spoke, this African pastor who was sitting in the back of a 1,200-seat auditorium, ran down and up on the stage and hugged these men. Because he recognized in these men that they shared the same experience that he had. You see, my friends, you've probably had this experience. I have. I've met people in it and the very first time I recognized these Our special friends. Sometimes it's as if we'd been friends for decades. The bond is so uh quickly formed, and I'm sure you've had this experience But because friendships are fragile, even close friends, they become all too easily divided by pride. and selfishness and a preoccupation with their personal interests. And so Paul appeals to them to be like-minded. Verse 2 again, being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord, and of one mind. These four phrases point to both the way we think and our affections. Now, as we grow in Scripture, as our understanding of it grows, our understanding will bring us closer together. We'll have more and more a common view of the faith. But none of us fully grasp the scriptures. And as R. C. Sproul once said, even the best theologians are wrong 15% of the time. 15% included R. C. Sproul. That was his statement. of humility. And it's true. And that means we must be humble and ready to listen to others. We cannot make our unity dependent on a hundred percent agreement on every issue. If you can only have fellowship with people who agree with you a hundred percent about everything, you're going to find yourself in a room. By yourself. That's what's gonna happen to you. We must not allow our affections for one another to be diminished by differing opinions And this means that when we find ourselves thinking or feeling at odds with our fellow Christians, and we often do, We ought to ground ourselves by recollecting our spiritual experiences. When we forget these, we forget all that we have in common. We forget our fundamental spiritual equality. We are all brothers and sisters. None of us stands over each other. Even the great doctors of the Church, the Reformation, Luther and Calvin, to name just a few. Or even the pastors. We don't stand over you. We're just brothers and sisters like you. We're fundamentally equals. And when we don't think about that We lose sight of our shared indebtedness to God's grace. We're all debtors. We remain debtors our entire lives. We never graduate past our sense of indebtedness to God's grace. When we lose sight of those, it's a lot easier to break our unity. To break our unity of the spirit and the bonds of peace that Christ has created. Now let me recap what Paul's getting at by paraphrasing him here. It pains me to hear that you have tensions among you, to realize that those tensions are the result of selfish ambition and vain conceit. Even if the way you are wounding each other does not bother you, if you care about me Break out of your self-centeredness and humbly treat each other as more significant than yourselves. This is what will complete my joy. Unity thrives when humility reigns. That's verses three and four. The word translated rivalry here means selfish ambition. Or if you want to just put it in plain English, it means selfishness. And conceit is thinking that your way of looking at things is better than someone else's. It's a form of pride. It is having high opinions of your high opinions. Don't we all? High opinions. of our opinions. Absolutely. This is deeply ingrained in us. And as Americans, we've been taught from our youth that the Creator has endowed us with certain rights. Among them are the pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness. And our culture tells us that if we're going to get these things, often we have to step on other people to do them. We should expect other people to get in the way of these things. And so we enter the church. with this mindset, even if we're not aware of it. We've been deeply shaped by this. And we think we deserve to be made happy. Often with the idea that our pursuit of happiness will be at the expense of other people, and we must recognize how frequently selfishness and pride shape our behavior. Now, pride is easy to detect in other people and extremely hard to recognize in yourself. And uh in the evening I mentioned Thomas's Brooks' wonderful book about precious remedies against our devices, and there's a whole section in the book. about the special temptations that come to those uh who, well, that are uh gifted with strong intellects, or perhaps great talents, or even great wealth. There are special devices the evil one uses against them. And the deceitfulness of our own heart hides from us how often we are actually moved by pride and selfishness. But Paul wants us to know we can overcome our natural selfishness and pride by counting others as more significant and better than yourselves. It's not thinking less of yourselves. It's not being down on yourselves. It's not to think of it's to think of yourself less often. Humility isn't a denial of your strengths, of your accomplishments, your gifts, your abilities. You are a very, very gifted and talented and able group It's not a denial of your worth and dignity. Being humble doesn't mean you act like you're a doormat. No, you are made in God's image. It is not being focused on yourself. And it takes the unity of Christ has given us more seriously than our own self-importance, or the high opinion we have of our opinions, or our way of doing things. The Philippi need humility, and we need humility, because a humble mind is the key to cooperative unity. If we're really humble before God and we're totally relying on God, our attitude toward other people will be changed. And here is how you can tell if in fact you've got this Because most of you have read this passage many times, and these words are familiar to you. But here's how you can test it. This is the litmus test You will, as Paul says in verse 4, look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. Now it's natural to look after your own interests. I wake up every morning thinking about my interests, what I'd like to get done in the course of the day, perhaps how I can get Nancy to help me accomplish my interests. It's just a natural tendency. I want my priorities to be achieved every day. I want everybody to see my priorities as important. But I have to fight this tendency I have to examine my motives and actions and repent of it. One of the 95 theses that Luther hammered on the door of Wittenberg was this. All the Christian life is repentance. All of the Christian life is repentance. But here's where many Christians get confused. They think repentance is feeling bad. Feeling really, really bad. Or beating yourself up. That, my friends, is penance. That's in fact the teaching of uh the Church of Rome in the Middle Ages. No, repentance is the act of agreeing with God, with his evaluation of your behavior, your thoughts, and turning away from it and putting on new behavior. Let us turn from self-centeredness to other-centeredness, from pride to humility. And Paul describes the action of humility this way: let no one seek his own good. But that of others. The gospel leads us to this truly counterintuitive truth. It's against all the voices around us. That if we pursue happiness. If that pursuit is fueled by selfishness, we are bound to end up with bitter disappointment. We may get what we want in the short term. But it'll be disappointing. But the highest and strongest joys are discovered by those who give themselves to the service of others. To the comfort and pleasure of our comfort and pleasure will slip from view when we are so focused on what will benefit another. Now there are blatant forms of selfishness. These are easy to recognize. Demanding our own way and refusing to compromise is an obvious one. Expecting other people to jump at our bidding. instead of looking for ways to serve them. But they're more subtle ones. You can, in the midst of seeking to serve someone actually be self-serving. You want to be noticed. You want people uh to appreciate what you've done. War, another subtle thing is do you become resentful when your hard work is ignored? Or your brilliant ideas aren't flallowed. Is your idea of being hurt that people agree with you? And therefore do what you want them to do? Humility is a readiness to forget oneself and exalt others. With both respect and concern, and they're in short supply, not only out in America, but even in the church. We can do this more readily if we remember what God said in the Old Testament: that God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Surely you don't want God to oppose you in life. Such humility weathers the storms of external opposition and eternal internal disagreement for the church. Humility is the path for being able to stand and be who we should be in the present day in America. And it is also the only path for the church to work together the way it should. Paul himself writes the conclusion to this sermon today when he says. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Let's pray. Gracious Father, When we see the Lord Jesus Christ, and in this beautiful hymn of the early church, we hear of his humility. and what he has done for us. We ask for grace to walk his path. That you'd be pleased to unite us, not only us here at Christ Reformed. But the larger church as well, that our unity in Christ, who had overcome all the pride, all the sniping that's so much a part of life in the church. Today. Unite the church that we might be bold in witness and that the gospel might be drawing, attractive to those who are outsiders. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen.