These are familiar words to us, Paul writing to Timothy, that from childhood you've known the holy scriptures, which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation. All scriptures inspired by God and proper for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. And of course the scriptures which Paul refers there, that Timothy had known all his life are the what we call the Old Testament, the Jewish Bible. And uh that is is every bit as much inspired and profitable as the New Testament, and uh not quite as overtly, but really and truly and wonderfully and richly points us to Jesus Christ and His gospel. Before we turn to God's word, let's confess our faith. You have in your bulletin, I hope, you should have an insert. With larger catechism question 191. And you're going to have only to glance at it to know why it's called a larger catechism. And we're going to use this. This is The question that is expounding the second petition of the Lord's Prayer. Christians, what do we pray for in the second petition? And the second petition, which is Thy kingdom come, acknowledging ourselves and all mankind to be by nature under the dominion of sin and Satan. We pray that the kingdom of sin and Satan may be destroyed, the gospel propagated throughout the world. The Jews called, the fullness of the Gentiles brought in, the church furnished with all gospel officers and ordinances. Purged from corruption, countenanced and maintained by the civil magistrate, that the ordinances of Christ may be purely dispensed And made effectual to the converting of those who are yet in their sins, and the confirming, comforting, and building up of those that are already converted. That Christ would rule in our hearts here and hasten the time of his second coming and our reigning with him forever. and that he would be pleased so to exercise the kingdom of his power in all the world as may best conduce to these ends Who knew? Did you realize when you say, Thy kingdom come, that you're actually praying for all that? I would commend this to your further reflection and I've uh included the scripture references there so that that you can look at those, but particularly you see at the very beginning, after praying first for the destruction of Satan's kingdom, the first Positive thing that's understood to be implied here, besides the gospel being propagated throughout the world, the next thing that's mentioned is the Jews called. And the fullness of the Gentiles brought in. And uh again, uh this is not Holy Scripture Uh but we believe the Westminster Divines were godly men who knew Scripture and that uh their documents reflect the teaching of Scripture, and part of their understanding obviously was that one of the things for which Which we ought to pray are a strategic part of the coming of Christ's kingdom is the conversion of the Jews. We're privileged to have this morning as our guest preacher. uh Reverend Stephen Atkinson. Stephen is a native of Northern Ireland uh and has lived in the U. S. since 2012. Uh he's the uh representative for Christian And when you hear Israel, think primarily the Jewish people. They do have a significant work in the nation of Israel, but they work among the Jews and lots of other places as well. Stephen's uh job as their North American representative is to promote uh the ministry, uh to encourage the church to uh fulfill its responsibility to reach out to the Jewish people here in the US and Canada. And uh he's been a good friend for a number of years. He uh ministered uh very effectively yesterday at our presbytery preaching a wonderful sermon and then gave a wonderful lecture, lecture slash sermon. Uh if all lectures were as energetic as Stephen's lecture, people wouldn't their eyes wouldn't glaze over when they hear about a lecture. It was a uh a wonderful time, but we're privileged to have him come and bring God's work to us as well. Morning, dear brother. Checking that we're on. Is everything okay? I'm getting the thumbs up. So everything is good. It is a joy to be back with you. And uh yes, to to lecture at Presbytery was uh an awesome and awful responsibility. But uh I can't really lecture, I just preach. It's what I do. And uh so that's how it ended up and it was appreciated. So uh I had a good time uh at Presbytery. I'm thankful for the opportunity. As I've said to many others, when I go to some Presbytery, I've I've spoken at my local Presbytery in Arkansas. Um I've spoken at uh some other uh presbyteries, Chicago, San Antonio. I usually get about ten minutes, and uh that's about all the presbyters can permit this strange visitor. But you guys gave me about an hour and a half, I think it was yesterday. So that was uh something very special and uh it was good to make a lot of new friends. as well. For some of you thinking, yeah, we saw this guy not so very long ago. I think it was about nine months ago. So I'm a little early in my I annual visit. But it worked well and I think uh Skip really wanted to have the Irishman come round St. Paddy's Day. I think that's what it was. So That's how we had scheduled this for some time. But it is just a joy again to be with my friends here. And we do pray that the Lord will bless us. as we turn to his word. Before we come to the word, we pray. And would you please stand with me and we pray and then we'll read the scriptures. Our Father, we thank you that indeed your word is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword it cuts. And it heals. And we pray that you would go before us in all that we engage in, both in the preaching and the receiving of the Word of God, that you would. Cut us and deal with us pertaining to our sin and remaining sin within us. And then bind the brokenhearted, heal us, thrill us. with gospel realities and enable us thus to go forth from this place refreshed and renewed And built up in our most holy faith. Hear us and help. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please read with me together in the scriptures in 1 Peter. First Peter chapter one. First Peter one and we'll read from one through to 12, but I want to focus largely on the verses 3 through 9, but we'll read 1 through 12 of 1 Peter. Let us hear the word of God. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. kept in heaven for you who through uh who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible. and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours, searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you in the things that have now been announced to you. Through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. Amen. Please be seated. Again, I'm thankful for the opportunity to stir your hearts towards Jewish mission and the ancient people. And as I repeatedly say, we here in the US are uh in a providential time and a providential place. We are living at such a time when more Jewish People are living side by side with evangelical Christians than any other time in New Testament history. Right now in the United States in America. Therefore, we must ask ourselves, what is our calling, church? What is our Christian witness to Israel on our own doorstep? We have missionaries in the land of Israel, as I've uh said and uh as skip has said we uh minister to forty-five percent of the world's Jewish population in the land of Israel, but forty-two percent of the world's Jewish population live in the United States. And so my burden is to grow this intentionality and prayerfulness among the Lord's people, among the church. to reach our Jewish neighbors and obviously also to raise up full-time staff and missionaries. And we are engaged even intentionally in that Please pray for a visa that is in process for a brother that we hope to bring to Chicago. Please pray for another brother that I'm actually meeting this week who is expressing interest. In becoming a missionary with CWI here in the U. S. So there's kind of the twofold aspect of stirring the church and burdening the church and equipping the church to be the church in Jewish areas and in Jewish mission and also stirring up and raising up full-time staff and workers. And please uh take our literature and uh discover what amazing things the lord is doing in our day among the ancient people. Now I'm a a sober Scots-Irish that is not easily swayed by numbers, but the numbers are inescapable. God is saving many Jewish souls. And we are thrilled to hear the stories of our workers and the greater openness than ever before among the ancient peoples. So please pray with us And I know you support us. Please be with us intentionally in this ministry to the ancient people. And so as we come to the word, I want us to Grow in our understanding, as I've entitled it, the mercy of Messiah, because it is by the mercy that is shown to us that they may receive mercy. And it really is that that I want to enlarge our thoughts and expand our thoughts to the wonder of the mercy that we have received, even as a result of their disobedience. Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, probably the most famous sermon in U. S. history, preached by Jonathan Edwards. Its concept is largely unknown today. Most people do not think of themselves as sinners And in fact, calling people sinners is the greater sin today than sin. Or to express the idea that God is angry. Sinners in the hands of an angry God. Well, it's not just Joel Osteen has a problem with that one. It's a foreign concept in our modern liberal secular world. And also for our considerations, it's a foreign concept to Jewish people. But the message of Scripture, and indeed the message of our Jewish forefathers Paul, Shaol, Romans 10, 31, all day long I held out my hands to a disobedient and obstinate people. And so in 11, Romans 11, 31, they have become disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they also may receive mercy. In other words, as I've said earlier. It is the exemplified mercy in us that is to provoke our Jewish friends to jealousy. We live in a day of of easy believism and sugar-coated entitlement preaching and a good dose of psychological pick-me-up. Who needs mercy? We just need our best lives now. What I want us to do is to really grasp, even as Peter presents to us, the amazing wonder of divine mercy to sinners. In the hands of an angry God. Peter was the apostle to the Jews, as Paul was the apostle to the Gentiles. That wasn't exclusive, obviously, and Paul went to every synagogue under heaven and any new place he went in. Paul, you're the apostle to the Gentiles. No, well I gotta go in here and and see uh shmuli and uh just talk about some Jewish things here. He went to every synagogue to the Jew first we find his regular practice Peter, rather, was more specifically the apostle to his own Jewish people, again, not exclusively. And so he opens this letter declaring the stunning mercy of God. And I think that is something that we need to grasp because Jewish people today, as I said, have have no comprehension of being in need of mercy. But here it is. Here is Peter talking to his own Jewish readers. Be amazed. at the stunning mercy of God and live to the envy of your unbelieving Jewish neighbors and provoke to jealousy. Also, by way of introduction, I want to just permit me a little background before we come into the text. Peter is believed to have been martyred in Rome in A. D. 67 under the persecutions of Nero. Some of the commentators will suggest if you flick over a few chapters to the end of the letter, 1 Peter 5 and 13. She who is at Babylon sends you greetings, and some would suggest that that is a reference to Rome And just as Babylon of old in 586 BC destroyed Jerusalem, so now this other Babylon, Rome, was going to destroy Jerusalem. And so she who is in Babylon or Peter is effectively writing from Rome in his final days, and he's addressing these believers in Asia Minor, modern-day Turkey. I think also we need to remember that this is probably around 30 years after the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. The church was largely Jewish at that time. And the elect exiles of the dispersion, verse 1, are likely, for the most part, to be those who were escaping Jerusalem. Prior to the fall in A. D. 66 to 70 and the destruction of the temple, that which Jesus had prophesied, and those Jewish believers had heeded Jesus' own words and they were fleeing. And so these were the dispersed, elect exiles. They were also, as you, if you Conferred with Acts 2, you will see that the names are the same as as those who were present on the day of Pentecost. So these recipients were most likely Jewish. Though not exclusively, there would have been God-fearing Gentiles as well. But the Jewish followers of the way Let's remember church in in these days was kind of the corner boys of the synagogue. Followers of the way, they were Jesus-believing Jews in the synagogue. This is early, early church. And so Peter's letter has a lot of allusions and quotations to the Hebrew scriptures, again suggesting the Hebrew audience. Matthew Henry says, the design of this first epistle is to explain more fully the doctrine of Christianity to these newly converted Jews, to direct them to a holy conversation and prepare them for suffering. So all that again, forgive the lengthy introduction, but all that is to say that this is appropriate for us. This is an appropriate passage for us as we would think of Jewish mission. Grasp mercy. Be amazed and be thrilled at the magnitude of the mercy of God to Jewish and Gentile sinners. in the hands of an angry God. I have three things I want to open up before you from the text, and that is the method of this mercy The magnitude of the mercy, and the mission of the mercy. So let's make some headway through those three headings. First of all, the method. Of this mercy. We read in verse 3, according to, according to his great mercy, he has caused through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. There is a method to the mercy. According to, caused, through, the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. In simple terms, the method is twofold, death and life. Again, I preach to the choir, we don't believe in cheap grace, but we don't believe in cheap mercy. This is not a coin in the coffer rings and the soul from purgatory springs. This is no sign the card, pray the prayer, God just winking at sin kind of mercy. There is a method to this mercy, and it is according to, there is a causal fact of history, there is a death. The death of the Messiah, Jesus. Now, prior to Peter writing this, Jewish religion was a religion that smelt of death. From the first moments in the garden, you will remember, an animal had to be killed to cover Adam's nakedness. So animals had to had to die to cover imperfectly. Symbolically cover sin and sinners in the hands of an angry God. Judaism was a blood-drenched religion then And it it touched all of the senses. They would see death in the animal being slain. Their ears would hear death even in the perhaps the cries of the animal. The nose would smell death. The hands would touch death. The words would speak of death. It was a blood-drenched death religion. But Peter on the day of Pentecost, and now Peter in the letter is declaring a different death, a once-for-all death The death of the Messiah. And the mercy of Messiah comes, or the method of that mercy, is by the death of Christ. And obviously, again, in the text, not only through the death and the death of death, in the resurrection from the dead of the Messiah. Now where we are post-70 AD, after Jerusalem has fallen, what do Jewish people do today? People ask me that. Do Jewish people still sacrifice? No. The sacrifices ended with the fall of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. And instead the rabbis reinvented the wheel. And they reinvented with a cheap mercy. Leviticus had clearly stated, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission for sin. But the rabbi said, well, that's okay. Just a little Jewish penance. Just a little sorrow for your sin. Of course, Psalm 51. Psalm 51, the sacrifices of God are a broken and contrite spirit. A broken and contrite spirit you will not despise So you have reinvented Jewish penance. No blood needed, just a little penance. And add a little bit of good deeds in there as well. Now we haven't time to do a detailed exegesis of Psalm 51, but it's clear that the context of Davidic and Solomonic religion, David writing in Psalm 51 was within the context of sacrifice, not just uh feel sorry for your sin that the rabbis are telling us today. Because Psalm 51. 17 said about that broken and contrite spirit, but 51. 19 spoke of right sacrifices, bulls sacrificed on your altar. Now we may reduce mercy to a sinner's prayer or Roman penance or Jewish penance And all of this is really just a reducing this mercy to a divine obligation that God's in the business of forgiving. So God, I've done this, this, and this, so now you've got to just forgive me. And we do a disservice to the method of divine mercy. And the method is death and life. of the Messiah according to caused us through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. There was an old illiterate Scott who was being interviewed for church membership. And he was asked to articulate his faith and articulate his understanding of substitutionary atonement and the and the old stuff he couldn't he couldn't say. But all he could simply say is, he die, I no die. He no die, I die. And the elders admitted him to membership. The method of mercy is he die. And I know die. The death of the well-beloved son and the resurrection from the dead to take captivity captive to crush the serpent's head sinners in the hands of an angry God we can rejoice in real Mercy because of this method. But let us move on to the magnitude. The magnitude of this mercy. And I want us to think about it just again under two headings. First, in the general And then secondly in the specific. In the general, verse 3 speaks of it as great mercy. The magnitude of this mercy, it is great. I am a great sinner. But God is a great savior. And that's the real sinner's prayer right there. And the greatness of the mercy is measured, is it not, by the greatness of the debt? And as my debt is before an infinitely holy God, my debt is infinite, but mercy cancelling the debt. His great mercy. John Bryan, the minister in Edinburgh in the 1800s, has an excellent expository commentary on 1 Peter. He says this, think on the nature of the blessings. We'll do that actually in a moment in the specifics. Think on the nature of the blessings. Think on the character of those on whom they are bestowed. Think on the means, the method through which those blessings are communicated. It is a great mercy. Parallel passage in Ephesians 2, is it not, speaks of God being rich in mercy and made us alive. And indeed, Ephesians 2 declares the character upon which that mercy is bestowed, because they were dead children of wrath, sons of disobedience. And so also speaks of the method, the means through which the blessings are communicated. He made us alive, he saved us, he raised us, he seated us with Christ in showing even greater riches. Of grace and kindness to us. This is a great mercy. Never cheapen it, my friends. This is a glorious mercy in all its complexity, in all its divinity And even in all of its specifics. Now again, time forbids us to think deeply on the on the things that are the specifics as the chapter or as the verses indicate. But let's walk through them just very briefly. The specifics of this great mercy is new birth. He has caused us to be born again. And remember Peter is writing to Jewish people here. The promise in Ezekiel 36 of the sprinkling, of the giving a new heart, of a new spirit, of being caused to walk in the statutes of God. This is what Peter preached on it. Peter preached on it in Acts 2 on the day of Pentecost. This is what Peter is speaking to, to the Jewish dispersion. Jewish people believe in being born again. It's not just a Christian thing. It's not just a church thing. Do you remember when Jesus was talking with Nicodemus? And what did he say? He said, Nicodemus, you are Israel's teacher. And you don't know these things? This new birth stuff is so weird to you, Nicodemus. It shouldn't be. Haven't you read Jeremiah 31, Nicodemus? Haven't you read Ezekiel 36, Nicodemus? Being born again is what God has promised in the new covenant. And unless one is born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. And instead of telling our Jewish friends, well, all is well, you were the chosen people, and we're standing with Israel, and all is okay. And all Jews are all going to go to heaven. We need to tell them that they are loved on account of the patriarchs, Romans 11. 28, but also Romans 11. 28, they are enemies. on a kind of the gospel. They are enemies to the gospel. They are enemies to they are sinners in the hands of an angry God and they need, according to Ezekiel and Jesus, to be born again. And this is what Peter is saying to his Jewish audience in terms of the specifics of the mercy. He has caused us to be born again, a new birth. A living hope. A living hope. The magnitude of this mercy was such as to bring the hope of the gospel. I was talking to the presbyters yesterday about the longing of Jewish people for shalom. for a settled, permanent possession of wellness and peace. Well this is it. A living hope, something that cannot be taken away. Again, yesterday I was sharing with the Presbytery that I had just completed a couple of books that had been given to me. My recent reading had led me to a Puritan and uh on ministry. And uh my my uh my second book that I was reading and I just completed was Joel Osteen. And uh I was given these books both freely, and when I get a book for free, I usually try to read it. So I read uh I don't know how many of you have actually read Joel Oste. If you can cope with it, it is worth the reading in the sense that then you really know Instead of sometimes we throw rocks at people we disagree with. I've read the 300 pages. And he presents a gospel of don't worry, be happy. And he's on a win-win because if people listen to the early couple of hundred pages of his book and how you can have your best life now. And if it doesn't work out that way, you come to about page 200 and you'd suddenly discover that Joel Lin has got a another solution. Well, maybe it's not your time. Haha, that's convenient. So it's not your time. And it's really God to be blamed because you're not having a wonderful time. But just keep having that positive attitude because God really desires the best for you. And really in in in Osteen's theology, good people are really getting master around by life, but they're in the hands of a divine santer. And sometimes he gets stuck in the chimney. But he's gonna thin out a little bit over time and he'll come down that chimney and he'll give us that Christmas bonus. The hope of the gospel is not a power of positive thinking hope. It's a living hope. Because we have a living Savior. who has in this method of mercy brought us a magnitude of mercy that is great in general and great in its specific. Jewish people in Germany in the 1930s lived in hope that Germany would never expel them. One of the reasons why Well, a number of reasons, but why so many Jewish people perished. But they couldn't believe that Germany would do this to them. They couldn't see the ugly nature of diabolical, demon-possessed hatred until it was too late, and their hopes in Germany turned into Holocaust. And for many of them, God died in the fires of Auschwitz. And so many Jewish people today are just atheists. God is dead. No God could could let that happen. But in actual fact, if you read some of the stories of the Holocaust, and again I have read some major, major volumes. And you read the book of Lamentations, there's very little difference between Jeremiah weeping at the fall of Jerusalem in 586 BC. and and and the the the cannibalism and the death that Jeremiah viewed and and wept until there were no tears left for him to weep And we can tell Jeremiah, just think positive, Jeremiah. We can tell our Jewish neighbors, don't worry, be happy, you can have your best life. We need to tell them something more. We need to show them this mercy. And the magnitude and the majesty of this mercy to a fallen and broken world And we do that by exemplifying and showing forth a new birth and a living hope. And an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, unfading, to these Jewish dispersed exiles, to the first century Holocaust escapees. Peter is saying, you've got something that will never rot, fade, or be ruined. When the Jewish people were escaping the Holocaust, many of them carried diamonds, gold, and often gave it away for a loaf of bread. What value did it have? Gold, silver, precious stones will rot and fade. The pursuit of financial security, sorry, Mr. Onsteen. the pursuit of financial security, the search for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, there are no leprechauns. We die empty-handed and naked, but there is an inheritance that is imperishable There is a safe box in heaven. Your inheritance is there, my believing friends. It's fascinating to read of the history of Jewish immigration to the U. S. , one of the papers that I'll be giving this week to uh Pittsburgh Seminary is on the history of Jews uh coming to the U. S. And a lot of it started from the expulsion from Spain and Portugal. uh the Spanish Inquisition. And so there was a wave of Spanish Jews coming, and then there was a wave of German Jews coming, and there was a wave of Russian and Eastern European Jews, and they were escaping. Inquisition or pogrom or holocaust. And as they came to this country, they realized they needed to bring portable wealth. And so as many Jewish people entered the USA, the portable wealth that they brought was education Or they taught their kids to have that portable wealth education. And the the inheritance that Jewish people have done and are doing in terms of passing on an inheritance to their future generation is life, liberty, and the pursuit of Jewishness, and indeed the pursuit of education, that portable wealth, because who knows when we're going to get kicked out of another country. But we want to tell them of an unsading inheritance. We want to tell them as Peter told them, of an unsading inheritance. that comes by the mercy of the Messiah. Jewish people are longing for Shalom. Some Jewish people find it here in the Land of the free in the home of the brave. Some people find it in Israel in the land of the free in the home of the brave there. 88% of the world's Jewish population live in those two lands. But we want to tell them about another land. Yes, as the writer to the Hebrews. The writer to the Hebrews writes that here we have no lasting city. But we seek a city that is to come. And the eye hasn't seen or the ear has heard what God has in store for those who love Him. There is a magnitude of this mercy. in the specifics as well as in the general. But we must move on. From the method of the mercy, the magnitude of the mercy to the mission of the mercy, the mission of the mercy. First of all, it is protection unto perseverance Or perseverance unto protection. You have it whatever way you want. Both are intertwined. From being sinners in the hands of an angry God. Through the mercy of Messiah, you become saved sinners, Jewish Gentile, you become saved sinners in the hands of a holy God, and we're better. So verse 5 we read, you are being guarded by God's power. The literal Greek word has a sense of being garrison. My Jewish believers, says Peter, my Gentile believers, you in the mercy of Messiah, as a sinner, as a saved sinner in the hands of a holy God, you are being garrisoned. And guarded. When you look at the entourage of uh kings and and presidents and um they are garrisoned. I I remember when I think it was Bill Clinton had come to Belfast and uh my mother went to see him and uh I I'm not sure what I had on, but uh I had something more important to do on that occasion. And uh I didn't actually get to see him. My mother went to see him and whether it was just the uh the ulster humor or bluntness, uh she was standing next to one of these guys with the dark glasses on And she said to him, what would happen if I broke through the barrier and uh and and went to the president? Would I be arrested? And he said, no ma'am, I would just have to shoot you. Because he's protected. He's garrisoned. And my my friend, my believing friends, Jewish, Gentile, you are garrisoned, you are protected. You remember Jesus praying in the upper room? He said, I'm not praying for the world, but for those you have given me. Can you imagine? Can you grasp this? To have the Son of God on the night in which he was betrayed, on the night he would go to his death, for mercy's sake, he's praying for our protection. For our perseverance in a dangerous world, the perseverance of the saints is a glorious doctrine because it's the perseverance of God with sinning saints. The mission of this mercy is protecting and persevering a people. Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, I would have gathered you. as a hen gathers her chicks. And so Peter is bringing this gospel truth to these dispersed Jewish exiles They wonder what the future holds for them in dangerous Gentile territory, but Peter is reminding them that they have a shepherd who cares for the sheep, and we too. He is guarding, garrisoning his sheep, protected unto perseverance Another heading in terms of the mission is promotion unto perfection. This is the mission of this mercy, promotion. unto perfection. You are guarded, verse 5, for a salvation ready to be revealed. It's just about to be opened up to us. It's ready to be revealed. You are obtaining the outcome of your faith, verse 9, the salvation of your souls. You see this mercy? The mission of this mercy is not just to wink at sin as if it's not serious, but to deal with sin. through the death and resurrection and the eradication of our old nature and promote us unto the perfection. You To the very image and imitation of the sinless Son of God. Joel Osteen can't give us that, with a self-induced, smiley outlook on life. The only thing that will bring that true smile to Jew and Gentile is the salvation of our souls. When this sinner in the merciful hands, in the protecting hands of a holy God is brought through the last enemy. Because he die, I know die. And in my flesh I shall see God There is a promotion unto perfection. And then thirdly, finally, under this heading of the mission of mercy, there is happiness unto holiness. So verse 6 says, in this you rejoice. Yes, in a sense, you can have your best life. No. The best is yet to come. But in this you rejoice. Because of being garrisoned, because of the method, because of the magnitude, because of the mission, in this you rejoice. So verse 8, you believe in him and you rejoice with joy. Inexpressible. Receiving the salvation of your soul. Seeing his character formed in us, miserable sinners, seeing God's work in us. That I can have a joy because I have an inheritance that will never be taken. This is the portable wealth. that I can have in this life and in the life to come. And this is the message of mercy that we want to bring to a fallen world, Jew and Gentile. This is the message we share with our Jewish neighbors. One illustration and then I'm done and I shared it with the Presbytery yesterday, so forgive me again, skip from going for going over some old ground. But Last Hanukkah, last December, we had an outreach event in the church that we're closely related to just outside Tel Aviv. David Zadok is my colleague there and the pastor there. And there was a Hanukkah outreach to Holocaust survivors. Actually, in January I was talking with some of my other Israeli colleagues, and they were very movingly Telling us, commanding us even to pray for Holocaust survivors, for those that had come and escaped the fires of Auschwitz. But there is another fire. And they're dying, he said. They're coming to the their numbers every month in the land of Israel. are decreasing. And so we had this outreach event to 112 Holocaust survivors in Gedara, Israel. And uh David Sadak preached and uh there were 75 Chinese Christians traveled to Israel to share the love of Jesus with these Holocaust survivors. This is in the the the latest uh magazine, so please uh do take uh our latest little uh magazine and and uh read and pray. Uh the event included songs sung by the Chinese to the Holocaust survivors, the gospel being preached by David And a Christian leader from the Far East who told the participants, we love you and want you to know that the Messiah has come to give you eternal life. And his name is Jesus. Trust in him as the only one who can deliver you from darkness. Again, Hanukkah and the festival of light. The Hanukkah event included the traditional distribution of presents. The Chinese Christians provided bags of presents for each survivor. who attended it included a teapot and tea. Of course, if you're from China, that's exactly what you bring to your Jewish friends. as well as Hagethon published evangelistic leaflets and books, one of which explained how Jesus is the fulfillment of Isaiah 53 Joseph, the CEO in the UK, who is himself a Jewish believer, he said of the outreach, in Romans 10. 19, Paul writes, I will make you, Jewish people, envious by those who are not a nation. We saw that enviable love demonstrated as tears flowed from the joyful Jewish faces of those who have suffered so much hate. The Holocaust survivors were weeping. Because of the love of Christ that was shown to them. The hearts were deeply moved. It is this mercy In the method, in the magnitude, in the mission, in the very divinity of it all. That we share with this lost and broken world of Jew and Gentile. And please, God, bring the new birth the shalom, the inheritance to this your ancient people. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, we thank you for the mercy of God in Christ. We thank you for the amazing wonder of redemptive history. We thank you for the Messiah who carried captivity captive, who crushed the serpent. And we pray for each one of us here that we would know the beauty and blessedness of the mercy of God in Christ, that we would know the garrisoning of God. And that we would go forth boldly to provoke to jealousy those around us of Jew and Gentile stock who do not know. this majestic mercy that comes in Jesus. So bless us and use us in your mission Till that day when you call us to cross the river, and again, because he die, I know die, and we will cast our crowns. before our King to receive the well-done, good and faithful servant. In Christ's name we pray. Amen