Well, I again I want to say how much I'm enjoying this singing. Um I noted, maybe you have too, that uh many of the um tunes and the hymns we sung uh were written. a long time ago. And if they were sung like this in um in churches in Puritan uh New England and then um in Presbyterian uh Virginia, uh they must have sung very well. It must have been very enjoyable. And uh despite the uh scab of um uh uh dullness that was placed on uh those early settlers and all early Christians in America It seems to me that uh some of those tunes and some of those sounds were extremely um energetic and enjoyable and uh Rather than people scandalize you, you young people particularly, uh you're being told I'm sure in school or maybe if you certainly go to public school but certainly if you watch any public program uh on television, that uh the uh people came to this country in sixteen twenty and before that in sixteen hundred and four, although they didn't hang around a long time. But um uh that they were a a miserable doer, uh unsmiling bunch of people. Well, two things. First of all, you've sung hymns here and and they were written in those days and that's not so. And the second thing is of course that they were the foundation that this country was built on. And um uh One wishes that there was greater sobriety on the part of everyone in both public and private life as a result of what we learn from them. Well, let me come to read the scriptures and then read again the text and then we'll pray. Reading in Romans chapter 8 and verses 18 through 30. You may have noticed that what I've said in my uh sermons, I'm not speaking. I told you before I don't speak Um and uh and I preach and my sermons have been based not only on that verse but on the whole content of the chapter really. Uh and there's much to say to us Let us hear then God's infallible word reading at verse 18 of Romans 8. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time. are not worthy, not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope of the that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God. Who indeed is interceding for us. Let us pray. Most blessed and most holy God. We come to you again to ask your aid in our preaching and in our listening. We are slow to hear, Lord, and slow to learn And we are very easily distracted from the pursuit of holiness. But we pray, O Lord our God, that you would be near us now. Help us in the mid-morning when sometimes drowsiness takes over, that we would be alert to those things that would help us. to live a life worthy of our calling. We pray your blessing, Lord, on this congregation and this church which they represent. And pray that your grace would be upon them, not only here, in our singing, in our enjoyment, in all that we will do, but also when we're back home wherever we're from. that we might show forth to an unbelieving and wicked world that there is a joy and in life which is found only in Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. We come to look now at the third section in in verse thirty-four. more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God. Now we saw in the first hour uh that Jesus Christ, Christ Jesus, is the one who died. May I just explain here that I stumbled in my reading here, not because I'm not familiar with the passage. But I'm unfamiliar with it in the ESV. Um even if I use the ESV, as I do, I do it from all my devotions and uh but we don't use it in church and I rarely have to read from it publicly And and but I read from the um uh the authorized version of the Old King James a thousand times. And and so uh the the phraseology and the cadences and the the structure uh keeps coming back to me uncond uncondition unconsciously And and the result is that um I some s sometimes stumble when I'm reading from the ESV, as I I do in fact from the New King James. Um the old King James um was was an excellent version and uh had a dignity and a regality uh that sometimes is missing from these more modern versions. Now I'm not saying any criticism from the ESV I know men who have uh aided in the translation, the commenting on them. I believe them to be men of great integrity and great scholarship and great honesty. Uh But it ain't what it was. And uh uh so please forgive me when I stumble uh over some of these public phrases. Jesus Christ is raised from the dead and is seated at the right hand of God. Now The uh old King James says, and furthermore, who is also raised and is seated at the right hand of God Now, this has meaning, it's central in fact, to the very essence of our Christian lives. Now, this is what the Apostle Paul means. He's assured us that there are no attack upon us shall prosper. Who is to condemn? No one, he says. And the reason he cannot we cannot be condemned is because Christ has died for us. He is our substitute. And our faith in him covers all our sins by his imputed righteousness. Now I'm not going to go after imputation today, but imputation is a glorious doctrine. I'm sure you're familiar with it. But um our sins have been imputed to Christ, credited to him. He has been condemned for them. And his righteousness, his law keeping, his his perfection, his blamelessness Has been credited to us. And now he proceeds to assure us that our faith, our trust, our dependence on Christ is not misplaced in any way. Because the Trinitarian God, and I want you to bear that in mind, that Jesus wasn't raised by some other spirit. The whole Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, were involved in raising Jesus from the dead. Christ is the resurrection. The Holy Spirit is the resurrection. God the Father is the resurrection. And they all are involved in raising Jesus from the dead and elevating him to the place of ultimate glory and authority. Now, that is a statement of the doctrine. And this is why we as believers are to live with confidence. Because you see, we haven't got somebody who is our Lord and our Master and our Savior who is a disembodied spirit. We haven't someone who vanished, who died, and then vanished. He is alive. and lives forevermore. And he just doesn't live forevermore. He lives at the right hand of God in the place of ultimate authority and ultimate access to the glory of heaven. And he's there for us. He's not there for just anybody. He's there for God's elect, for God's people who believed upon him. He's there for us. And so we see from that statement three important truths. First is this: that Christ Jesus sacrifice for us is accepted by God. He died on the cross, and it wasn't a vague moment of courage. You know, there are people who are very courageous. And we read about them and they get uh top billing. Um and rightly so. You know, they um uh they they land planes on the Hudson River. They uh uh get trapped in canyons and cut off their arms so that they can can get away from and uh there are people who run into blazing buildings. So many men give their lives in on on 9-11 as they raced into the Twin Towers and tried to rescue people and uh and they themselves lost their lives. Great bravery But that isn't worthy of Christ's death. Christ's death wasn't a desperate lunge into the clutches of the Roman soldiers and the the tra traachy of the um of the Jews. To try to bring about some kind of monumental change in the minds of the world. Quite far from it, the Lord Jesus Christ died deliberately. In order to save sinners. I love those verses and I want to just read a couple of them to you for you to grasp how important this is. Turn with me to Acts chapter 4. Oh, n even um Acts chapter two to begin with, uh when we read here What happened and why did it happen? Okay. In in verse twenty-three of of Acts chapter two we read This Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. It was a deliberate plan. And he goes on, of course, to repeat what Paul is saying here. This is Peter. God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for them to hold in. Chapter 4. And verses that we quoted um uh last night in a different context. Um uh uh uh they they pray this prayer. Uh they it's it's a pattern of praying really. And then we're told that um uh to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place, verse 28. They're talking about their holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles. and the peoples of Israel to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. What have we got here? The deliberate death of Jesus Christ. And and I want you to bear that in mind in at any point of your life, in your private devotions, in your conversation. In listening to the preaching of the word, in the privilege you have to live for Jesus Christ, that you do that because deliberately God purposed the death of his son. And his son willingly acquiesced with that plan of the eternal Trinity to bring about the salvation of sinners. My little mind, and believe me I have a little mind, but my little mind cannot even grasp the end of that Trinitarian council Where the father proposed a way of salvation, and the son acquiesced in its fulfillment, and the spirit Deliberately said he would sustain the son in his life and then in his death. It is amazing. But why? For you and for me. What a miserable bunch. And and and he did that for you and for me. And so this death is accepted by the Father As being sufficient for the sins of his people throughout every age and throughout the world We sung hymns that were probably sung by by some of the um the early settlers in America and certainly by later generations. Do you know they were as deliberately predestined to believe as we have been. And that's the continuum of history. The continuum of history is not uh, as Marx said and uh in in his uh uh in his writings, uh the the the inevitable inevitable rise and fall of economies uh the the flow, the the the high points and the low points and and and keep suggested a means whereby it was kept more regular and more steady, and that was by public ownership and so on and so forth that you have in the hands of of Marxists It's an attempt to deny or to change the way of history. And they say, well, there's this continuum, and we've got to break this continuum And there mustn't be these uh this ebb and flow and this boom and bust. Look, the real continuum of history, if you really want to be in the stream of history It's to be in the grace of Jesus Christ. Because it's the same grace that was to be found amongst the Puritans of New England. That's why we can read what they wrote and the sermons that were preached and the effects of those, because we can identify with them Well, you know, uh I'm sure that if you read uh in in the English translation, I'm sure, some of the writings of Socrates. Interesting, very interesting philosophical positions. Aristotle, Augustine. uh great author and writer. We can't identify with some of those things on the style of his writing. But but you know when they talk about grace, when you go to uh Socrates and Aristotle Mm it's a it's obstruced to the majority of people. When you come to Augustine, you you're reading Augustine and uh he's talking about us He's talking about the things we're familiar with. He's talking about sin and forgiveness and and a life of service and of grace. Why? Within the same continuum of history. And we've got to understand that. So that the work of God wasn't just for 21st century people living in Washington. I mean, lots of things happen in Washington, but I can assure you that Washington doesn't exist because uh they're in the continuum of grace. They're in another continuum, but that's another story. We are in the continuum of grace. And Christ's forgiveness was sufficient for all our sins. He's f all of us think he forgave Augustine. Augustine, a wicked man, if I may be so bold as to say, an immoral man. A vain man lived in Rome, came from North Africa, lived in Rome, and there he was. Living a life of comparative luxury, a debased and debauched life. And then he picked up, his mother had prayed for him, Monica had prayed for him, and uh he he picks up a book and he's a Bible and uh and he hears somebody playing a game outside and saying, Tolle legge, tolle legge. Take up and read, take up and read, he takes up and reads. He turns to the epistle to the Romans, and he comes to faith in Christ. Wow, that's great, isn't it? Same for you. You didn't sit in a garden in Rome and take up the Bible and read it. But at some point or another something similar happened to you as happened to him because you were forgiven of your sins and you were brought to life in Jesus Christ. And the call to holiness is therefore a part of the continuum of history. The same for Calvin, same for Luther. These men in exactly the same way were arrested by the grace of God as you and I have been arrested. We have every reason to live the Christian life. You say, well, I'm not Calvin. You know you're not. Perhaps the greatest mind of the century besides the Apostle Paul. You're not Calvin. You're not Luther But you are in the same continuum of history. Christ's sacrifice has been accepted for you as it was for them. And that every nation I sometimes think that we we miss out on that. We sort of make a special case for every nation. Every nation. These people will be saved in precisely the same way. African American, African Welshmen. American Welshmen. They're all saved in the same way. You know, there's no special, you know, grace for um Iranians. God's got uh special grace for Americans, big big grace. Um grace for Canadians, well they're a bit inferior, so there's a less grace for that. No, no. The same grace for the whole world. The gospel is for the whole world. The world is our parish, said Wesley. And that's the way it is. It's the whole world belongs to us with the gospel of grace. And then of course nothing can be added to this. You can't add a single thing to the death of Christ on your behalf. You can't say, I mean the American Christian can't say, well, because we're Americans. We're special. We've got a constitution. We've got a bill of rights. We're special. We're not we're not of the English. I mean the English. And uh We're not like the English. I mean we've got much more to contribute to the world. And of course they're in decline now. The Empire's gone and and they're Look, my friends, we're in the continuum of history. And we can add nothing to that grace. Nothing. Not a single iota can be added to it from you or from me. And that should thrill us. It's sufficient. What could you give to the grace of God anyway? What could you give to the sacrifice of Christ? Not a thing. Could you contribute your good works? Rome says that's true. You put all your good works in a big barrel, and then you can take out what you want. Uh and uh if you do works of superarrogation. Where was I recently and somebody was trying to use say the words uh superarrogation? Ah yes. It was the pastor's wife. But anyway. Uh she she's been doing works of superarrogation and she's been putting them in a sump for you all and uh how blessed you are to have those done. No, no, no, no. Don't don't listen to that nonsense. She hadn't done a thing for any in fact she didn't do anything for herself. Isn't that something? She was saved by grace. Skip didn't save her. Her family didn't save her. None of us saved each other. And we didn't add anything to it. We haven't added anything to it. You say, Well, I prayed. That doesn't hand to your psalmation. Christ! Honey, Christ has died for you, he says And he has been raised from the dead. And the Father is pleased with the works of his Son for us. The Trinity is pleased with his work for us. They are happy to call us his children. We can call God Father. Didn't we read that? We reveal we're the sons of God. Do you know where else the Son of God appears and we can call God Father? Well, it appears in Psalm 89. It's David calls him father. It's one of the few references in the Old Testament for calling God Father. But when you realize that David calls him Father, and we belong in the same continuum as David, in the train of grace, and it's ours. And the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are pleased with the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is why the Holy Spirit applies it to us. How do you become a Christian? Well, the work of the Holy Spirit. He applied it to you. He awakened you in your darkness. He brought you to see your need of a savior. And you came to believe upon him. Isn't that amazing? I mean, we don't call him Holy Spirit by accident, because that's who he is. He's holy. Doesn't want to touch sin. Holiness and sin are at enmity. You cannot possibly help to be holy and yet to countenance and to be willing to live with sin. If a person came to you who was living with a woman who wasn't his wife, came to the church and he applied for membership and you said to him, Well, uh, what about your family situation? Well, he said, uh Um the lady I live with isn't my wife. Uh we have never been married, but but we've lived very happily and we we rarely if ever quarrel and uh And and I'm very happy to to call her my wife and I'm prepared to admit that she isn't my wife in in law, but but but we we're happy together And uh well, y y to become a member you'd have to uh marry her and uh oh no I don't need to do that. I can imagine the session that Christ reformed Well at least I hope I can. They'd say, no, no, you can't do that. You can't do that. You can't live like that. Because that's not holy living. We do that on the basics, basic basic level. How much in our it be for God to come and indwell sinners. And yes, that's exactly what he did. Precisely what he did. The Holy Spirit came and opened your heart. whose heart the Lord opened, says the book of Acts. This is what happened to Lydia. The Lord opened her heart. He came there and he dealt with her and he ripped away the sinfulness and he placed himself in the driving seat of her life and heart and transformed her. And that's what he did for you. Isn't that amazing? You become a child of God. The Holy Spirit is willing to do that. Why? To apply the work of the Son to all of us. And the reward for his sacrifice is his restoration as the Godman to the place of ultimate authority. He'd been there before in heaven. He'd lived in heaven. That was his home. But he had voluntarily come to earth and taken upon himself the form of a man, of a servant, of a slave. We know that. was born in the womb from the womb of the Virgin Mary. He was a man. He was a human being. He became a servant Servant of God. The prophecies of Isaiah call him the servant of God. He becomes a slave. He washes his disciples' feet. And then he goes to the cross, dying like a slave. Dying like a man condemned by an alien government to the cross. It was an appalling, disgusting, nauseating death. And he does that for you and for me. And as a result, because the Trinity is immensely pleased with his work He is willing to restore him back now to heaven, but no longer just as the Son of God, but as the incarnate Son of God There's someone there who knows what it's like to be tempted and tried, knows what it's like to be misquoted, misused and and and and misunderstood. And he's there for you and for me. And it's in the place of highest authority. He's seated at the right hand of God. I'm sure you know the difference between the right hand and the left. Well, I hope you do. You know, your right hand is the one the majority of you use for writing and and and uh turning over pages and doing work. Your your strength is in your right hand. And the word dexterous comes from the Latin word for the right, the dexter. Some of you are left-handed, but this is no condemnation of your left-handedness. I have a grandson who's left-handed and he believes he's inferior to his little brother who's right-handed, because he said, all clever people are right-handed. And then we pointed out to him the example of uh Leonardo da Vinci, uh who was left handed. I don't know how he got up on that roof and painted left-handed, but there we are, he did it. And the roof of the Sistine Chapel uh proves his genius. But um uh what I'm talking about is commonality, uh the the dextero side. And then you know what the Latin for the left hand is, I'm sure. Sinister. Sinister. We get the word sinister from it. Left-handed people were accounted to be sinister. Uh they're not, but uh that's a whole other story. The thing is that he's seated in the place where most will be done. He's seated at the right hand of God the Father There to speak for you and for me. And he's been made alive and lives forevermore. Nothing can destroy him The cross couldn't destroy him. Oh, certainly it could kill him. The spear certainly bled him. But he himself is now restored. He lifted up. What does it say to us? Who was raised? and is at the right hand of God. The Trinity raised him from the grave. And he's given a name there. Paul talks to the Philippians and he says, given a name above every other name. And people sort of quiz and say, what name was he given? I mean, Jesus, Savior, no, there was the name Lord. In capital letters. That is, that he sits there as he is his right in the flesh as God himself. He is the Lord. And he has a name which is above every name. And there he can make intercession for us. No, the word intercession means to speak on somebody's behalf. Well, why would Jesus speak on our behalf? Sure, he's died for us, sure he's been raised from the dead, but he might very well have said, well, you know, the Trinity might have said, well let them puddle on on their own. You know, we'll save them. At the end of the trip, they'll come to us and uh and we'll take them into heaven. But but, you know, let them cope on their own. And that's where they are. They get themselves into all these messes. They make all these mistakes. They they commit all these things. We just let them make their own way out. You must have heard that as a theology. You know, how are we saved? Well, we we get ourselves saved. Mm. I hear people saying, so he got saved. I I still don't know how you can say that. And uh and then, you know, um, I met Jesus. Well that's a lovely sentiment, isn't it? It's not true. Jesus met you because he was looking for you. You weren't looking for him, he was looking for you. And you found him because he found you first. We love him because he first loved us. And he intercedes for us because we have been justified. Now we touched on this in the last session, and I want to touch on it here again. Justification is to be accounted guiltless. We are accounted right with God. Now, this isn't a doctrine we can feel. I mean, there are some doctrines like that, aren't they? The virgin birth. You can't feel the virgin birth, but you believe it, because the Bible says it's true. Justification isn't a doctrine you can feel for the simple reason it's a legal action. Legal actions are normally quite uh without feeling. Now it isn't true that uh the father and the son did not feel the um the necessity of of of justifying sinners, of accounting them guiltless. But we don't feel it. But like every legal action, we feel its consequence. A man goes to court, he's accused of murder, he's been in prison for six months, nine months a year, they've been amassing evidence, he appears before uh a jury, a judge and jury, and the jury gets up uh at the end of the deliberations and they say not guilty. Now, he must feel tremendous relief. But he feels that tremendous relief in himself. The just the action, the j verdict, is without passion. They don't say, oh, we're so delighted that we have found you innocent of your crime. And I'm sure you're glad and we feel and and you say, oh, this is so wonderful, so marvelous. No, no, it's an it's an action. It's it's it's a forensic action, it's a legal action, it's done. But you feel The consequence of being justified. That now being justified by faith. What does Paul say? Being justified by faith. We have peace with God. You can go to God, you can speak to God. You can have fellowship with God. You can pray to God. You can speak in his name. And you can do this because you've been justified. But more than that, because you're justified, the Son will intercede for you, will speak on your behalf. You can go to Him and you can ask Him to speak on your behalf, to forgive you your sins, and to make you. At peace with the Father, because you're justified by grace through faith. And the third thing I wanted to say of this capture, the first one was that the sacrifice was accepted. The second is that the reward of his sacrifice and atonement is to be placed in the place of highest authority and there he can intercede for us. He's got a a a door into into the in into the very inner specter. I'm sure that um you live in Washington and all of you can go to the White House and just knock on the White House, uh the uh presidential apartment, and I'm sure all of you can just knock and say, we live in Washington, could you help us? I bet you can't. I I'm sure you can't. And then you mean but work for the government. You can't do that either. Very few of you, if any of you, have somebody in a position of authority that can hear your appeals for planning permissions or for or for the need of the poor or whatever, we always have to amount great public uh uh appeals for that. But you see, Christ has a place in the throne room of God. And he can appeal to the Trinity. He can appeal to the Father on our behalf. And the Father will hear his appeals because he is his beloved and darling son. But the third thing is that death as the punishment for sin is defeated, and all who trust in Jesus are promised a similar victory. Let me turn to 1 Corinthians 15 in that magisterial chapter on the resurrection. where Paul deals with all these great doctrines and he says this in verses 55 and 56 as he comes to the end of this passage. Look, he says, O death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Death is gone. Or you say, well, you know, I buried my grandmother the other week. Are you telling me that uh she's not dead? I am I mean you may have put her body in the ground and she passed from this life. She's dead. And that's a very sad moment. I know it from my own experience. Um but you know, she's not dead. My mother died. She's not dead And that's what gives us the possibility of victory in a cemetery. To give us joy in a funeral service. Because they're not dead. They're alive and they live forevermore. They live with Jesus. The devil's great tool is sin. The power of sin is the law. It condemns us. We stand condemned, and if we die under the law, we will surely go to hell and we will be dead in hell. We'll be separated from life and from hope. It'll be o'er and done with. But if we're in Christ. We will live forever. No condemnation, says Paul. There is therefore now no condemnation. Who wrote that hymn? Was it Wesley? No condemnation now I dread. Jesus and all in him is mine. Alive in him, my living head. Crowned with victory divine. Isn't that wonderful? And we shall rule with him. You guys are going to be rulers. Did you know that? So I'm very careful when I talk to you. 'Cause one day you'll be a ruler and uh I don't want you to be uh vict um uh take vengeance uh against uh little poor preachers like me. You you you'll be you'll be rumors. The only thing I gotta add to it is I will be too. So just remember that. We'll be rulers in heaven. We will have authority in heaven. As to the extent of that authority and its manifestation, I am not clear I just don't know. I thought about it and I I don't know. I don't know if I would want to exercise it. If my king is there, I'd be glad to surrender all my rights to him. That we will be accounted rulers. We're more than conquerors, says Revelation through him who died for us. This is the consequence of his being raised from the dead and is seated at the right hand of God. He's there at this moment. I prayed at the beginning of this service. You, I trust, have prayed in preparation for this weekend. And you know what? Those prayers went up to heaven And Jesus will answer those prayers. He will have heard them. He'd have interceded. All prayers would be imperfect. There will be lots of imperfections in the grammar. There'll be lots of imperfections in the motivation. There'll be lots of imperfections in the petitions. But ultimately, they will be heard in heaven because Christ will have cleansed them and intercede for us and present them faultless before the Trinity, and He will answer them. in their own way and then for their own need. I don't know your needs. Some of you may be grieving, grieving over family grieving over children as they grow up, grieving over situations in your larger and extended family. Uh I don't know. But you prayed and he will answer. You say, well, answers don't seem to be coming Answers are certain. We're not talking about a God who is busy playing golf on a Saturday afternoon when you pray. He's not a God who is busy um uh doing other business and uh uh uh concerned for other uh countries. Oh, you know, I I uh God couldn't possibly be concerned with us this week because he's he's with the Iranians this week. Oh, he's with the Nigerians this week, or he's with the uh the Egyptians this week. No, no. He is always there for us And he hears our prayers and he answers them. And you are being answered. Maybe it's not the answer you wanted. That's something to deal with. It may be the answer you wanted. Some of you will have wanted great things. Some of you will have not wanted anything particular at all. But you will be answered. That is a sound to f feast the ears. And I did promise uh Pastor Dewsbury that I wouldn't be preaching at this time, but I am and I've got some more to say. Oh, I could get all this in in fifteen minutes? You must be kidding me. We we may be in eating lunch, but you take some That's fine. And if you need it, go for your lunch at half past you, just go. I just carry on. And when you come back, you can catch what's going on in the past. Let me just say my application points. The first is this That Christ's resurrection and ascension lies at the heart of our security and our salvation. All these sermons have been geared to one thing, and that is to give you a sense of assurance of being Christians. And what lies at the heart of our assurance? That Christ is risen from the dead and is seated at the right hand of God. In um in in in Dutch America, Michigan and places like that. uh when I I was uh involved in running the Banner of Truth conferences on the East Coast. And uh very often they uh they were at the end of of May and they always are at the end of May. And I remember inviting I there was a um a committee, uh myself and two others, one of whom uh was a Dutchman, and I would say to him, Well now when is the conference? It's um XYZ in May. He said, Oh, bad week is Said, that's Ascension Week. I say, Why? Oh, he said, Big week, Ascension Week. Uh for them, part of their liturgy and tradition is that um there's great Emphasis on Ascension Day. We don't do that. We're much more Westminsterian. But I think that the three forms of unity might even emphasize this kind of thing. But it is a great day. Christ is risen from the dead. We make a big show of Christmas. They make a big show of Ascension Day. Christ is risen from the dead. And it's at the heart of our security. We will be saved because he is in glory. And he has stood for us. The second thing is this. Such a glorious event declares to the whole seen and unseen world the satisfaction of the Father with the Son. Do you know who hates the resurrection most? It's not liberal theologians, very emanated at the um encouraged by the uh uh by by the one who hates it most. The devil hates the resurrection. He thought the grave could hold him And he couldn't. He broke the power of cancel sin. He sets the prisoner free because he is free himself. It's a glorious event. And it declares to the seen and the unseen world that God is satisfied with the sacrifice of his son. You can't say it wasn't enough. It is enough. And it's enough for you. Thirdly, having such a friend in high places should fill us with wonder, gratitude, and confidence. You know, it's a lovely song, isn't it? Um, what a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. Well, we we often miss the connection. The reason why it's so good is that Jesus is there at the right hand of God. We've got a friend in high places He can intercede for us with the Father of lights. He can deal with the one who is the glorious, infinite, and wonderful God. He can speak on our behalf. And not only can he speak, he can sympathize with us. That when you go there and you say, you know, I'm brokenhearted over this issue. He can sympathize. I've been in the ministry a long time. And um I've been preaching the gospel for uh way over fifty years. And um I've always found when right early in my ministry, I found this as a great lesson, that whatever problem I faced in the congregation, whatever problem I faced, Jesus had faced it as well. So whatever problem you face in your life, Jesus has faced it himself. And not only that, because he's the perfect Son of God and is seated at His right hand, he can present the the nuances, the problems, the difficulties, the the uh consequences with far greater clarity than you could ever do. Of course you must pray. You must tell him that these things, but you just let him present them in his own way before the throne. And you will have true comfort and victory. And the last thing is this: no doubts and fears should afflict you, but should be dispelled at a contemplation of Christ's present situation and future victory. Okay, we heard you. Doubts and fears can only be dispelled at a contemplation of Christ's present situation and future glory. When you're filled with doubts and fears. Some of you young people may well be filled with doubt as to your Christian future. You know, I can understand that well. But Christ understands it even better. Because he's experienced with people who've been filled with doubt. He had Peter Who didn't think he should go to the cross, filled with doubt as to the best way of saving sinners. And Christ knew exactly how to deal with that. Get thee behind me, Satan. He understood that. And that's the way he speaks to us sometimes. Because we reflect a different philosophy. But we need never be afraid. Because he understands our circumstances. And when we consider it and can contemplate those things. We should be empowered beyond our wildest imaginations in our Christian lives. You have a Saviour who is Christ, the risen Lord. Let us pray. O Lord our God and Heavenly Father, we ask you now to bless us as we go to our meal. Bless the food to us. And bless our thinking and bless our preparation for a time of relaxation this evening. But may that be, Lord, done with a spirit of Of true gratitude for the Savior who died and rose again. Bless us in his name. Amen.