It's interesting in Paul's prayer for the church in Ephesians 1. We read earlier that it's by the washing of water with the Word that Christ sanctifies his bride. And Paul, as he prays one of several great prayers in Ephesians, says, For this reason, because I've heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you. Remembering you in my prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you. What are the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe? According to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated his right hand in the heavenly places, Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion in every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the age to come. He put all things under his feet and gave him his head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all attention. Paul did not ask that the Ephesians be given anything they did not already have. After his salutation, he says, You've been blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly Places in Christ. What he prays for the church is not to receive anything that it doesn't already possess, but simply to know, to be able to grasp those things that are already hers. And how do we know what we have in Christ? Well he tells us through his word. And so we'll turn our attention now to his word. We're privileged to have our guest preacher this morning, uh the Reverend Dr. Glenn Connect, uh a dear brother and father in Christ. Um I call Glenn the grandfather of our congregation. It was Palmer Robertson uh who was the the pastor, senior pastor at Wallace, whose vision uh resulted in our congregation being planted. Uh so we call Palmer in a certain sense The father of CRPC, but Glenn was the pastor before Palmer and has certainly been a close friend of ours and closer every day. So that's why uh we call him the grandfather of CRPC, and it's our privilege to have him come and minister God's word. So please stand for prayer and for the reading of God's word as Pastor Connect comes to minister to us. In case the sermon gets too dry, I have some water here to help. But uh I want to read the scriptures after Pastor Dusenberry has prayed over them, the illumination of the Holy Spirit It's not enough just to read or expound, but without the blessed Holy Spirit's ministry, we'll not be able to gather what we should. So I want to read two passages, the Old Testament from Psalm 68, verses 18 through 20. You have ascended on high. You have led captivity captive. You have received gifts among the men, even from the rebellious, that the Lord God might dwell there. Blessed be the Lord. Who daily loads us with benefits, the God of our salvation. Our God is the God of salvation. And to God the Lord, belong escapes from death. And our New Testament reading from Ephesians chapter 4 At verse 7. But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore, he says, when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to men. Now this he ascended, what does it mean, but that he also first descended into the lower parts of the earth He who descended is also the one who has ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. For the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God endures forever. Please be seated. Deep pleasure it is for me to be with you today, to love this congregation and to help all of us launch this Dynamic duo. I c I can't wait to see what happens to Laurel with these two men. It's interesting in the history of the church. My wife's been reading to me that wonderful book by Wearsby, 50 People Every Christian Ought to Know. You probably have read it already We're a little slow on the uptake, but loving every page. And one thing we notice is that in the greats, particularly in the British Empire. They came in twos. There would be two at a time in a city. There wouldn't be one alone, Spurgeon, but over there it would be Joseph Parker and R. W. Dale. they they seem to have a fraternity of power. And of course scripture says two are better than one And in my own brief experience, I once saw a denomination that was heading toward liberalism turn back. It almost never happens. Turned back by two men who were committed to that. And they made it happen under the providence and power of God. And so I rejoice in these two men pairing up together, reformed, dedicated, consecrated ministers of the gospel. And we'll be in prayerful support for them as they go along. Well, our text really comes from both of these passages, but I'm mainly going to seek to um express what I see in Ephesians chapter four. The passage is pregnant with meaning and who am I to try to go into it all? So in the midst of uh of nighttime uh reappraisal of one's work, I had to cut down the passage And uh that's hard because the Puritans said uh if you're going to read scripture and you have the choice between few verses and many verses, always choose many verses. But I hope they won't be displeased with me when I meet them. To each one of us, grace is given. According to the measure of Christ. That's my Christmas good news to you. That the presents have kept on coming. That each one of us has a gift. Every one of you who is in Christ has received from the Master Himself a spiritual gift. We may not know what it is. We wonder sometimes if we're of any use to Christ and the church, but here it is. To each one of us, grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Now it's interesting that both of those words are here, teamed up together, grace and gifts. That's an important partnership. Alas, sometimes we have tried to serve God with our gifts and left the graces behind. One must serve him, utilizing the gift to its fullest, but always, always calling upon the grace of God to anoint the work and make it effectual. When you start out to do good, you can do harm if you're not careful. And the carefulness is in the using of grace along with gifts. And here it is. Now these gifts differ according to Christ's own providential will for us, and we are content and happy whether we receive Small gift or a large gift does not matter. He suits just what we need and what the churches need in which we are serving. But now the question of when arises. The believer may ask, when were these gifts given to the church? And so Paul, by the Spirit, reaches back into Psalm 68, and there he identifies this wonderful Occasion, a definite moment in time when the gifts were given. And he says, when he ascended on high, that's the moment. You'll remember how after the Lord's resurrection he spent 40 days with his dear disciples, teaching them, loving them, feeding them, revealing the reality of his resurrected body to them. They were wonderful days, but they had to come to an end. He told them that. So they went out to a promontory near Jerusalem, I suppose. Perhaps other places, but they were there. And the Spirit lifted him into the heavens in their sight. It must have been a glorious moment. They probably peered into heaven the way you watch someone's car go down the road that you won't see again for a while. You you want to get a last glimpse if you can. And that's what they were doing. Well, the angels stopped them from that. So don't keep looking into heaven. He's going to come back in the same way. And he'd already told them that they were not to depart from Jerusalem immediately, but to go back there and wait for the promise of the Father Now the curious word that I see in the Lucan account of this passage is it says they went back to Jerusalem with great joy. Whenever I've gone back to my house after kissing and hugging and waving, I've been sad. But they went back with great joy. This one whom they loved so dearly was gone with great joy. Why? Well, because he had prepared them and taught them what he was going to do. He was going to be lifted on high to the right hand of the Father. And there he would have a place of authority and rule over all things. He would govern the world for the sake of the church. And from there he would intercede for his beloved church, his disciples, for you and for me. So Hebrews says he ever lives to make intercession. For us. He was there ruling and reigning, utterly aware of all that they would be doing and hurting and suffering and all the rest and guiding them. He chose to guide them, of course, by his precious Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, as you know, would have been working, was working with them through Old Testament times. and in the preparation for Christ's coming. But now that the Savior had his finished work done, He could pour out in the copious supply the river of the Holy Spirit upon the church. And he came with the sound of strong wind, with flames of fire sitting on their heads, with new miraculous gifts being given to them. What a moment it was. This was the time. when these gifts were given and we can mark it from that very moment Now, our Savior is there now, still ruling and reigning, still in the same place, still giving the Holy Spirit to us without measure. And yet it is so natural for us to be afraid. We fear all kinds of things. Even though the scripture keeps saying, don't be afraid, don't be afraid. It's your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And what are you afraid of? Unseen troubles coming down the road for you or your family, losses that you don't know how you'll handle. Are you afraid of illness or sudden death? Are you afraid of a breakdown? All these fears can grip us. But when you see our position, vis-à-vis the Savior reigning over us, providing for us, guiding us, loving us from on high. How can we be afraid? Oh, but you don't know anything about ISIS, Pastor. It's a very terrible thing, and I agree. But Nineveh was a terrible capital too, the worst in history. Everybody feared Nineveh. They wouldn't go near it. It was the ugliest. hideous, most sinful place on the face of the earth. Jonah shuddered at the thought of going there, but God said, Go to Nineveh. And when he went there, He uttered only seven words, and Nineveh was broken and repented. And changed until the time of Nahum, who had to, of course, repeat the ministry to them. Well, if Nina was broken with seven words under the power of God, ISIS is no real threat to us. We must. Of course, face that threat and handle it, but we must not fear it. We must not fear to live our lives as Christ has called us to, in daily life, loving our children and raising them, marrying and giving in marriage, doing our daily work, loving our neighbors. Be not obsessed with your fears. Please. Well, that's the timing. It's right here. When he ascended on high. What did he do there? He led captivity captive. That's a piling up of words if I ever heard one. What does it mean? He led captivity. Captive, the Greek word is a long one. It's hard to pronounce and and to parse. But nevertheless, I think the idea of it was. It was a picture of the Roman generals and before that other military leaders. Who would return from battle? Tied behind them were the victims, the defeated foes they had faced. They came now in chains, in humility. And the victor would re-enter his own city. with certain degree of glory because he had conquered these foes. And as he did so the booty, the spoils, the uh the profit he made from this victory, he would dispense as gifts to the citizenry. Imagine that. You've sometimes seen a a political figure coming down the main street of Laurel, and often they have candy to throw. Dave noticed that? They don't just pass by, vote for me. They throw you some candy. Well, that's the tiniest kind of vim. But they gave gifts as they came back because suddenly they had this large S. of wealth, and they wanted to distribute it and to give thanks to the people for supporting them. That's the image here. He took captivity captive. He had behind him all of the sins of the flesh and the spirit. He had conquered Satan and death And he had bound up all that stood against us in our humanity, everything that would seek to make us. its victim he had conquered potentially in his finished work on the cross of Christ. What a triumph that was. What a blessing he did in that very moment. Amen. Now it's interesting that he says there and uh it doesn't appear in the Ephesians passage That's why it was important for me to read the Psalm 68 passage. He said, even the rebellious were taken. Even the rebellious. Now that's an interesting phrase. And what does that mean? I think it means that there were some folk Potential victims who really resisted him. They were rebellious. But he turned them around too. And they were also back behind him. Even the rebellious. I want to just read make sure I get the wording right on that for you. I it's it's a strange thing, you know, to preach to a Presbytery And so you've got to be extra careful. Um even from the rebellious Somebody said there are three things that are hard in this life. One is to climb a fence that's leaning toward you. Another to kiss a girl who's leaning away from you and to preach to a presbytery. So Is that right? Anyway, these are dear brethren. Many of them, perhaps most of them I've known for many years, and I'm delighted to be here with them But even the rebellious, it says. What an amazing statement. But I think it's there, as every word in Scripture is, for a real reason. And the purpose is. To send the message to us who are also wrestling with captivities of various kinds. That even though our hearts are sometimes rebellious against what God wants to do in us that God is able to take that captivity captive just as well if we will let him. I remember in one of Finney's books, not sure it's kosher to mention him in Reform Circles, but I read his books anyway. And he tells a story. He had this anxious bench in his evangelistic meetings. And he would preach the gospel and say to them, Now if you Want to talk more about the gospel and salvation? Please come and sit on this bench in the front. And that would have been quite a thing to do, I guess. But that's what he insisted on. We called those measures, which probably not God's best for us, but that was Finney's method. So one lady, a rather sophisticated woman, came up to him. Mr. Fidin, I I like your preaching and I want to be saved. But that bench, I don't want to go there. Do I have to go there to be saved? His answer was wise. He said, up till now you didn't, but now you do That's your point of pride. That's the spirit of rebellion in you that has to be won over by walking up there and sitting there. He was on to something. I think that's in this verse. Even the rebellious. And you and I find a spirit of rebellion in our hearts, let's be honest, that we have to wrestle. The mind gets renewed as we're walking in Christ. The memory gets refreshed. The heart gets warmed, the conscience gets sensitized. But what about the will? The will is the last holdout of your being against Christ's dominance. We don't want to give our will over to him to say, whatever, Lord, whatever, I will do it. Even that bench, even that thing that I have wanted to hold on to. That resentment. I have not wanted to forgive that enemy. I've been unwilling to love that person who offended me so deeply. That's my place, my bench. But he says, oh, what freedom there is in these words when he says, even from the rebellious captivity was captured. And it can be the same for you. Now I must hurry on, but I do need to do a little more justice to this wonderful text. How far down did Christ have to come to ascend to such heights? You read it here. In Ephesians, he says, he ascended, but what does that mean? But that he also first descended into the lower parts of the earth. The lower parts of the earth, in my understanding, refer to the grave, our human graves. You've looked into them as I have. These days they're double in depth sometimes, and you look down there, you think you're going to see China down there. It's really strange. But nevertheless I think he's referring to the grave. That Christ went as far down as he could go. In his identification with our human condition. Think of the descent. He started from the halls of heaven Where he fellowship with the angels and with the Father and the Spirit in pure bliss and love Then he was willing to give up for a time his right to be called divine, he some of his prerogatives he temporarily suspended, it must have been difficult for him, and he made himself of no reputation, and he took on himself not just the form of a king, but of a servant. Then being a servant, he humbled himself in that role. And became obedient even to death. The death, the worst death there could be, the death of the cross. And from there, that lovely, glorious. Frame was laid in the tomb. That's the lower parts of the earth. He went there. And from there he ascended into heaven. If he hadn't gone there, he could not have gone there. That was part of his complete identification with our sin and our death and his overcoming of those. Out of that grave of Christ, a branch grows. And the branch is called the Christian ministry. You see, this is all tied up with the ministers to the church. And the lower parts of the earth is where the roots of Christian ministry are. If there had been no grave for Christ, there would be no pastors, prophets, apostles, none of it. There would not be a ministry. But the ministry goes back here. It has its foundation very deep in the life, in the descent and ascent of our Lord Jesus Christ. How do you tabulate the cost of a ministry? I've heard churches, committees, and other people try to do it. Well, let's figure he's got four years of college, he's got three years of seminary, there's a bill we could put on that He's uh we've got to ensure him he has to have the right clothing, he has to have a car, he has to have an office and This and that, and do we add in also the sacrifices he makes in life? He has to live sometimes parsimoniously. And do we add in the tremendous disappointments that come to him when his heart is broken? How do we tally that cost of the ministry? I don't know if you've ever read The Gown of Glory, but it would be a good read for you. It's about a pastor, kind of an ordinary pastor in a small town. Throughout his ministry in that place, there was one man that he said, God, I don't want to die until I win this man to Christ. He was the hardest man in the city. He wouldn't even listen to the pastor. But he kept going. He kept going. Then it came that his wife fell ill. She was in an upstairs bedroom dying. He was taking care of her. And there came a knock on the door. The man said, I'm ready now, Pastor. With his wife dying. He had to turn What he had always wanted to happen. There's an untimeliness in the ministry that God somehow shields and helps his ministers handle. But it is there nevertheless a terrible tearing at times. How do you tabulate the cost? of the ministry. It's far more expensive than we could ever account because it rises out of the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. Without that grave, that expensive grave, there would be no ministry. But I want to add touch this last phrase, and he gave gifts to men. And he uh the Apostle Paul has given by inspiration a delineation of these gifts, which I won't go into in detail, but just to touch on them. Some would be apostles. These were the men, extraordinarily blessed and gifted in the early church. who could perform miracles and healings and raise the dead. It was amazing what they did. They were More importantly, they were able to make infallible statements in the writing of Scripture. Imagine that. Nobody today can write a book and it's going to be perfect. Infallible statements. that would be trusted through the ages as the very word of God. These were the apostles. Thank God for them. But apostleship with the capital A Is not necessarily not a permanent benefit to the church. As these generations passed away, those gifts ceased also. The apostles thank God for them. The prophets, these were gifted teachers with a capital T. They were able to take the themes of the Old Testament and relate them to the early church and show how they applied. They continued the Emmaus Road Ministry of Jesus. Plus, they predicted the future in some cases and accurately. The prophets, too. don't appear to be a permanent gift of the church. Of course, God can do whatever he wants with his gifts. But I speak about ordinarily. Then there were evangelists. Happily we have them. And they are wonderful people when you meet one, encourage him, because it's a hard piece of work. They are to carry the gospel to the ends of the earth. And they do it so well. And then there are the pastors and teachers. I take these two offices to be. Two parts, two functions of the same servant of the Lord, pastor and teacher, to shepherd the flock of God to guide the erring and the ignorant, to be patient and compassionate with those who are out of order. These are the pastors and teachers. These are the foot soldiers of the kingdom. These are what we celebrate today. There's no more glorious or imminent a work in all the world. The highest, holiest, happiest calling there is is to be a pastor teacher in a local congregation. We thank God for them. Do you realize what you have in these men? The world wants to marginalize them. You want to centralize them. So they become dominant in your homes conversation and in the life of the city. Do you attend upon their ministries with diligence? Do you make that a priority? That you would be here when the word of God is being preached? Attentive, rested, joyful, anticipating? Only twice in my life have I heard what the Welsh call the hoyle. Don't try to spell it. That right? Howie, okay. But the ho I'll not ask anybody if you've heard the hoil I'll tell you very briefly. The hoyle is a moment you cannot predict, you can't plan, the preacher can't do it of himself. But suddenly The Bible loves that word. Suddenly, in the midst of a sermon, when you least expect it, he's lifted to a level beyond his normal expression. It's as if he's taken off into the third heaven and he's seeing things he never saw before and telling you things he didn't know before. It's an incredible moment. Twice I've heard it, and I wanted to stand up and holler. It's no sin to die without hear hearing the hoil, but it would be a sin to miss a service in which the hoil took place. So you never know what's going to happen in a service. Don't miss one of your church. Be there. Be faithful. Take full advantage. And when you have questions, seek out your pastors. They have guidance and answers and help for you. Why should you stumble in darkness and take the wrong path when you have wise? Pastors at hand. Well, God in this passage, in my judgment, gives a great eminence. To the gifts of ministry. He glorifies them. He shows their source. He prizes them. And he sees the The ministry as a trophy of his triumph. He finished the work. He overcame the devil He took captivity captive, and the prize for him was a ministry to communicate to the world. Now the children here May never may not know this word trophy. So I brought one. That's one of my grandson's trophies for basketball. Isn't that nice? Well, the ministry is a trophy won by Christ after his wrestling with the devil and taking him captive and destroying his works. Let's put that trophy on the mantle and rejoice in it the way the Lord Jesus does himself. Or may we pray together. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for that divine counsel that appointed the second person of the Trinity, the Savior Himself. To take on human flesh and nature, to live among us even unto the grave. And to take captive these evil works of the devil that would bind humanity, bind our hearts, keep us from the full potential you have for us. Thank you for that great victory and for the servants whom you have sent into the world to communicate this victory. To set the prisoners free and preach the gospel to the poor. And to win many to Christ. We thank you for these men and this work. In Jesus' name. Amen.