Keep talking stupid. Like one, two, one, two. Yeah, we're on. Good, good. First of all, can I thank Skip for uh inviting me along here and for uh opening his pulpit to this strange Irishman. As someone who's been in in regular ministry for quite a number of years, to open your pulpit to anyone is is no uh easy task. You guard your pulpit uh very jealously. So I I regard it as a great privilege to to come along here. I also regard it as a great privilege just to be in the Lord's work, the Lord's work particularly in reaching the ancient people. As Skip said, I've had about 20 years of normal ministry experience. And subsequent to that, I've now had four years in working with CWI, working with Christian Witness to Israel. And I think I would say hand on heart that these past four years have been the most encouraging years. of my ministry and years when I've known the Lord's hand of blessing. I have a passion for what I do. I trust that comes across And I hope in some way to uh to share that and and maybe infect you with something of that uh passion for God's ancient people. It really is my task simply as I go around Ireland um 90% of my time uh to stir the churches, to remember the ancient people, to pray. for the Jewish people and their salvation. We, as you'll see later in the presentation, we have the twin arms of our missionary work. We have workers in Jewish areas who are seeking to reach the Jewish people with the gospel and then we have other workers such as myself who are teaching the church and awakening the church and stirring the church. So it's a privilege to be here with you today. I I hope in some way that it is a privilege for you, as maybe within your own heart you are stirred once again, if not presently, but once again perhaps, stirred to remember. the ancient people. uh not being quite as textual as uh as I usually am uh on this one off occasion I want to preach more topically though we will be in the word and digging out from the word and and uh uh uh perhaps uh we might say springboarding from the word uh to the uh to the comments and aspects of our mission that we engage in. So I have a three-point sermon. It's the usual preacher's principle of having the three points. I also have them as three P's. So please forgive me those of you who hate alliteration and those of you who love alliteration, then uh you're you're you're on my side, but it's just the the way I've done things. I think I've probably already run them off. Stephen. Okay, that's good. Well I have uh I have three P's uh under the overarching heading of uh the privilege of Jewish mission. And first of all, I want us to think about our passion for Israel's salvation It was Robert Murray McChane that said, shouldn't we participate with God in his exceptional affection for Israel? If we are filled with the Spirit of God, shouldn't we love as He loves? Shouldn't we engrave Israel upon the palms of our hands? and resolve that through our mercy they also may obtain mercy. Well shouldn't we? That's a question really that I want each of us personally to answer before you leave here this morning. And if I have any power of persuasion, it is to persuade you. that this is a privilege. For Gentiles who have come to know the Jewish Messiah, for us to be involved in reaching the ancient people is a glorious privilege. So first of all, I want us to think about the passion of the Chaiune God. I'm just really going to bring up a few texts and, as I said, springboard from them. Forgive me. I'll leave your pastor to dig more deeply and expand and expound on those passages. But Jeremiah 31, 3 says, I have loved you with an everlasting love. And since when has everlasting not meant everlasting? Of course we know that within that love there is the discipline and there has been in uh Jewish history and in Old Testament history and in in modern Jewish history there has been a disciplining by God. And so in that verse 10 we see that he who scattered Israel will also gather them. And there have been times when he would send them into exile, but there were times then when in mercy he would bring them back. And in the New Testament era, there was a scattering. There was the destruction of Jerusalem. There was a scattering. But there is the promise of a gathering. And so in Jeremiah 31 we read also, Is Aphraim, my dear son, the child in whom I delight. Though I often speak against him, I still remember him. Therefore my heart yearns for him. I have great compassion for him, declares the Lord. There's a very clear exhibiting of the passion and the compassion of the Triune God in such verses. As I say, I'm really just laying verse upon verse upon you. Isaiah 49. Can a mother forget the baby at her breast and have no compassion on the child she has borne? Sadly, in our day and generation there are mothers that have no compassion on their children, even their unborn children. I'll not go off on that tangent. Though she may forget, I will not forget you. See, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Of course, that's the verse then that McShane has taken and used in that quote we had earlier. And we know that Jesus, our Lord, the Savior of the world, the one who came and died for the sins of all mankind, Jew and Gentile. He would send his disciples to the four corners of the world. And they would take this message and turn the world upside down. He was sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. He wasn't born in DC. He wasn't born in the Lone Star, and some of you know why I'm saying that. I'll tell you more about that later. He came to his own and his own received him not. Now, of course, very often we read that verse and we quickly jumped to the rejection. He came to his own and his own received him not. But wonderfully it's come to us. We've now got it. We Gentiles. We've got this wonderful gospel message. His own, well, those Jewish people, those stubborn, hard-hearted Jewish people, they rejected him. And that's that's Jewish history. It's a history of disobedience, isn't it? Well, what's church history been like? Have we been wonderfully obedient? Oh men, disobedient. God has handed all men over to disobedience, that he may have mercy on them all, says Romans 11. No, the Jewish stubbornness and hard-heartednesses is the same as the Gentile stubbornness and hard-heartedness. But before we get on to the rejection, we always look to that verse, he came to his own and his own received him not. Before we skip to the rejection, think about it, he came to his own What does that mean? He came ethnically to his own people, but it speaks of a closeness and a particularity of God's love. For Ephraim, for Israel, for the ancient people. And so even in the midst of the rejection, Even in the midst of him coming to his own and his own receiving him not, he would look out over Jerusalem and you would see the passion and the compassion of Christ when he would cry, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. The city that kills the prophets and stones those sent to her. How often have I wanted to gather you? To gather you as a hen gathers his chicks. There's a passion and a compassion of the Lord there. Jesus is the one who sent his disciples to the four corners of the world. Please don't misunderstand me. The love of God, God so loved the world that he sent his son. But in a very particular sense, Jesus was incarnate in a Jewish womb. And he came to his own and he wept over Jerusalem. He didn't weep over London, Paris, or New York. In in that particular incarnation, he looked in the city that killed the prophets And he promised, and the word promises, that though he would uproot and there would be that destruction, then there would be that scattering, yet he would also gather. He would disperse and he would bring back. And so Robert Mary McShane makes again a staggering statement. The whole of Scripture shows that God has an exceptional love for Israel. So we've looked first for all the first subheading of the first point is the passion of the triune God. Secondly, I want us to look at the passion of the Apostle Paul. And if I can simply say we cannot overestimate. the passion and the love of the apostle for his own people Israel. Sometimes we're given the impression that Paul turned his back on his own people. They wanted him dead, they wanted to stone him, and so the uh the the Hebrew Saul became the converted Paul. It's almost as if he changed his name upon conversion. Not so. He was still called Saul among his Jewish friends post-conversion. And he was called Paul among his Gentile friends. It wasn't a name change upon conversion. He still kept his Jewish roots. And though he was the apostle to the Gentiles, let us never forget his passion. Indeed, the climax of his theological masterpiece, Romans The book of Romans, the climax, the theological climax of it is 9 through 11. And in chapter 9, he gives his angst, he shows his anxiety, he shows his grief. I'm telling the truth. I'm not lying. My conscience bears me. He's multiplying argument upon argument. Please don't mistake this as just stage play. I have By the Spirit of God bearing witness, I have grief. And he suggests even that he could lose his very heaven for them I could wish. Now, that can't be the case because just a few verses earlier in Romans 8, he's saying that nothing shall separate us from the love of God which is in Christ. So he can't be separated, but he could wish even that accursedness. He could wish himself separated. He could wish his heaven away for his own people. How many of us could be like that? The ultimate self-denial shows the passion of the Apostle Paul. And so in the next chapter in Romans 10, he's sharing with brother Gentiles, brothers. Brother Gentiles, brother believing Gentiles, I want to tell you my heart. My heart's desire. And the heart's desire overflowing into prayer. My prayer for Israel is that they may be saved. He has a passion for Israel's salvation. Of course, then how are they going to hear? And he goes on in chapter 10 to speak. about how they need to be told about Jesus. How shall they hear except someone preaches to them? So we need Jewish mission. We need people telling the Jewish people about Jesus. And then continues on in chapter 11 to share that this whole passion that he has is really God's passion. And I've only a couple of verses put up there on the screen, but the whole of chapter eleven is talking about that engrafting into the vine again And the promise that this deliverer will come from Zion, and he's going to remove the ungodliness from Jacob. Yes, there is ungodliness in Jacob, and yes, there is still the hardness of heart. There is still the darkness, there are still scales across the eyes, but the deliverer will come. And he will remove that. And this is my covenant with them. And so James Montgomery Boyce makes the suggestion under this that the survival of Israel Suggests that God has preserved these people through their many dispersions and persecutions, not because he doesn't care for them, but because he does And because he has a plan for the Jewish people that will unfold in blessing in the last days. We've seen the passion of the Triune God, we've seen the passion of the Apostle Paul. I want thirdly under this first heading to see the passion of Christian Witness to Israel. Christian Witness to Israel began in 1842. It arose out of the great burden of men like Robert Murray McShane. Indeed, Robert Murray McShane was present at a meeting in London out of which that mission began. It had another name then. It was called the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel Among the Jewish People. and later changed its name to Christian Witness to Israel. But in a nutshell, very simply, the passion of CWI, the work of CWI is twofold. It's to present Christ to the Jewish people, and it's to awaken the conscience of the Christian church. Now my little remote is not working just as quickly as I hope it would, so just bear with me a little moment. But there is our twofold aim. It is to present Christ to the Jewish people and awaken the conscience of the Christian church. Can I make an important announcement? Christian witness to Israel is an evangelistic mission. I was once asked, uh uh I I need to be very general because uh I I I hear this this sermon maybe go out far and wide, but uh I I was once asked uh in Ireland uh by uh a pastor uh at uh just a few minutes before the meeting was to begin he said to me, what's your take on Israel? And what he meant by that was, what what are your views on prophecy and and what are your views on on the politics of the land? I simply replied, Romans 10. 1, that they may be saved. My take, my desire, my passion. is that they may be saved. You know, friends, it's it's not sufficient as as many people are. It's not enough to be fascinated by all the intricacies of end-time prophecies. We uh appeal to our carnal curiosity by that and and oh yeah, I know that little detail. Oh do you know I I I'm I'm an expert in these things and we we fill our minds sometimes. With carnal curiosities concerning end times prophecy. It's not enough for us to be passionate about such passionate about such things, or passionate maybe about the land and all the political things that are going on in the land. Not politics, not prophecy, but people. Because it's the people that need the Lord, not the land There was a James Bond movie, The World Is Not Enough. The land is not enough. They need the Lord. When I come over here I I love to eat uh American things and uh I get that privilege of enjoying some uh uh American type foods and uh even sadly even some of the fast foods sometimes and uh um certain chocolate bars or certain uh candies. I use the the I I'm bilingual by the way. We uh some certain uh sweets um I I enjoy various things. Now it's not enough for me to to go into the store and look at Oh, that looks nice. Oh, I'd really love that. It's not the wrapper that I'm interested in. It's what's inside the wrapper. It's not all the politics or all the prophecies that we're to get interested in. It's the people. Because they need the Savior. Let us keep our passion where God's passion is, where Paul's passion is, and where our mission's passion is. If I can illustrate that just a little further, don't just buy Jaffa oranges. Okay, now this Irish man's gone completely gaga. What is he talking about? Having a couple of weeks in America, my accent is becoming rounder. And by the time I finish my my trip back in Texas, uh I'd probably be talking Texan, y'all. Um But at the moment you're grasping what I'm saying, but now he's talking about don't buy Jaffa oranges. Well what I what do I mean? Don't just buy Jaffa oranges. There are some Jewish missions. That have as their principle and their and their passion, I suppose, and their working, that they will not engage the Jewish people with the gospel. They will engage in what they call pre-evangelism. They will engage in mercy ministries which are good. They will engage in ministries which bring the people back to the land which has a certain place, perhaps. Please don't get me wrong. We are to show mercy that they may obtain mercy. The church's witness over the centuries has not been good, and the church's witness has very often been to persecute and hate instead of showing mercy and love. So mercy ministry is good. But our mission and our ministry as Gentile Christians is to bring the gospel And if we don't evangelize, and if any so-called Jewish mission doesn't bring Jesus, then they're bringing a type of water through which they'll thirst again. Our passion in CWI is to bring them to know Jesus. And it is a privilege to bring the gospel to Jewish people. You know, I find American people to be the most generous, big hearted people in the world. I've traveled uh a fair amount And I'm not just uh backslapping here. I find Americans to be uh the most generous. Enough of this silly nonsense of Americans taking over the world and America being the world's policeman. Thank God for that voluntary police work in other parts of the world as American soldiers give their lives for peace and liberty and freedom. Well, that's the political statement out of the way, but I find there's a big-heartedness here. And that big-heartedness was very evident in my own life. My daughter through uh a long story that I can't go into at this point, but uh my daughter uh through the Lord's wonderful providence uh has gone to Texas A<unk>M University. And just a couple of weeks ago I was standing watching her graduate as the proud dad. And she graduated in special education, now hoping to work with needy, special needy, special needs kids. And that has happened through the generosity of friends, some giving a little, some giving a lot. And as I stood there, I'm so thankful for those that have helped us. I'd love to bless them in some way. I can't, I I I they wouldn't want me to financially in any way. uh to do to repay. But there's a there's a natural inclination in me to want in some way to pay back for those that have done so much for us so that I can stand and smile What God has done and what they have done for my daughter and my family. I use that simply as an illustration, but because, dear friends, we have a Jewish Bible in our hands. And we have a Jewish Savior to proclaim. And the message of the Jewish Messiah has come to us from Jewish missionaries in the first century. And if we Gentiles would only but grasp the fact that we have so much to repay But how are we to repay? We repay by bringing the message of the Messiah back to them. that first brought it to us. You know, America is very supportive of Israel. There are literally millions of dollars that are going to Israel in in aid and Getting folks back to the land. But is it just about buying Jaffa oranges? Is that our mission? It's my desire, it's our mission's desire to see those millions of dollars being put where our passion is, where Paul's passion is, where God's passion is. the people and their salvation. I've been rather slow at uh flicking over the the PowerPoints, so I'll just quick quickly move a couple of uh slides along. Second thing I want to talk about is our practice. If we've seen our passion, then let's see our practice. And I'll move quickly across these, but our practice is first of all personal witnessing. If I could sum it up, that we engage in provocative personal friendships. Romans 11, 14 talks about us provoking to jealousy. Now some may be provocative, and indeed in the Church of Jesus Christ I've met a few provocative folks. They're just gunning for a fight at any point. We're not to be provocative in that sense, but we're to provoke them to be jealous. They are to look at us and say, I wish I had what you have. I'm engaging in all my works and all my rituals. But you seem to have a peace. You have a shalom. You have a peace about you. I wish I had that. That's the provoking to jealousy that we want from the Jewish people. Our Jewish Savior is to be so evident in our Christian lives, in the lives of our missionaries, that Jewish friends are provoked to inquire, what gives you that smile, what gives you that peace, what gives you that friendliness of character? Maybe that we engage with them in in uh through food or some fellowship or some uh We engage in them with music, we engage in with art. I could go off a tangent and talk about our various missionaries and the gifts that God has given to them and the way God uses their gifts to interact with their Jewish friends as they live in Jewish areas in various parts of the world. But it's all got an ultimate aim of bringing Jesus to the Jewish people. And if I can say, dear friends, that we are living in wonderfully exciting days. you know, laying aside some of the uh nonsense of of the curiosities of end-time prophecy Something is happening in the Jewish world. There are more Jewish people than ever before coming to know Jesus. It's suggested that in the past 20 years, more Jews have come to know the Lord than in the previous 2,000 years. More in the past 20 than the previous 2,000 years. And indeed, the number of believing Jews in Israel has doubled in 10 years. I don't know if your church, brother, has doubled in the past ten years. I hope it has, and I hope it will in the next ten years. No church that I've been involved in has doubled in ten years. Except one and I need to give a little qualifier to that. I was in Cambridge Presbyterian Church and we saw a little bit of growth. But the church doubled when I left it. In Hamilton, I love him in the Lord. Press on, may the Lord bless abundantly. And so the church there in Cambridge has grown wonderfully, and I thank God for that. But generally speaking, we're not seeing that measure of growth. But the Jewish people, as they come to know the Lord, They make tremendous evangelists and they want their Israeli friends, Jewish friends to know the Lord as well. And so the numbers in Israel is is blossoming forth God is opening the eyes of his ancient people in a way that he hasn't done before. The second aspect of our practice concerns publishing literature in Hebrew in the Ivrit in modern day Hebrew. I'm going to run the the DVD in the second part. I hope you can stay for the Sunday school. We have a DVD that shows something of our work in Israel uh for about twenty twenty-five minutes and uh I'm going to run that. So I'll not uh mention really uh too much about our work in in that because you'll see it there first hand on the visual. But the number of believers in Israel is growing apace. And that gives us a wonderful problem because spiritual babies need to be fed. And children growing up in believing homes. It's wonderful to see little Jewish children now growing up in believing Jewish homes and they're being taught about a Jewish Messiah. They're not simply being taught Jewish ritual and tradition. Babies need to be fed, pastors need to be given the tools. And so our publishing arm. in Israel is a very important work. We are publishing books such as Knowing God by Jim Packer, The Holy War by John Bunyan, The Pursuit of Holiness by Jerry Bridges, Sovereignty of God by A. W. Pink. Now we've been producing a an illustrated Bible, a children's Bible storybook, and these some of these things are the first of their kind in modern Hebrew. Now that's not for us to take a pat on the back. It's simply to show us that that it's a privilege. to do this for this ancient people with their modern-day Hebrew. Brother, we all know the impact of good books. I don't know what your preacher's sermons would be like with all those books on his shelf. We owe such a debt to good books. So if we can get good books into the hands of the Jewish believers in Israel, what an impact that might make. So we're engaged in witnessing, we're engaged in publishing literature, and we're engaged in promoting an understanding among the churches. As I said, it's part of my task to awaken the Christian church. And that uh is what I seek to do. I hope none of you are asleep this morning. Uh I was I've been so well fed over the past few days I was feeling uh a little concerned that I I I might just be nodding off a little bit. I'm hanging on, I'm keeping going. But it's my task to awaken and to stir and to challenge and produce in you, I trust, infectiously. a passion for the Jewish people and for their salvation. We really do need to think through our calling as Gentile Christians. We need to understand our debt to Israel We maybe need to make amends for past forgetfulness. You know, I I love your country, I love America, but I love my wife and family more. And I've left them behind or they they traveled back a little over a week ago and I've started to drive. And yes, I have driven here from Texas, and I have to drive all the way back over the next couple of weeks. And uh I'm going to be driving probably about 5,000 miles through about 15 states, I think, as I as I counted. I've got 25 meetings in about 28 days. And it's all with this passion, it's all with this desire. And I'll make the sacrifice to my wife and family, and I trust they'll make the sacrifice as well, so that I can do this, so that I can stir you, so that I can awaken your conscience, I trust. Not only I, but we have other workers at various parts of the world who are doing this as well simply to stir the church, and I think the church is receiving this message and beginning to be awakened. The burden of Robert Murray McShane is becoming infectious in the churches. You know, uh uh about uh a year or so ago, a little over a year ago, uh I was in Inverness and uh I was meeting with uh some of the I was taking a meeting there and after the meeting uh I was introduced to A dear saint who had something very special to show me, it was the Bible of Robert Mary McShane. Now I'm I'm not into Protestant relics, sorry, but some some things are very precious. And here was McShane's Bible. And what was very precious about it wasn't just its historical value, but the fact that Robert Mary McShane had underlined certain things and he had uh had little scribbles and little notes. I don't know if do you underline your Bibles? Do you or do you keep them pristine? Yeah, you my s I look at my son's Bible, it's got green fluorescent, it's got orange fluorescent, yellow fluorescent, he must have some sort of color coding. for uh for his uh the special verses. But we we underline things because a verse has struck us. Or a verse means a lot to us. Or a verse has affected our heart. And here was I with McShane's Bible in front of me, and I had the privilege of opening it up and had a little time, so I I I flicked over to Romans eleven. And there he had underlined, God is able to graft them in again. Now that dear saint of God, the young Robert Mary McShane who died at 29, but not before such an impact. He had that burn. I saw into his heart. In a sense, I was touching the page that showed McShane's heart and his passion. That God is able to graft them in again. What would he say today if he saw what was happening among the Jewish people? I hope we would have that passion. McShane's passion has infected a mission, and a trust infected my heart. And I want it to infect your heart as well. Well, you've seen our passion, you've seen our practice. The third thing I want us to consider this morning is our partnership. You remember there in 2 Corinthians 8 and verse 4, you know, something of the background, and there is the apostle speaking so uh wonderfully about the gentile Christians who who made a plea to him, please let me help They urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the saints. I hope that in your heart there is a plea, maybe an urgent plea. Maybe you'll come running to me, I don't know, with this desire to share in this service to the Jewish people. First of all, I want us to think about prayer. I was once asked by, again I need to be very careful, but I was once asked by Um an American, one of my trips and one of my journeys and he said, so why are you in the States? Is it the dollar? I tried to be very diplomatic. I tried to sidestep and I said, well, I'm here to uh raise awareness of our mission. I'm here uh to stir the heart of the ancient or of of the the gentile Christians towards the ancient people. I'm here uh to try and awaken the conscience of the Christian church. He looked at me and he said, so it's the dollar. Well, we'll get to the dollar in a moment. But you know no amount of dollar can make up for prayer. Salvation is of the Lord, not of the dollar. If all you can give me is prayer, do I go away disappointed? No. Pray the Lord of the harvest. Things are happening in the Jewish world. We need more workers for the harvest field, so pray the Lord of the harvest. Salvation is of the Lord, so it's the Lord who opens the eyes of the blind, so pray for the opening of the eyes of the blind. He can move hearts. He will move hearts. He will graft in again. All those things cannot be achieved by the dollar. But by the might of the church at prayer. And so the primary thing I want to infect you with is a heart and a passion that leads to prayer. Paul's Romans 9 angst led to his Romans 10 prayer. And nations can crumble and fall, and communism can collapse. And when when when the churches at prayer, countries can open up and nations can turn. Pray through those unfulfilled biblical prophecies concerning Israel. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Pray for the shalom of Jerusalem. That the Prince of Peace would be their peace. I remember a little tract that was headed, It Takes a Jew to Solve the Irish Problem. It's very cleverly done. And that Jew was Jesus. And it takes a Jew to solve the Middle East problem. And that Jew is Jesus. So the priority of prayer. But you know I've learned something also. When when you change your prayer life, sometimes it changes Is it your pocketbook you call that? It affects your pockets. And again, if I can stress, as I said earlier, it saddens me so much. that millions of dollars are spent on so many other things. Millions of dollars spent maybe on mercy ministries and on aid. Millions of dollars spent on idle curiosity into end-time prophecies, and we feed our carnality by reading such books as just have it all worked out Who has known the mind of the Lord? Who has been his instructor? That's what Romans 11, the climax, says But there's so much money concerning Israel and how much of it is actually being spent on reaching the Jewish people with the gospel. That's really my plea. That's the one thing that I'm strumming on this trip. However, we may understand the details of the end times, good men of old understood at least that there would be an end gathering. God is able to graft them in again. And Jonathan Edwards made again what to me is quite a staggering assessment when he said nothing is more certainly foretold than the national conversion of the Jews in Romans 11 The great theologian, Jonathan Edwards, said that nothing is more certainly foretold. There are certain things that maybe we're not quite sure and there are different opinions. But this, the turning of Israel, is something he saw as as most clear in Scripture. Do you believe that? And how will that come about but by the church coming into partnership with Jewish mission and the church engaging in Jewish mission where Jewish people are on their doorstep and engaging with sensitivity and understanding Friends, there is a time coming when no man can work. There is a day approaching. There's a day when this church will cease. There's a day when evangelism will cease. There's a day when the Great Commission is all over and it's coming. I believe it's coming soon, but before that we have a job to do, and I believe it involves Jewish mission. And it's my desire and vision to stir the hearts of all that I speak with, whether it be in Ireland or in America, to raise that awareness. Schindler's List is a very moving film. It's probably pretty much standard viewing for anyone engaged in Jewish work. Sure you know the story, Oskar Schindler saves many Jews from the gas chambers by employing them in his factory. And at first he's not maybe so well disposed towards them, but over time he grows. to love them and have a heart for them. And initially he's playing sort of a a a a a double hand in the sense he courts the company of the German officers and he's making his money um and he's building up his resources but then things seem to turn and he starts to spend it. money and he's spending his money for the Jewish people. He's sending spending his money to save them. He's bribing German officers. And it even gets to the pitch where even some of his even his diamonds Uh he he's giving them away just so that he can save a few more. And the film comes to an end. With a very moving scene and he's walking out of the factory. You know that the war is over. He's going to be arrested because he's had some partnership with the Germans. um and his the the Jewish uh folks that he had saved are all lined up and he's he's walking out. They they actually made him a ring. I think some uh some of their gold teeth were pulled out and and they put all they had to give him was a ring and he he fumbles over it. He just is so moved by their response to what he has done for them and uh he he has just had such a heart. He has nothing left. And as he's moving to his car, he he looks at it and he says, one more. I could have saved one more. You know, we've got so much stuff. I want to enter into the whole realm of what is acceptable concerning uh cost of living, standard of living. Your preacher will do that. Your pastor will do that. But we need to really come to terms with what our calling is. And what our life is, and what we are to do with our life, and what we're to do with the resources as God has given to us. The apostle again said, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service with the saints. Will you plead with me? I hope. I hope. I hope that you will find it a privilege to partner in Jewish mission. It's my privilege to be with you today. May the Lord bless you in your work, brother. May He bless you in your ministry. And may the Lord gather in Jew and Gentile for His kingdom. Amen.