Craig is a pastor of, a the pastor of Shin Urayas Urayasu Grace Church in Urayasu, Japanese. And um he and uh he has his wife Ree is with us today and two of his children. He has four children. Um and uh Craig and Ree are from Maryland originally. So they're here on uh leave, furlough. And so uh Craig, please come up and deliver the word of God. Morning everyone. As uh Tom said, my name is Craig Colburn and uh I've been uh A missionary with MTW in Japan since 1994. Uh my wife and I have been uh there with our family. Uh two of our children are with us today. Mary was born in Japan. And uh Andrew was uh born in the States on one of our home assignments. But uh all of our children have spent more than half of their lives in uh in Japan. U So uh there's a little bit of getting used to being in America for them. We are going to be looking at a passage from John chapter 14 today. John chapter 14, verses 1 to 7. Let me pray first for us, and then we'll stand and read God's word together. Let me pray. Father, we thank you that you've given us your word. We are a people who need your word. We need what you give us in your word. We thank you that through your word we can know you. And we can have a relationship with you. Apart from your word, we couldn't know you. We thank you that through your word we can know how it is that you want us to live and how we can please you in our daily lives. And we thank you that in your word we can know the way that you have opened for us to be reconciled to you and to be restored to you as your children and as co-heires with Jesus of the eternal kingdom of God. And so we thank you for this word you've given us. We pray as we read it and consider it this morning that your Holy Spirit, who inspired that word, will speak to us. And will give us ears to hear, will give us hearts to believe the truth your word contains, and will strengthen us in our inner man that we might walk according to your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Today's passage is John chapter 14, verses 1 to 7. John chapter 14. Verses one to seven. So let's stand as we read God's Word. John chapter fourteen. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him. This is God's word. Amen. The gospel is good news. When the Bible tells us about the life and work of Jesus Christ, it's telling us good news. In fact, the meaning of the word gospel is good news. Our modern English word gospel comes from the Old English wordspell. And that word is a combination of two words, God, which means good, and spell, which means news or a story. The Greek word translated gospel in the New Testament also means good news. That word is euvangelion, from which our English word evangelism is derived The prefix ayu means good, and the main part of the word angalian means news or a message. And even the Japanese word for gospel, fkuing, has the same meaning. The first part, fku, means happy or fortunate. And the second part, in, means a sound or a report. In our 20 years in Japan, we've had many opportunities to open the Bible with Japanese people. And Japanese people find many things that they like in the Bible. For example, they love the Golden Rule. So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them. They like the second greatest commandment. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But verse 6 of today's passage isn't always met with such a good reception. Jesus said to Thomas, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Many Japanese find this exclusive claim of Jesus to be distasteful. There's a well-known Japanese proverb that says that there are many paths. to the top of Mount Fuji. And so for many Japanese, the idea that there's only one way is difficult to accept. Japan is called the land of eight million gods, Yao Yorozo no kami. And so the idea that there's only one god is contrary to what many Japanese have been taught I know that in recent years, more and more, you meet resistance to the exclusive claims of Jesus right here in the United States. Our culture is becoming more and more intolerant of the idea that there's only one way to God. However, as we look at what Jesus has said in today's passage, we'll see that these very claims are the heart of what makes the gospel good news. Jesus said, I am the way. That's good news. Our first question is, the way to what? Jesus said, no one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus is the way to the Father. Why is that good news? It's good news because our way to the Father has been blocked because of our sin. Each of us has broken God's law, either by doing what God has commanded us not to do, or by not doing what God has commanded us to do Each of us has disregarded God's authority over us by doing as we ourselves thought best, and by living as if God didn't matter. As a result, our relationship with him was broken. We were alienated from him. We needed a way to be reconciled to the Father The words in today's passage were spoken to Jesus in order to comfort his disciples. In the preceding chapter, Jesus had told them that he would be going away. In John 13, 33 he said, Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me. And just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you Where I am going, you cannot come. The idea that Jesus would be going away was upsetting to the disciples, but Jesus wanted them to know that his going away was good for them. Starting in verse 2 of today's passage, he told them, In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am, you may be also. When Jesus went away, he would prepare a place for them. And then he would take them to be with him. It was by his going away, by his death on the cross, by his resurrection from the dead, by his ascension to the right hand of the Father That Jesus would open the way for sins, sinners to be forgiven and to be reconciled to the Father. It was our great joy in these past four years to see a lady named Malko find Jesus to be the way to the Father. She'd been studying the Bible for about two years, and as she did so, Naoko learned many things. But it was when God began to show Naoko her sin that she found the gospel to be good news Jesus was her way to the Father. Many times, after a person becomes a Christian, they begin to see more of their sin than they saw before. As they grow to know God more deeply, they see how clearly different their character is from His holy character Have you experienced this in your life? I certainly have, many times. Early in her Christian life, Naoko also experienced this, and she was very discouraged by it. But she found what many other Christians have also found, that Jesus continues to be the way to the Father. God has begun a good work in us, but that work isn't finished yet. Even as Christians, we can continue to stumble and to fall into sin. And Jesus continues to reconcile us when we fall by his once-for-all sacrifice for our sins. And so whether we're just realizing that our sins have alienated us from God Or whether we grieve that we still fall into sin, even though we already believe the gospel, Jesus is our way to the Father. And that's good news. Jesus said, I am the truth. That's also good news. Why is it good news that Jesus is the truth? It's good news because we have an enemy who wants to deceive us in order to keep us alienated from God The Bible warns us, be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. 1 Peter 5. 8. The devil wants us to believe things that are not true. He wants to deceive us about the way to true happiness. If only I had this, then I would be happy. If only I could do that, then I would be happy. And the devil wants to deceive us about how we ought to live. One of the most common deceptions which I face is the temptation to think that I'm justified in doing something because of what someone else has done to me. Did you notice what the devil's goal is? He wants to devour us. By false ideas about what will make us happy, he's seeking to devour us. by wrong choices about what's acceptable for us to do. He's seeking to devour us. But Jesus is the truth Jesus said, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. John 8, 31 and 32. Jesus teaches us the truth, and Jesus lives according to the truth. By his word and by his example, Jesus shows the truth to us who were so easily misled from without. And from within. That's good news. I've gotten to know a man in Japan. As a child, he was mistreated by another person. And now, years later, he still carries a great deal of anger toward this person Now please don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. The mistreatment was real and it shouldn't be minimized. And the resulting pain is real and true harm was done to this man. But his anger is consuming him. He takes every opportunity to lash out at the person who mistreated him. The devil is whispering in his ear, you will only be free when you've repaid the person who mistreated you. It's okay for you to humiliate the person who did this to you. And sadly, the devil's scheme seems to be working. This man is enslaved by his anger and his pain. He's being devoured. Jesus knows what it is to be mistreated. Though he came to this earth to bring blessing, he was rejected and treated with contempt. The one who was mistreated speaks a message of truth to this man that I know. Revenge won't set you free Only being forgiven and forgiving as you have been forgiven will set you free. Only God's grace will stab your pain. I've had opportunity to share gospel truth with this man. Please join me in praying that he'll receive it and find healing for his injured heart through Jesus, who is the truth. If you'd be willing to pray for this man, talk to me after the worship service and I'll tell you his name. Jesus said, I am the life. And this is good news as well. It's good news because death is something that we will all encounter. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. Each of us has sinned against God. So each of us has already experienced the spiritual death which the Bible speaks of when it says you were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked. Ephesians 2, 1 and 2. And unless Jesus comes back first, each of us will also experience physical death. Since we began the new church planning work in Urayasu City four years ago, I've known a number of people who were facing death. I've had to learn many Japanese vocabulary words in the medical realm, and especially words related to cancer. I had the opportunity to share the good news of the gospel with a man who died 30 minutes later. He was no longer able to speak, but my hope is that he made that good news his own. I know a Christian man who's faced the ups and downs of a long battle with cancer, with faith, and with peace of heart. His example has been a powerful inspiration to me and to many others. And I know a man who's desperate to try anything. even some not very good things, in his anguish over his uncertain health and future. We often try to soften our fears of death by telling ourselves that death is natural. But it's not true. Adam and Eve were created with perfect bodies. Death was not inevitable for them. They were made to live forever. But just as God had warned Adam, death came into this world as a consequence of disobedience to God's commands. And now our bodies are able to get sick and to be injured and to die. Death is not natural. Its threat cannot be softened. It's not without reason that the Bible calls death the last enemy. But Jesus is the life. Jesus is the bread of God who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. John 6. 33. He came to give new spiritual life to those of us who are dead in our trespasses and sins. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. Ephesians 2, 4 and 5. We've been born again, and we can now walk in a living relationship with our creatures. And Jesus came to give us eternal life. He said, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. John 11, 25 and 26. Jesus rose from the dead. And when he did so, he opened the way so that we who trust in him can overcome death and can live forever with him in the place that he's prepared. That's good news. Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Far from being an intolerant and distasteful statement, this is wonderful good news. There's a way to be reconciled to the Father, and we can take it. There's truth, and we can know it. There's life, eternal life, and we can have it. And did you notice that the good news of the gospel is a person? Jesus is the way. Jesus is the truth Jesus is the life. It's through knowing and trusting in Jesus that this good news becomes ours. The gospel is good news for us. If you're trusting in Jesus, then you are reconciled to God. You know the truth that will guide you in your life and will protect you from being deceived. And you have eternal life. You have much to rejoice about, and so enjoy it, and give God thanks for it. But the gospel is not only good news for us, it's good news for others as well. Now, don't misunderstand me. It is for us. God gives us these blessings to enjoy, and he wants us to enjoy them. But he doesn't want us to keep them to ourselves He wants us to share them with others as well. It's always that way when God blesses people. Remember his promises to Abraham. God told Abraham in Genesis 12, I will bless you. But he also told him, you will be a blessing. He told Abraham, In you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. The blessings which God would pour out on Abraham were to overflow through him to others as well. And it's the same with you. God has richly blessed you. Those blessings are for you, and God wants you to enjoy them. But God also wants those blessings to overflow through you to others as well. Who is there around you who needs to be reconciled to God? Who do you know who needs the truth of Jesus to protect them and to guide them? Who is there who needs to overcome death and receive eternal life through Jesus There are people in your family, at your school, in your neighborhood, at your workplace, who God wants to bless through you. And there are people all around the world who need these blessings as well. Many of them may not know a single Christian who can tell them about Jesus. But our blessings can overflow to these people as well. We can send Bibles and we can send witnesses so that these people as well can know the way and the truth and the life. My encouragement to you is to ask God, how do you want to use me to bless others as you have blessed me? The gospel is good news. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. Thank you, God, for blessing us with this good news. Please, God, use us to bless others with this good news as well. Let's pray. Right. Father in heaven, we thank you that you are the God who took initiative to seek out sinners, to make a way for them to be reconciled to you. that you took the initiative to bless us who had wandered away from you. And we thank you for the blessings that you've given us in the God We thank you that you've given us Jesus, who is the way and the truth and the life. We thank you that through Jesus we can be reconciled to you. That through Jesus we can know the truth which will guide us and protect us. us and that through Jesus we can have life, eternal life, starting now and lasting forever. And Father, we know that you want to bless others through us with these same blessings. And we pray that you'll give us eyes to see those around us and those around the world who you want to bless through us. Help us to see the people that we rub shoulders with every day. And help us to see the people that we never see with our own eyes, who are distant from you and distant from anyone who knows you. And we pray that the blessings that you have poured out on us would overflow from us to others as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.