Mark chapter one verses one through fifteen. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. As it is written in Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way, the voice of one crying in the wilderness: Make ready the way of the Lord, make his path straight. John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins, and all the country of Judea was going out to him. And all the people of Jerusalem, and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. And John was clothed with camel's hair, and wore a belt of leather around his waist. And his diet was locust and wild honey. And he was preaching and saying, After me one is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to stoop down and untie the throng of his sandals. I baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. And it came about in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And immediately coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opening, and a spirit like a dove descending upon him. And a voice came out of the heavens. And immediately the Spirit impelled him to go out into the wilderness. And he was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild beasts, and the angels were ministering to him. And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Thus ends the reading of God's holy and inerrant word. Please be seated. One thing about being in the Washington, D. C. area is it's an area of great um change and great activity. There's uh oftentimes people moving uh here and then moving away. And uh one of the things that we experience in this area every 48 years is a change of administration. A new president is elected, and uh that happens in November, and then there's a few months of anticipation where the press is is wondering, well what will this new president be like? What changes will he make? What will be his agenda? And then comes the day when um the inaugural ceremony takes place and the streets are shut down and and the the motorcade goes up and the and the president takes his oath of office. And then gives his uh inaugural speech outlining what he hopes to do, who he sees uh himself as, what he stands for, what he doesn't stand for. And uh we learn a lot about a president that way. We learn a lot about what our lives might be like under that specific ruler. And here in Mark's gospel, in our passage this morning, in verses 14 and 15 of chapter 1, we have a similar inauguration or a formal beginning of Jesus' ministry. Mark announces that this book is about Jesus in the very first verse, when he says, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And then he goes on to tell about the preparation, that kind of anticipation, where John the Baptist came, fulfilling the word of Isaiah. And Jesus himself coming to be baptized and being prepared, being anointed by the Spirit, and being tested in the wilderness. And now in verses 14 and 15, we see the coming of Jesus the King. And the beginning of his formal ministry. And we'll look at three points here this morning. There's two on the back of your bulletin, but if you're taking notes, a third point, and by way of introduction. Is the movement of the kingdom, and we'll look at the method of the kingdom and the message of the kingdom. First of all, the movement of the kingdom. We see in verses 14 and 15, there's a transition going on here. Just as there has been expectation in the ministry of John, so there's been expectation throughout the Old Testament. And here, the very first phrase of verse 14 says, And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God. Now why is it significant that Mark starts Jesus' ministry after John had been arrested? We know from other accounts that there was a small overlap there from John's account where uh Jesus' disciples were baptizing and and John's uh disciples were kind of complaining. Why is everybody going over to him? And that was before John was put in prison. But Mart starts Jesus' ministry after John was arrested. Because they're to emphasize the transition between the old covenant and the new covenant. And after John had been put into prison, his ministry was formally drawing to a close. And it's at this time that Jesus came and began his ministry in Galilee. The heralding of Christ was complete for which John came. And John was the last of the Old Testament prophets. We read in Matthew 11 verse 13 that Jesus said, For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And so he draws the line in the sand, that difference between the Old Testament prophets and the law and the new covenant at John the Baptist. And so after John was arrested, after there was that formal ending of his ministry, we see Jesus coming on the scene. And Hebrews echoes this, that in the very first verses of Hebrews chapter 1, that there is a difference in time before the time of Christ and after the time of Christ. In terms of revelation and in terms of the kingdom of God. Hebrews 1 1 says, Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days, He has spoken to us by His Son. There's a change of administration going on here from the Old Testament administration to the New Testament in Christ Jesus And so Jesus comes and preaches. And we can see this even in Jesus' own words here. He says at the beginning of verse 15, the time is fulfilled. Now what time is he talking about? The time of waiting, the time of prophecy between the prophet's revelation and the fulfillment of the Old Testament in Christ It's that anticipated time which the Old Testament saints looked forward to seeing. You think of Simeon and Anna, who had received the promise that they would not die before they saw the Messiah. And they they Sat in a temple praying with great anticipation, waiting for that time to come when they might see the Lord's anointed. Jesus Himself says that the time is at hand for the kingdom of God to come. So we see the waning of the Old Testament and the Old Covenants and the waxing or the growing stronger of the new covenants as Jesus comes into Galilee preaching. Now um he was preaching the kingdom of God. Now we use that phrase. It's uh widely used in um Theological and religious circles. And we know what an earthly kingdom is. It's it's an area of land or a type of government that is headed by a king. But what does it mean, the kingdom of God? What is Jesus talking about here? What is Mark trying to tell us? Well, the phrase the kingdom of God is not used in the Old Testament. But the the concept was widely understood and it would have been very familiar to the people. In Jan Daniel chapter two, we read in verse forty-four that Daniel prophesied, and in those days And then in the days of those kings, meaning the kingdoms that are found in Daniel chapter 2, in those days of the kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed. Nor shall the sovereignty thereof be left to another people. But it shall break in pieces and consume all of these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. The kingdom of God is God's reign over his people, and his world beginning to be seen in the reign of King Jesus himself. And so as we come and as we read about the formal beginning of Jesus' ministry, we see that there's a fuller administration of the kingdom. In one sense, Abraham was promised a kingdom, but he didn't see the fulfillment of that as such. The kingdom of Israel was led out of Egypt. And we saw the kingdom develop under judges and then under kings. And yet, the New Testament has a fuller administration of the kingdom of God because it's the kingdom of God within us. It's a supernatural kingdom, God reigning in our hearts, not just an outward administration. But an inward administration, God reigning in the hearts and minds of his people in a more full way. Jesus comes as a king, as the realization of this anticipation, to subdue men to himself, as the catechism says, to rule and to defend them. To protect us from our sins and to conquer all his and our enemies, even death and sin. Jesus comes as a spiritual king. As a fulfillment of the prophets of old to rule in the hearts and minds of his people. So we see that movement or that transition from the old covenant to the new covenant. But not only that, we see the method of the kingdom, that Jesus comes both in the power of the Spirit and Jesus comes preaching. We see Jesus coming in the power of the Spirit, and particularly we see this in Jesus' baptism, when he was taken by John the Baptist and went to John the Baptist. And when he was baptized, the heavens opened and the Holy Spirit descended upon him in power to anoint him for the work that he was going to do as a king. king and as a priest and as a prophet. Luke tells us in Luke 4. 14, and Jesus returned, this is returning from the wilderness. In the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a report about him went out throughout all the surrounding country. So in Luke's account of these verses, when Jesus comes into Gal Galilee, Luke specifically mentions That he came in the power of the Spirit. Jesus, who was the second person of the Trinity, Jesus who was fully man and yet fully God. And yet he still relied and worked through the power of the Holy Spirit. So we see that one of the methods of the kingdom It's to work through the Holy Spirit. But the other method we see here is that Jesus came preaching. Now there are there's preaching in the Old Testament. You see this in the Pentateuch even, the very first five books of the Bible. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, children, what's the fifth book of the Pentateuch? It's Deuteronomy. That's right. And what is Deuteronomy? If you're to read the context of Deuteronomy, what is Deuteronomy? It's one big sermon that Moses gave to the people as they were getting ready to enter the Promised Land. We see examples of preaching also in the prophets. Jeremiah is often told, given a revelation by the Lord, and then said, and told to go to the temple and preach this to the people, or preach this to the elders. And so the sermon is not a new form, but it's especially significant as we come to this transition, as we come to the new administration. We saw that John the Baptist, the last Old Testament prophet, came preaching. But in this change of administration, there's not a change in preaching. Jesus, who was fully God, could have come in a number of different ways He could have come with fire, an earthquake, or great windstorm. But his ministry began in a very small way, in a sense, a very humble way. But his method of bringing the kingdom was in preaching. This is the chief means that Christ used. It's the chief means that his apostles used. In fact, Jesus sent them forth, telling them to preach. And it's the chief means that God still uses in his church today. We hear a lot of different things in uh in religious circles about uh different ways to grow a church or different ways to make church more relevant or interesting. And a lot of times people suggest moving aside preaching, that takes too long, and that's kind of stodgy. People can't pay attention to that as much. If we do that, we throw away the chief means that God has used to minister to his people throughout time. And the chief means that Jesus Himself used to minister to the people. Preaching is central in the advancement of the kingdom of God. We have uh signs to give testimony to the word. But our signs today are inscriptorated. That is, they're written down in the Bible. And so just as Jesus He did do miracles, he did give signs and wonders to show that he was telling the truth. And we have those same signs told and gathered together in the Bible. So that signs today aren't a necessity for us. And so that the word, even now more than ever, is the central means by which we worship God and by which he interacts with his people and strengthens the kingdom. Now, if you want to grow in grace, if you want to be sanctified, if you want to be changed in your heart from your sins. What's the best way to do that? Now we know that God has ordained many green means of grace. He's given us prayer, he's given us the sacraments, worship, fellowship. But the Bible says that the preaching of God's word is the chief means that God uses to convict and to convert sinners. And it's the preaching of God's Word over time that begins to work in our hearts, that begins to change our minds, that begins to enable us more and more to die unto sin. And to live unto righteousness. So, as an application, we shouldn't despise the preaching of God's Word. But nor should we be careless about it. Very few people here this morning probably would fall into the first category of despising the Word of God. We know might know unbelievers who do, who won't even sit and listen to a sermon. But we're much more in danger of falling into the second category, where we become careless about hearing the word of God. Careless about attending church, about not making the most of every opportunity. We have worship services here at Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church, both in the morning and in the evening And to skip one is to cut your your intake of God's word by 50%. It's a wonderful opportunity. To sit under the preaching of God's Word, that chief means by which God grows his people and strengthens them. Let us not be careless about taking in the Word of God. Especially in the chief means that God uses in preaching. So we've seen the movement of the kingdom, that transition. We've seen the method of the kingdom, Jesus coming in the power of the Spirit. Preaching the gospel. And then we we find the message of the kingdom in verse 15. That at the beginning, uh at the beginning of the gospel, Mark explains that the message of preaching will be uh explained later. Uh and that that is to say that uh Mark here gives the message of Jesus' preaching and teaching. What the content will be for not only Jesus' teaching, but that of the apostles. And he doesn't do that later. If you compare the book of Mark to the other gospels, it's very action-oriented. He has almost all of the miracles in his book, but he only has less than half of the parables. So it's not a heavy emphasis on teaching. It's a heavy emphasis on action. But here at the beginning, Mark tells us and gives us a full picture of what the content of Jesus' preaching was. And so we should, as if you were to read through the book of Mark, here is where you would get that content. And then as you were to read about the disciples going out and preaching, or Jesus going out and preaching, you would know that this content that you got at the very beginning of the book, in the very first chapter, is what they were preaching. And it's what they were teaching. So as later in the book of Mark, as you see Jesus entering the synagogue as was his custom and teaching the people. And Mark doesn't include that. You might think, well, what is he teaching them? He's teaching them, saying, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. And as he sends this the twelfth-fourth and then the seventy-fourth, then you might think, well, what were they supposed to teach? They were supposed to teach that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. And this is the message of the New Testament, apostles and the churches. We read in Acts 20, verses 20 and 21, as Paul speaks to the church at Ephesus, he said, I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, and teaching you in public from house to house, testifying to both Jews and Greeks of and then this is what he taught them, of repentance toward God. And faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. The message of the kingdom of the gospel is faith and repentance. That's the bread and butter, that's the block and tackle of the gospel. Repentance and faith. Now, as we look at what these things are and how they relate to salvation as a whole, theologians talk about an order of salvation. Um a list of things that happen when God sends his Spirit to change a man's heart. And they talk about calling and regeneration, those first things where a man hears the gospel. And the Spirit uses that as an occasion to make him alive. We talk about faith and repentance, and we're going to get into those in detail. Then we talk about justification and sanctification and adoption and glorification. Being declared righteous, that's justification. Sanctification is that process by which we seek to grow in our holiness and our understanding and knowledge of God. Adoption, being adopted into God's family and receiving all the benefits of being a child of God spiritually. And glorification, that great day, when we will be changed completely. And we will be with God in glory unto all eternity. Well, we'll look here at the message that Jesus preached. First of all, repentance in faith. And as we look at repentance, we see that it's a fruit of regeneration. It's not a means of regeneration. It's not something that we do that we work up within ourselves so that we can be saved. It's not a decision that we make, but when God changes a man's heart, he changes other aspects as well. He changes his affections. What he loves and does not love. Spurgeon said that repentance is making a man hate what he once loved and love what he wants hated. That there's a turning there. From our sins and the and the things of this world unto God and to his law. And as we look at the purpose of repentance It's bound up in faith. That repentance is the end of repentance, or the purpose of it, is faith. And yet faith is the means of repentance. Now, as we look at what it is and what it isn't, there are false ideas about repentance that are rampant in the church. And you see this most of all in interpersonal relationships. That's in a sense we we also repent with one another. We apologize to one another when we sin against one another. And a lot of times we see false repentance in people we know. Repentance is not just a knowledge of sin, just knowing that you what you did was wrong. And you might hear people say, yeah, I did that, so what? I know it was wrong, so what? That's not repentance, just knowing it. Or they might have more of a careless attitude, which is more common in in reform circles. That, yeah, I did that, I know it was wrong. Oh well. That's not repentance. Just the knowledge of your sin is not repentance. And it's not just a sorrow for the consequences of sin. I'm so sorry that happened as a result of my action. But the real question is, well, are you sorry that you did what you did? A lot of times our sin is so deceitful and so subtle in our hearts. That we're quick to apologize in certain ways, in ways that distance our sin from us, in ways that aren't really true, godly, biblical sorrow. In order to just excuse our sin and get it out of the way quickly without admitting that we're sinners, that we have done wrong before a holy God. It's not the fear of the consequences of sin. It's not loathing just some sins, but not other sins, or turning from one sin to another sin. Oftentimes we we turn to lying to avoid what we could consider a greater sin. It's not a selfish desire for heaven. Yeah, I'm going to try to do better so I can I can get to heaven because I really want to be there. And it's not a slavish fear of hell. But repentance, again, is a saving grace. It's a result of God's work and a man's heart. And it's wrought in the heart by the Holy Spirit and the Word of God. It's a true sense of our sin and a true knowledge of our sin. Where we realize we have not only done something bad to our to our neighbor, or something bad in general, but we have sinned, we have transgressed the law of a holy God. It's a true hatred of our sin, where we not only say that we hate it, but we hate it in our hearts, where our affections have been changed to the point That we we do not like those things anymore. It's an apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ. Part of repentance is turning to God in faith. It's knowing that God has mercy on his people. Knowing that there is mercy with him, and therefore fearing him. It's a turning unto and not just away from, turning unto God and not just away from sin. And repentance comes with it, the full purpose of an endeavor after new obedience. Sincerely Seeking to change how we think, how we speak, how we act, because God has forgiven us of our sins in Christ Jesus That is true repentance. Well, let me ask you this morning: have you been excusing your sin as I went through some of the things that indicate false repentance? Do you use those? Do you find yourself saying, yeah, I'm sorry that happened to you? Do you find yourself saying, oh well? Or are you confessing your sin regularly before God and before one another? All the members of Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church have taken a series of vows, membership vows. And the first and third of these vows have to do with the subject of repentance. And let me remind you now of your vows that you have taken as members. Do you acknowledge yourselves to be sinners in the sight of God, justly deserving his pleasure, and without hope, save in his sovereign mercy? True repentance is realizing that you're a sinner and having an apprehension of the mercy of God and casting ourselves upon Christ for His mercy. And then the third vow. Do you now resolve and promise, in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit, that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ? That full, that sincere endeavor after new obedience to the praise and honor of God because He's forgiven us in Christ. That's repentance. And then we look at faith. Faith, which is, in a sense, the end or the purpose of repentance. And yet it's the means of repentance as well. Faith is a fruit of regeneration. Again, it is not something that we work up in ourselves, but it's the result of the Holy Spirit at work in our hearts. This phrase here in the text is believe in the gospel. It's one that's not used very much in the New Testament. And you might be asking, well, what does that mean exactly? What does it mean to believe in the gospel? Is it just to believe and assent that Jesus came to save his people? Well the gospel is the good news. That's what it translated means literally. And the good news is that God has sent the Messiah to save his people from his sins. And Jesus is that Messiah. And so as Jesus says, believe in the gospel, he's calling them to believe in the object of the gospel. That is the Messiah. That is Himself. Because he has come after that long anticipated time in the Old Testament, after they went through the ceremonial system sacrificing animals. Spilling the blood of bulls and goats. Here comes the one, the Messiah, the anointed one, who is able to take away the sins of his people. To believe in the gospel is to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, faith in Christ is not just, again, a bare knowledge of Him. That would mean that everybody who lived during Jesus' time and saw him would be saved. Because they, yeah, well, that's Jesus over there. I know who he is and I I can hear what he's saying. That's not what it is. It's also not a bare agreement with Christ. That we believe that the Scriptures is the Word of God. That's not enough to save us. That's not faith in Jesus Christ. But more experientially, faith is putting our whole hope and our whole trust in Jesus Christ for our salvation. And again, turning away from sin and turning unto Him to live not for ourselves, to live not for some material or worldly goal that we have set up for ourselves, but to live unto God. And having Jesus as our Lord and our King, to live as a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. That is saving faith. So often we uh we hear people say that they have faith in Christ, and yet they have no hatred of sin. They find nothing wrong with saying, oh yes, I'm a Christian. I love Christ, and in the same breath, to blaspheme God or to express a deep affection for something that God's word says is wicked. We also hear people who say that they love Christ and they might have a show of activity for a time where they might become really involved and seem really excited. And then all of a sudden they fall away. All of a sudden, they're no longer at church. They're no longer among the people of God. They no longer have a hunger for his word. Oftentimes there are people who profess the name of Christ, but they have no fruit. They have no good works to demonstrate true belief. We find in 2 Corinthians 7, as Paul is writing to the Corinthians, he had written to them and he had rebuked them for their sin. And writing in 2 Corinthians, he now speaks to their reaction to this, talking about what good and godly repentance is. He writes in 2 Corinthians 10 7, excuse me, verse 10. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter. Here they had a true repentance, a true godly sorrow for their sin. But then with it came faith and the fruits of faith. They had a zeal, they had an indignation, they had a desire to prove themselves innocent because they saw that it is. A big thing. That is, it is a dire consequence to sin against the law of God. And so true faith is to know, agree, and trust in Christ as our Lord and as our King To trust in him for the sa for the payment of our sins, and to trust and rest in him as our King, as our Savior, and as our Lord, He who is fully God and fully man. Our second membership vow that members of Christ Reformed Presbyterian Church have taken says, Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners? And do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation, as he is offered in the gospel? May God grant us grace so to do, to rest in Christ our King. And to believe in him and repent of all our sins and our false works and flee unto Christ.