Our Lord told the Jews of his day, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. And it is these that bear witness to me. And then in the upper room, shortly before his betrayal, he told his own disciples. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. He will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak. And he will declare to you the things that are to come. He shall glorify me, for he shall take of mine and make it known to you. The Spirit's ministry. The ministry which he delights is revealing and glorifying Christ. And the chief way he does that is through the word, inspired by its writers and then illumined. For us as we read it and hear it preach. Before we hear it preached this morning, let's confess our faith. And we're going to use a question from the larger catechism. You should have this as an insert in your bulletin. Uh the larger catechism is probably the least known of the Westminster standards, the confession and the shorter catechism better known, but it deserves to be very well known. It's a wonderful exposition of biblical. Teaching. In some respects, at least Professor John Murray considered some parts of it superior to the confession. And this is the section that deals with the exposition of the Lord's Prayer. And particularly the second petition. So it's helping to unpack when we say, Thy kingdom come, what are we really praying for? That's the point here. So, Christians, what do we pray for in the second petition? And the second petition, which is Thy kingdom come, acknowledging ourselves and all mankind to be by nature under the dominion of sin and Satan. We pray that the kingdom of sin and Satan may be destroyed, the gospel propagated throughout the world. The Jews called, the fullness of the Gentiles brought in, the church furnished with all gospel officers and ordinances. Purged from corruption, countenanced and maintained by the civil magistrate, that the ordinance of Christ may be purely dispensed And made effectual to the converting of those that are yet in their sins, and the confirming, comforting, and building up of those that are already converted. That Christ would rule in our hearts here and hasten the time of his second coming and our reigning with him forever. and that he would be pleased so to exercise the kingdom of his power in all the world as may best conduce to these ends. Now the numbers you see in parentheses are scripture references. So if you have a copy at home, and I hope you do, if you don't, you need to get a copy. We'll provide a copy of the Westminster Standards with scripture Scripture proofs, it would be a wonderful thing to do this afternoon to look at question one ninety one and just look at all the scripture proofs indicated. The primary thing I want you to notice is notice the prominence given after we pray that Satan's kingdom would be destroyed, the gospel propagated throughout the world, the Jews Jews called. Notice the priority that this receives as the Westminster Divines expound what's implied in this second petition, the priority of God's calling the Jewish people. to himself and their Messiah, Jesus Christ. We're privileged this morning to have as our guest preacher a a longtime friend and I prayed for Stephen Atkinson for many years before I ever met him. And uh it was a pleasure to finally meet him and Since then for him to become not just my friend and Bonnie's, but a friend of our congregation who preaches pretty much annually for us. He's a U. S. representative of um uh Christian witness to Israel, a reformed outreach to the Jewish people. And uh you'll notice he he talks funny when he comes up and opens his mouth. You'll hear that. I I wore my uh tartan tie because Stephen hails from Northern Ireland. Uh the roots of most of the Northern Irish people are actually in Scotland. They're a Scots Irish. And so Steve and we can discuss what what uh clan this represents afterwards. But in any case, uh I'm gonna ask you To stand so that we can pray for God's blessing on his word. And then I'll be reading first from the prophet Joel and then from the book of Acts. So please stand. For the reading of God's Word. First from Joel, but before I read, let's pray. Again, our Father, we thank you for the gift of your Spirit and for His ministry. uh of exalting Christ. Thank you that He's the one who guided uh Joel in writing this prophecy in Luke and giving us Acts, all the biblical writers so that Every word is your word. But we confess that for all the excellencies of Holy Scripture, we ourselves are so weak. And spiritually blind and deaf, that without his help we cannot profit. Would you grant that help now? Because we ask it in Jesus' name and for his Glory. Amen. Brothers and sisters, hear God's word beginning in the prophecy of Joel and the first five verses. Let's see here. I wrote it in the other bulletin. Right, Joel 1 to 5, the word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethua. Hear this, you elders. Give ear all inhabitants of the land. Has such a thing happened in your days or in the days of your fathers Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children and their children to another generation. What the cutting locusts left, the swarming locust, has eaten. What the swarming locust left, the hopping locust has eaten. And what the hopping locust left, the destroying locust has eaten. Joel is about the day of the Lord. And it's about the ultimate day of the Lord, but a more immediate day of the Lord, a famine coming on the land of Judah. Awake, you drunkards, and weep and wail, all you drinkers of wine. Because of the sweet wine, for it is cut off from your mouth. Apparently a uh tremendous locust plague was the means by which this uh Famine came. Then Joel goes on: Blow a trumpet in Zion and sound an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming, it is near. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. Like blackness, there is spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people. Their like has never been seen before, nor will be again after them through the years of all generations. Again, probably speaking in its immediate context about this terrible locust plague, but looking Beyond that, to uh the destruction by Babylon, and then the final day of the Lord at the end of time. And then verses twenty-five and twenty-six, God says, I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten. The hopper, the destroyer, and the cutter, my great army which I sent among you. You shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and praise the name of the Lord your God who has dealt wondrously with you. And my people shall never again be put to shame. Shall I read twenty-eight and twenty-nine as well, brother? Alright, so you don't want me to read that here. Okay. No, that's okay. I just wanted to be sure. Alright, over to Acts chapter two Of course, this is Peter's great sermon on the day of Pentecost, Acts 2, starting in verse 14, after the mighty rushing wind, the tongues of fire, and the the The assembled disciples speaking in tongues draws a crowd. Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them. Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you. And give ear to my words. For these people are not drunk, as you suppose, since it's only the third hour of the day. This is what was uttered through the prophet Joel And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall see. Shall dream dreams. Even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesy. And I shall show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent. Day. It shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man of telling To you by God with miracles and wonders and signs, which God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know, this Jesus Delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible. for him to be held by it. And then dropping down to verse thirty three, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him, both Lord and Christ, this Jesus Jesus, whom you crucify. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you'll receive The gift of the Holy Spirit, for the promises for you and for your children, and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about Brothers and sisters, this is the word of God. Please be seated. Stephen. Well, dear friends, it is a delight and joy to be with you again. It's been my privilege and pleasure to come with you year on year. Uh yes, I do have uh a funny sounding voice, but you guys all sound funny to me, so um cuts both ways. Um Yeah, Skip and I go way, way back. I first met probably around 2007, I'm thinking, at a PCA General Assembly. And when a strange person comes over to you and says, Stephen Atkinson, I've been praying for you for 20 years. I'm thinking, who is this guy? And have you been stalking me? In actual fact he goes uh uh goes back in in praying for me because I was in Cambridge, England. in nineteen ninety-two in Cambridge Presbyterian Church and Skip had had uh a prayerful interest in the new Presbyterian denomination in England w way back then Uh and then when I went into CWI in 2004, you were also praying for CWI over uh those those many years. So when you explained that it it didn't sound so spooky. You know, so it was uh it's been my delight just to be among you. I consider you a a a very dear and and treasured brother. I do have some literature, CWI literature. You Please avail yourself of that. I'll tell you a little bit more in the Sunny School half hour that we have later and I'll give a presentation, a more visual presentation. of some of the things that we are doing in Christian witness to Israel. Some of you will have heard of another Jewish mission called Jews for Jesus. I was recently given this little card by Jews for Jesus, or by a a a friend who, and the card is for Jews for Jesus. And it says, established 32 AD. Give or take a year. I like that. Because in actual fact that really is the truth. The missionary organization called Jews for Jesus today began really out of the Jesus movement and the hippie movement of the 70s and particularly the dynamic ministry of Moss Rosen. But of course they and they know they weren't the first Jews for Jesus. The first Jews for Jesus was here in Acts. And indeed, as Peter then references back to Joel, I wanted you really to keep your finger in both Joel and Acts. Acts 2 really presents a very interesting situation. It's a Jewish festival called Pentecost. There's a Jewish believer, a Jew for Jesus, we may say, called Shimon Kephas. We know him better as Simon Peter. And he preached about his rabbi, Jesus, Yeshua. who had recently been crucified, but Shimon, Peter, had seen him alive. And he proclaimed him Adonaion Moshiach, or Lord and Christ. Acts 2 is, in a sense, about a Jewish festival getting hijacked. And a Jewish Sect being born Jews for Jesus or Jesus-believing Jews. But of course, we know that they were really just a continuation of Those believers, true believers in Old Testament times, this was the remnant. This was the Jewish remnant that believed on the Lord's salvation And believed in the Lord's Savior, even His Son. Here in Acts 2, we see a very unique Outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the Ruach Hakodesh, and that would then equip these gathered Jews And again, remember the Jewish word for the community was the kahal. It was the gathered one. So here was a gathering of Jewish people for a Jewish festival called Pentecost and at the preaching of Christ the Spirit comes And they are sent forth to their synagogues all around the world to tell about Jesus to the Jews and to the Gentiles. Now maybe that's not your normal introduction to Acts 2. Maybe you have heard a sermon that says Acts 2 is the birthday of the church. I will dispute that. I could go off at a ton of different tangents. One of the things that as I've studied this passage And as I've studied indeed the parallel in Joel is that I realized I need about ten sermons. I've just got one hit here this morning, so forgive me. for uh maybe glossing over a few things, not dealing with all the detail. We need really to have something of a knowledge of Joel and something of a knowledge of the detail of acts. But you're going to have to just deal with the one hit as I present it to you. And as I do so, I want to do it within the context of the ministry. that I'm engaged in the ministry that you pray for, the ministry that you support. I trust you've got maybe the little prayer notes as well, uh even this morning. I'm grateful for that. We need that. We need your prayers. We need your support. to do what we are doing. But as we look at this passage and the first views for Jesus in the context of Jewish mission, as you can see from your bulletin, I want to Point out three things. I want first of all to look under the heading of listen, then look under the heading of learn. And thirdly, under the heading of look. So those are the three that we're going to break up Peter's sermon in Acts chapter 2 and the parallel in Joel. First point, then listen. There are times when God calls us and causes us rather to listen up. He does it by significant circumstances. We know that with his ancient people he would have done it with perhaps even life-threatening circumstances and events. And he often taught his people then to remember those events, the life-threatening events and God's life-giving deliverances. Indeed. When we do this in remembrance of him this morning, we're doing exactly the same, aren't we? That life-threatening event And the deliverance of Christ as he shed his blood for us. The Jewish festivals often remember those things. I may have given you this before. But if you want a summary of the Jewish festivals, it's very easy. The summary of the Jewish festivals, they tried to kill us. God saved us. Let's eat. That's it. That's Jewish festivals in in in three words. They try to kill us. God saved us. Let's eat. The Jewish people love to uh have a festive occasion because they've been told to do it. They've been told to remember. And so Pentecost was another Jewish festival. It was a Jewish festival of weeks. It was a week of weeks. 49 days. Pentecost was the 50th day. Post Passover. You check Leviticus 2316 and Exodus 26 2316 if you want to check those for homework, you'll get the details. Pentecost was a harvest festival. It's called Shabuat. It was remembering a number of different things, indeed, as Jewish tradition develops. So there are more and more things that they remember. And they say that by the intertestamental time, Shebuch was a remembering of God's Covenant promised to Noah never again to destroy the world by flood. Also, they would say that Pentecost was a remembrance of the giving of the law at Sinai. So the Pentecost festival to which we're coming into is the celebration of harvest. It's a thanksgiving. It's a remembrance of the giving of the law. It's a remembrance of God's covenant. It's a remembrance of his faithfulness. And indeed, it's a celebration perhaps of first fruits. And we know that all of those things are very significant, both in the incident that took place in Acts 2 and in the growth and the numbers of early Jews for Jesus. So, Acts 2 and verse 1, we read the following. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. Who were all together? Well, these were observant, faithful Jewish people who had all come from many different surrounding regions, traveled miles. to come and be together in Jerusalem for Pentecost. They were law-abiding. They were a faithful observant. remnant, we say. They were thankful. They were expectant. In fact, we may even suggest that there was some measure of heart Preparation. This was a faithful, expectant gathering, a people who would have known the prophecies. And when Peter refers to Joel, They would know that. They would know the context. And that's why I got us to read a little bit more of the book of Joel so that we could have a little refresher on the context. Now, of course, there's a bit of misunderstanding, and they think it might be drunkenness, but Peter addresses that. Chapter 2 and verse 14. Peter standing with the eleven lifted up his voice and addressed the men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem. Let this be known to you, and give ear to my words. These men are not drunk. Verse 16, this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And so what Peter is basically saying, listen, listen up, men of Jerusalem, hear these words. Now, if you flip back to the book of Joel and we read the first five verses, then we find exactly the same thing. The word of the Lord that came to Joel the son of Pethuel. Hear this. Hear this, you elders. Give ear, all inhabitants of the land. Has such a thing happened? In your days. So again, in the Acts 2 situation, these are faithful Jews. They would have known the whole story of Joel They were known that Joel had exercised his ministry around about 800. He had ministered around about the same time as Elisha, like many of the prophets, and indeed As your pastor has already said, he would speak of things that were present, things that were just about to happen, things that were close to happen, and things that were in the far off. It may have been that Joel preached his message at harvest time. He refers, doesn't he, to a failed harvest. So Joel is saying, listen up. Peter is saying, listen up. Has such a thing ever happened like this? Joel is saying the locust hoard has decimated, devastated the crops. Now what does a failed harvest mean biblically? Well, a failed harvest means God's not pleased with you guys. It's a wake-up call. It's a listen up. Jules chapter 1. 12. Gladness dries up from the children of men. It's a depressing mass, says Joel. Listen up. God is calling us to wake up. Peter in the day of Pentecost, on the day to celebrate with thankfulness the first fruits of God's favor. to thank God for his faithfulness. Peter is effectively saying, listen up Jerusalem. It's a mess. Let me tell you. Fifty days after Passover, fifty days after my rabbi friend Yeshua was put on a tree, we are here. Acts chapter 2 and 22. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know, you crucified him. and kill him by the hands of lawless men. In other words, men outside of the law, that is the Gaim, the Gentiles, or the Italians. I've often heard it said the Jews kill Jesus. One of my uh colleagues' wives was uh challenged by that one time. She's a Jewish believer and uh they said uh to her, someone said to her, the Jews kill Jesus, you know, and she said, that's really interesting. I always thought it was the Italians kill Jesus. So it was the Jews and the Italians. You killed him by the hands of lawless are outside of the law, men. And Peter is simply saying, we're here for Pentecost. We're here to celebrate God's faithfulness. But it's a mess. Well, let me tell you a mercy. Isn't that what Peter is doing to them? He is saying, men of Israel, hear these words. He lifted up his voice. He addressed them. He arrested them with his words. Now I want to break in at this point with a word of application pertaining to Jewish missions. So let's keep that first point in our head. Listen, this is a good model for us. As we think on how we reach our Jewish friends and neighbors. My point of application is this: Jewish evangelism involves arresting words. Jews for Jesus have a mission motto. We wish we had it first. They got it before us, but sometimes we steal it. But Jews for Jesus' mission motto is we exist to make the Messiahship of Jesus an unavoidable issue to our Jewish people worldwide. Jewish mission, Jews for Jesus and many others worth their salt, exist to make Jesus an unavoidable issue, to confront Jewish people with Jesus. Well, isn't that all our mission? And it involves arresting words. I was speaking with a Jewish man some time ago. I asked him if he had ever read Isaiah 53, since it was written some 700 years before a certain guy called Jesus. When he read it, he commented back to me and said, How did they do that? And then he went on to say, and I had prompted him to do this, he said, I've now read the New Testament twice, and it's all your fault I met him at a conference. Um I had a booth and I was actually talking with another colleague across the way at another booth. I think it was a seminary guy. And we were talking about heaven. Little did I know that there was another booth just further down the line, and this Jewish man was there. He was uh giving information on his Israel tours And little did I know that he was listening in as I was talking with my colleague about heaven. And when we were done, he came over to me and he said, Tell me more. I have never heard anything like that before in my life. There was something that arrested him in the words that we were saying. I spoke with a Jewish lady close to home and we had coffee together And she knew that I was a preacher. She asked me, well, what are you preaching on? I said, Well, I'm preaching on Psalm 67. Have you ever read Psalm 67? And she said Uh I I probably have. She was a Hebrew scholar and uh I said, well, you know, you you should read it. Did you know that you guys were praying for us three thousand years ago? She said, what I said, you Jewish people were praying that we Gentiles would come to know Israel's God and his salvation. She went home. Thirty minutes later I get a text and a little picture of the Hebrew. And she said, I can't stop studying Psalm 67. We were praying that you would come to know Israel's God. And she said, you know that word salvation? It's got Yeshua in it. And I said, yeah, I know. So the conversation continued, and by the grace of God, she came to faith some months later. Arresting words. Men of Israel and you in Jerusalem, Jesus, you know him. You've seen him. You saw him crucified. Let me tell you, he's alive. Listen up, listen into this mess. I want to tell you of mercy. Isn't that what we must all do in our evangelism, whether it's Jewish evangelism, Gentile evangelism? Into your mess, into your failed harvest, which is God's wake-up call, I have something to tell you. It's about Jesus. Well, we must move on. First point, listen. Second point, learn. Learn. Peter preached a sermon. In our Twitter age and sign byte age and social media posting age, a sermon seems a little out of date. It must never be. Many of our problems, theological, social, moral, dare I say it, even political. Much of our mess stems from the lack of substantial sermons, or our lack of serious substantial comment. These were Jews gathered in Jerusalem for Pentecost. They needed to learn something. But first let me take you back to Joel. These were the things that would have been in their minds. Peter has already made reference to Joel, and it's not drunkenness. This is what was prophesied by Joel. Joel was out of about a failed harvest. Well, we saw that in the first little passage that we read. But as we continued on in Joel, we know that Joel is not only about a failed harvest, but about a full harvest. That I will restore the years that the swarming locust has eaten. Joel 2 and 25 and following. And so it goes on, you shall eat in plenty. You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel. And then it goes on to the very verses that Peter quoted. I will restore, I will bring a full harvest. You will know that I am in your midst, and I will pour out my spirit. After Peter gets their attention, after Peter arrests them, then he teaches them. They are to learn something after listening or after. Listening up, as it were. So he has got their attention. He takes them into the teaching section and tells them about Jesus. and tells them that the very event and what is happening is something from God above, this pouring out of the Spirit on the day in which they would celebrate the giving of the law. God was going to come in fulfillment of Jeremiah 31 and put the law within their hearts and move them to follow his commands. Peter is making reference to all of their understanding of this festival, and he is basically saying, guys, this is it. Now some prophecies are hard to understand, and some are more complex than others, but this one, this is it, this is Joel here on the day of Pentecost in Acts 2. Now listen Jerusalem. Now learn Jerusalem. Jesus was delivered up according to the plan and the foreknowledge of God. You killed him, but he lives. As prophesied in Psalm 110 and Psalm 16. So he references those Psalms as well, which we could get into if we had the time. He was attested, says Peter. He is seen. He was seen. He is seen. He is the Messiah. He was dead. He was buried. He is raised. We have seen it. You are not seeing the fruit of it. And the very miraculous incident of an outpouring of the Spirit upon all flesh. So he says, learn. Verse 36. Learn. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him. Both Adonai and Moshech, Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom you have crucified And Peter's really preaching something very radical here. We got so familiar with these with Christian things and Christian terminology. We need to see this is a hijacking of a Jewish festival. This is just so radical for them. It is with reference to Joel. It is in fulfillment of all the prophecies. But he has to teach them. This is difficult for them. They're basically being told to leave the priests and come to Christ. They're basically telling, he's basically telling them and summoning them, this observant remnant, to follow the religion of their forefathers now in its fulfillment in the coming of Messiah. As I said earlier, Pentecost is not the birthday of the church. That was 4,000 years earlier. But this unique outpouring of the Spirit of God Would mean that the church, the Jewish believing Jews for Jesus church, would go forth and spread forth. So that we would be the fulfillment of Psalm 67. That we in the U. S. would come to know Israel's God and his salvation. It's a lot for them to learn. It's a lot for them to take in on this day of Pentecost. But first of all, they gotta learn about sin. And learn about salvation. You killed him. Law. Sin. God raised him. Gospel, salvation. Again, so much here, my brother. You need to do a series on this and take all the stuff that I'm just glossing over far too quickly. Without going into the details of Peter's sermon, we we need to realize, and maybe this is a good note for preachers, but here's a sermon that is plain, practical, personal, and persuasive. There's a four-point sermon on sermons. And it was potent. It was powerful to save. They were to learn, in no uncertain terms, that Jesus was the Jewish Messiah, that he suffered and died for sin And that he was raised for our justification. And these first Jews for Jesus had the privilege of seeing him and were telling of him. Listen up, House of Israel. Learn this, House of Israel Second point of application. First point in Jewish evangelism we use arresting words. Second point in Jewish evangelism, we use patient teaching Patient teaching. We Gentiles need to learn how difficult it is for Jewish people to come to Jesus. We may use arresting words But we may need to teach further. It took me some time as I followed through with various other passages with that particular person. And even more so today than in Peter's day, I might even suggest that after 2,000 years of bad church history, pertaining to the Jewish people, that is, and 2,000 years of rabbinic reinterpretations, There's a lot that we need to teach. The Pentecost crowd may have been somewhat heart-ready and expectant. There was a lot of messianic fervor around in these days. Not so today. People ask me, are the Jews still looking for a Messiah? Well some of them are, but not many. Some of them think it was a certain Rabbi Menachem Schneerson. He's dead, but he's going to come back to life again. Oh, where did they get that idea from? And some of them are following that rabbi. And some of them are expecting another Messiah to come. And some of them aren't looking for a messiah at all, but just a messianic peaceful world, peace age. And so generally speaking, Jewish people are not thinking the way we're thinking. And certainly when it comes to Jesus, they're not going to believe in him. Rabbi in my hometown. I connected with him and I said, you know, up front, this is what I'm doing. This is what I I want you Jewish people to come to know your Messiah. And he said, Well, that would be wonderful. He says, but it's not Jesus. And he said the only re the reason that it's not Jesus is that we do not have world peace. A lot of Jewish people today are thinking that the Messiah will bring world peace, and it can't be Jesus because he didn't bring world peace. peace. Well, we know that the peace is an entirely different kind of peace, isn't it? The Orthodox today will spit at the sound of his name. Even when we're talking with secular Jews, they will have warped understandings of who Jesus is and what the New Testament is. So we need patience. We need patient teaching. Some of our workers. I've been witnessing to some of their friends for ten years and more before they see a breakthrough. So I want you to pray for us and pray for our workers. And pray that they will arrest people, but also that they will continue those relationships and those friendships. And you must do the same. And be patient over years. As I said one of my colleagues recently, after ten years, um this is in Bulgaria And he had been witnessing to this lady. He had been engaged with various helps and mercy ministries, very elderly per people, very elderly Jewish people in Bulgaria. And uh this lady just had been resistant, resistant, resistant. Finally, just a few months ago, literally, I think earlier about May or June, she said, Stanislav, I surrender. Whatever that was in Bulgarian. She gave up. She surrendered. She surrendered to Christ She realized. So in our lips and in our lives, we are to provoke to jealousy. We are to make Jesus unavoidable. We need to bring up the matter of sin. Jewish people don't think of sin the way we do. They don't think of original sin. They think that we've kind of got uh a yetzer harrah and a yetzer hatov. What does that mean? A little devil on the shoulder and a little angel on the shoulder. And we we we listen to that one or we listen to this one. We have an evil inclination and we have a good inclination. That's their understanding of sin. So they don't think of themselves as sinners in need of salvation. Again, the rabbis have reinterpreted it for them. So we need to patiently teach them. They are sinners. They are lost. And they need the Lord. Some tele evangelists are basically saying they don't, but we need to tell them they do. But permit me on the side as I preach to preachers and all of us, what is the Jesus we're presenting? In our churches. What are we teaching about sin? If at all, what are we teaching about salvation? Is Jesus just marketed as the kind of psychological pick-me-up pill? Oh, you're feeling pretty blue. Let me tell you about Jesus. You can have every day a Friday. You can have your best life now. He is being marketed. The Lord of all glory is being marketed. As a financial or marital enrichment program, Jesus is good for you. Oh, we need to buy. You killed him, law. God raised him gospel Listen up, Jews. Listen up, Gentiles. Learn this, Jews. Learn this, Gentiles. We need more teaching sermons than life enrichment sermons. Get over yourselves. Let me tell you of God, the Holy One, and of sin, righteousness, and judgment to come. And isn't that exactly what Peter does on the day of Pentecost? Listen. Learn. Now look. Look. Peter refers to the end of Joel by the wonders and the heavens and the earth and reminds them the day of the Lord is coming. And again, it's the same message in Acts 2 as in Job. Blow the shofar. Blow the trumpet. That wake-up trumpet blast, because the day of the Lord is coming. So this is a summons to repentance. And when Peter is referring to this, he's not only calling them to listen and to learn, but then to look in repentance. and faith look to the saving mercies of God. And everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, says Joel II. And among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls. So what happened when Peter preached in Acts 2? What happened when he summoned them to look? Acts 2 and 37. Now when they heard this They were cut to the heart. And Peter said to the rest and the rest of the apostles, brothers, they said to the rest of the apostles, brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And You see there what happened? There was clear, unavoidable, conscious guilt Having been convicted, they were counseled and they were comforted. We get it the wrong way around. We want all the comforting messages. We want those fix-me-up messages. And we do church light on those convicting messages. Peter doesn't do that. He says, this Jesus was delivered by the plan of God. You killed him. God raised him. We've seen it. We beheld his glory. We beheld his glory. You remember Diding Thomas? I don't like him called Diding Thomas. I call him no longer Diding Thomas. Thomas! Feared my hands. Look at my side And he falls down. And this Jewish guy, remember, this Jewish guy, Thomas, says to a man, My Lord and my God. We beheld his glory. Thomas touched the holes, yes. He's God Yes, says Peter. Yes, House of Israel. He's Lord. He is the Lord God. And Christ, repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of sins. And that wasn't the end of the sermon as we read on. Many other words, he summoned them. Save yourselves from this crooked generation. Be remnant Israel. Be that sect within the synagogue. We are going to be the first Jews for Jesus. And 3,000 were added that day. Some reckon by the time of Acts 8, Stephen's death, that there were about 20,000 Jews for Jesus. How many Jewish people in Israel today believe in Jesus? By twenty thousand. It's first century all over again. They're surrounded by seven million non-believing Jews. In this country, we've got forty-two percent of the world Jewish population, so we have six million Jews here as well. Mission field is here. I need to move to my final point of application. Listen. We need arresting words. Learn. We need patient teaching. Look. Third point, Jewish evangelism involves a summons to look to Jesus. We're not very good at summoning people, are we? It's it's kind of not the politically correct thing to do. We're not very good at declaring sin as sin, particularly when some people kind of think, well, I've never asked anyone for forgiveness. We're not good at speaking clearly about sin and the need for judgment or the the the coming judgment We're not good at speaking about repentance. You you had a larger catechism question. If I had put another one in there, I would have put the shorter catechism, question 87. Repentance Because this is what Peter is saying here. So, what is repentance according to our Westminster forefathers? Repentance unto life is a saving grace whereby a sinner out of a true sense of his sin. There's conscious guilt here and apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ. There's someone to look here. Doth with grief and hatred of his sin turned from it unto God with full purpose of and endeavor after new obedience. Do we do church light? Do we have that grief and hatred of sin? Christ bled and died. If we go light on sin, we do a disservice to the blood of Christ. Grief, hatred of sin, turning from it unto Christ, full purpose of endeavor after new obedience. He's saying this: save yourselves from this crooked generation. One of our missionaries had a Jewish friend to whom he had been witnessing for about ten years. The friend called him one morning and said, I need help. I had a terrible dream last night. This was a big guy, quite uh physical, and he said, I woke up in the middle of the night, I had a nightmare, and I was clawing the walls and punching the walls And uh what was the dream? Well, I was dreaming all my family were falling into the pit of hell. All my Jewish friends and family were falling into the pit of hell. I was trying to save them. What do I do? And my missionary colleague was saying, listen up. This is the wake-up call. You can't save your family and friends, but you can save yourself from this corrupt. Rabbinic Judaism. Within a few hours, that tough guy was on his knees, trusting in the Lord Jesus. Jewish evangelism involves arresting words. Jewish evangelism involves patient teaching. Jewish evangelism involves bringing them to this unavoidable reality, Jesus. The only Savior. We want you. We summon you. Call upon the name of the Lord Jesus and be saved. Labor Day weekend, I was wakened. With this I conclude, I was wakened by my whole house. Shaking. I'm in northwest Arkansas. I'm in Tornado Alley. But I knew there were no storms coming, at least not that I had known of. And uh But this was different. The whole house was shaking. I realized this was an earthquake. I'm from Northern Ireland. I have never experienced an earthquake before. I learned later that we were about a hundred miles from the epicenter, north of Tulsa. And I learned this solid ground is not so solid. You know, I go out in my backyard and I'm just I look at and I'm thinking. This was moving. And a hundred miles this was moving. It was a wake-up call to me. Maybe you've experienced it. Maybe you you you Can I just say to you, the great and terrible day of the Lord is coming. When the sky shall recede like a scroll being rolled out. Once more he will shake the heavens and the earth. So listen, learn. Look and be saved, ends of the earth, that we might experience another Pentecost In Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth. Let's pray together. Our Father, for your saving mercy, we give you thanks, even as it has come to us. Across the centuries, across the miles, your faithful remnant, Jewish believers in Jesus of the first century, went forth. To tell the world of their Messiah, of their God, and his salvation. And we are here because of your grace And because of their labors for you, may we have a burden to bring the gospel back to those that brought it to us. Thank you for the opportunity to be gathered among your people to hear the word. May we listen. May we learn. And above all, may every one of us gathered here look to Christ and be saved. In his name we pray. Amen.