It's a pleasure to be with you this morning. Um really enjoyed getting to know the congregation here. Everyone's been uh very warm and kind as we've had opportunity to get together and share meals together. We've had opportunity to take you into our hearts and pray for you and pray for Skip. And Bonnie is there away and Trust that the Lord is using these prayers and your prayers to sustain and to bless his people. This morning sermon is from Genesis chapter 37. It's kind of strange just to jump right into the end of a book as uh a visiting creature, so I'll give just a few words of introduction. Genesis 37 marks the beginning of the end of the book of Genesis. We've been tracking the promised line that God promised to Abraham back in Genesis 12 through number of descendants. And in Genesis 37 we start something new. We've arrived at the family of promise. No longer is one son selected at the expense of another. Isaac selected and Ishmael passed over. Jacob selected and Esau passed over. Now the entire family of Jacob stands to inherit the blessing that God promised to Abraham. And the hope is that the rivalries that had characterized God's people prior to this would now dissolve because the whole family stood to receive God's good gift. But Genesis chapter 37 opens on a bit of a disappointing note as far as human beings are concerned. And so once more we're left wondering, what is God going to do in the face of human floundering? Now I believe it's tradition here to rise as we listen to God's Word read. It's a longer section, so I'll ask that you indulge me. So please rise if you're able. as we have the remarkable privilege of hearing not just the word of God, but the voice of God, as God's word is read. So lend your attention. This indeed is the very word of God. Genesis chapter 37. Jacob lived in the land of his father's sojournings in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought a bad report of them to their father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than any of his other sons, because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a robe of many colors. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peacefully to him. Now Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. He said to them, Hear this dream that I have dreamed. Behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and behold, my sheaf arose and stood upright. And behold, your sheaves gathered around it and bowed down to my sheaf. His brother said to him, Are you indeed to reign over us? Are you indeed to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Then he dreamed another dream, and told it to his brothers, and said, Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold, the sun, moon, and eleven stars were bowing down to me. But when he told it to his father and to his brothers, his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I and your mother and your brothers indeed come to bow ourselves to the ground before you? And his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in mind. Now his brothers went to pasture their father's flock near Shechem, and Israel said to Joseph, Are not your brothers pasturing the flock at Shechem? Come, I will send you to them. And he said to him, Here I am. So he said to him, Go now, see if it is well with your brothers and with the flock, and bring me word. So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem And a man found him wandering in the fields. And the man asked him, What are you seeking? I'm seeking my brothers, he said. Tell me, please, where are they pasturing the flock? And the man said, They have gone away, for I have heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan. They saw him from afar, and before he came near to them, they conspired against him to kill him. They said to one another, here comes this Dreamer. Come now, let us kill him and throw him into one of the pits. Then we will say that a fierce animal has devoured him, and we will see what becomes of his dreams. But when Reuben heard it, he rescued him out of their hand, saying, Let us not take his life. And Reuben said to him, Shed no blood. Throw him into this pit here in the wilderness, but do not lay a hand on him. that he might rescue him out of their hands to restore him to his father. So when Joseph came to his brothers, they stripped him of his robe, the robe of many colors that he wore, and they took him and threw him into a pit. The pit was empty. There was no water in it. Then they sat down to eat, and looking up they saw a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead with their camels bearing gum, balm, and myrrh, on their way to carry it down to Egypt. Then Judah said to his brothers, What profit is it if we kill our brother and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother, our own flesh. And his brothers listened to him. Then Midianite traders passed by. And they drew Joseph up and lifted him out of the pit, and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. They took Joseph to Egypt. When Reuben returned to the pit and saw that Joseph was not in the pit, he tore his clothes and returned to his brother, and said, The boy is gone, and I, where shall I go? Then they took Joseph's robe and slaughtered a goat and dipped the robe in the blood, and they sent the robe of many colours, and brought it to their father, and said, This we have found. Please identify whether it is your son's robe or not. And he identified it and said, It is my son's robe. A fierce animal has devoured him. Joseph is without doubt torn to pieces. Then Jacob tore his garments and put sackcloth on his loins and mourned for his son many days. All his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted, and said, No, I shall go down to Sheol to my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. Meanwhile, the Midianites had sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard. Please join me in prayer Heavenly Father, we do acknowledge that your word is a great gift. We are grateful that we need not grope about in darkness searching for you, but you have revealed yourself plainly in your word. That though we would have nothing to do with you, Lord, you pursued, that you would not let your creatures retreat. And Father, your revelation in your son has been our life and we ask Lord that we would see him even now that we may live. And as you exalt your son, Father, I pray that you would continue to gather your people from every tribe, tongue, and nation, that you would strengthen the faith of those who whom you have gathered, Lord, and that you would use the proclamation of your Son to keep us until the day that he returns, which is our great hope. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I love all of my children the same. Uh to be fair, I've only met one of my children. My wife is due later this year, but the one that I do know, I do love her. Uh equally, I guess you could say. Even though I haven't met them all, I do think the equal love, the equal distribution of love amongst children is optimal. I've never met a family. Who's introduced me to their children and said, these are my children. They all have the right to live in my home. But the youngest here, Sally, she is my favorite. I love her more than all of my other children combined, and here are the gifts to prove it. Could you imagine that? Could you imagine returning to your children and distributing gifts equally among them, but then turning to the youngest and giving gift after gift after gift after gift? How would the youngest look at you? How would the others look at you? How would they look at each other? You don't have to read very far in the book of Genesis. To realize that favoritism is something of a significant theme. Interestingly, the narratives that deal with this theme of favoritism seem more interested. in how people act in the face of the disparities that favoritism inevitably generates, than it is with denouncing the practice of favoritism itself. There's a number of reasons for this. Partly, Hebrew narrative is remarkably reticent. It's remarkably reluctant to pronounce moral judgments The narrator doesn't come out and say in the book of Genesis whether what the character is doing is good or bad. Oftentimes it's left to the reader to discern. But there's another reason why it's more interested in how the characters comport themselves, and partly it's a theological observation. Partly it emerges from the conviction that in a strange and mysterious way God has favorites. And it falls to the creatures to comport themselves appropriately in the light of that. Wasn't Israel God's favorite, the recipient of God's unmerited and unparalleled and mysterious favor? Just beneath the observation that Joseph is Jacob's favorite is the suspicion that he's also God's favorite. Now in one sense we can say that God is good to all alike. He is given the gift of life. He causes the sun to rise and the rain to fall on the just and the unjust alike, and his goodness is abundantly made known to this. in this to all equally. In another sense we can say that the elect have equally shared in the love of the Father. They have all been died for. Christ has died for them all. The Spirit has secured them all in the course of time. They all equally share in the blessing that is Jesus Christ. But what about beyond that? What about in the household of faith? Are there disparities that continue to mark the household of God? Well, if you scan the pages of Scripture, you realize that there are. Moses enjoyed a position of favor and access to God that was unparalleled amongst the ranks of Israel. And that this actually was the cause of some controversy among other Parties in Israel, if you read the book of Numbers. David also was the recipient of God's remarkable favor, and this too caused some problems in Israel's history. Paul and the apostles occupy a position of preeminence that not all enjoy. Paul himself writes that God gave to the church first apostles, suggesting a sort of hierarchy of gifts. And then beyond this, even in the church, Paul says that God distributes his gifts differently according to his sovereign and mysterious purposes. In our text this morning, it's very evident that Joseph is the recipient of unique favor. And so, like the brothers, we're confronted with the uncomfortable question of how do we reconcile the mysterious distribution of God's gifts, which at least in one sense appear so uneven. So let's ask two questions. First, how are we inclined to receive God's favor? And second, how are we inclined to look at others who receive favor that we don't? All of this raises a third and rather pressing question, which we'll get to at the end But first, let's consider these first two questions in turn, starting with the first. How do we receive God's favor? Well, God's word this morning suggests that we're prone to abuse God's favor. Joseph is clearly favored. Twice in verses 3 and 4. At the outset of the narrative, we hear Israel loved Joseph more than any of his other sons. Now the love that Jacob had for Joseph resulted in a particular token of his affection. This is the famous multicolored or long-sleeved coat. And the token actually signals what Jacob's love meant for Joseph practically. The code only appears one other time in all of Scripture. In 2 Samuel chapter 13, we meet Tamar. daughter of David, princess of Jerusalem, the only other figure in all of Scripture to wear this coat. It was an emblem of royalty. It was an emblem of preeminence. It was an emblem setting the wearer off from those around them. The code suggests that Jacob's favor would elevate Joseph's position. Above his brothers. He was to be their leader in some sense. But it wasn't just Jacob making this decision. It also seemed to be God making this decision. Joseph relays two dreams to his brothers. Everything about dreams in the book of Genesis up to this point suggests that dreams are revelations from God. You think of the famous dreams that Jacob had throughout his history. Also, Joseph's story will be punctuated by these significant dreams and his interpretations of them, which leads Joseph to declare that all dreams are from God. And in the two dreams that Joseph has, he occupies a position of preeminence, particularly with reference to his brothers. But it's not just a favorable position that Joseph enjoys. As Joseph's story unfolds, we realize that Joseph has been blessed in many ways. He's a man of physical graces, as it were. He's a very attractive man, which gets him into a little bit of trouble later He also possesses a charisma that enables him to negotiate various social circles along his way. And not only that, but he has this ability to interpret dreams. All of this would have been bound up with the theme of wisdom, with the theme of giftedness, with the theme of being a leader. But more than any of that What the narrative consistently attributes Joseph's success to is Yahweh's unique presence with Joseph. Again and again you hear, and Yahweh was with Joseph. And this was the reason for his success. Joseph was clearly the recipient of unique favor, both from the Father and from God. But we can ask, how does Joseph understand the purpose of this favor? And unfortunately, as is often the case, Joseph fundamentally misunderstands why he had been made the recipient of such unparalleled favor, and this leads him to abuse it. Now I'm going to pause here for just a second and highlight that the interpretation that Joseph acts sinfully in this opening episode has bothered more than a few people. And that surprises me. It surprises me that my interpretation that one of God's servants acts sinfully bothers people. I'm not sure if you've ever met any of God's servants before, but that interpretation resonates. And it doesn't just resonate with experience, it resonates with the consistent depiction of God's servants in the book of Genesis. More than anything else, the book of Genesis is a testimony to God's faithfulness, to his promises in the face of his servants consistent floundering. And this is more of the same in Joseph. Notice at the very outset what he does. He brings a bad report against his brothers. I commend this phrase to you for word study. It's the first hint that there's more than a little suspicion lingering over Joseph's character It's the same phrase that the book of Numbers uses for the spies who return after spying out the land of promise. God had promised Israel to give them Canaan. He promised to dispossess it from their current inhabitants. He told them it was a land of great fertility flowing with milk and honey. And the spies come back bringing a bad report. They said we can't take it. It's fortified up to heaven. They say it's a land that devours its inhabitants Or more straightforward in Proverbs 10, the same word occurs, and there you'll find it translated slander. So whether it's a false report or a purport that prevaricates according to the purposes of the bringer. Either way, there's more than a little suspicion raised over the character of the one bringing it. You can note also the connection between verse 2 and 3. Read these verses with me. Joseph brought a bad report concerning his brothers to his father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his other sons. What's the connection between those two verses? There's more than a little bit of a suggestion that Joseph is acting here to exploit his position of favor to his advantage and the brother's disadvantage. That's a perverse model of leadership, isn't it? To use my advantageous position to my further gain and to your harm? That's an economy of rivalry. It's a zero-sum game. To the degree that I gain is the degree to which you lose. And it's perverse in God's economy in his household. His second dream also suggests an unseemly pride. We can confirm that the dream is essentially from God, but there's nothing preventing us from glimpsing something of the dreamer in the dreams as well. That's a little bit of a nuanced interpretation. I think it's fair. Notice the cosmic scope of the second dream. The sun, the moon, and the stars bow down, not to another heavenly body. But to Joseph. The heavens worship Joseph. He is second to none. And notice how this is what ultimately elicits the rebuke of the Father. It's significant because Joseph will achieve some remarkable success. He will rise to some impressive heights over the course of his story. But at every new height he reaches, He learns that he is always second to one. In Potiphar's house he pays deference to Potiphar. In the prison, he pays deference to the prison warden. And even as vice-regent of Egypt, he is second to Pharaoh. Isn't this the consistent temptation plying at the hearts of anyone in leadership that they forget that no matter how high they are on the hierarchy of leadership, they always stand before one. There is always one to whom they are accountable. Joseph fundamentally understands his position of favor as something to be exploited for his own gain and as something to be bandied about. for his own glory. Now, imagine you arrive home, parent. You distribute gifts equally to all your children. And then you turn to the youngest and you give gift upon gift upon gift upon gift. And then the youngest launches into a song about how disobedient the other children had been throughout the course of the day, implying more than a little that she was the one who deserved the gifts and they had disqualified. themselves. It's a grotesque picture, isn't it? It even it feels unseemly. Why Because there's nothing of gratitude in the heart of the recipient. There's nothing of humility. Why is Joseph favored Did you catch that? Why does the narrative say that Joseph is the object of this favor? Verse 3. He was the son of Israel's old age. It's a quirk of circumstance. Not exactly grounds to boast for Joseph, is it? From the life filling our veins to the new life which has been given to us in Christ, to the particular abilities and the gifts and opportunities and circumstances that surround you, what do we have? that has not been given to us by God's grace. And if they've been given to us, why are we so frequently tempted to boast in any one of a number of them. Doesn't grace properly forbid all pride? So it's worth asking. What coats do we love to wear for others to see? What gifts or positions are we prone to champion to our own advantage or flaunts to our own glory? We're prone to forget that every gift God gives has been granted to us not for our glory, but for his, as it's employed in the service of our neighbors. Let not the hostess boast in her hosting, the preacher in his preaching, the singer in her singing. Far be it from us to boast in anything but the cross of Jesus Christ. Joseph's boast was in the gift rather than the giver, and thus he inevitably abused the favor so graciously poured out on him. But we can ask, does Joseph's egregious failure justify the brother's murderous reaction? And so consider the second question. How are we inclined to view others who receive favor withheld from us? And I answer that we're prone to hate them. We don't know a lot about the brothers, do we? We do know they hate Joseph. Verse 4, they hate him. Verse 5, they hate him. Verse 8, they hate him. Verse 11, they're jealous of him. Verse 20, they're going to kill him. Why do they hate him so much? There's probably a number of reasons. Partly Joseph is insufferable. I think verse eight suggests as much. It says they hated him because of his dreams and because of his words. Now whether the words refer to the recounting of the dreams or whether they hearken back to the initial bad report, either way Joseph wasn't doing himself. any favors. But that's not the heart of the matter. The heart of the matter is verse 11. They were jealous of him. They hate him because he has received something they haven't. They cannot stand the thought that another might have been given something withheld from them. We instinctively cannot stand when others get the things that we desire. So what do we do? Verse 20, let's kill him. Let's kill him and throw him into one of these pits and we will see what becomes of his dreams. The thought of Joseph over them in this position of favor was so intolerable to them, even though he was the Father's choice. even though he was God's choice, that they were willing to murder to level what they perceived to be unlevel. There's a darkness at the heart of the covenant family. They've become Cain, a man whose very name evokes jealousy, a man marred by the destructive power of hatred and murder. They have set themselves against their father. They have set themselves against God, willing the death of the beloved son. But two figures emerge, don't they? Two figures emerge suggesting perhaps there's some hope in this collective mass of hate, possibly providing some light. Both Judah and Reuben in their own ways seek to intervene. But we can ask, what's really motivating them? Judah's transparent. He comes right out and says it. What gain is there for us if we kill him? What's in it for me? Scripture is so insightful, isn't it? We're often willing to tolerate the relative advantage of others if we can perceive in it our own interests. Our hearts are perverse, are they not? Instead of murder, let's just sell them into slavery instead. That way the same thing happens. We're rid of them, but we don't have to deal with this blood guilt idea. This is an allusion to when uh Cain killed Abel and the blood itself issued a cry to God for justice. The blood itself, even though they're in a field, even though they're in the wilderness, They were convinced that the blood itself might rise up and speak to God on behalf of the innocent slain. He said, let's not even deal with that. Let's sell them and that way we benefit financially as well. And so murder is downgraded to human trafficking. If Judah is light, he is dim light. What about Reuben? Reuben's a tragic figure. Everything that Reuben does in the course of this narrative is read in the light of what he does in Genesis 35. In Genesis 35, Reuben makes a power play. He seeks to usurp the Father. by sleeping with one of his father's wives. It was a grasp, it was an attempt to seize this position of superiority, this position of preeminence through illicit means. Jacob will ultimately denounce Reuben and curse him in Genesis 49. But for our purposes, notice verse 30. When Reuben returns to find Joseph gone, He says, the boy is gone, and as for me, where shall I go? In some sense, it's the same self-interest, isn't it? It's the same self-interest motivating Reuben. You can notice that neither Judah nor Reuben object to the deception of Jacob, raising further doubt over their pure motives. Judah orchestrates it, Reuben abides by it, and they both watch as their father descends into the near madness of grief. There's a darkness at the heart of the covenant family. They're less of a family and more of a cluster of selfish individuals, each vying for their own selfish gain. Unless we think that we've evolved, James writes to the church, what causes quarrels, what causes fights among you? Is it not this? That your passions are at war within you, you desire and do not have so you murder. Even in the church, our sin incites us to despise the favor poured out upon others, hating both the gift and the recipient. That And this hate is the same murderous hate as that of the brothers. How does this happen among the people of God? Well, imagine you arrive home and you contribute gifts equally to your children, but then you turn to the youngest. And you give gift after gift after gift. And if your family is anything like my family was growing up, A brawl would have ensued. And forgotten in the fray would have been the initial gifts that everyone had received. Contentment deteriorates into discontent as we fixate upon what others have been given to the exclusion to what we all have received And in a like manner, discontent brews among the children of God. We can have little tolerance for the blessings of others when it's withheld from us. We're prone to diminish and tarnish the gifts of others in hopes of somehow leveling what we perceive to be unlevel, in hopes of somehow validating ourselves, viewing each other not as family members, but as rivals, throwing each other into The proverbial pit. She really doesn't sing all that well. My voice is just as nice as hers. His preaching is rather inadequate. Don't you think I could do just as well if not better? Can you believe the nerve of so-and-so not willing to help with the fellowship meal after I've done so? so much. She's not that smart. She's not that pretty. He's not that talented. The tendency to do all that we do and have all that we have with a constant eye to the doings. and the havings of others. And at this point, a third and rather desperate question suggests itself. Is there any hope? Is there any escape from this vicious cycle of rivalry, hatred, jealousy, and abuse? Things were not off to a great start in the covenant family. Joseph, the father's choice for ruler, God's choice for ruler, had the early makings of an obtuse tyrant. The brothers resembled a pack of ravenous and murderous beasts more than they did a group of men. They trusted neither their father nor God with the decision and decided to take matters into their own hands. These are the generations of Jacob. This is the family that God had chosen to bring his blessing of life to all the nations. No. No, things were not off to a great start. So why doesn't God just simply let them devour each other? Or perhaps less messy, there's a severe famine coming on the horizon. Why doesn't God just let it wipe them all out? Wipe out this pack of murderous beasts? What's so shocking is that in the face of all of this, Joseph's arrogance, the brothers murderous and selfish intense, the entire picture of disunity and discord, it's not destruction. but preservation and life which Yahweh works on their behalf. Why? Because God had made them a promise. And the promise was never made because they were worthy of it. The promise was made in full knowledge of just how unworthy they were. of just how unworthy we are. And so it's God's faithfulness to his promise which stands as our confidence alone as our bedrock, his unwavering commitment to bring to pass everything which he has purposed in his word. And it's this faithfulness, this great faithfulness, which leads God to superintend their sin to accomplish their physical salvation. Remarkably, it's their sin in this episode which puts Joseph on the road to ruler of Egypt, where he would provide the salvation for the very ones who sought to kill him. But that's a great mystery, isn't it? Recall their intent. Let's kill him, and we shall see what becomes to his dream, of his dreams. They acted explicitly to remove the possibility of Joseph becoming king, and those very actions were what established him as king. the means of their salvation. The signs of God's mysterious providence are everywhere in the narrative. Did you notice the strange man directing Joseph to Dothan? He has such a an uncanny knowledge that serves the purpose at exactly the moment Joseph needs it. You can notice also that the brothers relocate to Dothan from Shechem. Now Shechem would have been well off the major trade route running from Israel to Egypt. But Dothan was immediately upon that trade route. And it was this fact which enabled them, right at the moment they're considering what to do with Joseph to glimpse a passing caravan of Ishmaelite traders, prompting Judah to have the thought to sell him into slavery. Think how many millions of lives hung upon that one confluence of Judah's selfish intent and the caravan passing God governs this entire network of sin and circumstance to position his servants exactly where he would have them. And if that's not remarkable enough He also governs the sin and the circumstances to bring about a change for the better in his people. God begins to transform their hearts in the process. There's a hint at the outset of Genesis 37 of what kind of king Joseph would become. He's a shepherd and an assistant to the sons of Bilkah and Zilpah. God's leaders are to be servants and shepherds. What is a shepherd? A shepherd is one whose exclusive function is the preservation of the life of God. of others. His existence is for the well-being of others. And with time Joseph would come to understand. He would come to understand that his position of favor, indeed all of his abilities, was not exclusively for his benefit, rather in the service of others It was for the demonstration and the display of the remarkable glory of God. We see here God's orchestration of life-giving providence extending even to our sin. Now we may be tempted to say well and good, but that's only true of the great redemptive acts alone. God doesn't act like this with reference to our sin anymore. Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 5, section 4. It reads, The almighty power, unsearchable wisdom, and infinite goodness of God manifest themselves so completely in his providence. That it extends itself even to the first fall and all other sins of angels and men. Not by a bare permission, but by a permission which has joined with it a wise and powerful limiting, ordering, and governing of them for his own holy purposes. However, The sinfulness comes from the creature alone and not from God, who because he is most holy and righteous, neither is nor can be the author or approver of sin. Or more concisely, from our own narrative, in Genesis chapter 50, the brothers are concerned that Joseph is going to seek vengeance upon them after the father dies, and so they throw themselves at his feet, and Joseph consoles them. And he says, what you meant for evil against me, God meant for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. Only God's word can manage such complexities with a balance and a deftness such as this. It manages to indict the heart of chaos. You meant evil. It can be called nothing else. It's inexcusable, it's reprehensible, and you are responsible. And yet neither the one who sinned nor the one sinned against is left in a position of utter despair with sin and death having the final word. Why? Because of the bewildering wisdom, power, and goodness of God. A wisdom and a power which is even able to sublimate evil into good, death into life. and a goodness which leads God to do so. There's remarkable comfort there, if we can get our minds around it. Our sin does not take God off guard. It grieves him, it causes real harm to ourselves and others, but it does not, and it cannot ultimately thwart God's good purposes. So who was really favored in the family? Who was really favored? Joseph? The brothers? If God gives you gifts for the blessing of others, if God blesses you through his unique favor dispensed towards another, who really receives God's favor? Now ultimately Joseph, the beloved of Jacob, prepares us for the truly beloved Son of God, Jesus the Christ. Favored above all others by God. God's choice for king. Sent to his brothers Who hated him? Not for any ambiguity of character in our Lord, but because darkness hates the light Because death hates life. Because imposter kings hate the true king. And this hatred drove them to kill him. An attempt to destroy God's choice for king. But this attempt to destroy God's choice for king was the very means God used to establish him as king and place him on a throne, the scope of which none of them had the mind to conceive of. As Christ's death, resurrection, and ascension is the coronation of the Son of God to the right hand of the Father, who now gives himself as spiritual food to a world marred. by spiritual famine. And in this we now rest as those who have seen the beauty of the sun, as those who bow the knee to Jesus Christ as Lord, and we're privileged to delight in God's wisdom. power and goodness manifest in Jesus Christ. We delight uniquely in God's unparalleled favored one, growing in our confidence that God allocates all of our gifts. even in the midst of the household of faith, according to the same wisdom, power, and goodness set on display in Jesus Christ. And in him we're being freed. Freed from the selfish flaunting of the gifts God has given us. Freed from the selfish begrudging the gifts God has given to others. Freed from viewing one another. as rivals and slowly, painfully, and sometimes begrudgingly, we're freed unto rejoicing with those who rejoice. Weeping with those who weep, considering the well-being of each other above our own. Fathers Imagine you come home and you give gifts equally to all of your children, and then you turn to your wife. And you give her gift after gift after gift after gift. And to the gentle protests that erupt from your children, You confirm what they suspect, that you do favor her over them. And indeed there is no one you cherish more on this entire earth. But then you assure them. That it is not to their harm, but for their good. So also Christ has been favored by the Father not at the expense of others, but for their benefit. For it is in the favored Son that all who believe have received an inheritance which can satisfy in the face of every earthly disparity to the praise of God's glorious grace. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are in awe of your wisdom, your power, and your goodness, and we are in awe of your great faithfulness, Lord. We acknowledge that in many ways we are much like the brothers, we are much like Joseph, seizing upon whatever advantage we have to our further advantage, even if it means others' harms. Father, begrudging the gifts that you have given others, Father. But we are grateful that you have forgiven us this in Jesus Christ, whose blood covers all of our sins. We are grateful, Father, that you have not left us to these dark impulses of our hearts, but even now our transgression. forming us more and more to reflect your glory as revealed in the person of your Son. We ask you would continue this great work, Father. Pray that you would continue, Lord, to open our eyes to the beauty of Christ, that we may see him and yield to you the praise that you deserve. And it's in his name we ask all these things. Amen.