Greetings everybody. It's good to see you and uh it's been a long time. Uh I haven't been here in this building before till today. So it's a thrill to come. I know you prayed about it for a long time and looked forward to it. And um it must be a tremendous joy to be able to be here. I bring you greetings from the seminary and I I only regret that whenever I seem to come, Skip and Bonnie are not here. And I I I love 'em so much, you know, and I'd love to worship with them. But um anyway, maybe we could come sometime when uh uh when they actually are here and I could benefit from that. Well, let me call your attention to God's word. I want to read from uh the the epistle to the Hebrews And uh the first chapter. And I want to speak especially about verse 3, but I'll read the first 13 verses Now the thrust of this first part of Hebrews 1 is to teach us, to teach the congregation about the exaltation of Jesus Christ. After he's made purification from sins and been resurrected from the dead, God exalted him to his right hand as high priest. And so the writer is contrasting the exaltation and greatness of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as our high priest. with the angels, thinking especially about the Old Testament administration of the covenant of grace. So listen to the word of God. This is Hebrews chapter 1. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed heir of all things. through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? Or again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, let all God's angels worship him. Of the angels, he says, he makes his angels winds and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. And you, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish. But you remain. They will all wear out like a garment, like a robe you will roll them up, like a garment they will be changed, but you are the same, and your years will have no end. And to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Glorious beginning of this epistle to the Hebrews. Relationships, the relationships we have with each other can be very difficult. They all are difficult. We have trouble getting along with each other. Even the people we love the most, we have a hard time getting along with. All of us do, because all of us are somewhat selfish. We uh speak to each other and sometimes we don't know what to say, and sometimes we say the wrong thing, but we can't live without them. We can't really live with people, but we can't really live without them either. Now why is that? Well, it's because each of us, every one of us, is made in God's image. And God is not a single person. God is a trinity. God is three persons in one being. Sometimes I think it's possible for us to think about that as a kind of complex math problem or uh a A conundrum, something we can't really understand or penetrate. It's certainly true that God is far above our ability to penetrate, to understand all that there is about Him. But there's something very, very beautiful about God as three persons. And that is that there's love in God. In himself, there's communication, there's adoration, there's the expression of joy and recognition between Father and Son and Holy Spirit. And we, each of us, is made in the likeness of God. At the very beginning, remember Genesis 1? As the Lord creates Adam and Eve, he says, in the image of God, he created them. Male and female, he created them. So each of us is image of God. But Adam and Eve, as created by God in the plan of God, the ordinance of marriage, their relationship with each other was also to reflect the rich interpersonal character of God himself. And we often have difficulty expressing ourselves. Sometimes we don't know what words to use. We're overwhelmed or our hearts are too empty. We don't know what to say. But this is not true of God. God's heart is full. Not only can God speak and speak fully and clearly, he has done this. And that's what the writer tells us in verses 1 and 2. He has spoken to us by his son. The first four verses here suggest the themes that the writer will develop right through the rest of the letter. In verses 1 and 2, what God has already said. is great, but what he said now last is best. Why? Because he's spoken in his son. And one commentator puts it like this. He says, his excellence appears from four contrasting pairs. Ancient and new revelation, the fathers and us, the prophets and the son, the past and the last day. Do you see what the writer is doing as he begins? He's saying that God has spoken to us fully, finally, gloriously. And in a way that's much greater than everything he's already said up till now, God, having spoken, now has spoken in the Son. We not only have God's words then through the Old Testament in the various forms and through the prophets, we have his message in his son. And what is that message? that he's made purification from sins and been exalted to the right hand of the Father. And then I want us to listen especially to this one thing, what he writes in verse 3. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Christ, our high priest, is the perfect expression of God. Everything we learn from Jesus Christ, we're learning about God. And that final word that Jesus Christ is. as the exalted high priest is rooted in the word that he is as the eternal son. That's where the writer begins in verse 3. He tells us about Christ's eternal person. Verse 3, he says, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. So you have on the back of your bulletin the main points of what I'd like to say, this is the first one, that God is personally and eternally self-giving. God is personally and eternally self-giving. He is Father and Son. And the writer mentions the Holy Spirit a bit later in the letter, but in verse 3 he says. The Father shines out to the Son, and the Son reflects the Father. This is who the Son of God is. And by calling the Son the radiance of his glory, The writer compares God the Father to a bright shining light, and the Son to the reflection of that light. So God is light. His light shines out brightly like the fire in the burning bush. And his light shines out and is received by a person who is the Son. Here's what Gregory of Nyssa said, a great fourth-century theologian, as he preached about this text. He says, as the light from a lamp Is the nature of that which sheds the brightness and is united with it, for as soon as the lamp appears, the light that shines out from it appears at the same time. So in this place, the apostle would have us consider that both the Son is of the Father, and the Father is never without the Son. For it is as impossible that glory should be without radiance as it is that the lamp should be without brightness. The Father shining out, the Father expressing himself, the Father expressing his glory And the Son, one being with the Father, but a distinct person receiving and reflecting that glory. And so our writer is telling us that there's an eternal relationship. Between the Father and the Son, a relationship of giving and receiving. And the church in its history has used the word person to describe these relationships within the divine being. And the Apostle John tells us something similar in the beginning of his gospel. So the beginning of Hebrews and the beginning of the Gospel of John. Listen to how similar this is. This is John chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God Now you'll know if you've read John chapter 1 that the word refers to Jesus, the one who became flesh, who dwelt among us. In the beginning, when God created the world then, he did not create Jesus. Jesus did not come into being. He was already in being. He never began to be. So John goes on to write, the word was God. The Son is divine, in exactly the same sense that God the Father is divine. But then he continues, and the word was with God. The word that was with God is God. The word was with Ton Thaon, is the way it says in the original. And in that phrase, Ton Theon, John means God the Father, because in the New Testament, every occurrence of the word Thaos. That's the Greek word for God. With a definite article refers to God the Father. Definite article V. So the word was with The God, Ton Theon, was with the Father. Now, of course, the word cannot be the one that He was Himself with. So if we take these two statements together, we have this. The Word was God, the Word was with God, and we have this amazing idea. God with God God with God. And of course, this highlights the distinction between the Father and the Son. Now John chooses an unusual word for with. He chooses the Greek word pros. And the Greek word pros means toward. So his statement really is the word was toward the Father. And he repeats it then again in verse 2. So these two persons are toward one another. They're face-to-face. We can say that they're outgoing to each other. The Son is called the Word. The Word expresses the person. When you speak your words, you express who you are. Well, the Father speaks, and as he speaks, that one that he speaks is actually the Word. The father toward the son, the son toward the father. They were for each other. They reached out to each other. They lived in an existence of love and sharing, face to face. It's not just side by side, it's face to face. My wife sometimes says something very beautiful to me. She says, You are my life. That's what the father and the son say to one another. You are my life. And so John is expressing the being of each person in their distinctiveness, reaching out toward the other in this dynamic way, eternally. In the heart of God's eternal nature, there's outgoing love between the Father and the Son and also the Holy Spirit. The Father is glorious, the writer of Hebrews tells us. He is the radiance the Son is of the glory of God. The Father is glorious. He shines out. And the Son is the radiance of the Father. The Father expresses himself in the Son eternally. He gives himself to him. And the Son reflects that love back to the Father eternally. And the church has called this relationship, the relationship between Father and Son, the Father's eternal begetting of the Son. If we think about that too long. It causes our brains to hurt. But anyway, it's the church's way to sort of grasp this idea. It's an idea of perfect communion and communication. Perfect communion and communication through in the Creator, quite apart from us. Quite apart from the world, and without any need of us. Now it's it's sheer wonder that God would desire anything outside of his own. bliss, his own love. But the writer assures us that God has chosen to include us in that love. Now, Christian, whether we're Christians or not, all of us ask, why am I here? What is the purpose of all that I'm doing? Everything I have to do? What's the goal of it all? Well, see, it's not just to become wealthy or just to express myself. It's to know love. It's to know this love. This eternal love of God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The writer of Hebrews is writing to Christians. And he says to them that God, this God, has saved us from sin in order to share his glory. The Father shines forth in glory. The Son radiates that glory. And the writer tells us that God purposed to bring many sons to glory, into that glory. Hebrews 2 says this, verses 10 and following. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, that's God the Creator. in bringing many sons to glory should make the founder of their salvation, Jesus, perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies Jesus and those who are sanctified are all of one Father. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell your name to my brothers. in the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And then the writer goes on, verse 14, since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same thing. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. Christ is the eternal Son. Christ wants us to share in God's glory. The Father wants that. That's why the Father created and the Son and the Spirit. And that's why Jesus Christ redeemed us. He wants us to share that glory also as sons. You see, just saying it, it doesn't sound like I'm saying anything until you just think about it a little bit. God wants to include you and me in that wonderful glory. That's his eternally. Well, God has made every believer, woman and man, to be brother and sister of Christ. Because in the unsearchable depth of his kindness, he desires to share himself. He's giving. That's what he is. That's who he is as God. C. S. Lewis put this in a very striking way. If you've read read the screw tape letters, maybe a bunch of you possibly have read that. Um so you know the letters from the the uh Head devil screw taped to his lower minion, his lower devil. And C. S. Lewis captures the difference between the devil and the self-giving God. Listen to how he puts it. Screwtape writes this. He says, one must face the fact that all that talk about his love for men is not, as one would gladly believe, mere propaganda, but an appalling truth. He really does want to fill the universe with a lot of loathsome little replicas of himself. Creatures whose life on its miniature scale will be qualitatively like his own. Not because he has absorbed them, but because their wills freely conform to his. This next sentence really captures it. He says, we want cattle who can finally become food. He wants servants who can finally become sons. We want to suck in. He wants to give out. We are empty and would be filled. He is full and flows over. Don't we sometimes possibly think of God as self-oriented, as sucking in, as Lewis puts it? Well that's not who he is. He gives himself. He gives himself outgoing, beautiful way, in a glorious way, to his son and to the spirit in eternity. The great bishop Athanasius in the fourth century defended the deity of Jesus. And this is what he wrote. He said it's more accurate to signify God from the Son. and call him Father, than to name him from his works and call him unoriginate. So he's arguing against a kind of one person God A one-person God. That's not the true God. The true God is not a one-person God. The true God is three persons. A God of beauty, a God of love, a God of communication. Now sometimes we try to speak to someone. uh somebody that we know or try to strike up a friendship with somebody we don't know and we find out that that person is completely self-absorbed. He only wants to take. He really has no interest in anyone other than himself. Is God like that? No. If God were alone, or if he were a one-person God, he would be like that. But God is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He gives, He loves, He speaks, He receives And he's like this toward us, his creatures. He's not empty and needy, but full and outgoing. And he gives. And he gives because that's his nature. He gives himself to his son. And in his wonderful, unthinkable grace through the Son, he welcomes people like us into his family. Isn't the Christian faith an exquisite thing? A beautiful thing? It's so glorious. Well, let's go on then to see that the Son is the perfect word. The Son, the writer says, is the exact imprint of his being. And of course, the Son is the Lord Jesus Christ, whom we know from Holy Scripture. Well, there's nothing at all about Jesus Christ or in Jesus Christ that does not reflect God. There's nothing we could say unchrist-like in God. Everything about Christ, everything he did, every word he spoke, revealed his Father. Think again about John chapter 1, as the writer puts it, the apostle in verse 14, he says, the word became flesh. and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory. The glory as of the only Son of the Father, full of grace and truth. The radiance of his glory is what we have seen, says the apostle. And Jesus, when he does his first miracle, His first sign in Cana at that wedding. Everybody's confused. Mary doesn't, she's got responsibility, but things aren't going the well that well. The wine runs out. She tells the servants, you know, Jesus, that's not my hour, he says to her. And then she says to the servant, just do whatever he tells you. Jesus says, go draw out the water, six stone jars of water containing between 120 and 180 gallons of water for purification. Jewish rites of purification. Go draw out some water and bring it to the head of the wedding, the master of ceremony. And he draws out the water and they bring it to him and he drinks it and he says, amazing, you've saved the best wine until last. John writes at the end of the chapter, right, or the end of that section in verse 11. By doing this first sign, Jesus manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him. What is he doing? He's showing that he's the Lord of the creation. That he's the Lord of grace. When he comes into the world, what does he come to do? He comes to give He comes to richly furnish those there with a reason for joy and for rejoicing. He's the bridegroom that the prophets have promised. The Lord will come, the Lord will be called, the bridegroom, and the Lord comes. And as he manifests his glory, what does he do? He gives that wedding 120, between 120 and 180 gallons of the best wine. That's our God who shows the glory of God. Then in John chapter 5, Jesus sees the lame man, remember, at the pool at Bethesda. And he went up and said to him, Rise and walk. And people challenged him and said, What are you doing, telling him to do that on the Sabbath? And Jesus' reply was, My Father is working until now, and I am working. Why did he heal that man? He healed him because he loved him, because he hated the results of the curse on sin, that man's lameness. Because he intended to remove death. And why does he say, do you remember in John chapter 5? He says this, the Father gives life to the dead, and I am the Son. of the Father. He has granted that the Son hath life in himself. He is the radiance of the glory of God And then in John chapter 11, we read about Lazarus and word coming to Jesus from the sisters, Lazarus sisters, that Lazarus is ill. Jesus says this illness is not unto death, but it's for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified through it. He raises Lazarus from the dead. He shows the glory of God. He shows his own inherent glory as he reflects that glory by removing the curse from that man whom he loved. And that, of course, is why Jesus could say, when Thomas said to him, Show us the Father, and we'll believe, he said, He who's seen me has seen the Father. And he speaks quite literally because he is the Son of the Father. All that the Father is, is reproduced in him, that glory, that giving. That salvation, that love. Because before he took on human flesh and blood, he was already the Son of God. When he taught on earth, he identified his words with what he'd learned and heard from the Father. Every word was the very Word of God, because He is God. And so, dear friends, beloved friends, you and I can trust his words. Because the words are the words of God, no errors in them. No falsehood in them. No lack of understanding in them. Perfect fidelity and faithfulness and promise. And when we entrust ourselves to the Lord by believing his words, the words of the Bible, we find ourselves in union with the Lord Jesus Christ. Well God continues to reach out to us. He continues to give. He continues to come to us and to call us. And of course, He loves us before we love Him. And this is amazing. His love is amazing. But the writer warns us, the writer of Hebrews warns us in chapter 12, he says, see that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven. Who would want to refuse a God like that? No one in his right mind. Except that's not what we are. We're not really in our right mind, are we? We need the Holy Spirit to show us the glory of Jesus Christ. And that's what Jesus promises the Holy Spirit will do. Do you see this glory? Do you see him as what he is? The scripture is describing him. Why do you see that? You see that because the Holy Spirit is teaching you of the glory of Jesus Christ. He will take what is mine and make it known to you, Jesus said. Well, hurrying on then. Then number three, the Son is the perfect Lord of the universe. He upholds the universe, says the writer, by the word of his power. So with the Father, Jesus Christ the Son governs everything with perfect wisdom and purpose. And what's God's purpose in these last days? What is God's purpose? Jesus Christ is executing that purpose throughout the earth as God's enthroned king. And one day soon we'll see him, as we now believe, we will see him crowned with glory and honor. But now hurrying on, the Son is the perfect sacrifice for sins. Having made purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. The Son has completed that work. Notice it's not a progressive work, it's a past work. He says, having made purification for sins, he sat down. And when we consider who offered himself as this sacrifice for our sins, we begin to see how fully God has satisfied his own requirements on us. Chapter 9, verse 13 and following says this, for if the blood of bulls and goats and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, he says. describing old covenant Levitical sacrifices, how much more will the blood of Christ Who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. The purification of sins that the Son has accomplished was a work of all three persons. The Father loved and gave. The Son offered Himself. And the Spirit enabled him to endure. The Son offered himself with utter purity of heart. I have come to do your will, O God. Your law is within my heart. And the Spirit upheld the Son in his flesh so that he could be a spotless lamb. The Father accepted the sacrifice of his own beloved Son, the Son of His love, and this brought purification. From sins. It's so beautiful, isn't it? It's so glorious. He is the one who dies in the place of the many. the Holy One, judged in the place of the guilty. But all this presupposes a prior agreement. Not one worked out by negotiation between God and man, but one finalized in the eternal council between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And this council provides the indispensable framework for Jesus' work of atonement. It's within this framework, this eternal agreement between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, that the Son accepts the office of the Redeemer and undertakes to act as our representative and substitute But this already presupposes love and goodwill on God's part. God concedes that the one may take the place of the many. But He goes further. He ordains that he himself will not only provide the ransom, he will become the ransom in the person of his son. He will bear the whole cost. So said Donald McLeod. He will bear the Holocaust. The Son made purification for sins And that in turn purifies our conscience as Christians to serve God. This is God's final word to us. So, Christian, your sins have been cleansed through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Notice that you did not have to make purification for your sins. The three persons of the Trinity did that. And then do you see how this frees you, frees us? From a guilty conscience to serve God. You don't have to bring something perfect to an ungrateful, selfish God. No more dead works. Works brought to appease a self-centered God. Now you and I, as believers, can serve our loving Father. who accepts our love. Do you see how this frees you to love others and to recognize that you need them? It's so beautiful. Well, we could put it this way, just to close, we could say this. Welcome home. Welcome home to the fellowship of the Father and the radiance of his glory. Welcome to the glory of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, dear sons. Dear daughters, God the Father is your Father, whom you can trust with your life. He's the one who hears your prayers. The Father is your Father. So continue to pray to Him. This is why Jesus taught us to pray this way: our Father who is in heaven. The Son is the Son who gave himself for you, who made purification, who now rules over all things. And the Holy Spirit is the one who enables you to serve God with a clear conscience. Worship this God. Adore this God. Give thanks to this God that He has spoken in His Son. And welcome to the fellowship of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Let's pray together. Oh living God, we praise and exalt you. We thank you, Lord, that it's you who give yourself for us. Thank you, our Heavenly Father. Thank you, our Lord Jesus Christ, for offering up your body as a sacrifice. And thank you, Holy Spirit, for enabling us to see the glory of the Of the Son and to worship in his name. Lord, enable us to live in fellowship, in fellowship with one another, and in fellowship with you. And to fulfill the purpose for which we're made, thank you, Father. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.