Hebrews twelve verses one and two together. So stand with with would you please? Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Let's pray, shall we? Father above, we do praise you for you have given us a word that is so profoundly rich. And we will mine it, Lord, all our lives and never, ever reach the end. We thank you for it. We pray, Lord, for your spirit to illumine our minds, to train us. Give us grace, Lord, to understand those things that we ought, and grant us, O Father, the grace to do them as well, and to do them better because we love you. Lord, we pray for that grace to hear and to respond accordingly. We pray in the name of Christ, our Savior. Amen. Please be seated. Well I I was thinking that this was kind of a kind of a catchy title. I I realize it sounds like a downer. What I uh but what I'm hoping to do here, and I've come up I came up with six blessings. So what I hope to do is go through them one by one, and I'm I'm hoping that they're a crescendo that we start off Okay, that's nice. But as we reach the end, I'm hoping that there is a word of encouragement here for you. So that's, I'm hoping you stay attention because I'm hoping this becomes a word of encouragement as we reach the end here So, without further ado, I've read the passage, Hebrews 12, 1 and 2. And what we also seek to do is you know from Romans, from Romans, Romans 12 is what? We who are in Christ seek to have minds transformed, right? Transformed by the truth. So we come out of Unbelief, we enter into belief, and the process of growing in Christ is that of transforming our minds to thinking rightly about things. So part of what I hope to do here is to to give you a mindset then for how we ought to treat the pain and the suffering of this world. We're not trying to say that pain is not pain, but Perhaps if we see it in a different light, it changes it. And that's what I hope to give you this day or this evening. Number one. Item number one, and you don't have this outline on your bulletin. I thought I'd keep them all surprised. So if you're taking notes, that's fine. But I'll I'll try to make sure I tell you when when I'm on number one, two, etc. Number one is that suffering and pain are necessary. In a fallen world, but let me add that. Let me add to that just by saying that they are necessary reminders of a fallen world, right? We live in a fallen world. We can't escape that. And what we seek to do, I think, in part, or one of the blessings that God gives by letting us remain in it, is he reminds us while we are here that we look forward to another day. We are not allowed by God to get too comfortable in this world. What will the unbelievers around us seek to do? They seek to make this paradise on earth. We know that that's impossible. It can't happen. It will never happen. So what God gives us is these thorns, these items of pain and difficulty, of sufferings. Why? Well, in part, to remind us that this is not our home. To remind us to long for another place, to long to be in the presence of God personally, to long for such things that we don't see face to face now. Have you ever been tempted to say, I don't deserve this? Well, I beg to differ. We can never say that, I don't think, in good conscience. We can never say in good conscience, when we go when we were going through a period of difficulty, I don't deserve this. I would like to say we all deserve it and more Every bit that we ever experienced, every bit of difficulty and pain, every single bit we deserve, in a sense, right? Because we fully deserve the judgment of God. So be careful when we say, I don't deserve this. Number one, it isn't true. Number two, it's a slap in the face as I hope to to share with you more and more, to slap in the face of the ver of that very God who by his providential care is bringing this into our lives. So I would say that that ought not to be in the vocabulary of the believer. Right? For the unbeliever, such pains are simply a foretaste of what's to come for them. They're getting a bit of foreshadowing. They don't realize it yet. But if they thought it was bad now, just you just wait till later. For us, they're momentary struggles, right, to get us to look beyond. That's item number one. Two. Suffering and pain are part of his fatherly discipline. And I won't belabor this. I think this is fairly uh obvious. I don't I don't know about you, but on those occasions where I've observed a little child, and you can tell the parents are just spoiling this child The child has his way, and that is such an ugly sight, isn't it? I I trust that you all have seen that as well. But a child without without proper fatherly discipline is a very ugly picture. And yet I would suggest to you that you know that that's not that's not any different from our own lives in Christ, is it not? If we look at Hebrews 12, again we'll go back to Hebrews 12, 3 to 11, and I know that we know these texts. For consider him who let's go down a little bit. For consider him who'd endured such hostility from sinners against himself lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. You have not yet resisted to bloodshed striving against sin. And you have forgotten the exhortation which he speaks to you. As sons. My son do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. I think I'll stop there. So there's a sense in which we need to recall always that that when we do experience Some of the pains that we do, we must at least recognize the possibility that these are from God's chastening hand, right? He's bringing our attention to a sin that he wants eradicated He wants us to feel pain. He wants us to feel struggle with pain. He doesn't want us to become comfortable in our sin. And yet there's another angle. We can be too introspective. And some of us I know or some of us in this congregation, even there must be some, who are too introspective or they are They have very sensitive spirits and they will look at every uh difficulty in their lives and they'll think, well, this must be due to my sin. And I would like to suggest, well, not necessarily. I'd like to suggest there's another way of looking at God's chastening, and it can be a conditioning program from the Lord, that he's not so much asking you to to look for a sin that maybe you just haven't seen yet, but maybe he's just getting getting you a little bit firmer. He's firming you up. He's bringing you getting getting you in tone. So he's giving you a workout that you might become toned as his son. So I'd suggest there's at least these two facets to fatherly discipline. So, number two is fatherly discipline, which we might also see as the Lord's conditioning program. Number three, pain and suffering as his calling. I won't belabor this one either. But I think that it's it's helpful to be reminded, and let me go to to to uh first Peter two twenty-one. I think we can tend to easily forget that suffering is also a calling I've had discussions with other believers, none here, but other believers, and I just thought that, you know, their their belief in Christ is really a bit sickeningly sweet And there's a place for sweetness, but at the same time, we are called to suffering. So let me read from Peter, 1 Peter chapter 2, looking at verse 21. Servants, let me start a little further down. He's talking about servants being submissive to masters. In this particular context, these masters are not particularly good men. They are severe. So he's saying, servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and the general, but also to the harsh. For this is commendable, if because of conscience toward God one endures grief. suffering wrongfully. For what credit is there if when you are beaten for your faults you take it patiently? But when you do good and suffer, and if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. For to this you were called. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. And then he quotes from the Old Testament, who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth. So There's a very real sense in which we as believers are called to suffering. Now, the point I also want to make is that When we use this word called, we are speaking in reference to one who calls, right? So when we are in the midst of difficulties, here Peter speaking of somebody who's being beaten for doing what is right, right? We need to remember that God, in a sense, calls us to receive In a godly fashion, that which is handed out to us, meted to us wrongfully. He says, I want you to bear this. God Himself says, I want you to bear this. Will you bear this? Look at what Christ bore for you. Will you bear this for me? So I would simply ask you to recall, to recount in those moments that He Himself could call us into that suffering. Okay? A calling. If we were asked, you know, I'm sure you've heard this many times, if we were asked by President Bush, will you do a hard mission for me? We would feel great honor, would we not? Well, isn't that what God is doing? My son, my daughter, will you not undergo this difficulty for me? Will you do this for me? I think we would all raise our hands and say, yes, Lord, we would. I would do that. So think of it as a calling from the one who calls. 4. There's pain and suffering in identifying with the sufferings of Christ, but such sufferings come with a blessing. Okay? If we read elsewhere in Peter, and let's look at at first Peter chapter four now. What do we find him writing? Reagan at uh verse verse twelve Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. And you recall Peter's writing in a time of severe persecution. So he's writing the believers under the yoke of unjust punishment. But rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory is revealed you may also be glad with exceeding joy. If you are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed are you. For the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Blessed are you. Now, let me ask you something. When you're Feeling the heat, perhaps, of somebody's ridicule because you're a believer, do you in that moment recall his words, Blessed are you? I would like to think, I mean I I dare say that I don't often think that, and I'm not sure many of us often do, but what I'd like to bring before you is the fact that it is there in black and white. God is promising a blessing. Blessed are you. What do we read in Matthew chapter 5, which perhaps Peter was paraphrasing? Matthew chapter 5, verse 11 and 12. We want to hear it also from the mouth of our Lord. What do we read there? Blessed are you, when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake, rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your Lord in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. We need to remember what the Lord says. Blessed are you. I would suggest you commit that to memory. When the Lord repeats something in the Word, I think He wants us to take it even more seriously, to pay more attention to it. So not only has Christ said it, Peter has echoed it. Blessed are you. Now in that instant, are you going to feel blessed? I probably not. My guess is probably not. But that's where we look with eyes of faith, correct? The Lord said, blessed are you. Okay, Lord. How will you bless me through this? Now it may it may not come immediately, but what I would like to leave with you is that the Lord promises a blessing. Look to see how he will provide that. So that was item number four. Pain and suffering and identifying with Christ and a blessing promised. In such suffering for the cause of Christ. And now we're getting to the even more meatier ones. Number five, suffering and pain for the benefit of others. And what we're going to do here is we're going to recall several things from the scriptures. Does anybody remember Hannah from the uh Old Testament? I'm sure there are some that remember Hannah. Can you put give me a show of hands? How many remember Hannah? And what do we recall of Hannah? For a long period of time, some period of time, she was childless, right? She had no child. She was deeply burdened with her childless nests. And what did she do? She went up to Jerusalem. They worshiped before the Lord. Her husband was Elkanah. She had no child. And what is she doing in the temple? She is praying. She's praying with her lips moving. Very fervently such that Eli looks upon her and says, Come on, drunken woman, get out of here. And she says, No, sir, I am not drunk. I'm pouring out my heart with my deep grief before the Lord. And what does Eli say? Ah, what sweet words. Let it be done to you as you have prayed. Let the Lord give you as you have prayed. And it says she feasted that night. She feasted that night. And then lo and behold, what happens? We know the rest of the story, or perhaps we don't know quite the rest of the story, but what? She becomes pregnant. She bears Samuel, right? And as we read further on in the book of Samuel, what else happens? She bears three more sons and two more daughters. But what did the Lord use in that moment? What did he use in that moment of bitterness? What did he use in that period of time? Was it a year? Was it six months? Was it five years? Was it ten years? What did the Lord do in that period? He worked in such a way that she poured out her heart to him. Her most deepest heartfelt desire was to bear a child unto the Lord, right? So what did the Lord work through that deep burden? Was a deep a deep fermancy, right? Now that's not quite for the benefit of others, but ultimately I sort of slip it in there because Samuel would be of great benefit to others, would he not, as a prophet of Israel. But let's let's go even further then. In John chapter 9. If you all remember your Bibles intimately, and I don't expect you to, but in John chapter 9, what happens? We have a man who's born blind. Right? And in the conventional wisdom of the day, what is thought? The man either sinned or his parents sinned. So they take the question to Jesus. Jesus, who sinned here? Somebody must have sinned, the man or the parents? And what does Jesus answer? Neither this man nor his parents sinned. Uh okay. That's a little strange. Now, we of course know that Jesus isn't saying this man was sinless, right? We're not he's not saying his parents were sinless. But what's his point? His point was that, but that the works of God should be should be revealed in him. What did God do here? He prepared this man for this moment, did he not? When Jesus would come along at precisely the right time, Would heal him of his blindness and the man would then speak the praises of God. It would create quite a stir, right? Would it not, in that occasion? This man was prepared by God for this very moment when God would exalt himself, when Jesus would show himself, right? What's my point? My point is that suffering and pain can be for the benefit of others. This man endured blindness. that the glory of God would be revealed on that occasion, that Jesus Christ would show himself to be God in the flesh by what would transpire there. Is God unjust in bringing in letting this man be blind from birth? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. Did the man sometimes bemoan his condition? Probably. But did the man, if the man knew that he was being prepared for that moment, a moment that would be recorded in all history? Do you think that he would give it up? Lord, I I I really don't want it. I'd rather have my sight from birth. You know, I I realize what's going to happen. No, I really don't want it. I I it's hard to see him saying that. Right? If the Lord would give him the opportunity to take it all back, do you think he would have? I'd like to think he wouldn't. No, Lord? Let it be done according to your will. So we read, and this blind man, prepared for that moment. How about Esther? How about Esther? I'm sure every woman here wants to be the most beautiful woman in that world, in that part of the kingdom, chosen by this king to be the woman to sit on that throne. How do you think she felt that night after talking to Mordecai, Mordecai said, you must go before the king And she knows he may well have her killed. Lee suspect, she said, Lord, why did you make me this beautiful? Why did you do this to me? I'll bet that was going through her mind. I'll bet that was a sleepless night. I'll bet that might have been one of the hardest nights of her life But after this transpired, after the after that sweating, and it may have been more than a single night But do you think that she was honored, that the Lord would give her what he did to save the nation? Is the pain of that night worth it? And I would like to think that Esther thought that pain worthy. Of what God was doing, I would think. Do you recall the movie? I'm sure you do. It's a wonderful life, right? We all know. Jimmy Stewart gets the opportunity, right, to see what would be what would life be like in Bedford Falls if he never lived. And it's a hideous place. So what does he conclude in the end? He tells Clarence, I don't want to go back. I don't want to go back. But we know that's not what happens. Let me go back. Let me go back. I would suggest to you that there are times when we will suffer pains and we don't know what is going on, right? Jimmy Stewart didn't know why. He had, with visions of being an architect, he wants to see the world, and yet he's relegated to running a credit union in a podunk town. Do you think he knows at that time why he is there? We could stretch the imagery a little bit too far, perhaps, but I think there's a very biblical truth here. We will at times experience pains. Because God is preparing us for that moment when he will work something good. Right? He may be preparing you for that very moment when that word that you speak is exactly what this person needs to hear. That is the sweetest word that they need to hear in that moment because God has prepared you for that hour with times of difficulty and pain and struggle. And would you trade that? You may know that you have been a blessing to that person. I'm sure that even if you don't realize it, the Lord will not allow it to be forgotten. And the Lord will make the matter known. But that was the perfect time for the perfect hour for that occasion. And he wove all this that you could be a blessing to Bob or to Anne. Would you trade that away? Would you look back at those pains and say, nah, I don't want them, Lord. It really wasn't worth it. I would like to think that everyone in this room would say, yes. Thank you, Lord, for so weaving these things together and making me an instrument of your For employing me to be a blessing to others. So I'm saying that suffering and pain can come for the benefit of others. And I would keep that in mind. Right? We don't know what the Lord is going to do in our own training grounds of difficulty. We don't know when that moment will come, but I would suggest to you, why don't you keep that in mind, that he may be preparing you just for that moment or moments, just for that occasion. Number six. Suffering and pain is preparation for endless joy. It's probably a sort of a trite analogy, but I've heard it said that some would say that that we will all enjoy God to the fullness of our capacity in heaven. And what God does here is he's making our respective glasses bigger and bigger Such that some desire God more greatly than others. Samuel Rutherford probably desired God far more greatly than I. Probably his glass is probably huge by that measuring standard, and mine is much smaller. But he's increasing our capacity to enjoy him, right? It's kind of, and it's speculative, so again, I'm not taking this from the scriptures. So don't take it as from the scriptures. It's somewhat speculative. But could it be that our pains are in such a way that they are increasing our capability and our capacity to enjoy Him? Let's put it another way. The very God who calls us to suffer is the very God who said, For I am your very great reward. Right? Now, are these things radically and grossly disconnected truths? Or are they harmoniously coupled truths? I would suggest to you the latter. That when the Lord gives us these things, he means them to be connected and not destroyed. Of course, the evil one would love to have us completely disjoint them and disconnect them, but I'd suggest they're connected. That the same guy who calls us to suffer is the very one who says, For I am your very great reward. And they are connected. He's increasing in us the capacity to delight and enjoy him more. Let's let's use another little analogy here and I I'm not quite sure it'll work for everyone but I will try. Um it's it's been said that good art is that which we can can uh can study and and investigate and look at over and over and over again because of its richness. It is so rich. That every time we look at it, we see a different nuance to it. Something a little different. Well, let me suggest to you that that, no matter what art we're conceiving of in this world, is merely finite, is it not? It's really an object of this world. Perhaps, just perhaps, that's part of the delight of heaven, that God in his infiniteness That we may eventually tire of staring at the Mona Lisa, but we will never tire of an infinite God. We will never exhaust the nuances, the delights, the facets, the perspectives. And could it be that our suffering, again, is coupled with that in such a way that we are being prepared and molded even now to more and more enjoy such? We are being prepared. So take some of that as somewhat speculative. I don't claim a vi a verse to go with those things. But we do know that if there are any delights in this world, they will certainly be exceeded by those of later on, right? I think we can conclude that Okay. Just finishing, I guess this is recap. Um, we don't often know why God does what he does, right? We just don't. But the real question is, do you trust him? Do you trust him? Is your God big enough that he's worth trusting when you're going through pains? Lord, I don't know why this is happening. But what I'd like to suggest to you is recount these biblical truths. We are called to suffering because that personal God has said, will you do this for me? Will you do this for the benefit of this person downstream? Will you do this because I am honored for you to go through this patiently in Christ likely? If that's a word. Do you trust him? Do you trust him? Now, I want to add that we're not, I'm not trying to easily dismiss pain, and I don't ever want to suggest that. Pain hurts. And we ought never to be so insensitive as to as to casually and easily dismiss it in others. But do you see what we do seek to do is we seek to fully recognize the painfulness of pain and yet recognize that there's more to the story. There is more to the picture than just the pain itself. And that's what we seek to bear to have is minds that are transformed. Such that when we experience these pains and feel them deeply and feel others, feel with others those pains, we recognize there's far more going on here. And that we trust the one who allows these things. What did Jesus say in John sixteen thirty-three? Let's recall some of these words and keep them in mind. These things I have spoken to me to you, that in me you may have peace. Shalom. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. Now these are stated obviously to the apostles, to the disciples at the time, but I think they're true for us. Jesus can speak of tribulation and shalom in the same breath. What an amazing thing. But let me leave you with one other scripture to continue to ponder. And that's James four eight. And some of you may have this memorized. Let's see what James has to say. That ever-practical man. Draw near to God And he may draw near to you. Do you think that's what it says? No? That's not what it says. What does it say? Draw near to God and he will. Draw near to you. We have a very beautiful promise right there. Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. So I would simply encourage you, will you draw near to him? Will you seek to draw near to him in times of pain? Will you seek to hear him in times of difficulty, of struggle, of tribulation? Will you rejoice at suffering in the name of Christ, knowing that you are blessed? In his words, And will you see such pain as bearing fruit for all eternity? Not just a momentary problem that needs to be discarded as immediately as I can, but But to take it as I ought, to take it as he sends it, to receive it Christ-likely, and perhaps increasing my capacity to enjoy him. Will you have your minds and emotions transformed by the truth? Draw near to him and he will draw near to you. Let's pray, shall we? O Lord God, we do thank you again for your word, for you encourage us deeply with these words. Grant us each to treasure it in our hearts and to lay it up. And we would pray, Father, that you would etch it upon us. For Lord, you do promise tribulation in this world. You do promise pain and difficulties. We cannot evade those things. But grant us to trust you. Oh, great providential hand, that we would believe that you are accomplishing good, that we would believe that you are working good through it. Grant us to be honored, to suffer. For the master of all, of all reality. Grant us, O Lord, to have minds transformed. We pray for that transforming power that only you can do. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.